I call the June 4th 2020 City Council meeting to order. As we start tonight's City Council meeting, I want to take a moment to recognize that George Floyd's memorial service took place today in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Now on behalf of the city of Federal, I want to extend our deepest sympathies and condolences to Mr. Floyd's family and friends, as well as to the Minneapolis community.
 and with that care would you please call the roll petty scroggin president bunch turk here smith here guitarist here marsh here kenyon here mayor jordan here would you join me in the pledge of allegiance
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, welcome everyone and in light of the current health concerns, Federal City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I am present in the Council Chambers.
 with a handful of essential support staff. Kit Williams, City Attorney, Chair Paxson, City Park Treasurer, Susan Norton, Chief of Staff, Police Chief Mike Reynolds, Fire Chief Brad Hardin, Finance Director Paul Becker, and two representatives from the Federal's IT Department. City Council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone.
 Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the City of Federal, and we have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting, in or our view tonight's meeting including contacting City Council members, City Clerk's office, or City staff prior to the meeting.
 viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's youtube channel joining the zoom conference by phone smartphone tablet or computer instructions are currently being shown on screen staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand we ask that you refrain from doing this until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment
 i will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized when recognized please state your name and address for the record each speaker is allowed five minutes to comment which staff will monitor now let us begin the first order of business we have tonight is the monthly finance report from paul becker paul
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report will be through the month of April. So that is the first month, first four months of our fiscal period. As we discussed at the agenda session, the sales tax collected for the month of April, which were actually sales that occurred in May, were up a quarter percent compared to last year.
 That was very good considering that part of the shutdown occurred in March in,
 As analyzing some of those sales taxes, it appears that internet sales were up. And it also appears that there was a lot of retail transactions and retail shopping. As we all remember, our stores, especially our food chains, there was a lot of activity as people were buying stock up during that month. So the...
 Revenue for the general fund actually was up, and sales taxes were up over 4%.
 compared to budget through the first four months of the year. When we start seeing the months going forward, end of June, I'll have the numbers for the sales tax taxes that were collected in April. I certainly don't expect those to be positive, but we'll see, and that'll give us pretty good reading of what the bottom may look like. The length of time this goes on, of course, we're going to have to determine.
 But as I'm looking at other sources of revenue to the general fund, franchise fees were up a little bit. Building permits were doing very well through April. Court fines and fees were down substantially for the period. Interest rates, if everybody has been watching the financial markets have declined considerably. So interest earnings were down for the period of time. But all in all, we were up
 between 8 and 9% for that period for the first four months into the general fund. And that's certainly going to help us looking forward into the future. For the street fund,
 As we looked at the street fund, actually revenues were down almost 20% for the period. Part of that is there's been a delay in the state turn back for streets. However, some of that will catch up. But motor fuel tax collections, which result in turn back for motor fuel tax from the state and the half cent sales tax.
 statewide for transportation was down substantially. So revenues were down substantially for the street fund through that period driven basically by motor fuel tax turn back and the half cent sales tax for roads, turn back decline in those. For the parking fund, which is the next one we'll look at
 Revenues were down 25% compared to the budget. So for that month, they were down considerably. We have in fact, in parking, not had some of the additional parking attendance we need, especially for events for the Walton Art Centers, they have been shut down, but revenues were substantially down for the period. HMR, Park Development Fund,
 was down by one-third. So our collections were actually 66.7% of what hotel, motel, and restaurants collected
 What we're doing at that point in time, again, this is reporting on what actually occurred in the month of March. On a year to day basis, HMR taxes were down 8%. So we had been doing pretty well up until the month of March and we'll keep an eye on that certainly going forward. As far as Water and Sewer Fund is concerned
 water and sewer revenue billings were up five percent for the period of time so that put them up about six hundred thousand dollars compared to prior year so water and sewer has been solid in
 revenue to that period of time. As I'm looking at accounts receivable, which will give me an indication of late payments, the accounts receivable balance is a bit. I'll talk to the Water and Sewer Committee about that a little bit as we have not had
 shutdowns. And of course, we've got a lot of light payment due to our constituency, many of which have been furloughed and many of which are out of work and are facing some economic difficulties. So even though our build revenue was up, our collections were down compared to
 normal. However, it's still in solid shape for the Water and Sewer Fund. As I'm looking at recycling and trash collection, for recycling and trash collection, our revenues were down 5%. That's basically because a lot of commercial activity had become the
 pull back and have not been using some of their large dumpsters that they had before we are also looking at lesser volume in the transfer station so revenue has uh has declined in the recycling and trash collection fund the airport activity fuel sales were down and jet fuel and ab gas about 16 through april
 Operations for the airport were down 25% for that period of time. So as we're looking at this going forward, we're starting to see the impact of the coronavirus hit. I'm not concerned about COVID.
 the revenue picture at this point in time. Want to get a clear picture of what the month of May will look like, which will incorporate some of the transactions for May, but will include the sales tax collections, who will represent April. And that I anticipate being certainly less than we had collected in March.
 As I look for it, we're in a pretty good reserve position. We're going to have to look at this, evaluate it, and certainly I'll keep you posted and have the next sales tax report around the 20th to the 22nd of June. And with that, I'll be happy to entertain any questions. What questions does the council have for Paul? Okay. All right, let's move along to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the May 19th, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution authorizing membership participation in the Northwest Sergeant General Razorback Greenway Alliance.
 number three a resolution to approve a proposal from king electric contractors incorporated any amount of sixty seven thousand three hundred nineteen dollars pursuant to bid number fifteen dash fifty seven for the installation of trail lights along the neocost creek trail from crossover road to gully park and to approve a project contingency in the amount of seven thousand six hundred and eighty one dollars
 Number four, a resolution to express the willingness of the city of federal to apply for and utilize federal aid transportation alternatives program funds in amount up to $470,000 to construct a wider shared use paved trail and green space along the Arkansas Department of Transportation project to improve Highway 112 from Truckers Drive to Howard Nickel Road.
 Number five, a resolution authorized the purchase of three Peterbilt sidearm trash trucks from TLG Peterbilt in Fort Smith, Arkansas, for the total amount of $947,865, pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract. Number six.
 a resolution authorized the purchase of a kubota mower from springdale tractor any amount of 13 329.22 pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract for use by the airport and to approve budget adjustment number seven a resolution to approve the renewal of three special needs assistance program grant agreements with u.s department of housing and urban development
 in the total amount of 238 765 dollars for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents number eight
 a resolution to award bid number 20-38 and to authorize a five-year hay field lease with proud farms for for about 54.5 acres at lake federal madison natural area barry park rodney ryan park and combs park for the amount of 150 dollars per year and to authorize mowing at other park properties as needed for the amount of two dollars
 for bail number nine a resolution to approve task order number three with the watershed conservation resource center in the amount of 269 500 for a stream restoration project on tanglewood branch in the cultural arts corridor and to approve a project contingency in the amount of twenty six thousand nine hundred and fifty dollars this is a 2019 drainage bond project
 Number 10, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC in the amount of not to exceed $311,600 pursuant to an RFQ number 20-01, section 12, selection 12, for design and bidding phase services for a booster pumping station at the Kessler Mountain ground storage tank site.
 and number 11 a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with black and beach corporation in the amount of not to exceed 107 592 dollars for analysis and design of a audible water pressure management solutions for the greater clabber creek area i'm entertaining most except agenda as red so moved second
 We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Caravans, please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Moving along to unfinished business. Number one.
 an ordinance to enact 114.20 regulation of single-use disposable bags provided by large food stores. Christa, do you have a comment on this? Yes, I do. Thank you, Mayor. I would really like to table this indefinitely until we have a public meeting again, when we can hear the public's comments on this ordinance, this proposed ordinance. And I think right now as it's set, we wouldn't implement it
 until January 2021. So I believe we have plenty of time until we are able to hear more fully and thoroughly from the public about how they feel about this. And as you all know, even though the public is able to comment on things, we just really have not had that many comments about most issues before us. So those were my thoughts. So you're gonna make a motion to table, Teresa, is that correct?
 That's correct. I'd like to make a motion to table. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second to table. Is there any discussion on that? Just to ask Teresa, I know a lot of the feedback that I've gotten is that people are concerned that the actual specific nature of the health emergency that we're in rather than just their ability to offer feedback during meetings is they're concerned about plastic. When this comes back up, we'll
 we'd be able to look at maybe adjusting those timelines to kind of whatever modern science understanding we have at that point.
 I would love to hear back from folks and also we could do some research prior to that discussion of that item. There's been quite a bit of mixed reviews. Some say there's a health issue, some say there isn't. But maybe we'll have a little bit more literature and understanding. And maybe if we're lucky the COVID will subside a bit too.
 Any other comments? Chair, would you please call the roll? Mayor Jordan, just to clarify, was that to table indefinitely? Table to indefinitely. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 Number two, a resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the Federal City Council to limit public comments to three minutes each and recognize the statute or reading requirement for ordinances may be dispensed with a single motion to suspend or dispense with the rule. Kyle, I believe this went through the ordinance review. Yes, Mayor, and I apologize. I started talking to the camera, and I got a copilot, so...
 We met several times on this and I did forward our conclusions to the entire Council through the Clerk's Office along with Kitt's updated resolution intended to represent that. Just briefly, we kind of started at that conversation of reducing the amount of time for public comment and in our final product.
 In our final product, we have five recommendations, but it is not to reduce the time. Instead, the consensus we came to was that we want to leave the total amount of time for a public comment at five minutes. But encourage shorter, more succinct presentations by adjusting the way the timer displays and
 Reminding people to wrap up their comments at three minutes. Kind of a compromise between those two. The second thing was to implement a new time limit on the overview period. So when staff or a sponsoring council member presents, they would be limited to 10 minutes. And an applicant would also be limited to 10 minutes.
 The third thing was to establish a sign-up procedure, and that's probably the most radical change to come out of our conversation in an effort to optimize our meeting procedure and just the amount of time we spend waiting for people to approach the podium when we're not in Zoom meetings. And...
 That we think can largely be accomplished without much change to the rules and that would be the details left to the clerk and staff to figure out how that would work. The fourth major change is in how we handle amendments because we've had a lot of complicated ones and some not so complicated ones and it's not always clear when we expect to take public comment on those.
 So we would ask and we would amend the rules to say that amendments do not get public comment by default, but that a motion for amendment could include a call for public comment and comments on amendments would be limited to three minutes. And then the last recommended change is that any of these time limits can be extended by unanimous consent or a majority vote if someone objects.
 And so I suppose in the spirit of those changes, I would like to motion that we amend the resolution with the version provided by Kitt and allow for public comment. Second. Okay. So we have the amended version. You have that, Kitt? I do. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 I can read that if you want me to. It's been sent out to the council. If you don't need me to read it, I don't have to. It's not too long as a page. What's your desire on that, Kyle? I think I went through the high points, and we did send it out. So unless anybody specifically needs you to read it, I'm comfortable with this proceeding. Okay.
 I would like to ask for it to be read because a lot of people are not going to have a copy of this and I think for public record as we move forward that it needs to be available and accessible to anyone that wants to review it. Okay I think I should probably go ahead and read it. A resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the Fayetteville City Council require the public to sign in to speak to limit city staff and applicants presentation time to 10 minutes each
 To only allow public comment for amendments by City Council approval and to make other changes Be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section one That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas are hereby amend section a City Council meeting subsection 7d1 presentation by staff and applicants by changing its title to overview period
 by adding a final sentence as follows quote city staff presentation and an applicants presentation whether presented by one or more presenter shall be each be limited to a maximum of 10 minutes unless the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote allows additional time section 2
 that the city council city of favorable arts are hereby repeal section a city council meetings subsection 7.12 public comments and an actual replacement section 2 public comments as follows section 2 public comments
 Public comments at a City Council meeting shall be allowed for all members of the audience Who sign up prior to the beginning of the agenda item being open for public comment at the City Council meeting? to speak about any subjects of public hearing and or other certain items of unfinished and new businesses except for any proposed amendments which may receive public comment only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote I
 the speaker shall be limited to a maximum of five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes if public comment is allowed for an amendment speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes the city council may still allow speakers some additional time by unanimous consent and majority vote now this was what was approved by the ordinance review committee as i pointed out in my email to you
 I didn't like how complex that sentence was that I had written, especially when we added something to it. So the part that I would hope the city council would be considering would be a different subject in Section 2, which say that public comments at a city council meeting shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they wish to address being open for public comment.
 Speakers shall be limited to a maximum of five minutes to be broken into segments of two and three minutes Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote If public comment is allowed for an amendment Speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes The City Council may allow both the speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote so that was my
 I think simplified version that says, supposed to say the same thing as the ordinance or the resolution that was approved by the Ordinance Review Committee, but I think it says it in a more understandable way. Thank you, Ken. I agree in that it was my intent to make the motion for the second version that you read. I think it equally well represents the consensus from the committee, but is like you said, much easier to understand.
 Okay, what other discussion do we have on the amendment or the resolution? Sorry. I'm sure most of the other council members feel the same way. I hope that we make the amendment, but I don't want to vote on this as a whole today. I want people to have time to digest it because it is a lot of changes.
 What I would recommend, though, is if you go ahead and approve the amendment so it at least can be on the agenda in the correct form or close to the correct form and then not pass it, leave it there. And then at the next meeting, you could further amend it if you wanted to, but at least it's close to what the committee wanted rather than what's on there right now on the agenda right now, which is much different. I believe that's what I attempted to say. Okay, good. Now I understand you. Sorry.
 What other discussion do we have? Okay. What's the, yes, Kyle, did you intend to have public comment? Are you going on the... This is a substantial change, and we incorporated public comment through the ordinance review. I would like to see if anybody has any comments on the change. Okay. All right. We will take some public comment on the resolution. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five-minute limit.
 unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if city council has questions for you please stay on the topic which is the resolution of the order of the rules of order and procedure uh no rude behavior please give us your name and address um who would like to be first mayor will dockery is up hey go ahead will
 Okay. Will Dockery, 4149 Westbred Street Lane. I appreciate the amendments to this. I still have concerns about the anonymous parts and the sign-in parts. As you know, I have spoken several times and I've also been in a lot of those city council meetings that go forever and understand the frustration. But there have been several times in some of those bigger meetings where
 even I'm not planning to speak, but someone will get up and talk and they'll have a point that needs to be counted with facts. And so I can see how people would not be planning on speaking sometimes and would just be there to observe and it might be harder for them to get on if we're going to have anonymous to add people. Perhaps if we end up in some of these bigger times that we think about
 that's when we need to be shortening it so if there's five ten people that's when we need to be shortening it um also i can definitely see that in the future we could just you could have one person who if we keep talking about this it's kind of weird that section five where it says anonymous or majority i think i don't understand why it has to be either or why can't it just be majority
 And that's all I have to say about that. I thank you for listening to this. I think Fayetteville really has the best version of all the cities around us. And we're definitely not like the Arkansas education where they've gone to, where they just take comments after they vote. And that's not democracy. So thank you. All right, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is only for the amendment, not to pass the resolution. Right, this is for the amendment.
 I have some comments. Okay. So just to be clear, the amendment just changed the language slightly, or is it the five things that Kyle mentioned? You're talking about the five minutes? I said the five items that Kyle mentioned. I'm just trying to get clear on exactly what the amendment is.
 Yes, so the original resolution brought by Councilmember Petty would be replaced by the one that Kit read That essentially covers the five items here though Some of the things that I talked about can be managed in the details administratively. So But the intent is those is in the resolution the amendment is what I read.
 Okay, thank you for clarifying, Kyle. You know, I think I expressed my concern before about the sign-in procedure. You know, having recently, well, almost monthly or every other month deal with this down at the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission meetings, the sign-in procedure.
 I would say that the sign-in portion is very difficult. And I think it's and they don't even have nearly as many agenda items as we do and their meetings aren't nearly as long. And they have a very difficult time managing that, especially when people come in late. And so I would ask that the sign-in portion, a friendly amendment to exclude that part
 um so so theresa you want to do an amendment to the amendment i'm just trying to get my bearings here to take away the sign up portion of this amendment that's correct mayor okay got it i'll second that and we have a second so we have an amendment on the amendment well let's have some discussion on the sign up sheet all right
 Who wants to start? Mayor, I have a comment. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. We talked through at our third ordinance review committee a bit of the challenges with the sign-up procedure, and I wouldn't say that the ordinance review committee is –
 blindly enthusiastic about the signup, the prospect of having a signup procedure. In fact, most of our conversations were what if questions and what about questions, but I think can only be answered if we give staff a little bit of time, perhaps the next two weeks, as we were intending to table this to investigate
 to what extent they may be able to implement an equitable sign-up procedure. It may be the case that we can do a better job than some of the state committees or the quorum court. It may also be that we just don't have the technology to do it better than a clipboard that needs to be run to the front of the room. I was under the impression that if we aren't able to address some of those challenges,
 that we might need to have the discussion about whether or not we actually do a sign-up procedure.
 I would ask at least for the courtesy of allowing the ordinance review committees or recommendations to stand on the agenda for two weeks, that we can get at least two weeks so we can get a robust discussion of all of the recommendations, including the signup procedure. I fear if we remove it now, we're doing it before we have as much information as we might be able to reasonably get. Okay, who else wants?
 Who else? I'd like to comment on this. I so vividly recall the first time I had to approach city council as a younger man and it was extremely intimidating. Just the proxemics of the room and the unfamiliarity of the rules of order is enough to be somewhat terrifying. And then as Mr. Dockery mentioned, when you're in the
 and you hear an argument that needs to be either endorsed or refuted, you might not know that in advance. It might be something that comes up that you didn't think about or something that changes your point of view. And at that time, I think then someone might want to approach the podium and speak to the city council. And so I can't think of any item that we should restrict people
 a person who hears something during the discussion to restrict them from responding. So I also have been in many meetings with other agencies where you have to sign up
 And I always felt that it was the intention of that agency to prevent people from refuting some arguments that come up late in the discussion. And I felt like that I was blocked out because it was too late to sign up. So that's the issues that I have with the sign up. I think it just adds to complicated procedure that is unnecessary.
 Mayor, if I might. I hear your concern, Mark, and that is certainly not the intent of the Ordinance Review Committee, and I think that's why we discussed it so much.
 The intent of the ordinance review committee when this concept was put forward in the sign-up sheet was to be able to predict how many people might want to speak about an item, not to restrict anyone from speaking. That's why we included a mechanism so that anybody who wanted to make a spontaneous comment
 Good approach. They wouldn't be barred from approaching whatsoever and say, you know, that they had a comment, but they had missed the sign up sheet. And then unless someone objects, they just get to talk. It should be very quick and easy. The intent of the sign up sheet. I have to repeat myself was was simply
 to be able to predict how much time particular items might take so that people in the audience who might be waiting for items at the end of the agenda could, that we could set an expectation for them. This I think is, these comments are totally legitimate, completely. I feel like some of these, some of this discussion
 is born from the fact that a lot of the council might be seeing or having the first opportunity to discuss this with the members of the Ordinance Review Committee. And I think that after a chance to review it and to come back to it in another meeting, the intent of the committee might be more clear. I would like to add the,
 Just to answer Mr. Dockery's question about the unanimous consent or majority vote, we had initially talked about unanimous consent as a way to expedite allowing people more time because when people run out of time and then we have to stop and do a roll call to let them continue, then it interrupts their train of thought and takes more of our time. And generally those are unanimous votes. Thank you.
 So by allowing unanimous consent, we could move that along quicker and still have the majority vote fall back in case somebody did want to object. You would just need a majority of the council to let you continue speaking. So that's why it is phrased like that in there. And
 I hope that one of the other benefits that I don't think Matthew mentioned, because we didn't talk about it, but listening to Mark talk about kind of the intimidation factor of coming in, one of the biggest inefficiencies in our meetings is the time it takes to say who else would like to address us and wait to see if somebody comes forward. And
 It can be difficult to know if it's your time to stand up when it's that kind of thing. We always see the kind of awkward collisions as multiple people try to come to the podium at once. And this would allow us to communicate in advance who was up next and move them to the to the podium a little bit quicker. And to give people a little bit of mental prep time so that they would know when their turn is coming and hopefully reduce some of that
 I concur with Matthew. I would like to go ahead and vote on the amendment as it came from the committee so that we can look at the individual pieces. In two weeks, if we want to discuss amending out a certain piece of it, then I would be perfectly happy to continue this conversation. But I firmly believe that what came out of the committee is a very important piece of the agenda. And I think that's what we need to do.
 a better consensus than what went in, and I would like to not hang up the other four items on the one and instead continue that conversation individually after we've had a chance to look over it.
 I understand, though, Ken, we have an amendment. We've got to vote on the amendment before we can. I mean, you've still got to vote on this amendment. You vote on this second amendment first because it's amending the other one. And then at that point, the original amendment would be coming before it. Unless the one that made the amendment withdraws the amendment. And the second. And the second. I would still have the vote on this proposed amendment.
 Okay. And I would like to add that some of the additional benefits that we identified to the sign-up sheet are in terms of getting the correct spelling and identification of people for the city clerk and the meeting minutes, as well as the ability to publish the rules of order on there so that the mayor doesn't have to keep repeating his usual spiel about, you know, not addressing the council and such and such. And we're hoping that by doing that we can increase the efficiency of the meeting as
 What else do we have? I would still also like to see this voted on and quite honestly I hope that it is taken out. I know that it is not the intent to make anyone feel intimidated or the intent of this of our committee in any way to prevent open discussion of an item but I
 Based on my experience, both as a naive person that had to approach city council on behalf of my neighborhood association and as a member of the public that have spoken in other governmental agencies where they do have a very sometimes misunderstood sign up. It adds a complication and it does leave the perception that.
 People hold out until the end to have their points made. They can refute the point that I made, but I don't have the opportunity to stand up and refute what they say or to endorse it. I like what we currently have. I'll say that loud and clear because it's easy. We have the time restriction of 10 minutes. I don't think that's unreasonable. And we're making it more complicated now
 Easy is good for the general public. It's good to encourage community engagement. By adding more restrictions and more rules, it's more intimidating and it's more confusing, not easier. That's just my point of view, so I've got to support it. Okay, great.
 I have one more comment. You know, while it may seem that having a sign-up sheep is efficient, I have seen it not be efficient at all. I think it takes just as much time, maybe even more time,
 And if we need to have some rules that the mayor is repeating, we could actually put that in the background. You know, we could actually put that on the screen. So there's other ways to be able to cut down on some of the redundancy that the mayor has to do. So I think there's other procedures that we can enact and explore. But I do think this makes it more complicated and more intimidating and more rigid than
 And we want, even though our meetings go long, we do like a lot of participation from the public. We do encourage that. We wanna hear from as many people as possible that are passionate about a particular issue. Okay, what other comments do we have? I have a comment.
 Mayor? I think what we're missing is just the understanding of the process and the procedure of the sign-up. While I think a sign-up sheet can be incredibly...
 one extra step. It could also really bring a lot of clarity for people because I feel like when I first was going to speak in city council, which I appreciate that Mark's bringing up his experience because I think we need to think about it from that perspective. If I was signing up, I think I felt I would have felt a little bit more committed to that one space and
 and especially if I could see the space where I was, that I was coming after five people or six people, or I was first in line. So I feel like for me, if, if, if I was starting a procedure, I could tell people, you know, we want you to sign up for this. And I don't know why, but in my mind it's digital. So we can all see it. People online can see it. The council can see it. Maybe that's very ideal, but yeah,
 I'm not sure what the process is. I think that's where the gray point is for the committee if we could kind of get that more Clarified and I understand that we want to give the two weeks to give staff time to figure out what that looks like But I think when we have that it'll it'll be really much more helpful But in general, I'm definitely for a sign-up sheet. I think it can help people Understand where they are in line Okay
 Who else? Okay, Teresa, do you want to have any public comment on your amendment? Yes, that would be good. All right. We'll take some public comment. Now, this is the amendment on the amendment. Only the sign-up sheet. Only the sign-up sheet portion. Okay.
 Thank you. All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. There's five minute limit. Less city council by majority vote gives you more time. Or the city council has questions for you. Stay on the topic, which is amendment on the amendment to do away with the sign up sheet. And please no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and who would like to address us on this. Mayor Rob Qualls is up. All right, we'll hear Rob. Hello, Mayor and Council.
 Can everyone hear me? Yes. Okay, thank you. The Zoom thing is a little bit awkward sometimes. I really think there's merit to the sign-up sheet issue, but I understand there could be some concerns. One thing that I just didn't hear mentioned, you know, as far as being intimidating, and everyone's different, but one of the most intimidating aspects for me has been
 jockeying for position, not knowing when to go, walking to the podium and having someone cut in front of me. So if we could, you know, find some way to brainstorm together and find a system that kind of cut out some of the awkwardness and delay. I mean, sometimes, you know, oftentimes, Mayor, you'll, the last person will speak and you'll say, does anyone else have anything? And then
 right when you're about to move on someone else stands up. So there certainly could be some some more orderly ways to organize short of having people line up physically which is you know not desirable either and really this comes into play in the more the busier meetings where you have a lot of people and being kind of a big awkward fellow myself it's always kind of strange trying to figure out how to get in there without
 looking overly aggressive or running over a senior citizen. So that's all I have. Thank you all so much for the discussion. Thank you, Rob. Who else would like to address us? Mayor Drew Wallace. All right, Drew. Hey, can you hear me, Mr. Mayor?
 Yep. Hey, thanks a lot. So, yeah, I would like something about this too. I, maybe this is rhetorical, but I had to do the sign up to get to the Zoom right now already. So I had to fill out all the information to get the Zoom link. And then I had to go and click on the Zoom link. And I also had to put in what I wanted to speak about.
 But it was, and that was required, but it's optional that I could spill anything, I guess, obviously. It's kind of a line system with this digital method. So if it's going to be digital or if there's going to be some sort of, maybe it could be optional where you can see, oh, you know, there's an item that four or five people have purchased.
 sign up for and then they could go down that list and those people on that list would know but then there'd maybe be time at the end where you could say hey, does anyone else like to speak about this and then they would still have the opportunity to speak. So maybe that would be some sort of compromise because I can see where everybody's coming from on the sign up sheet on how it can be indicating and also make it easier. Some people do just depending on different personalities. So, alright, thanks.
 but thank you who else would like to address this okay i'm going to bring it back to the council so we have an amendment on the amendment now is what final comments do we is there any other final comments from the council
 i i would just add one thing mayor and that's to remind us that this is just a resolution for our rules and procedures and we can change them again at any time as long as we want are willing to take on that conversation these are something that will naturally revisit the first meeting of 2021 and again anytime we feel the need to change them after that okay any other final comments from the council before we vote on the amendment of the amendment
 Well, just so you know, since this is y'all's orders of rules and procedure, I don't plan on voting one way or the other on this thing. So I want you all to make up your mind how you want these meetings run, and I'll run it any way you want me to. So let's just leave it at that. Is there any other final comments? All right. Carriage, please call the roll.
 we start with accept the amendment it's the amendment on the amendment on the sign-up sheet and that was Teresa Turk and then who made the second Petty no Scroggins no Bunch no Turk yes Smith no Gutierrez no Marsh no Kenyon yes
 okay so the amendment on the amendment failed but we're back to the original amendment then but if i understand correctly this could be brought up again in two weeks absolutely correct okay just wanted to be sure all right so we take the public comment on i think you are yes i believe i have and so um now we're back to the final comments of the council on the amendment to the resolution
 Okay, what final comments do we have? Mayor, I have a final comment. Sure. Thank you. This has changed quite a bit from the resolution that I sponsored to the agenda more than two months ago. And I'm proud of the changes that have been made. Those changes have come with the suggestion of other council members and I'm appreciative to you. I'm proud to be colleagues with you and they've also come from members of the community.
 It's entirely different from where it started.
 I do think it's a lot better. And I think it will help our meetings run a little more smoothly too. If we do end up voting this in in a future meeting, I hope we will be committed to being agile enough or adaptive enough to amend it again if these changes wouldn't work.
 Of course, that's presuming that we vote for it at a future meeting, and that's why I'd like to motion that we table this for two weeks to the following meeting. There has been some suggestion that we discussed at the Ordinance Review Committee meeting that we hold this until we resume normal meetings, but I'd like to talk about that a little bit
 I don't have a strong preference one way or the other except for that I'm concerned about what may be practical for our administration to implement. Right now we have a city clerk and a new communications director who have attended more virtual meetings than they have in-person meetings. When we talk about starting up again in person, it will be a new learning curve with new technology just to restart to what we had before.
 And I would ask, or I'm curious, I bet that it may be more practical to implement some of these changes for restarting public meetings. I don't think I would have been confident saying that with respect to the political concerns or ramifications of this.
 of the original proposal, which did reduce the time that was allotted to speakers. But this one I think handles the original intent much more elegantly. And in any case, I do make a motion to table it for two weeks of the following meeting.
 Okay, I want to be sure I got that right, Matthew. So you want the amendment to the resolution, you want to table this for two weeks, right? Are you not wanting us to go ahead? I'm sorry, I got ahead of myself. I apologize to all of you. Yeah, I was trying to get my head wrapped around that one exactly. Okay, I'm good. It must be because it's your birthday and all. That might be part of it. Okay.
 All right, let's, all right. So now we have the amendment before us. Let's stay with that. What other comments do we have on the amendment that's before us? Okay, being none, Karen, would you please call the roll? Mayor, would you repeat who made the motion and who seconded on that? All right, okay. And Sloan, right? Yes. Okey dokey, all right.
 Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kedion? Yes. Okay. So we're going to hold it right here for- Well, we need a motion to table probably to the first meeting in July, if that's what I understood that Matthew was saying. I need a motion to second to table. Okay. I'll second.
 motion of second table all right caravans please call the role petty yes scroggins yes bunch yes kirk yes math yes guitaras yes marsh yes opinion yes okay thank you all number three
 An ordinance to amend 96.02, unreasonable excessive noise, prohibited exceptions to extend the city's noise regulations to all vehicle-related businesses. Well, I'll start off. Obviously, the city council decided to reconsider this ordinance that was passed the meeting before that, and this is the original title and the original ordinance that's right before you, and then...
 Council Member Gutierrez had some suggested amendments, which have also been handed out. So I'm gonna leave that and let her discuss them if she'd like to. Okay, Sonia, you're up.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm just going to give a very brief history about how this came about because I did have some questions from people. It came about very different than most things because at the 5520 City Council meeting, we had an item under old business regarding sound and noise vehicle related businesses and
 And in the discussion of that item, Council Member Marsh brought up an example about a bicycle issue on the trail using amplified sound and that the amplified side was passing regularly. And so as a council, we unanimously agreed that if this was not already covered in our sound ordinance, that we should add it.
 It was unanimously added, but at that time the word bicycle was used so that all other trail users could possibly be as loud as they wanted with no limit. As the assigned council member to the active transportation committee, it was voted that I bring the item back to be sure to include all trail users instead of just singling out the bicycle users.
 Because the ordinance had not actually gone into effect, which we were glad it had not gone into effect, I had the option to bring it back as a reconsidered item. And after discussing the parliamentary procedure with Kit, I was able to do that at the last meeting. And when we reconsider an item, it goes directly to the third reading.
 I intended not to pass it at that last meeting in order to give plenty of time for everyone to provide input and for Kit and I to draft an ordinance that included all trail users. So as I see it, the amended ordinance is to allow neighbors an opportunity to file a formal complaint if someone is being excessively loud with amplified sound.
 and we had an ordinance so that we'd have an ordinance aside and let them know that excessive sound is really not part of the general peace and quiet of the trail in our neighborhoods so I would love for any questions and hopefully people have had time to discuss this and if I guess at this point I would be open for any discussion and questions and then I guess for Kit to read
 the amended ordinance or whatever we need to do next to make sure people understand what it is that we're discussing. So I have a question, Sonia. On the amendment, are we extending this to sidewalks as well or is this just for our multi-use trail system?
 It's just for the trails. That's what would be my recommendation. So that would not include any public sidewalk. Thank you. Because I do have concerns about the protests and the ability of people to march and use bullhorns and such. I want to make sure we're protecting that. Absolutely. That was my concern. That was my concern as well, Sarah. Thank you. Just a little bit of issue with sidewalks myself.
 Yes, he was able to help me draft that so that we would make sure and not to come against any First Amendment issues. And that was something that he wanted to make sure that I was considering and definitely want to consider. And so that was one of the very first things that he wanted to make sure and exclude so that we could not have the issue. Okay.
 I have a comment. So since we've had time to kind of reconsider and also hear from people and experience some of the recent activity, our protests on Tuesday night, I have some serious concerns about extending any of this to our trail system.
 For example, if we had somebody with a loudspeaker, maybe there was an issue along the trail or along the creek and we had a protest out there, I would really not want to restrict their First Amendment rights to that.
 And I, you know, we've had, you all have had discussion about some issues with people on bicycles, but I would hate for us to do an overreach, a restriction on a few people that are not being courteous. You know, maybe there's a way to get them to be more compliant and more understanding and.
 through a warning of some kind or educational part, but not actually restricting restricting amplified noise because I again I'm worried about a bullhorn that would be outlawed it would be illegal if we pass this. Yeah.
 Yeah, I also feel the same way as it's currently written. I'll be against this amendment. I absolutely think we should try to prevent people from, you know, targeting the same house over and over and over with the same music or message or being a nuisance. But I am concerned that if the protests we had on Tuesday decided to go down the trail system, that we would be stopping that. So...
 I'm either a no now or a table, and then hopefully we can kind of piece those parts a little farther away so that we're not hurting the ability to have the protests on Tuesday. But at the same time, I understand if somebody's coming out with the same music every single day and targeting a single person or a single house, we've got to figure out a way to prevent that. But still allow the protests we had on Tuesday.
 I also have a comment on this that I'm a little confused about the amendment and exactly where we are, but just the, from what I think I hear and what I've read, although we have about four attachments, this may be used as a tool or again, it's perception as much as anything that those that use the trail system could be targeted if they're, you know, in some way,
 bothersome to someone and it may be that they will not have the means to defend themselves if it got to that point. And I don't want this to be used as a tool for someone that lives along the trail to target the person on the trail.
 And it can go that way. You know, I live by a public park. There are drum circles. It gets bothersome sometimes. But I really kind of appreciate the fact that they have the freedom to do that. And then they'll come by my house or over to the Skull Creek Trail. And they can be loud. But they're not targeting me. They're just, it can be bothersome if I allow it to be. I don't want...
 I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one. I think it's a tough one.
 I just don't want to restrict anyone's freedoms, and I don't want anyone to be targeted by an ordinance, especially one that is subjective. So I've got to think about this. I certainly support tabling it, and I do think that we must have a further discussion on the implications and the perception as we move forward with this. As a person who has a trail in their backyard and deals with this every day, there are issues with the sound.
 But we also have a lot of other trail etiquette issues as well. And I'm wondering if rather than passing an ordinance, if we were to embark on a trail etiquette education campaign.
 I see the other day a bunch of kids left their scooters in one of the tunnels all strewn across because they had gotten out to play in the creek. And then they created a hazard where people couldn't get through. You know, there's just there's a lot of noise. And I think.
 We really have to make sure that these trails continue to be an amenity in neighborhoods and not a liability. And having a larger campaign of public education about trail etiquette, I think could probably achieve that without taking such a punitive approach. I was, I had to work myself up to vote to apply this to bicycles.
 And I'm not prepared to go as far as pedestrians. And for me, the dividing line is between, it's the speech and expression line. Someone in a car or on a bike is moving fairly swiftly. And their noise, their music, their sound comes and goes and is probably difficult to understand for a long period of time.
 somebody who is on foot has an opportunity for an audience. Our trails don't just go through neighborhoods. In fact, most of our trails, I suspect, are in areas that would be considered more public spaces than private.
 Teresa mentioned all of our trail side, creek side trails. All of Ruppel Road instead of a sidewalk down one side is a trail. And our trail goes right through our center of downtown Dixon Street area, which is a very common gathering place. It would be a place ripe for political speech. And I'm not prepared.
 to take any action that would get in the way of a citizen's right to get angry at their government and go shout about it in public. So I won't be able to support this either. Okay. I was thinking about this, and at first I thought it sounded like a great idea, but I don't live on a trail. So I don't have people. If people are coming by my house, they're on another form of a public space, which is a street.
 And some of our trails, you know, go through what are really strictly neighborhoods. You talked about Dixon Street and downtown. But some of these go through places that are strictly neighborhoods. And we think of them as being quieter spaces, maybe, than downtown. You know, I think I'm thinking about...
 some of the, you know, like if, and I'm just going to throw this out here, if we had a rezoning issue and a neighborhood was angry about it, or someone wanted a rezoning issue, or they were angry about this, they could go by someone's house and make a lot of noise and have a protest on, and directed at a neighborhood. You know, I kind of, I saw that as a possibility too, and I'm
 And I don't really think that that is not, you know, it could, it might not be an orchestrated thing, but it could, it could happen. And someone could, you know, as a...
 I was a victim of stalking at one point in time. And if I lived on a trail and I had someone, you know, that John Cusack film where he holds the speakers up and everything. If you grew up in the 80s, you remember that. And I had a guy that used to come by my house all the time and he would just crank his stereo. And there really wasn't any. He would sit out basically in front of my apartment. There wasn't much I could do about it.
 But it was tied to something else. It wasn't just his freedom of speech. It was his ability to intimidate me. So I'm not sure what to do on this because I can kind of see both sides of it. Am I alone in this thought or? Okay. All right. I'm just going to throw that out there. Thank you guys. What are the comments you have in council? Mayor, I have a comment.
 So I do want to reply to Councilmember Kenyon's question because that was my first question, Mark, was don't our sound ordinances already cover our trails because they're part of our neighborhoods?
 And in fact, they don't. And so that was one of the concerns that I had from the beginning because I felt like we were over creating extra ordinances that we didn't need to. And so that is why we went ahead and went with the, to proceed to amend it instead of bicycles, just the all trail users.
 My concern from bringing it from the beginning from the Active Transportation Committee was that we didn't wanna single out the bicycle users.
 So from my perspective, either we treat everyone the same with the same ordinance or we don't apply it to anyone. So I think for me, it's more about treating everyone equally and not singling out one type of trail user. And I'm totally fine to table this and I appreciate all the feedback and comments. But I think if we can maybe have some more time to think about it, I'm totally supportive of that.
 I just realized that I was muted the entire time. No, I heard you. Okay, I think I'm so used to muting myself as soon as I finish speaking. I do have a procedural question. When we reconsidered it, did it come with the changes? Or do we have to vote on those and then do we have to vote on the original again if we don't have those amendments? I guess that'd be a question for Kat.
 Okay, when you move to reconsider this you put the ordinance back in front of you exactly before As it was before you voted to approve it and at that point it did concern City trails
 But it limited that for basically a bicycle on the city trail, as Sonia said. But it did include restricting any kind of noise disturbance from the city trail. And that was put in by the city council at the meeting. That's not how it came originally from the staff.
 And from my office, it didn't have that in there. It was designed mainly for the vehicle related businesses because we were concerned that some of these businesses, especially the new one where you're bicycling around or you're pedaling around this new vehicle through neighborhoods, we were afraid there was going to be music on that, disturb the residential neighborhoods, and that's why Devin and Blake brought up
 brought this forward so that we could control noise off that vehicle. And then it was expanded by the city council to cover bikes on trails. So that's where we're at right now. If you don't do anything, well, right now, nothing has passed. So it's back to where it was in the third and final reading before you. So if we wanted to pass exactly what we passed before we reconsidered, do we have to make an amendment?
 If you want to pass what was passed last time, you don't have to make any amendment. If you want to go back to what Blake and Devin had presented to the council that did not include trails or bicycles, then you'd have to make an amendment back to that original wording that was presented to you then. But we can simply stop this and take a step back by tabling it again.
 At this point, nothing is passed. Right. So if you don't vote to approve this or to amend it or do anything, you would need to amend it. I mean, you need to vote to table it. To table the amendment. Actually, at this point, the only thing that's in front of you is exactly what was passed by the city council. So you would be tabling what you passed two meetings ago.
 but on the agenda we do have amendments but we just haven't presented them so that's where i was confused so i'd like to make sure you're not confused because i'm a little confused i i'm a good carpenter in my day i could have built a table by now but anyway that being said mayor jordan
 May I say something? Yeah, please. So based on our records at the City Council meeting on May 5th, 2020, this item was passed Ordinance 6305. And then on the City Council meeting on May 19th, 2020, Council Member Gutierrez requested to reconsider the vote on file number 2020-0262. And that's why it's right back in front of you right before you voted to pass it.
 So I'd like to, even though I'm a little confused, I'm going to make a motion to amend this ordinance to where it goes back into its original form that was brought forward by city staff. So that would end up excluding bicycles and excluding trails. Second.
 Yes, that's where it would be. Okay, so let me get this straight. We're going to go back to the original thing that we started with and take the bicycles and the individuals out of it on the trail altogether. Correct? Correct. Great. I got that. All right, let's have some discussion on that one. I feel comfortable with that. I'm sorry, I want to get to motion in a second again.
 uh tracy you made that motion and then who seconded that kyle okay kyle all right mark go ahead endorse this amendment and then we still have plenty of time to move forward and uh bring something about controlling uh nuisance noises on the trail but it will go ahead and put into place the original intent of this ordinance so
 I endorse this going back to the original and then still we have the opportunity to further review how to manage the trail nuisance. I would like to say that, of course, there are criminal violations in state law about harassment and also disorderly conduct and other things like that that can protect against some of the extreme behavior that somebody might have on the city trail or anywhere.
 So it's not like the only things that our citizens can rely upon would be our city ordinance. There is state law that does some protection for disorderly conduct type of actions. That was actually what I was referring to earlier was disorderly conduct. Who else? Yes.
 I just would love to reiterate Councilmember Marsh's idea about bringing about some education, trail education. I think that's a great idea and I like the direction that this is going in the sense that we don't have any kind of measures directed to any one kind of trail user so I would support the amendment.
 So we have an amendment to go back to the original and exclude the bicycles and the individuals, correct? Exclude the reference to the trails and bicycles. Okay. Has everybody said all they need to say here? Now I'm going to ask for a little public comment. I wish you from the public well on that. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 You have five minutes time limit, unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time. Or if the city council has questions for you, stay on the topic, which is the original ordinance, which will exclude bicycles. Well, it's the amendment to that ordinance. The amendment to that ordinance to exclude bicycles and pedestrians on the trails.
 Right, Kent? Good. All right. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and who would like to address us first? Mayor Rob Qualls is first. All right, Rob, take it away. Thank you, Mayor. Rob Qualls, 2140 East Jonquil Road. This is the second item on the agenda tonight that...
 I was allowed lots of conversation with my council members and mayor about, and I really appreciate the ability to give my feedback and to be heard and be part of the process. I support Council Member Turk's amendment. I think that's a great idea. I appreciate the clarification on sidewalks versus trails, but it's somewhat of a difference without a distinction. It's very blurry. Some trails turn into sidewalks. Some trails are on sidewalks.
 And as has been mentioned, trails go through parks and civic spaces where free speech concerns still exist. I try to stay away from slippery slope arguments, but this amendment has gone from non-motorized vehicles to pedestrians very quickly. Some of the concerns stated about harassment and threatening behavior are the same ones used to support laws against panhandling and loitering. These behaviors are already covered under state law and don't require additional measures, to my knowledge.
 On its face, the idea of regulating amplified noise in public spaces sounds like a good idea. However, we need to carefully consider the balance between what some view as a nuisance and our rights to free speech. We must balance the wishes of residents to be free from hearing things they don't want with the right of residents to protest their government. It's critical to our democracy that unpopular speech be protected. The eyes of America are on cities like Minneapolis and now Bentonville and Fayetteville, where people are protesting a government that they feel is failing them.
 The last thing we need right now is another innocent activity that could participate in unnecessary police interventions. I don't think there's support for restricting speech to specific areas of our city. And again, I support Council Member Turk's amendment. Thank you all. All right. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Will Dockery's next. All right. Will. Will.
 TAB, Ryan Schuchard, Will docker he for 149 West bread street lane. I also live next to a trail. So I'm glad that we've kind of gone back to what this is. It's not been a problem. And I think like it said, we do have the harassment. TAB, Ryan Schuchard, Things already laws already codified. So if if you really are being harassed. You do have
 I think a lot of it's already been rehashed multiple times by multiple members, but I do want to kind of re-hit on what Sarah Marsh said about, I think it's an amazing idea about the cultural rules for our trails. We've kind of built a whole new cultural institution in our city these last couple of years. And I'm just reminded of when I was in the city and I was in the city,
 and Egypt started doing drive-through restaurants. They had to do commercials so people knew how to use drive-through restaurants with their cars. And I think in some ways that's exactly what we need to do here. We kind of have to get together as a city and decide exactly what those cultural rules are for our city trails. So I just want to commend Council Member Sarah Marsh because that idea just resonates so much with me. Like we get to kind of,
 be the experimental democracy to see exactly how these trail systems work in our in our nation and that's kind of an amazing thing that we have here so thank you very much thank you will who else would like to address this mayor sarah moore is on chair hello mayor can you hear me
 I can. This is Sarah Moore. I'm with the Arkansas Justice Reform Coalition and I appreciate the conversation that was had today and I'm incredibly appreciative at some of the conversations regarding some of kind of the unintended consequences sometimes of ordinances like this. I do have concerns. I think I'm glad that we're
 pulling the trails off because those are used by different folks for not only leisure needs but also for transportation needs and many of our homeless population use those so I appreciate not making ordinances as well that may be target someone or very small instances particularly or I agree with many of the commenters we do have laws on the books that exist today for things that are stalking loitering criminal mischief
 that our law enforcement can use to keep our citizens safe. I very much applaud the conversation in regard to etiquette, and
 And I think this can be not only trail etiquette, but any etiquette around the city. And I encourage any other discussions that are about community engagement where we are building expectations in a very positive way, engaging citizens to be a part of that discussion and be a part of what that action looks like across the different segments of Fayetteville,
 While we're one Fayetteville, some of us look a little different across the city. And so I've also taken into account the particular needs of those individual neighborhoods. I would really appreciate being considered as well. So I appreciate, again, all the conversation tonight that you guys have had. I've appreciated the thoughtful comments. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mayor Drew Wallace is up. All right, Drew, go ahead.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I live at 805 North Hall in Fayetteville. Forgot to say that last time. I am the chair of the Active Transportation Advisory Committee. And for those of you all that might be listening that don't know, we are a citizen action committee that is a city council to make recommendations. And this particular issue was brought to us. We learned about it. A lot of us are cyclists, and the main
 um issue that we had with it is that bicycles were single out and uh main thing was
 If it's going to be the trail, then it should be all or nothing, and then that's kind of what sparked this whole discussion anyway, to not single out any one user of the trail. I am 100% pro-speech and free speech. I think that that's very important. But at the same time, if it's going to be something that's along peaceful enjoyment and it fits under other laws, and just to be under the same laws of...
 no matter where you are inside of the city, whether you're using the trail system or on the road or in somebody's yard, everything should just be the same. And that's kind of where a lot of that background came from.
 and i think as being cyclists that was the whole part of um well if this is singling out bicycles or if there are other people that are on the trail um well then this would be an opportunity to kind of cover this with the same type of ordinances that are around town um i really appreciate this discussion that you all had i absolutely love the idea of doing it for real etiquette um i think that our committee would
 would love to help make a recommendation for that. That would be fantastic. And we'd love to get more public input because I think that's something, especially because there's so many more people using the trail, it'd be fantastic to get some of that. So I think that the way, I can't really speak for our whole committee right now about the way that this discussion has moved forward.
 But I say that personally, I would be for just completely taking it off and just having that education campaign. I think that that sounds like a great idea, and that's kind of come out of this discussion. I think that that would be fantastic. So it would be something that we can do as more of an educational campaign, which would be great anyway, because the trail is such a transportation corridor as it is.
 and the trail system has been brought up for anyone who's using it, for all ages and all abilities. No matter who you are, you should be able to use the trail and enjoy the trail system. So I think that having some sort of campaign, I think would be fantastic. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council.
 if we're ready uh for the vote on on the proposed amendment if the council's ready yes any final comments from the council okay care would you please call the row on the amendment petty yes scroggins yes bunch yes turk yes smith yes cataras yes marsh yes kenyan yes
 Okay, Mayor, let me read the operative section as it would read now, which is back to the original one that was proposed by Devin. It's a new Section E to Section 9602. Subsection E, operating or causing to operate any sound amplification device on or from any means of conveyance that is regulated by Chapter 117, vehicle-related businesses, whether motorized or not,
 so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 30 feet or more from the vehicle whether in a street a highway an alley parking lot or driveway Whether public or private property is prohibited and declared to be a noise disturbance in violation of this chapter Okay, so I believe we're on the third and final reading are we not yes. Yes. That's what I remember a long time ago We're on the uh
 Third and final reading. So what final comments do we have from council before we vote on the ordinance? Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much. Moving right along. All right, number four, an ordinance to approve annexation petition annexation 20-6995 and annex 152 acres located along Humont Road north of Mount Comfort Road. It's left on first ring. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second bill.
 Okay. I guess Kit you will read. I can read it. You read that in its entirety. It's not too long. So moved. Second. But okay, go ahead. I think everything. Oh, we got a motion and a second? I think so. Okay, thank you. Who gave me the motion? Kyle did. All right, and who's the seconder? Teresa. All right, Teresa. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Heading.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to approve annexation petition ANX 20-6995 and annex 152 acres located along Humont Road north of Mount Compton. Okay. Garth, what do you have?
 good evening mayor and council um a couple weeks ago um council member petty asked if uh if there was a way to calculate uh what it might cost to serve this uh area versus what it might generate in revenue and uh i volunteered and raised my hand uh so we gave it a go we have with the help of
 a lot of departments. We did produce some numbers. I packaged those, a summary of those numbers in a memo and I sent it to the clerk who sent it to all of you last Friday with all the spreadsheets that were produced that have all the assumptions and the background data relating to those numbers.
 Given the fact you have a fairly long agenda and I would just answer questions or I do have a short summary presentation of the numbers if council wants to see it. I could forego that unless there's a need for that. What's the wishes of the council?
 I would like to see the short presentation of the numbers so that the public is aware of the information. Okay. Okie dokie. All right. Okay. Do you see the screen? Did I share the screen? Yes. Yes. I see it. So the area that we looked at was the area of the request, which is outlined in the black line. And revenue, there was revenue that was paid.
 by when we issued the building permits, by the development that has already occurred, which needed to meet all our requirements, which included paying the fiscal impact fees. So that's a revenue source. And then there are, we also did projections on population and we have revenues as to what
 might be expected if it were completely developed. And we have also costs that relate to serving the area that is already developed, and then later serving the developed areas. So I'll go through that quickly. First, the population, some of these numbers are based on population. We presently believe there are 267 or 132 households living in the area.
 at built bill out there will be another 190 a total of 322. so i mentioned uh revenue it's already been collected uh the city of baylor issued these building permits so we collected fees for fire police water and sewer total 284 000. um similar similarly um
 We anticipate if you assume the population that we assume, which is conservatively based on the zoning that was requested, we would get an additional 28,000 for fire, 30,000 for police, 350 for water and sewer. These are impact fees. And then as you'll recall, we required, or the agreement required dedication of park land
 And the Parks Department says that probably they wouldn't be asking for more land, but they would be asking for park fee and loot. So annual revenue, these are relatively easy to obtain. They're also based on some assumptions. The property tax is an actual amount that is presently being paid.
 Internet sales tax is a big kicker and it's a very important subject and we're going to be talking about it For I think in Fayetteville for a long time to come because under the new state law it's collected that where you live So annexation produces some revenue and that's included in this above the tax line and the state turn back
 If we had beat the census, that would happen immediately. That's going to be a deferred state turn back, at least for a couple of years, the same way with CDBG. Of course, the city of Fayetteville is not in control of these revenue sources. So I added them, but I didn't add it to the total. So the annual cost might be, based on our calculations, at build out $197,000.
 and the annual revenue would be 164,000. I really caution you from comparing these numbers because this is not a calibrated fiscal impact model. It is trying to determine the best we could of what revenue might be and what the cost might be.
 so in conclusion it's not a finely calibrated fiscal impact model development in fully served areas i would say this is a partially served area can create surpluses all fiscal models are based on assumptions about the future
 I talked to a colleague of mine who does fiscal models for cities, he's doing four right now, for a living. And he said it's part science and part art. And anytime you're dealing with assumptions about the future is I would call it art. Yeah, but I think the real message I have is state law regarding internet sales tax.
 is really going to change how we view annexations. The rule of thumb is that residential development never pays for itself if you assume that the sales tax that the households that live in the houses is accounted for in the stores.
 But that law accounts for that revenue at the address. So I guess with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Garner on this? Excuse me, Garner, I wanted to.
 to add that even though your slide showed $179 expenses, you actually said the words 197. So if the council was not looking at that slide, I just wanted to correct that. As you said, you said the opposite of what you showed. Okay, thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for Garner? Okay, I believe Garner is the applicant wanting to give a presentation tonight.
 Yes, Mayor. The applicant is requesting that the council grant him permission to do a video presentation. I think, actually, that the rules allow an applicant to do that already and don't require a motion or anything like that from the city council. Okay. So Robert Rhodes is...
 the applicant and does wish to make a presentation. Okay. Robert, you're up.
 Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Council. Again, I'm Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Paul Lestal, and I'm representing Mrs. John L. Hunt, as well as Phil Phillips, and about 65% of the property owners in this subject property that is part of this request for this annexation.
 I've also, the slides I'm going to show, I have worked with the YOLS IT department and I want to thank Keith in advance for giving me a little bit of help on that.
 I'm in my conference room right now, and in my conference room I have Mr. Phil Phillips, and he will be available for any questions throughout the discussion of this if any council member has a question.
 Hopefully you all have seen the letter and the exhibits that I've written that Garner stole. Specifically, I wrote one on May 11th before the last council meeting. But also, I sent those to council members as well and the mayor. I did another one on June 1st, which also had exhibits.
 As Mr. Stoll told you before, most of the subject property to this annexation was part of Umont Village LLC, which late in 2011 was in the process of requesting a conditional use permit from the county.
 And of course, as most of you all know, anytime a conditional use permit is being requested at the county level and it's in the city's planning area, then the city has a lot of say-so in that and a lot of involvement in that.
 And so in the course of that request, and since the property was in the planning area, the city planners were quite involved. And in 2012, the city, because of its desire not to have this property close to their city limits, developed with county standards using a step sewage system, agreed to supply sewer to UMont Village LLC.
 And pursuant to a city resolution 183.12, which was a 2012, again, resolution, as well as a contract that was attached to that resolution, the city required the developer to, quote, contractually agree to develop pursuant to the city's requirements. Okay.
 And so, and they also put in the contract that the developer will quote, seek immediate annexation into the city as it becomes legally possible. And further went on to say, and to place this requirement of seeking annexation, place this requirement within the covenants and the deeds for each property within the development. In 2013 and 14, two more resolutions were passed.
 And also with those resolutions were two more amended contracts, all still keeping that same language in regard to annexation. And these two amendments and further resolutions asked my clients to do additional things under the city's development standards and asking that alleys be removed and things like that.
 So, however, during, with those two resolutions, nothing additional was requested or given up by the city. In other words, the city asked for additional things, but its obligations changed not at all. So, Keith, if you don't mind, can I have that first slide?
 Thank you. Okay, what I'm showing you here, and I'd already sent this to you with the first letter that I sent before the last council meeting, and this specifically, this was shared with the planning department, and this is something that the architect that was helping on the project at the time, Rob Sharp, had put together, and this shows that the planning
 what at that time was what you might village was meant to be. And as you can see, it not only has the park that's currently developed, but it has that northern part. Keith, I have the second slide now.
 What this is, is part of the request that UMont Village had for the CUP at the county. This is a document that was dated November 3rd, 2011.
 And it was right before the city and my clients decided that this ought to come into the city and not be part of the county. But my point of showing you this is it again shows all of Umont Village. And so the city was quite aware that Umont Village wasn't just the part that's developed, but it was also the northern part.
 Further, Umont Village has always, as evidenced by its mortgage, and I'm talking about the LLC, has always, as evidenced by its mortgage records and its corporate records, been not just the property that's already been developed, but also the Northern property. So it's not like Umont Village LLC just all of a sudden decided to add that to their holdings. It's always been part of their holdings.
 And that fact is important because the owners of Viewmont Village and the developers of this entire multi-phase project had always believed that those annexation requirements were for their entire development, again, including the northern part.
 And again, the reasons that that is important, I know council members probably remember this, but for the public's benefit, the staff is recommending approval of all the annexation but for that northern part. And again, we're asking for the entire thing to be annexed.
 And I guess at the end of the day, the owners of the U-mont Village LLC, they relied on the fact that, okay, if we're being asked to annex all of our property, then we'll act accordingly, and they have.
 As you can probably imagine, Mr. Phillips has sat on this northern piece of property for 15 years, and you can probably imagine that's considerable carrying costs for that.
 And so when this opportunity came to annex into the city, as required by the three contracts I've already mentioned, as well as the resolutions, he immediately set into motion, along with Mrs. Hunt and others, to get this annexation going. That's been about a year in the making. And so that kind of brings us to where we are.
 I would emphasize that not only is there an expectation from my clients, Mr. Phillips and Mrs. Hunt, but by the very words that the city put into the contracts, that the requirement to annex be put within the covenants and the deeds of each property of the development. Therefore, hundreds of people that are currently living in the Umont Village part that's developed, have the expectation
 that when they bought their house, the property would be in the city. And further, they also had the expectation that the northern part of the northern property would be in the city and would be developed pursuant to city standards. That's very important to these hundreds of people because the northern property is at a higher elevation. And if it were to be developed,
 through county standards and with a step system, those residents below that 20 acres in the north would have concerns about how those systems would work and hold up over the years. It's fair to say that they bought their homes with the reliance that not only would their phase of the subdivision be improved,
 but also all of the phases of the subdivision would be put and be built in as far as in with city standards, not county standards. I know most of you probably have driven through Umont Village and if you have, you can see that it's truly built to the city standards. And I think it's an excellent subdivision. The people that live there are proud to live there. In the development of the property to city standards,
 Some of the things that you kind of add up, $120,000 or so worth of sewer permits and building permits were paid. The developer met all of the requirements that the city has asked, as was mentioned at the last meeting by Mr. Stoll.
 The developer has planted 330 trees, plus posted tree bonds, put in trail substructure, dedicated parkland. The developer has also widened both sides of U-Mont Road pursuant to the city's request at the developer's expense, of course. The city also requested a reconfiguration of the intersection right below the subdivision,
 And that reconfiguration was done, and it was built to city and or county standards, but again, paid for by the developer.
 And although that intersection may need more work, I think someone had sent an email to the, a U-Mont Village resident, I think had sent an email to council asking about that intersection. But although it may need more work, it certainly is much better than what it was before Mr. Phillips paid for the reconfiguration of it.
 In the past meeting, two weeks ago, a Mr. Collins got up and spoke, or I guess zoomed up and spoke, and he indicated that he had drainage issues on his property where he lives in the existing Newmont subdivision. Mr. Phillips reached out to him and has agreed to, and hopefully by next week, fix the drainage issue on his property. Thank you.
 Again, I want to remind you as further evidence that the northern 20 acres that has been called the peninsula was always to be part of UMont subdivision and subject to the annexation requirement. The city has physically built and stubbed out two manholes on that property. That certainly shows the city's intent of bringing all of this property including the peninsula into the city.
 At the last meeting, Mr. Petty requested the financial review of the city, as Mr. Stoll just gave the report, and it appears that at a minimum, this subdivision should pay for itself, not just with building permits, impact fees, but also the sales tax revenues. Keith, may I have the third slide, please? Yes.
 Another reason to annex this property into the city is Clabber Creek and the trail system at the bottom of this subject property. Having it in the city achieves the city's objective to protect the enduring green network. Keith, the fifth slide, please.
 I also want to point out that I, as I included in my last letter, this screenshot, and if you'll notice here, the streets sort of frame up, and what it does is it allows the city to have at the northern part of that peninsula, of the north property of UMont Village, it allows for the city to have that east-west connection, which I think is important to you all.
 May I have the next slide, please? Okay, so what I'm showing you here, and the X is where Umont Village North would be, where that peninsula would be. Okay, and so on this particular slide, you'll see that literally within about five blocks of Umont Village,
 is another peninsula, that's the Lyrie subdivision. And my recollection of when that was brought in to the city, I think it was a very similar situation,
 of those people wanting to build that subdivision and the city not wanting it to be set up with a step system and therefore the city brought it in and as you can see, create a peninsula. My point is it's very close to our peninsula. Also within a mile if you look around at this particular slide, and this is, I got this off of, as you can probably see, I got this off of the city's website. There's over six other
 that are there. So I know, and that's all on the slides. Thank you very much, Keith. I know that your 2040 plan talks about peninsulas, but it does not prohibit peninsulas. It talks about avoiding them. I think that's the word, avoiding them. It talks about it being a goal to reduce them. But I would say that in this particular situation, for all of the reasons that I've just laid out,
 This situation falls into the do-right philosophy that our mayor speaks of on a pretty regular basis, or at least he certainly did when I was on council. And so I would say that I would ask the city council to annex all of this property and not just for Mrs. Hunt or Mrs. Hunt and Mr. Phillips, but all of these residents. And
 And I guess not only would you be doing the right thing, but at some point, the property directly east of Yuman Village, it'll come into the city at some point. And what that will, I bring that up because that will allow you to have the opportunity to square that off. In conclusion, I would ask that you would support the entire annexation program.
 And again, Mr. Phillips is here in my conference room. If you have questions for him or if you have more questions for me, I'd be more than glad to answer them. And I thank you for your consideration. And Keith, thank you for helping me with the slides. All right. Thank you, Robert. What questions do we have for the applicant or governor in all of this, council? Anybody? All right. Let's open it up for some public comment. Now, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute limit.
 unless city council by majority vote gives you more time but the city council has questions for you please stay on the topic which is the annexation of about 152 acres and uh please know rude behavior and give us your name and address who would like to address this first okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 I have some observations. When we discovered, when we looked at Humont Village last time that we brought in the sewer system because the step system was inoperable and was not going to operate on the property that is developed, I think the arguments that were used there are valid here and I'll mention those in a minute. One thing that was talked about is all these peninsulas and I
 I don't know if it was inadvertent, but it sounded like there's already too many peninsulas, but I'm not going, that's adding one more somehow is okay. I don't see that peninsulas are the issue here. What I see is the drainage, the management of this up to city codes, because it is going to be developed one way or the other, and the peril that the residents...
 will have downstream if there were a failure of drainage management and a failure in a privately operated sewer system. And this does go right down into Claver Creek. And that was one of the big issues that we discussed whenever we hooked this into the sewer, Fayetteville sewer system with the current development. We do say that we don't want a new development outside the mayor's box. That's mentioned a lot.
 But this is going to be developed one way or the other. And I think it is a safety measure to go ahead and annex it into the city so that they do meet our standards and that we have the opportunity to be certain that the drainage requirements are going to protect the people at a lower elevation. I think that's the biggest thing. And I don't think that I'm going to get hung up on peninsulas. That's not important to me.
 The thing is making sure that we're protecting the watershed and that we're protecting the residents that already live at a lower elevation. So that's just some thoughts I have right now, and I'm interested to hear what my colleagues on city council have to say. Okay. Thank you, Mark. Who else would like to address this?
 I will agree with Mark on peninsulas. They drive me nuts when I look at geometry teacher, when I look at our city boundary and I go, how the heck did we decide to create that? There is a story behind every single one of them. But I reject the argument that past bad decisions should justify future bad decisions. In this case, though, I am not convinced that this is a bad decision, at least not for the long-term. I have seen the results of the last few years. I have seen the results of the last few years.
 spoken in the past about a desire to to annex more broadly because i think that our development regulations are better and safer than the community than the county's development regulations i i don't want to continue seeing sprawl that we can't control any more than i want to see sprawl that we do control
 um and that i think underlies the need that we talked about back in our comprehensive planning discussions last year about the need for a preservation zoning type and a broader annexation strategy i'm confident that once we have that in place we'll be looking at annexing this area uh eventually um and and so i'm not too worked up about whether we create a peninsula right now i think we will be cleaning that up soon
 I hope we'll be cleaning it up soon. I know that COVID and staffing issues have both made it difficult to start that annexation strategy conversation. But I hope that that is coming and on the expectation that that is coming, I will support this annexation. Okay. Who else would like to address? Council. I have a comment.
 It was very helpful for Garner to send those other agreements that had been made in the past.
 when I was not on the council and to see that there was really clear intent that this piece of property was gonna be annexed when it was possible and that other councils supported that. And so I think that that is extremely important that we follow through on that. Now, I know we're not bound to do that, but if we were to take a different course of action, then that would leave some trust issues open for the future.
 So I do believe that we need to follow through on those previous council commitments. The second thing is environmentally speaking, I mean, the city has much higher environmental regulations, septic regulations than the county does. And so I think from an environmental perspective, yes.
 it is best to ensure that we have the highest standards possible and I'm glad they did not put that step system in especially so close to Clyburn Creek so I will be supporting this ordinance this annexation. Okay, who else would like to address this? All right now council keep in mind this is on the second reading this is an ordinance so
 If you wish to vote on it tonight, you'll have to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Mayor, I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final read. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. And an ordinance to approve annexation petition ANX 20-69, I've got to put my glasses on here, 6995, an annex 152 acres located along Humont Road north of Mount Comfort. Okay. Any other final comments from the council? I have a comment. Sure. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm still making up my mind to be quite frank with everybody who's watching. I was the only council member at the time to vote against the original ordinance. There were three resolutions or ordinances or actions that were taken, if you count the original. I also voted against the second amendment. Only Alan Long at the time joined me in opposition on that ordinance. But then I did vote for the third and final.
 And I don't recall what my thinking was that night. I am a little bit troubled by the proposal because the arguments that I've heard tonight about having better standards than the county and not having a worse sewage system for the Cloudburg Creek are really salient with me.
 That's what I have been pondering because without any exigent circumstances, I can't imagine how I could possibly vote for this without considerations like that. When this was first presented, it was presented as a way to get more customers for our utility. And you only have to look at the debt funded programs that we have playing catch up to know that we're not quite earning money.
 enough revenue to maintain our infrastructure with what we already have. We're counting on population growth and economic growth to pay for maintenance that is long overdue. The analysis that we got from Garner, I think, is a great start to help us in our thinking. Garner said that residential development never pays for itself, but I question that because this one, by that analysis, almost does. It seems like there are...
 minor but significant tweaks that can be made to development programs like this one, other programs that resemble this one that could actually turn a surplus in tax revenue for us. But we haven't required those actions to be taken, not on this annexation or on any others, on any others in the past. We have a economic model that says it's just fine to lose revenue
 on 90% of the property within our city limits. And we hand wave an answer about sales tax. What we're saying is we're going to make up all that lost revenue on the last 10% of land in the city. And we've seen how volatile sales tax revenues can be. They're not resilient against things like outbreaks and social distancing. They probably won't be resilient against things like climate change. So I have a lot of problems with this. Um,
 but I still keep thinking about those county standards and about Clabber Creek. And so the question I'm having that I'm struggling with is where does that argument stop? Certainly we wouldn't annex any land in the county just so that the development would proceed in a more appropriate fashion. So where does that argument stop? Maybe that's just a theoretical question. Maybe it's not one that's worth asking, but it's one that I can't help but wonder about because we're setting policy when we do this.
 I asked Garner if there were any other agreements at all that were similar to this, where a past council had shaken hands on a future commitment to annex land. And Garner, I believe you said that there weren't any, that this was the only one. Yes, Council Member, I said I wasn't aware of any. So that helps me vote in the affirmative for this, because it does seem to be unique, but I still feel really uncomfortable about it.
 If we hadn't pursued more sewer or water customers in the past, we wouldn't be in a situation like this today where development had already occurred and now we feel obligated to provide services that we're not likely to get enough revenue to maintain. So I don't know where I'll vote, but I hope that we'll think about this the next time an annexation is proposed and we'll insist on having good data to make our decision.
 Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address us? Or your final comments? All right. Kara, would you please call the roll? Petty. No. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Did we do public comment? Yes. Yes, we did. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 okay all right thank you all very much let's move along to number five an order street zone that property describing his only petition rzn 20-6996 for approximately 152 acres located at humont road
 of mount comfort road to r.a residential agricultural rsf one residential single family one unit per acre rsf eight residential single family eight units per acre nc neighborhood conservation and nsg neighborhood services general this was left on the first reading i will entertain a motion to go to the second piece moved okay we have a second second
 All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-69-96 for approximately 152 acres located at Humont Road north of Mount Comfort Road to RA residential agricultural RSF1 residential single-family one unit per acre RSF8 residential single-family eight units per acre neighborhood conservation and neighborhood services general. Okay, Garner, what do you have?
 Mayor, let me share this with you. I got one slide. It just shows the proposed zoning. It's primarily RSF 8. The existing Humot Village, staff checked today, about half of those would not meet the RSF 4 district requirements. They have smaller lots.
 So the RSF 8 was chosen largely, we do see a little bit of neighborhood conservation proposed as well as neighborhood services general for a neighborhood niche at the entrance on Humont Road. With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. There were questions we have regarding this. Okay, what public comment do we have on this and
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute limit unless the City Council, by majority vote, gives you more time. The City Council has questions for you. Please stay on the topic, which is the rezoning of 152 acres. Please no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to address us first? Okay. Does African have anything? I do, Mayor. No problem. Can you hear me? I can. Okay.
 All right, I'll be very brief. The request currently before you, as Garner told you, has six different categories. Neighborhood conservation, RSF1, RSF4, neighborhood services. And then along Yuma Road, it also has residential agricultural services.
 in the southern part, which helps the city and its 2040 goals regarding the enduring green networks.
 All of these zoning requests are compatible with the surrounding areas and provide diversity that the city is looking for. And further, these designations that we put forward here are not done in a vacuum. They were not done in a vacuum. Instead, they were done with the collaboration of council members of this board.
 which of course Mr. Smith and Mrs. Turks can obviously speak to themselves, but it was also done in collaboration with the,
 with the city. And again, as I said before, we would be more than glad to answer any questions that you might have as far as our zoning requests. And we would hope that you'd be able to pass this and we'd love to be able to pass it tonight so we can sally forth. I thank you for your time. Questions we have in that? Okay.
 We have an applicant, we've had public comment, now it's back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Mayor, I have a question for Garner. Sure. Garner, I'm gonna vote for this rezoning now that the annexation has been supported by the council. I did have a question about the economic analysis you did for the last item. I saw that you carefully qualified that model to say that it was based on some assumptions and I saw the rezoning coming up next on the agenda.
 Could you tell us to what extent you assume the developer would maximize the potential of these new zones in your economic model? Certainly. The assumption we made was we looked at recent RSF 8 development that had occurred in Fayetteville, and we used that. We did not use 8 units per acre. The same way with neighborhood conservation.
 neighborhood conservation we looked at the red conservation that was outlying got it think we did not assume eight units break or ten units breaker thank you yeah comments questions
 I have a comment. I went back and again looked at what Garner had sent us from the original agreements. And in the first two, it talked about RSF-4, not RSF-8. And then the third one was really kind of silent on this zoning designation.
 that it cannot, I don't believe that RSF8 can be supported because of the limited infrastructure. And I did go out there and drive around and I looked at the Humont North section that's also proposed as an RSF8 and it's quite steep and we'd already heard about some issues with some water concerns and thankfully, Mr. Higgins and I have been working on that and we've been working on that.
 and I think that Mr. Phillips is going to fix those. But I think that the RSF-8 is too dense for this because of the original agreements, the topography and some of the infrastructure concerns that have been expressed by residents out there. So I would support down zoning rather than up zoning
 Okay. Anybody else? Mayor, I'd like to follow up with Garner. I may have missed the beginning of your answer to Matthew's question about your fiscal impact. I know you said you didn't use like the maximum density possible on the zoning that's being applied for.
 but I'm assuming you also didn't try it out as RSF4. No, we did not. We actually went, we actually looked at recent developments that had occurred that had been planted and approved by the Planning Commission that were RSF8 and neighborhood conservation, and they were above the RSF4 density.
 And if you were to pick an RSF4 that was comparable out here, would it approach the full density of RSF4 or would it tend to be even less also just like the others? We don't. Very, very rarely do you see four units per acre. About half that, 2.53 units per acre under RSF4 is typical. Thank you. Okay. Anything else?
 Okay, this is the second reading. This is an ordinance. So I guess if you wish to advance it to the third and final reading, we're going to take a motion and second of the council. Are you holding on to the third reading? Anybody got an opinion? Well, I guess we'll leave it. Mayor, I'll move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Okay. Do we have a second? Second. Okay. Very good. Okay.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair I wish to please call the roll. Eddy. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. I do want to say I do have some concerns with the runoff at a higher density, but I will support this. Yes.
 Okay, that motion passed. In ordinance to rezone that property described in the Rezoning Petition RZN 20-6996, approximately 152 acres located at Humont Road north of Mount Comfort Road to RA Residential Agricultural, RSF 1 Residential Single Family, 1 unit per acre, RSF 8 Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre, Neighborhood Conservation, and Neighborhood Services General.
 Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? I'd like to make a motion to amend the zoning to RSF 4 where it's currently proposed at RSF 8. Okay.
 I'll second that. We have a motion. We have a motion to second to go to RSF4. Change the zoning from what we had to RSF4. From the partial that was RSF8 now, the motion would be to change it to RSF4. OK. Would we like the applicant to respond to that? Yeah, well, I'm fixing to get to that, Sloan. Give me a second. I've got to write this down. OK, sorry. It's all right, or I will forget.
 Okay, would the applicant like to well, they've got a motion saying no way. Yes. Okay. All right Would the applicant like to respond?
 Mayor, we would like to keep it as is with the 8. However, we'd be willing to enter into a bill of assurance if this gets tabled and limit where we have the RSF 8 designation to 6 units per acre. Thank you.
 Okay. Well, what we have, we have a motion to change the zoning. And unless the one that made the motion removes the motion, then we've got to vote on this one way or the other. Is that right, Ken? That's correct, unless somebody tabled it and tabled the whole thing. Yes, they could table the whole thing. I will remove my motion. I will remove my second. Okay. So now we're back.
 to the vote of the rsf eight unless the council makes a motion to take and let me say uh
 in deference to Mr. Rhodes, that a bill of assurance actually has to be formally submitted and signed and presented to the city before a rezoning ordinance would be passed for the ordinance to be modified by that bill of assurance. I guess the other thing I might ask, Garner, is when you were looking at RSF-8, how many units per acre were they normally being developed at?
 I believe it is more than the four to six units per acre. Okay, let me make a suggestion. Why doesn't the council table this for two weeks? That will give Mr. Rowe time to put his bill of insurance together, and we can thrash this out in two weeks. I move we table this for two weeks. I second. How many weeks do we need? What?
 Oh well, I didn't ask him. I'm sorry I said two weeks, but Mr. Rose, can you have that all put together in two weeks? Well, it's first meeting in July. Yeah, first. Okay, I can do that. Yeah. Okay, table it until the first meeting in July. And I second that. Thank you all. All right, so we have a motion and second to table for until the first meeting of July. All righty. Any other discussion on that?
 All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? No. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. OK, that motion table passed 5 to 3. All right. Well, we'll see everybody again the first meeting of July. All right. Thank you, council.
 You're very welcome Robert. Thank you all. All right. The next one we have under old business is An ordinance to rezone that property inscribing rezoning petition RZN 20-7067 for approximately 12.14 acres located at 523 North Genevieve Avenue from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. Oh, I'm sorry.
 This is on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Kerr. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described and rezoning petition rzn 20-7067 for approximately 12.14 acres located at 523 north genevieve avenue from rsf 4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf 8 residential single family eight units per acre anything else on this car uh yeah uh council had a question mayor about uh plenty commission had an issue
 This was actually appealed to you from the Planning Commission's denial. And their concern was it was far out and didn't have, it wasn't within walking distance of a potential Tier 3 center. The 2040 plan, as you recall, kind of added a new tool, a new long range 30,000 foot view of Fayetteville.
 with the idea of trying to get mixed use centers that can evolve into walkable areas and serve the surrounding residential areas and maybe someday serve as transit stops. So this is out here, there is one designated on Weddington and it may actually make, it has commercial zoning right now. It may have some potential as more rooftops develop.
 Here's the property, here's the relationship. It's just outside the one half mile walk shed. So planning commission thought that why would we do additional density in that area? It's kind of has two sides of the same coin, the additional density, the rooftops will make a market for convenience.
 goods sometime in the future. So I, that was their issue. Be happy to answer any questions. And I believe the applicant, Mr. Blake Jorgensen is also. Okay. Good evening. How y'all doing? All right. Good deal. Yeah, I don't have much more to add. I do think this is a very small sample size of the previous thing that y'all's agenda tonight. This is simply
 to add a housing variety type in that area. As you can see, there's a new list of homes around this that's been developed in the RSF4 fashion. And we think that this just simply adds to a housing variety type that can, you know, the area is growing. Obviously the school board has,
 bought in to develop another school in that side of town and I'll just keep it at that. I'm happy to answer some questions. I appreciate all this time tonight, and we'll leave it at that. Thank you very much. Okay, what questions do we have in the council for the applicant or the staff? Mayor, I'm curious. Governor, since the school board decision to purchase a new school or new land for school over here was just brought up, I
 When we had our joint meeting with them, we talked a lot about collaboration and coordination on decisions that drive land use. Was there any sort of consultation or discussion between city staff, planning staff, and the school district about their school planning? About this rezoning item? No, about the school purchase that they put here. Yes, there was. There was. Thank you.
 What other questions do we have? I'm looking for our infill score. Can you give us an update, Garner, on that? Certainly. The score is between two and five. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions from the council? Okay. What public comment do we have? Ann?
 everybody gets one turn to speak at the and uh five minute time limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if the city council has questions for you please stay on the topic which is a rezoning uh no rude behavior please give us your name and address and like addresses first will doc res up all right okay well
 Will Dockery, 4149 West Bradstreet. Sorry guys that I'm just talking a lot tonight, but there's a lot of important things. I don't really care so much if this rezoning goes through. People are welcome to live out with me on the west side of town, but what we really need to have out here, and this kind of ties into this, is a master plan out here because
 everything is being done so quick, patch work style and hodgepodge. And we keep changing things year to year. And there has been a lot of recent building that has been approved by Farmington. And we've got to kind of put that all in together. There's been at least 600 home starts that have been approved just on 54th Street and on Wayne Sellers Road.
 Just on that Farmington edge, plus the one that we just approved the induced demand that we're going to do with the pipe out there and on the double springs. So, I mean, there's a lot of stuff going on out here. I think the infill score is
 I would really like a master plan that we stick with and continue to kind of have an idea of where we're going for on the west side of town and probably have some larger community. That's what I would like to see. I think that's what I would like to see. I think that's what I would like to see.
 Center areas besides just on double springs in Wellington and on Ruppel. I mean, I think on Ruppel we could honestly I'll say this again We could honestly have another downtown like area on Ruppel that's walkable, but we need to have more community areas and A master plan. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Well, who else would like to address us? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. I
 This is an ordinance. It is on the second reading. If you wish to advance it, we'll have to have a motion to second, go to the third and final reading, or it will stay on the third reading and we'll see it again in two weeks. What's the wish of the council? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Third reading, Teresa. Oh, excuse me, third reading, third and final reading. Okay. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition are in our ZN 20-7067 for approximately 12.14 acres located at 523 North Genevieve Avenue from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. Okay what final comments do we have in the council?
 Okay. Yeah, I just want to thank Will for being vocal and I know he feels self-conscious for speaking a lot, but it is helpful to have someone from the area to speak to us. I do agree that I think this area is growing and I think we do need a variety of people
 of zoning and housing types out there. So I do appreciate your input Will. So I'll be supporting this. I think that we're gonna see, like you said, RUPPL needs to grow, I think to add more services so people don't have to drive so far. But we do need to have a plan for that. So your thoughts were heard loud and clear and I totally agree. Okay, any other comments from council?
 All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? No. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Five to three. All right. It passed five to three. All right. Thank you all. All right. Now we're moving along to new business. All right.
 Number one, in order to sway compared being authorized a new railroad crossing cost maintenance agreement with an easement agreement with the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad for a new railroad crossing at Shiloh Drive and Gregg Avenue to approve project tendency in the amount of
 $32,892.43 and to approve a budget adjustment for an estimated total project cost of $750,000. This is one of our 2019 transportation bond projects. Kip? Whereas the extension of Shiloh Drive has long been a part of the Master Street Plan to provide an additional access to approximately 130 acres of undeveloped property west of the railroad tracks and south of Van Ness Drive,
 And whereas Arkansas-Missouri Railroad presented two agreements to the city, one for the construction and maintenance of the new railroad crossing, and the second an easement agreement. And whereas pursuant to the terms of the new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement, the city will reimburse the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad for the full cost of labor and materials for installation of the crossing signal panels and appurtenances necessary for a fully operational crossing agreement
 which is estimated to be $558,082.57. The city agrees to close the existing unimproved crossing at University Avenue. The city will pay a yearly maintenance fee of $7,500, increasing by 2% per annum for basic maintenance and wear and tear. And the city and the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad agree to equally share the cost of repairs or major maintenance to the new crossing.
 Whereas easement agreement establishes the terms of the city's perpetual use of the Arkansas, Missouri Railroads property for the crossing including a requirement that the city maintain an insurance policy in the amount of 15 million dollars and
 And whereas it is not feasible or practical to competitively bid such a project because the land over which the crossing is proposed is owned and controlled by the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad, which is the sole power to authorize and construct new crossings.
 Now therefore be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirement form of competitive bidding and authorizes mayor Jordan to sign the new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement and easement agreement with the Arkansas and Missouri Railroad for the new railroad crossing and
 and further approves a project contingency in the amount of 32 thousand eight hundred and ninety two dollars and forty three cents for the estimated project cost of seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars section two that the city council the city of favorable arctur hereby approves a budget adjustment a copy of which is attached to this ordinance okay chris i believe you have this
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This was presented at the agenda session and one of the stipulations, I think that the council expressed concern about at the agenda session was the closing of University Avenue, the existing crossing there. We also presented this to the Transportation Committee after the agenda session that same night. The Transportation Committee
 ultimately made a motion to recommend tabling this item until we can get back to the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad and talk about options other than closing University Avenue so see about doing something with that stipulation. I have made contact with the with the railroad but have not
 been able to get a response as of yet. So per the recommendation of the Transportation Committee, staff is recommending this be tabled until we can get some response on that item. Okay.
 And just from my perspective, council, I hear you. If you want to table it and we'll try and work out working the other crossing in down on Hale Street in our bond projects, I certainly will be in favor of that. So I appreciate your input. I move that we table this indefinitely. Second. Okay. Thank you.
 All right we have a motion to second to table indefinitely. Care to please call the roll. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kerr. Yes. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Pinion. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. The next one, C2, an ordinance to waive competitive being authorized new railroad crossing costs and maintenance agreement.
 and an easement agreement with the arkansas missouri railroad for a new railroad crossing for driving greg avenue to approve a project tendency in the amount of twenty eight thousand three hundred forty four dollars and eighty six cents and to approve a budget adjustment for this estimated total project cost seven hundred fifty thousand dollars this two is a 2019 transportation bond project kit
 Whereas the extension of Futrell Drive has long been a part of the Master Street Plan to provide an additional access to approximately 150 acres of undeveloped property west of the railroad tracks, east of Garland Avenue and north of Drake Street. And whereas Arkansas-Missouri Railroad presented two agreements to the city, one for the construction and maintenance of a new railroad crossing and the second an easement agreement.
 and whereas pursuant to the terms of the new railroad crossing cost maintenance agreement the city will reimburse the arkansas missouri railroad for the full cost of labor and materials for installation of the crossing signals panels and apprehendances necessary for fully operational crossing
 which is estimated to be $519,179.14, the city agrees to close the existing unimproved crossing at Garrett Drive and Gregg Avenue
 The city will pay a yearly maintenance fee of $7,500, increasing by 2% per annum, for basic maintenance and wear and tear, and the city and the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad agree to equally share the cost of repairs or major maintenance.
 And whereas the easement agreement establishes the city, the terms of the city's perpetual use of the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad property for the crossing, including a requirement that the city maintain an insurance policy in the amount of $15 million,
 And whereas it is not feasible or practical to competitive bid such a project because the land over which the crossing is proposed Is owned and controlled by the arkansas missouri railroad Which has the sole power to authorize and construct new crossings Now therefore it be ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one
 that the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes mayor jordan to sign the new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement and easement agreement with the arkansas missouri railroad for a new railroad crossing and further approves a project contingency in amount of 28 300
 three hundred and forty four dollars and eighty six cents for an estimated project cost of seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars section two that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby approves a budget adjustment a copy of which is attached to this ordinance okay chris
 yes thank you mayor uh similar to the previous project uh this includes the stipulation of closing an existing crossing and while the there's not as much concern expressed about this existing crossing um that the transportation committee um wanted to keep these as sort of a package deal so again voted to recommend tabling this item until we can get some more information
 from the railroad and and see what we can negotiate as far as crossing closing existing crossings so in accordance with that staff is recommending we table this item as well while we research that okay all right i need a motion to second that's indefinitely right right which dealing with the railroad could take a while
 All right, we have a motion and a second to table indefinitely. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Moving along to number three.
 A resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Garvin LLC in the amount of $402,650 pursuant to RFQ.
 number 20-01, Selection 4, for the design of the Appleby Road, Rolling Hills Drive and Plainview Avenue connection project to authorize the Mayor to acquire the easements and right-of-way necessary for the project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is another 2019 Transportation Bond Project. Chris.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is one of the projects that came out of the 71B corridor study. This is the design contract to extend Rolling Hills into the Fiesta Square Shopping Center, connect Appleby Road with Plainview to the north, and
 It ends up creating a parallel route to reduce the congestion along 71B. Again, it was recommended by the 71B corridor study. This is just the detailed design so that we can move forward with bidding and construction of the project. It is funded in the first phase of the bond program for construction.
 Obviously the shopping center is a very large stakeholder. We have some other large landowners that are stakeholders. So that'll be one of our first
 steps is to engage those stakeholders and really start talking about How to how to put this all together? Those stakeholders were part of the of the planning process. So they are aware of the project and We think are we have a we have a positive a lot of opportunities there to create some positives for those Properties along with creating this additional route. So we recommend approval of this agreement Okay
 Is there any questions from the council? I assume this went through the transportation committee as well, right? I didn't catch that. I apologize, Mayor. Yes, this was recommended by the committee. Okay, good. All right. Any questions from the council on this? I move. Sorry. I need public comment, sorry. You have a comment, Sonny?
 No, I was going to move to go to the second reading, but I don't think it's... You've got a resolution here on this one. Thank you. Sorry. I'm getting ahead of myself. What public comment do we have? Everybody gets one turn to speak, five-minute limit, unless the City Council, by majority vote, gives you more time. But if the City Council has questions for you, stay on the topic. And Professional Engineering Services Contract...
 Please know rude behavior and give us your name and address and who would like to address first. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's wishes, council? Move this to the second reading? No, no, no. We need a motion to pass the resolution. Ah, a motion to pass. A move that we pass this resolution. Right. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Thank you all. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Eddie? Oh, I'm sorry. I should have asked for public. Final comments. I didn't do that. So is there any final comments from the council on this? I seem to be getting ahead of myself here. Okay. Now, parents, please call the roll. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much number four a resolution to prove a professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC in the amount of two hundred thirty eight thousand nine hundred twenty dollars for student to RFQ 20-0 one Selection five for the design of Archibald Yale Boulevard Improvements project to authorize the mayor to acquire the easements and right away necessary for the project and to approve a budget adjustment This is another 2019 transportation bond project
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This is another project that came out of the 71B plan, was also extensively reviewed as part of the mobility plan and looking at options for really safety improvements is really the focus of this project. So major components include the traffic analysis to confirm the three-lane cross section will adequately provide
 provide the proper level of service, and how to design that and lay that out to make that work. Intersection improvements at Rock College and Archibald Yale, which have been, were sketched up as part of the 71B plan and are available on our website.
 traffic signal design at South Street, which again is part of the safety improvements to create gaps for pedestrians to cross at that location, and then the striping design and layout for the remainder of the corridor. One of the things that we want to make sure and do on this project, it's been talked about extensively during those planning processes, but we intend to have a
 have a speak up page and begin taking public comment about this project because we do know that there are a lot of a lot of voices out there that have talked about it during the planning process and will want to during the design process so we want to begin that public input discussion very soon probably by the end of the month so that we can can begin having those discussions again the traffic analysis to look at that
 three-lane cross-section is one of the very first things that will happen so we'll have some some data available to be able to talk about how that works and what needs to be done to make that work with that staff recommends approval this was presented to the Transportation Committee and they also recommend approval of this.
 I have a question. Sure. Chris, well, there, I mean, that's great. You're going to have a speak up page. Will there be an opportunity for us to see the final designs? Will you bring that back to us and we'll be able to review the traffic study as well?
 Absolutely, and it won't be at final design. It'll be at the conceptual level that we would present that, typically present that to the Transportation Committee. We haven't fully formulated the public review process and obviously things right now are very difficult to have in-person meetings, but what we typically like to do is just have
 a plan rolled out on a table for the public to come in and take a look at it, talk about it, get those comments, and then we can present those to the Transportation Committee to get discussion. We certainly can bring it to the full council or whatever the council would like to do, but we do intend to have a very robust public participation process on this project. A lot of Ps there. Thank you.
 Great. I'm really glad to hear that because we've been receiving quite a few emails and this seems like it'll be a complex discussion going forward and it would be nice to be able to bring it back to the council and not just have it at the Transportation Committee so that more people could engage when you get further down the road. So thank you for that. Okay, we'll keep that in mind. Okay, any other questions for Chris?
 All right. Now we take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute limit. Unless City Council, by majority vote, gives you more time. Or if City Council has questions for you, please stay on the topic, which is the engineering services for Archibald Hill. And please no rude behavior. And please give us your name and address. Who would like to address us first? Mayor Richie Lamb is up. Okay. Richie.
 You need to unmute your mic, Rich. Sorry, I believe I was muted. OK, yes, my name is Richie Lamb. My address is 211 North Block Street. I work as a land development consultant here in the city of Fayetteville and am currently working on a redevelopment project within this corridor.
 In 2018, I had the opportunity to contribute to the Highway 71B corridor planning process that Chris mentioned earlier. I was involved as a stakeholder. And when reading the final draft of this plan, one point is made very clear.
 We need a smaller, slower, and a more walkable corridor desperately in this area. I'm compelled to speak to you tonight because neither the RFQ nor the agreement with the engineer mention any adherence to the Highway 71B corridor plan.
 and the legislation text including an authorization for the mayor to acquire additional rights of way. I'm not recommending any changes to this resolution, but I am asking for your reassurance tonight that this project will not,
 inadvertently result in an over widening of the right-of-way in this area. Thank you for hearing my comments tonight which I will now conclude. Okay thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council. I have a question.
 Chris, was that an oversight not to tie this RFP or RFQ to the 71B corridor project? Or was that sort of intentional in order to give a little bit more latitude to the design?
 I would say it's probably more of an oversight, but you can rest assured that the discussion that we've had with the consultant is that the conceptual design, the ideas behind all of this planning process,
 This design contract is to take those ideas and put them on paper so that it can be built. For the most part, as far as right-of-way goes, we'll be working within the right-of-way of Archibald Yale. We'll actually be reducing the footprint of the driving surface anyway. The intersection at Rock with that reconfiguration that's been sketched up, there will be some right-of-way acquired.
 The whole concept, the whole discussion about this project is really a safety project for all users, but really more for pedestrians than anything else. Would it be, just a follow up question, would it be difficult to add another, to amend the RFQ, the RFP, to reference back to the 71B corridor project in some way? Just so we're, you know, we've got everything kind of tied together officially?
 Well, it would require us to change the contract a little bit and bring that back before you again. We certainly could do that. We'd prefer to go ahead and get started on the project. But you could also, I suppose, amend the resolution to add a link to that as an option. But if the council wishes, we certainly could make some revisions to the proposed contract to make that more clear.
 I would certainly not suggest changing the RFQ because that's been sent out and people have been selected under this RFQ and we don't want to start that process all over again by changing something within the RFQ. Okay, thank you for that. Okay, and Chris, this did go to the Transportation Committee, correct? It did, yes. Okay. Okay.
 And if I could add a few more assurances for Teresa. Teresa, each step of the way, and including during the 2019 bond discussion, this item was always considered as part of the result of both the mobility plan and the 71B plan. So I think it's pretty well baked into the path this project has taken all the way along. Okay, any other questions or comments? Or this is a resolution.
 So don't try to take it to the second reading. Mayor, I move we pass the resolution. Second. Second. Motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? All right, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez?
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Number five, a resolution to award bid number 20-30 to authorize contract with Finland Industrial Services, LLC, in the amount of $1,036,491.85 for the construction of critical electrical upgrades at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Tim? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 In December of 2017, the City Council approved a project to design the needed electrical improvements at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility to replace obsolete equipment. The electrical systems and components are aging. They do not meet modern safety codes and they need frequent repair.
 A comprehensive design was necessary and completed by Avere Martin and Associates, and the project will be constructed in two phases. Bids were opened in July of 2019 for phase one of the improvements, which centered around the high voltage equipment at the plant. These bids were tremendously over the engineering estimate. They had to be rejected. Several of the markups on the equipment to be replaced were more than double the market cost.
 The result was the city purchased a majority of the big ticket equipment through the city's cooperative purchasing agreements which was approved by the city council in February of 2020. We advertised for formal seal bids for the installation work and we opened those bids on April the 22nd. Midland Industrial Services LLC from Rogers submitted the lowest bid of $1,036,491.85
 Funds were budgeted and are available for this project in the wastewater treatment plant building improvements account within the water and sewer fund. This item was presented to the water and sewer committee on May 12th with a three to nothing vote to forward it to the city council with one member being absent. Be happy to answer any questions. Okay. Any questions from staff or council? Okay.
 Okay, now we'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute limit unless City Council by majority vote gives you more time. If City Council has questions for you, please stay on the topic which is the Bidding Industrial Electric Services Contract. Please no rude behavior and please give us your name and address and who would like to address us first. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the Council. This is a resolution.
 Move to approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much. Number six, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $76,056 plus political taxes, pray charges from JCI Industries Incorporated for the repair of three affluent homes. Kip. Thank you.
 Whereas three affluent pumps used at the city's wastewater treatment facilities were recently taken out of service and shipped to JCI industries to disassemble inspect and provide quotes for repair of the pumps and Whereas pursuant to Arkansas code annotated 19-11-203-14 double B Formal competitive bidding is not necessary for the pair of poke hidden or unknown damage damages now therefore it be ordained by the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 and
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that because of Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203-14DD, repair of hidden or unknown damages, the repair of the pump does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives competitive bidding and accepts a quote in the amount of $76,056 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from JCI Industries, Inc.
 for the repair of three effluent pumps used at the city's wastewater treatment facilities. Okay, Tim. Tim? Tim, you need to un... Okay. There he is. Can you hear me now? Yeah. Okay.
 The Nolan and the Westside Water Resource Recovery Facilities each use a series of four pumps at the post-aeration basin to pump treated effluent that is used by several pieces of equipment, including the band screens, the belt presses, and the odor control systems. Treated effluent is also used at the biosolids management site to irrigate the hay fields when needed. This practice is common in wastewater treatment facilities to reduce the demand for potable drinking water.
 At the Nolan plant, pump number two stopped working and was sent to JCI Industries for hidden damages inspection. The inspection found several broken parts and corrosion. The quoted price for the repair of this pump is $25,776. The cost of a new pump is $55,000. The effluent pump number four at the Nolan plant developed a leak from the packing seal and was taken out of service.
 It was sent to JCI for hidden damage inspections and found wear on all the shafting and all the bushings, the journals, and there was erosion on the impeller. The quoted price for the repair of this pump was $29,559, and the new cost of that pump is $45,000. All right.
 Pump number four at the west side plant failed vibration testing and was taken out of service. Sent to JCI for hidden damages inspection. The inspection found multiple clearance issues and excessive wear and erosion to the bowl assembly. Quoted price for the repair of this pump is $20,721. The new cost, the cost of a new pump here is $34,000.
 So the total quote for all three repairs is $76,056. I believe at the agenda session, I misquoted that the total cost of new pumps were $80,000. I realized that I only added the cost of two pumps. The total cost of new pumps would be $134,000 versus this $70,000.
 We did present this item to the Water and Sewer Committee on May 12th with a 3-0 vote to forward it to the City Council for consideration with one member being absent. Do you have any answer to any questions? Okay, what questions do we have for Tim from the Council? Okay, we'll take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute limit. Unless City Council by a majority vote gives you more time or if City Council has questions for you.
 please stay on the topic uh this is uh the way competitive bidding for jci industries um please no rude behavior and uh if you please give us your name and address we would like to address this first okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's wishes to council this is an ordinance i move we pass the resolution oh i move we go to the second reading so it's been the second
 We have a motion second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $76,056 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from JCI Industries Incorporated for the repair of three affluent pumps. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk?
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $76,056 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from JCI Industries Incorporated for the repair of three effluent pumps. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay, thank you all.
 number seven an ordinance to waive competitive bidding except quote in the amount of 56 000 plus fickle taxes from in-place machining company for an emergency repair to the rotor shaft on the thermal dryer at the biosolids management site and to approve a project tendency in the amount of eight thousand four hundred dollars kit
 Whereas on May 17, 2020, the thermal dryer rotor shaft experienced a malfunction, and after disassembly and inspection of the rotor shaft, it showed slight damage to the bearing seals and significant damage to the rotor shaft.
 And whereas an operational thermal dryer in combination with the biosolids management site solar house dryers reduces 100,000 pounds of daily biosolids volume to 15,000 pounds of Class A exceptional quality fertilizer and allows the city to achieve substantial savings on landfill costs each year.
 whereas in place machining company specializes in repairing rotating equipment shafts and has the expertise personnel and equipment to perform the service so the thermal dryer can be put back in service quickly now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 at the City Council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical
 therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and accepts a quote in the amount of fifty six thousand dollars plus Apple taxes from in place machining company for an emergency repair of the rotor shaft on the thermal dryer at the biosolids management site and further approves a project contingency in the amount of eight thousand four hundred dollars section 2
 This contract is contingent upon in place machining company providing the city of Fayetteville documentation of its authority to do business in the state of Arkansas. Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor. The BMS site does use a combination of six solar drying houses and one thermal dryer to convert the wet biosolids into a class A fertilizer. It is the dryer itself that actually produces the class A fertilizer.
 And as Kit said, we can burn 100,000 pounds of dewatered solids into 15,000 pounds of fertilizer per day. We do save significant costs of landfilling and it is a benefit for reuse of the fertilizer material. On May the 17th, the thermal dryer rotor shaft moved from its fixed position
 So we shut it down, did a disassembly and inspection of the bearings and the rotor shaft showed some slight damage to the bearing seals and damage to the rotor shaft that the bearing air races fit into. A bearing specialist from Kraft Bearing came down on May the 30th to examine the dryer and did note that there was shaft damage on the dryer.
 It's believed that the rotor movement through the bearings has marred the surface to a point where the bearings don't have enough surface area to properly secure themselves in place. In Place Machining Company specializes in removing in place shaft where they will build up the shaft and then turn it back down within the required specs.
 To give you kind of a contrast to what our other option would be, would be replacing the existing shaft with a new shaft, we would have to remove the 50,000-pound rotor from the dryer, and we would ship off...
 the rotor ends to the fabrication facility, remove the shaft ends and install new ones. And it would be approximately estimated a two and a half month job at about $250,000 to do that, which we would probably rack up approximately 120 to $145,000 just in landfill costs when we were getting that to replaced.
 We felt like that this was a good option and some good technology. The quote is for $56,000 with a 15% contingency for $8,400. This did not go to the Water and Surgery Committee because this was an emergency item that just came to light, as you remember from the walk-on on the agenda session. We'd certainly be happy to answer any questions you may have on this. Okay. What questions do we have for Tim on this from the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment on it. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak five minute time limit less city council by majority vote gives you more time. If the city council has questions for you, please stay on the topic. The topic is prepare the rotor shaft thermal dryer cost.
 So please, no rude behavior. Give us your name and address and who would like to address first. Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance council. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Paul Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Turk. Yes.
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Adorn us to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $56,000 plus applicable taxes from In Place Machining Company for an emergency repair of the rotor shaft on the thermal dryer at the Bile Solids Management Site and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $8,400.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 in ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $56,000 plus applicable taxes from in-place machining company for an emergency repair of the rotor shaft on the thermal dryer at biosolids management site and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $8,400. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch?
 Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number 8, a resolution to approve the conveyance of a permanent access easement to Markham Hospitality Owner LLC and Markham Residential Owner LLC across real property owned by the City of
 Ed Garner, I believe you have this. Yes, Mayor. Mayor, you do have a request from the applicant to table this item until city council is no longer meeting virtually due to the interest in this area. They did, however, request that they obtain a decision before the end of the calendar year
 uh mr lawrence uh finn is the applicant i think he's still with us if you have questions yes does that can we speak to the council okay i think no thank you mr mayor um as garner said we would uh like to table this until the council is uh back in chambers and city has an opportunity to speak on this issue okay so
 i suppose then we need a motion a second to table indefinitely i move that we table it indefinitely second okay we have a motion second to table indefinitely um any comments or anything i i'd like to thank um specialized real estate for agreeing to table this until the public has more of an opportunity face to face to have a have a discussion on it so thank you very much for doing that
 okay man i should just note for the record when something's been tabled indefinitely it can be removed from the table uh by the city council virtually any time before the end of the year normally uh there would be be removed and put on the next uh meeting schedule so everybody would know when it's coming up but it's something that's been tabled indefinitely can be removed from the table at the city council's discretion okay and i'm
 If you want to put a date on it, I'm OK with that too, council. But I don't. I think indefinitely is probably a better. Yeah, because I don't know exactly what we're going to do around here. Mayor, this is Garner. Originating this request is very simple. So if we get a request from the applicant and you're meeting in 219, we can originate it quickly. OK, that's good. All right. Is everybody good? If you don't, please say so. We're fixing the votes table.
 okay care which police call the row eddie yes scroggins yes bunch yes her yes smith yes catara's yes marsh yes opinion yes
 Okay, thank you all very much. Number nine, an ordinance to rezone that property is to rob a rezoning petition RZN 20-74 for approximately .81 acres located south of 4210 North Frontage Road from C2 Thoroughfare and Commercial to CS Community Services. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas. Section 1.
 The City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes his own classification of property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo From C to their fair commercial to CS community services Section 2 at the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning Change provided in the section 1. Okay, I believe you have this I
 Yes, Mayor. A very straightforward request. It's on the frontage road between Zion and Joyce. It's just east of the large shopping center. It's in the Tier 1 center, the mall, which is labeled Tier 1 in our plan. Presently, most of the lot is zoned community services. They're asking to rezone these little fragments to community services.
 So not to belabor it, we didn't identify any issues and Planning Commission and staff recommend approval. We'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe Mr. Tom Henley is the applicant's representative. Okay, you want to speak to Council? Yeah, Mayor, thank you for the time, Council Members. This is a pretty straightforward rezoning. It's related to a pending development submittal.
 We're just requesting the rezoning to clean up, set back, bulk an area differences between the C2 zoning and the CS zoning. And that's really the entire nature of the rezoning. We would request, I guess, considering the nature of it to suspend the rules and have all three readings tonight if we can. Okay, great.
 what questions do we have in the council for the applicant or uh staff okay let's take some public comment if i get one turn to speak you have a five minute time limit less city council by majority vote gives you more time or the city council has questions for you stay on the topic which is a rezoning on frontage road um please no rude behavior and uh please give us your name and address and who'd like to address us first
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance, council. What's the wishes of the council? I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 20-7074 for approximately eight tenths of an acre located south of 4210 north frontage road from thoroughfare commercial to community services i mean we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second okay we have a second um carol would you please call the room eddie yes
 Sproggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Adornment to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7074 for approximately eight-tenths of an acre located south of 4210 North Frontage Road from thoroughfare commercial to community services.
 Okay. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. All right. Number 10. Kenyon?
 An ordinance to rezone that property is described as an organization RZN 20-7076 for approximately 4.84 acres. Located at 3010 West Old Farmington Road from RSF 8. Residential single family, 8 units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, exhibit A, and the legal description, exhibit B, both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre to NC, neighborhood conservation. Section two, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one.
 yes uh yes mayor uh this is mostly a vacant uh parcel at the foot of centennial mountain um north of old farmington road where one mile road dead ends into old farmington the um surrounding zoning is residential uh agriculture to the to the uh west uh there's a planned zoning district
 completely constructed to the east and it is at the base of the mountain to the north. The adopted plans designated as a residential neighborhood area. The infill score varies from five to six. The issues are drainage and topography.
 and the existing community, the conditional use permit that the Planning Commission granted. And that conditional use permit was to allow cluster housing under our cluster housing ordinance. And it proposes five to six hundred square foot small houses. I don't know if you call them tiny houses, but they're small.
 And it shows eventually a trail connection that could go up to the top of the mountain and connect to the trails that are under construction there. Also, the tree preservation is met by preserving most of the steep slope area. I would mention that.
 The owner isn't obligated to build this, but they have approval from the Planning Commission to build this and we have every reason to believe that that's their intent. Planning Commission staff do recommend approval. Mr. Brian Teegas, the applicant's representative, if you have questions for him, I'd be happy to answer any questions also. Okay, would the applicant like to speak to the council?
 Okay. Does the council have any questions for the staff? Yes, Mayor, I do. So, Garner, you mentioned that they were not obligated to build out as was approved by the Planning Commission. What would be the process if they chose to build something else? Just get the Condition of Use Permit revoked. But they would still be under all our
 requirements for the neighborhood conservation district and it wouldn't eliminate any of the requirements regarding tree preservation or the hilltop hilltop hillside overlay district requirements it's just I just wanted to point out that's there that's what they've gotten approved and this rezoning is to facilitate that
 but we don't have a hammer saying you have to build that. So the council's question in front of the council is, is this appropriate as a neighborhood conservation district? I believe it is. I think the planning commission believes it is. Thank you. Any questions from council? All right, let's take some public comments. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five minute time limit. Unless city council by majority vote gives you more time. Or if city council has questions for you, please stay on the topic, which is a rezoning.
 on Farmington Road. Please no rude behavior. Give us your name and address and who would like to address the council first. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance council. Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Smiths?
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7076 for approximately 4.84 acres located at 3010 West Farmington Road from RSF 8 residential single family eight years per acre to NC neighborhood conservation.
 I'd like to hold this on this reading and I'll tell you why. We have a concept map with tiny homes and we have the conditional use, but then there's still, I think, I think that we need some time to look at what this zoning would allow and if it's appropriate, because the topography is challenging here. And if we could just hold it, I would appreciate it. Okay.
 does council wish to hold for two to first meeting in july second then okay okay we don't need a motion don't need a second i just if anybody's got any you know heartburn about holding it to the first july i wanted to see what you want to do everybody's good we'll hold it till first july okay i'm going to move on number 11.
 ordinance to establish boundaries for an entertainment district in the City of Pebble and promulgate rules for the limited outdoor consumption of alcohol in certain public places. Ken. Whereas Act 812 of 2019
 grants municipalities broad authority to create, quote, designated entertainment districts, unquote, in contiguous areas zoned for or customarily used for commercial purposes located within the municipality. And whereas the act also allows municipalities to create reasonable standards for the regulation of alcohol possession in outdoor public spaces within a designated entertainment district.
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby annex Section 111.07, Outdoor Refreshment Area of the Fayetteville City Code as shown in the attached Exhibit A. Okay. Devin. Thank you, Mayor. Can everybody see my screen? Okay.
 Yeah. Awesome. Good evening council members. As the city attorney mentioned this item before you, it for your consideration is the designation of an entertainment district in the city of Fayetteville. Pursuing to Act 8.1.2 that we are referring to as an outdoor freshman area. We've spent months working with businesses on this item and we had actually intended to for this item to return to council in March. The pandemic obviously changed that and it also changed our work.
 As I mentioned on Tuesday of last week, last fall you tabled the item to give us more time to work with businesses and stakeholders, and I wanted to send my thanks for that. I believe it was truly time well spent. Our ability to consider such an ordinance is derived from Act 812. It gives municipalities the ability to develop rules for the possession and consumption of alcohol outside of an ABC-permitted establishment. The key words here are possession and consumption.
 ABC has confirmed that these districts do not manage the service of alcohol. As we've discussed, our timeline with Act 812 here is long. Staff, again, intended in March, and we actually had internal meetings on the topic up until March 12th and presented as late as March 9th to the Dixon Street Merchants Association.
 While the pandemic has changed our timeline, I'm very happy to have this item back on track. We were able to present to the Dixon Street Merchants Association on May 11th, the Transportation Committee on May 12th, to get the ordinance back to you tonight. Within your packet, you will find a very detailed memo.
 Our notes from multiple facilitated focus group sessions in November, staff's expanded research on the topic of public consumption laws from across the country, which we presented to you in October. A key takeaway from that presentation, as you will remember, was no two districts are the same. Each crafted to best serve a community. We also showed how prevalent these districts are across the country, more so than we realized. Then the few our minds seem to go to when we think about public alcohol consumption.
 And we think, why haven't we heard of Toledo, Tuscaloosa, Hamilton, Ohio, or Canton, Georgia, or the dozens of others? And I think that's the key realization. This works in so many places. This ordinance proposes a few changes and does have a number of revisions, all of which derive from feedback and the involvement of our businesses and stakeholders in the area.
 I do want to thank each one of them, every business and stakeholder who gave their time to come to meetings, participated in the draft development, and helped shape this ordinance, as well as the Fayetteville Police Department, Garner Stoll Development Services, and the City Attorney's Office for their involvement and participation and guidance through this process. Of those revisions, which are spelled out in great detail in the packet and online, include a new name that more accurately reflects our intent.
 The new notification system for events that want to use this because we need to know a little bit more. A phasing plan which is presented in a following resolution to this item that allows us to try new things and the addition of many laws on attendee behavior and the inclusion of a pilot program to explore a regularly scheduled district which came at the request of not only businesses but feedback from city council and so many more revisions.
 The speak up responses which were distributed through City Clerk Kara Paxton earlier in the week have been very positive as well. The ordinance broadly does three things, two of which were the original intent of the entertainment ordinance that was before you in the fall. It enables businesses within the outdoor freshman area boundary, which is attached to the map and I'll show on the next slide, to apply for a sidewalk cafe permit on a city sidewalk. That process already exists.
 This would allow their patrons to consume and possess alcohol without having a perimeter fence. A subtle change that has a lot of benefits for our downtown, as well as expanding occupancy safely during the pandemic. Special events, number two. This gives event organizers the choice to apply for no beer garden in their event area. If it's a city street or parking lot, when it becomes safe to do so, attendees will be able to consume alcohol in the event area, enabling something that is allowed in the vast majority of states in the country.
 Another really unique aspect of this to look forward to in the future is events could enable their alcohol to be solely sourced or partly from businesses in the area of that closure. In October, when we presented some of our research findings, we talked about how beer gardens really aren't a thing in many parts of the country. Furthermore, as events look to adapt and improvise and overcome the challenges of the pandemic, beer gardens do the very thing we can't do right now, and that's congregate in a small area.
 The limited open consumption district pilot program that I'm going to touch on briefly in a moment is a new component and it came from our businesses. This allows patrons to purchase alcohol from participating business and consume their beverage while walking down the sidewalks in a smaller defined area. This is the boundary map for the outdoor refreshment area. Its perimeter hasn't changed and you may think and I do feel it's important to stress here, does the open consumption district pilot program mean free reign of the entire area? No,
 It's a much smaller collection of streets, perhaps that links the square to Dixon, creates good walking loops. We're going to work with businesses to define that and work with you. The beauty of these districts being broad is its ability to not only help events, but to help sidewalk cafes for everybody in here. The purpose of this ordinance for us, though, has changed dramatically. Our why?
 While I still feel this ordinance has many positive attributes to downtown, for us it is about our current new normal. Being flexible and allowing spacing during a time of social distancing. And whatever we can do to safely increase revenues for our businesses that have been impacted so much. These occupancy restrictions, they aren't profitable. Nor am I saying this is going to fix profitability. It won't. But I hope it can help.
 Across this country, from D.C. to Seattle and Texas, you're seeing liquor laws that are a burden to small business relaxed. In Arkansas, there are very few liquor laws the city can actually control. This is the only one that I know of. The open consumption district pilot program, no street closures would be required to do this. This keeps in tune with the vast majority of districts across the country. In order to start this, staff has a lot of items we must do. And we're all derived to address concerns of businesses.
 They are highlighted in great detail in the memo and on our webpage. It also needs to be safe to do so. The pandemic is still active here. Like other events, City Council is going to have the opportunity to appeal it and will be notified well in advance. Now this program does have a sunset clause provision in the ordinance of January 30th, 2021. While this state was put in play to put a guaranteed revisit of the program, it's going to likely need to be extended.
 No long-term decisions pertaining to public consumption should be made until it can be assessed under conditions of full capacity. We just don't know when that's going to be. Lastly, with this program, staff does have a lot of work to do to prepare, but we can get to work quickly. Adding to that, here are some of the things we actually have to do. A lot has to happen. First, it's got to be defined. We can get started on that very quickly. We're going to work with those businesses to make sure they're okay.
 And that's actually a continued part of this process I'm really excited for. We've maintained a really bright line of communication with our businesses, and we don't want that to stop. I'm excited to begin that. This slide shows some of these small details that we need to do. Yet, it's those little details that make a district like this successful, safe, and enjoyable for the long term. What's next for staff should this be adopted is getting to work on the logistics.
 Finally, I'd like to address a point, Council Member Turk. You inquired during the agenda session about businesses and the speed at which they could be ready to use this. I spoke with a few, and I think it's going to largely depend on our ability to take care of the aforementioned details. However, some things, like the sidewalk cafe component, could begin quickly. I think we're going to see...
 Some that are more apt to participate immediately. Some, we'll see how it goes and then make a decision. And I want them to feel comfortable. The beauty of this is no one's forced to. If they do have a sidewalk cafe in place and there's no perimeter fence, they could begin using that once the law becomes adopted because the city already has that process in place through development services.
 I want to thank you for your consideration. Blake Pennington, the Assistant City Attorney, who put a lot of work into this with me, is on the call as well. I'm happy to answer your questions. Thank you so much. What questions do we have for them? I have a question.
 I think you said this, but I just want to be really clear. So if we were to pass this, there's nothing the city needs to do right now in order for business to start a sidewalk cafe. All of that would be on them. There's nothing in that list that you went through that would be required from the city. Is that correct?
 The sidewalk cafe permit process is a process that exists through development services. What the change that would be when this ordinance becomes law would be the fact that their customers could consume an alcoholic beverage, hence regular stemware, at that sidewalk cafe when this ordinance becomes enforceable, which I defer to Blake on that other point.
 The other components in regards to an event, if it becomes applicable. Right now, that's kind of a unique situation. But with the pilot program, when this gets passed, if it gets passed, we can get to work in regards to the logistics, figuring out CUPS, visible identifiers, getting the signs up. More importantly, working with the businesses to define that area quickly.
 I have a follow-up question. So is the, I mean there's a lot of components to this. So is the open consumption district pilot program, is that in any way attached to opening up a sidewalk cafe? I mean in other words,
 If I'm a business in the entertainment district right now, we pass this, I can go ahead and open up my sidewalk cafe. I don't have to wait on the defining the barriers or the boundaries of the open consumption district. Is that correct? Okay, thank you. Yes, ma'am. Mayor, I have a question. Okay.
 Thank you. First, for Devin and Blake, thank you so much for making so much progress on this. It's obviously a lot different from where it started, and I think that's been good. I did have one question and maybe a comment later. Can we show the boundaries again? Yeah. While this is up, Devin, would you mind, you said something about liquor license boundaries. Would you talk a little bit more about that and how this law...
 changes what we can do with liquor license boundaries or their relevance? Yes sir I can so and Blake also feel free to add on if and make sure I get this right. This has been probably the biggest topic of discussion with this with businesses is because you know their liquor license if you're a bar or restaurant that's tied to your livelihood so we want to be very careful
 And we have confirmation from ABC as early as this week, this does not change that liquor license serving boundary. It can't. However, when we think about liquor license serving boundaries, what this ordinance does is enable a patron to legally leave that boundary with alcohol and possess it. And what might come to your mind, Council Member Petty, that came to ours is...
 Well, this pandemic is still very real. In regards to the safety of people being able to go inside, some of our bars are small. There is an ABC rule change that came out a few weeks ago that we got clarification on that can actually interact with this district. What that ABC rule change does is enable a business to apply for a temporary outdoor service area. Now that has requirements of, you know, some type of temporary fencing on it.
 But, and Blake, please comment on this here. It was our understanding from our emails that we could actually set up safe serving by using that tool where that patron could then step in to that outdoor service area to pick up that alcohol and then leave. And so I do see a good path of those two being able to talk to each other and interact because we can't touch service with the outdoor freshman area. We can't move that liquor license boundary. Okay.
 Thank you, Devin. You've talked to a lot of businesses. Do you know how liquor license boundaries are commonly defined? I could not speak to that. You think it's usually like the lease premises language or the property boundaries or...
 I think it's probably tied not only to their lease, but I think it's on a case-by-case basis where some businesses might have an outdoor patio service, some might not. And so the defining of that boundary of where that service area is, it's largely going to be dependent upon that operator and their use of that specific space. I definitely don't want to name names, but I can't recall a single story from a relevant business who has had an easy time
 getting a liquor license or amending one that they already have. And this is why I wanted you to show this, because this is going to make potentially such an impact for every business in this district. That's no business in Ward 3. That's no business in Ward 4. That's hardly any business at all in Ward 1. I yet don't understand why we aren't giving this opportunity to the entire city. I think every time I brought this up before, I,
 People have taken my comments to mean that it should be open drinking no matter where you are. That's another argument. That's another discussion. I think that if you're in a strip mall or a convenience center and your liquor license ends at the glass door, we ought to pass this law to take full advantage to offer full opportunity for those businesses to serve outside of their leased premises.
 We've missed that opportunity. I think that for logical reasons, when we got started with this, we were focused on the downtown. But as you said, Devin, you said that our why, our reason, our motivation has changed since the outbreak. And I'm concerned that we aren't doing anything for the rest of the city. I live within these boundaries. This is going to do a lot for my quality of life. It's going to do a lot for the quality of life of people who are willing to visit businesses right now.
 and who will visit these businesses and repatriate them whenever social distancing lifts. But I worry about the rest of the city that we haven't done much for them or that they haven't been included in the conversation. I'm very curious to hear from the rest of the council members on this. I have some other comments to make that I'll make after this.
 public comment, but you know, I'm gonna support this no matter what happens, but I really do think that it would be much stronger for our city if we hadn't done this with such a restricted boundary. I think we can expand it tonight. I'm concerned that we've created a self-fulfilling prophecy by concentrating all of this interest and activity into one area. I'm worried that we've created a
 the kind of revelry and party situation that some of us have feared would arise from this ordinance by concentrating it this way. I just, I can't help but wonder why we aren't helping other parts of the city with this. I'd love to hear from the rest of my colleagues. You know, you know I um I've thought the same thing myself because um you know there are areas in ward three that are you know kind of primed for this uh that have
 you know small restaurants and bars you know and we would like to encourage more of those amenities in Ward three uh I can think right off the top of my head of a couple of places where this would really be a place it might be helpful too so are we I mean and and those are those are areas that I do not anticipate I can't say with certainty that there would not be
 you know, drunken brawls and stuff like that. But I don't think so in Ward 3. I'm not thinking so. Ward 3, don't disappoint me, please. So what do you have to say about that, Susan?
 I'm sorry, can I ask Devin? Oh, there you go, Devin. Go ahead and respond, please. Thank you, Council Member Bunch and Council Member Cooney for those comments. And Blake too, this is another item. One of the things that really guided this was making sure that we are within the parameters of Act 812. And Act 812 is a very short law and it's only two pages of text. One of the things in section three that states this is,
 As used in this section, a designated entertainment district means a contiguous area located in a part of a city or municipality or incorporated town that is zoned customarily for commercial purposes and contains a number of restaurants, entertainment venues, hospitality venues, etc.,
 And so, and the city has to be the one collecting the taxes in that area. And so those are its guidelines that it sets forth. I see nothing in this law, and I would really defer to Blake here, that would prohibit a city from having multiple of these. And I see nothing that, but in regards to what really called me out was a part of a city that is owned customarily for commercial purposes only.
 And so looking at how Austin does theirs, where Austin does not have drinking districts, they have non-drinking districts and that's their commercial districts. The rest of the city is open consumption. That's allowed just because the nature of Texas doesn't have that as a precursor law on the books. Blake, did you wanna add anything? Just briefly, I think the major issue for us was kind of manageability of the district. You know, it's easy enough to start
 here in the downtown area, create the rules, see how it goes, and then, you know, recommend expansion of that up to the north side of town or over the Mission and Crossover area. But yeah, there are certainly areas of town that are zoned for or customarily used for commercial purposes that could be their own entertainment district. I feel...
 I feel a little bit like we've put ourselves in this situation and a little bit like we're acting like the apple cart hasn't done tipped over. We have real, how many businesses have closed in the last week, have announced closures in the last week? That's just the beginning. It's not just Ward 2 that needs this help. Yeah.
 When we talk about manageability, we've written this law so that it must be managed. Drinking out of doors is still criminalized by this law, unless you buy it in a certain cup and you get a certain sticker. We've created a law that lets people search members of the public when they're doing absolutely nothing wrong, just to see if they're carrying alcohol. That doesn't sit well with me on a...
 on a moral basis. We should have a reason for looking into someone's behavior like disorderly conduct. We should have a reason to ask somebody what they're holding in their hands. I don't understand why we think that a sidewalk cafe serving a drink outside of the lease premises in a strip mall is something that we need to manage.
 I would like to add that we have large strips of our city along South College or South School Avenue, MLK and 7th Street that are zoned downtown, downtown general that could be included contiguously with this boundary. I agree with Councilmember Petty's assessment that this that this is a.
 in terms of the rest of our city. And if we're going to move forward with this, I think that we should allow the entire community to benefit rather than just concentrating this in the area that we seem to concentrate a lot of investment. I think our whole city could benefit. So I second his call for a larger area. Could I ask for clarification from something that Council Member Petty just said for Blake or Devin?
 Regarding the outdoor cafes, I don't think the outdoor cafes have to be within this refreshment area. Is that correct?
 I can comment on that. In regards to one of the things that was the original intent that this district was trying to go after was really getting rid of that requirement to have a three-foot or whatever foot barrier around outdoor seating in order for alcohol to be consumed there, which you can see all throughout our downtown. Some of the recent developments have had to adhere to that.
 and where that requirement would be removed. That law does take care of that in regards to the possession, and that does not regulate in regards to cups. That does not regulate in regards to visible identifiers. That's in STEMWare, whatever that bar or restaurant or performance venue that would choose to do this would like to serve in. The only thing, Susan, that is citywide is the ABC rule change is citywide.
 And I would add to that the sidewalk cafes and the boundary or the wall or barrier that is required, that's an ABC regulation. Based on their recent change and the email I received from their in-house counsel, they're still going to require a barrier even if you are outside of your area.
 permitted boundary. So, you know, whether it's in the north side of town, south side of town, or the middle of town, if you have a sidewalk cafe, you know, our ordinance would say, if you're in the entertainment district, you don't have to have this boundary. But the ABC regulations say you still have to have that. So, you know, this is really trying to address a patron who walks inside, buys a drink, and then walks back outside with it.
 One of the things I'm reminded of is the Gully Park concert series where every one of those coolers only has soft drinks in them. I have a question for Devin. Devin, did I understand right that you're wanting to offer a like a permitting option for those businesses who are outside of this area
 I thought I understood that's what you were discussing. Can you talk a little bit more about those? Like they can apply to have their own little area and what is the length of that application and how long could they have their event? In regards to,
 an application outside of this area. The only thing that was discussed in that record was the outdoor serving of alcohol with businesses that hold existing ABC licenses. So if we think about on this side, here we go. Let's say you had a business in uptown that wanted to serve outside because it's safer, that wanted to serve outside because they want to expand occupancy when 32% is not profitable.
 And they wanted to be able to serve alcohol to those tables because alcohol does have a good profitability point for these businesses.
 In order to do that, ABC has developed a tool that would allow them to apply, but they have to get the city's thumbs up. Garner Stoll, the development services director in development services, oversees that existing sidewalk cafe option. And I would defer to him to be able to speak to what that process looks like and how people could apply for that use. Garner, are you with us? Okay.
 Well, what I've been told is that it is a simple process through development services that already exist.
 Thank you. I'll learn a little bit more about that, but I just wondered if that could be a possible thing, I mean, to help these other businesses. My other thought is just generally, potentially, since we're talking about continuous and commercial area, maybe extending it the length of 71B. I don't know if that was discussed or looked at.
 But that could also potentially loop in a few more people and kind of maybe also go, I don't know, make ways to extend across more wards. I think that's a fair critique and I appreciate that being brought up by Council Member Petty.
 to comment on that councilor Gutierrez in regards to the unique thing about these districts that I feel is worth mentioning is that the city gets to problemate the rules for each one of them. And so you might not have the same things that are needed in certain areas, especially in regards to the ability to not even need to manage something in that sense. And so it can be highly flexible and to problemate those rules because the act is quite simple. Thank you.
 I would like to speak to Matthew's original question, just from my perspective, and then I hope we'll hear from the public on this too. It absolutely makes sense to want to expand this to benefit other parts of town. I can think of some off the top of my head from the 71B corridor study that highlighted
 I think we have a lot of areas where there are several restaurants and bars in close proximity where you might want to move back and forth between them. But I don't think we have the environment there yet that would make that particularly appealing.
 uh another entertainment district later i don't feel the need to do that right now i think south school would be another example there are probably options up by the mall you'll notice i've brainstormed ideas all over town except for ward four because the only place i can think of
 that has any sort of businesses that could take advantage of this are along Weddington, which is a state highway. So we're gonna have limited options there in large strip mall centers with expansive private parking lots. And so I think that they probably have
 I don't think we have ample options without this. I'm not sure how appealing this would be there. So I don't feel the need to push that right now. This may be the most conservative thing I've ever said here. But this is still Arkansas. And Devon has told us about our liquor laws. And I expect that we are going to stumble on this once or twice. And I would rather do it in a more conservative way. I think we have to do it in a more conservative way. I think we have to do it in a more conservative way. I think we have to do it in a more conservative way.
 We have a pilot program. We have a pilot program. We have a pilot program. We have a pilot program. We have a pilot program. We have a pilot program. We have a pilot program. We have a pilot program.
 There's going to be some tension in this statement. There's time to figure it out before we roll it out to other parts of the city But at the same time there's an urgency To address the biggest area that we can as quickly as possible as we talk about businesses shutting down On a daily if not hourly basis right now, so I would rather I
 put our energy into the businesses that are bought in and ready to go and not risk the whole thing trying to bite off more than we can chew right now. And I hope that we will quickly expand into some other areas once we are confident. I'm going to be in support of this but
 I just think we talk about these areas that we'd like to, you know, we want to focus on nodes of commerce. And it's kind of a chicken and egg scenario for me. Do we only, I mean, we focus so much energy into that downtown area.
 And I think this is going to tie in so nicely, and I cannot stop talking with my hands here, but I think this is going to tie in so nicely with our, you know, the arts corridor and everything there. I mean, it's like clicking a Lego together, I think. But yeah.
 You know, I do think that even though I'm going to go for this, I think we do need to consider some areas outside of that because if we want to build up these nodes in other parts of the city, you know, we talked about, and Kyle, you and I talked about sidewalks on Weddington. What do you do first? Do you wait for the pedestrians to get there before you build the sidewalk or do you build the sidewalk so they can be pedestrians?
 So I do want us to keep revisiting these other areas of town because I've written down probably about four or five of them right now that I think would be nice to consider in the future. That's all I have. I have a comment. All right.
 I think it's really interesting to talk about other areas of town and not just down at Dixon Street. And so I'm wondering if we couldn't do two pilot areas at the same time. The reason why I say that, Devin, you mentioned that each entertainment district can have its own sort of rules and regulations, its own uniqueness. And I just wonder if there would be an example of somewhere outside of Dixon Street where,
 that we could pilot at the same time. Now, maybe that's too much. I don't know. I do hope that we go slow, even in the midst of the pandemic and the heavy, hard economic hit that some of our businesses have taken, but it's really important that we get this right, that we don't make some very bad decisions or mistakes and,
 So I think going piloting, going slow, cautiously would be what I would recommend. But I would be open to another pilot area that's different, that is maybe a little bit more limited than Dixon Street, but offers an opportunity to have something like this there. Okay.
 Council member Kirk, to your point, one of the things that when I look back at the process of how this ordinance got to be here, and, you know, I think Blake can attest to this too, every keystroke of a change came from somewhere, from a business, from a concern, etc. Have we heard different because of the pandemic? Yes. And I think if you review the speak up comments, you begin to see that.
 The engagement tool will speak up in regards to the outdoor refreshment area. It's not going away. It's going to adapt and improvise because what has worked so well for this ordinance in regards to getting partner support, getting business support and business trust with this is the fact we've worked with them. And we think about these other areas of town. They can be worked with, too. They can be quickly looped in, too.
 And so one of the things that is really the tenant of our entire effort with this is working with them and listening to them. And their concerns through the lens of restaurant and bar operations are what made us think of things we would have never thought of otherwise. And so as these areas, other areas are different, any rules can be corrected to be very unique to a specific area.
 Those businesses too, again, might, I know they have opinions on this and what can we do to loop them in? And I think digitally too, we can even begin those conversations. Yeah, I hope we do have other pilots, but I want it to be a separate resolution ordinance from this one. I hope that we can kind of get this one going because if we start talking about adding areas or the entire city, we literally started over.
 um so i hope we can get this one and then if we want to immediately start working on the next one and get devin working on that that's great um but i hope we can get something going pretty soon well is there anybody else got anything before we take public comment okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute time limit unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time
 or if city council has questions for you stay on topic which is the boundaries of the entertainment district uh please no rude behavior and uh give us your name and address and who'd like to address this first bo counts is up first okay bo go ahead all right can you guys hear me yeah yeah
 All righty, so many of you guys know me. I'm the owner of Pinpoint down here on Block Street, and I've been working directly with Devin on this project for, gosh, I want to say almost seven months now, and up until lately, it's been a weekly situation. I know many of you may be just now seeing this for the first or second time, but rest assured, if you're
 If anybody knows me personally, you know I rip things apart and try to make them as perfect as possible. I want to give you that assurance that we've been doing that to address every question. To...
 council members Bunch and Petty's concerns about using the chicken and the egg example. I think one of the reasons it's so important to get this going in the downtown is, like many of my friends that own businesses in different wards, Ward 2 is incredibly expensive to operate business in. My rent is to the tune of $5,000 a month.
 A friend of mine's business who has more square footage than mine is $1,500 a month, just on a slightly different part of town. So, you know, the chicken and the egg, that egg is more expensive here than it might be in a different ward. So we are struggling really, really hard in the downtown and it's really important to kind of...
 Try and get this going because as many of you guys know, you know, Theo's, a pillar of downtown business has just shuttered its doors. And that is terrifying for someone like me and some of our other neighboring businesses that are still, you know, 11, 12 weeks with zero revenue.
 And as a private club, to Council Member Petty, his early question about ABC laws, let me tell you, as Devin has learned, as Blake has learned, as a lot of people have learned, ABC laws are some of the most complicated in the state, more than any other state. And sometimes interfacing these things can be very, very difficult, but we have tried and we have got a program here that I feel very, very passionate about, that I think this is gonna be a good thing.
 because we've gone over it with a fine-tooth comb. And to Councilmember Turk, she keeps saying Dixon Street. And one of the things that we really want to try and do with this entertainment district is,
 is not just think Dixon Street, I'm on Block Street. You know, Cheers is on Center Street. You know, if you look at the map, it goes all the way to Archibald Yell. So we're talking Penguin Ed's, we're talking Crisis Brewing. These are businesses that are not just Dixon Street. And you know, one of the things we want to try and encourage and use this as a tool is to kind of get people to stop thinking of our entertainment area or our hospitality area as simply Dixon, because that has its own set of connotations to it.
 Again, businesses have been closing really rapidly. Two of my neighbors have already closed. And, you know, every day is a new sort of concern. I've actually been working on an event this weekend that I'm spending a lot of money to entertain my community.
 but I can't sell any of my products right now. So I'm just doing this out of the goodness of my heart because I believe that people need to have some fun, interesting things to do. But if this were already enacted back in March, I would be able to, by law, legally sell product and hopefully keep the lights on on that $5,000 a month that I'm still expected to pay and just paid three days ago. So.
 So with that, I just want to thank all of you guys for looking over this and considering it. I would love to see this get piloted in other places, in other small districts, but as I just mentioned, ABC laws are incredibly hard to interface with, and the more you change them, the more complicated it gets.
 If we can get this one down the pipe, then I would be more than happy to lend my expertise to get it open up in a different ward and get another entertainment district going. Because I've spoken personally with the entertainment districts in Mountain Home as well as in Little Rock with business owners there to get their input on how they implemented it. And we've rolled that information and that knowledge into this ordinance and implemented.
 I put my stamp of approval on it. So thank you guys for giving me the time to speak and thank you guys for putting your consideration in this ordinance. Mayor, I have a question for Bo before we turn him off. Bo, thank you for pointing out the difference between downtown rent and rent in some of these other areas. Your rent, does it include any sort of outdoor space, whether it be parking lot or patio? Am I still muted?
 No, you're good. Okay. So I do have a small patio space. A lot of places in the downtown don't. But to Council Member Petty's question about how do you, the application process of getting consumption in those places is very complicated. But we do currently have it. We can't serve on it
 I did that in mine initially if I wanted to expand my patio, I'd have to resubmit. But yes, it does include those and it's all in that's included in your permit process. I hope that answers it. It does. And I think you mentioned that you mentioned that you're going to be doing a
 Lots of downtown restaurants and bars don't have an outdoor space as part of their lease. And I think that it's fairly common for the other areas of town for their space to come with a generously sized parking lot. So I think that's another consideration for the unique area y'all are in. Okay, who else would like to address this? Amber Sinclair. Okay. Thank you.
 Hi, good evening. I hope all of you are doing well. My name is Amber Sinclair, and I believe the address that you have for me is under 729 West Beck Drive.
 Tonight, I want to speak on behalf of supporting this ordinance change and adapting the outdoor refreshment area. And I definitely support Bo Count's address to this proposal as well about going forth with downtown and then eventually, especially right away, adapting or looking into the
 what other pilot areas there are. Working with Devin and Blake through this process, especially trying to adapt the pedal carriage ordinances, for me specifically, trying to bring in the company, working towards bringing in Pedal Pub. It's important, I think, to have this pilot area first.
 just because there is so much more in this area that is going on, you know, for Bo's examples. But I do believe that this is a great place to start specifically and then working towards adding more to that. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What would you all like to do?
 I came up with another question that I should have asked before public comment, but as I'm sitting here looking through things, I see Peter is on and so he may actually be the one I want to ask this question to. We require compostable cups for the pilot program takeout.
 i know one of the big considerations has been litter and i'm curious how our existing public trash and recycle canisters will handle the composting can this just go in the in the where do you put these yeah it's a great great question councilmember smith um you can hear me i assume right um
 Yeah, so if we were going to go with compostable cups, we would need a third receptacle for those cups to go in that's separate from our trash and our recycling containers that we have out that are publicly available right now throughout the downtown and Dixon Street area. We are looking at an option for a recyclable aluminum cup.
 that we're actually trying to get some pricing on that as a viable option. And that cup could actually go in our existing recycling container. So we're trying to learn as much as we can about that as a viable option. I don't know yet.
 pricing for that recyclable aluminum as it compares to a compostable cup but it does appear to be a potentially viable and as I said it can go in our existing recycling container so it wouldn't require a third container to be installed to collect those cups. And Devin would our current language allow allow them to substitute in a solution like that?
 So Council Member Smith, the current language of the ordinance, and for everybody, what we're talking about is actually in Section D.1, under the conditions for consumption of alcohol, is the place where the compostable cup is mentioned, or reusable. Obviously, from a sustainability standpoint, reusable would be best, but the virus poses different challenges right now. And during this current pandemic, that not being something that's advisable. And again, as research comes out, we'll be able to continue looking at that.
 The recyclable cup that Peter mentions, you know, I was kind of ashamed that I didn't know that even existed in regards to recyclable cups that can flow in with our current streams and that are highly recyclable. And we've talked with Brian Pugh on that. And so the language in that section could be amended to allow that or something of the nature that would go through Peter and Brian's approval. Because what we wanted, our intent with that.
 was to make sure that this process, A, does not hinder beautification of wherever it is, but B, that it also reflects our values in regards to being sustainable in Fayetteville. And so as we look at these things, there may be others that come out in the future that are sustainable that we can look at.
 to control those and what is used under this current proposal, at least in the phase one and rolling through the pilot program, be controlled by the city, et cetera. So that would need to be amended there to address that. Just recyclable was something that Peter approves because as Brian really surprised me when he informed us that that was an option. I was really excited about that being an option just because from a sustainability standpoint, I've just never heard of them.
 Thank you. I would love to open up the hood and start tinkering around inside with this thing because I do think that it is an essential tool in our economic recovery right now. I hope that we can have confidence to move quickly even if we break a few things and come back and fix them quickly and responsibly.
 But with that risk acknowledged, I would like to move to amend Section D1 to add or other alternative container as certified by the environmental director as compatible with the city's recyclables collection program. And I believe that would allow them to deploy the program potentially even quicker using the existing receptacles without having to add to that. Like I said, I read that off real fast. Catch it.
 You want to amend D1 to change the cups? Is that correct? So it would be the recyclable cup or other alternative container as certified by the environmental director as being compatible with the city's recyclable collection program so that we don't get a plastic cup that's not the type that we accept because it's thankfully recyclable. Second. Peter, is that your correct title or is that who you're
 who you want to be able to do this? Yes, that's accurate, Kit. And I think I like Councilmember Smith's language because what we definitely do want to make sure is that whatever cup we wind up with is truly recyclable in our program. You referenced the plastic cups that have the recycling symbol on the bottom of them, but those are not acceptable in our program. So that would not be the type of cup we would approve.
 So we need an amendment, and basically it's going to be approved by the environmental director. Yeah. I've got it here, Mayor. OK. You got it? Y'all tried to trip me up by changing Peter's title, but I caught it. OK, cool. All right, so I guess we'll start with the amendment. Do we have a second? I seconded. OK. Well, now let's have some discussion on it. Let's talk about the- I called for a vote, Mayor. I guess I'm going to call for a vote.
 let's talk about the cups what are we what are we looking at do we have an idea i mean are we just going to put that in in the verbiage and then we'll figure it out later is that i'll let peter figure it out is that the jane plan okay i'm good with that unless of course you all have a different take on it so what what conversations do we have on this okay we don't have any all right do we have any public comment yeah we got a motion in a second
 Do we have any comments from the public on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Do we have a motion to second? Do we have any discussion? All right. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, now we're back to the amended ordinance. That amended the exhibit, Mayor. Yes. So what shall we do? We're on the first reading, Mayor. Yeah, we're on the second. Yeah, that's right. Mayor, I have a final comment. Do you want to suspend the rules and go to the second reading, or what do you want to do? Mayor, I have a comment. Yeah, sure. Thank you. Thank you.
 But like I said, I'm ready to vote for this. I've just heard from too many businesses within the area that absolutely need it. I mean, I practically had one, a different business on block, begging me for it last week, thinking that it might be the only thing that helps them survive. I really don't think they're alone, but I think we've heard where the consensus is tonight. So I don't want to push that issue except for the,
 volunteer in good faith to co-sponsor any expansion of this with any of my colleagues at any time even as early as the next meeting. I think there are businesses out there that that need this help. I'm about to make a motion to go to the second reading but I did want to I do feel like I need to put something out there to get our wheels turning. You know I've heard that Fayetteville isn't like other cities a couple of times.
 over my career and on this item I've heard that we're not like other cities and that we will party harder than any of them. I've also heard we're not like other cities and that we will never party as hard as they do. It highlights for me that we have a little bit of a cognitive dissonance about alcohol. Isn't it fine for half of the attendees of the Gully Park concert series to hide
 What they're doing? We do nothing. Our police do nothing. We do nothing. No one does anything about it because it actually isn't a big deal. Or maybe it is and we're ignoring a big deal. Doesn't seem like a big deal to most people. We were just talking about cups, but this law outlaws carrying a can, the most recyclable beverage container we have. I don't get it.
 We've heard that if we do that, I've heard this from another people, that people will just tailgate. But people can tailgate. They're invited to do it every game day, and they still go out and pack the bars. I don't think that a lot of what we've been worrying about will actually happen. I think we'll prove it to ourselves with this pilot. I don't think we're going to have money to do a lot of heavy-handed management of this system whenever it's really going. We're going to have to simplify it. I don't understand why...
 Drinking responsibly needs to be so tightly controlled. We don't control it when we're at Gully Park. And it's not just Gully Park. There hasn't been a parks event at all for I don't know how many years where somebody doesn't show up with some alcohol. Just a part of the culture. And most of the time, almost all of the time, people are responsible about it. Except for when we concentrate them in one place.
 at one time of the week and ask them to police themselves and behave themselves. So I'm going to vote for this and I'd like to because so many of my businesses have begged for it and with that I'd like to make a motion that we move this to the second reading. I'll second that. Okay we got a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Kirk. No. Smith.
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Ginnion? Yes. An ordinance to establish boundaries for an entertainment district in the city of Fayetteville and to promulgate rules for the limited outdoor consumption of alcohol in certain public places. Mayor, we go to the third and final reading. I'll second that, but just a question. Do we need an emergency clause on this so that we can enact this immediately? Yes.
 then i moved to the aden you could amend you could amend that i have one ready to go okay i would like to uh amend it to add an emergency clause second okay maybe just to vote on that yeah we have motion second to the emergency add the emergency clause any discussion on that kit would you read the emergency clause
 i'll read it want me to that the city council the city of fable arkansas hereby determines that this ordinance shall should become effective without delay because it will provide opportunities for fayetteville business establishments residents and visitors to comply with the directives issued by the arkansas department of health regarding limited occupancy and social distancing which are necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of fable residents
 Therefore the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such as this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon his passage and approval comment
 You know, I recognize that there are a lot of businesses that are hurting, but this is the first time that we've had this reading. And it's after 10 o'clock. We haven't had hardly any public comment. We've had one person comment. Devin has a long list of things that needs to be done. And I just think that we need to respect the process and get this right and not rush things.
 I know that we're in a unique situation, but there's still a long list of things that need to be done. So I would just caution and recommend slowing it down just a little bit. Okay, what I have right now before me though, is a motion in the second to go to the third and final reading. If the council members wish to not go to the third and final reading, they can withdraw their motions.
 and it will stay right here or they can continue on right kid well i think now we have a man to say add the emergency clause and then we go to the third i'm sorry yes we do yes we do so first i agree i agree with i agree with council member turk we're talking about the emergency clause and i i think that i'm very optimistic that this will work i see the need
 for businesses to have an opportunity that this may offer. But I think we should move forward optimistically, but with caution. I don't want to delay it for a very long time, but I don't
 think that the public has had the opportunity to understand every element of this. I'm not sure I understand every element of this. And then to go forward with an emergency clause where tomorrow this can be enacted is a little maybe too quick for me to endorse the emergency clause. So I think we have to be a little cautious here.
 Mayor, I'd like to make a comment about the emergency clause. I agree with Council Member Turk that there's a lot of work left to do in Devin's office. They have to decide on CUPS and procure CUPS, and that requirement alone will slow down the pilot program and put the brakes on that. We don't need to wait 30 days.
 because they won't be able to do it anyway. What the emergency clause will allow to happen tomorrow is for someone to apply for a sidewalk cafe and for Garner's office to process that application. And I'm afraid that if we wait 30 days before allowing that to happen, we won't have any businesses left to take advantage of this ordinance.
 And that's why I support the emergency clause in the third reading tonight, because this is an unprecedented situation. And I think it calls for bold leadership and a move that is quick and responsive. The only comments I have had about this have been people asking why we don't have it done already. Okay. Anybody else on the emergency clause?
 Yes, Mayor. Bo Counts has raised his hand and is the only person in the meeting on the call at all who owns a business that will be affected by this. I would like to hear from Bo. Sure, absolutely. Go ahead, Bill. All right. I just kind of wanted to address Councilmember Turk's concerns here and to re-illustrate what Kyle said. Thirty days.
 I'm happy to let you guys table this for 30 days if you're happy to give me another $5,000 to pay my rent for another month with no income or the people next door to me or the people next door to them or the people next door to them. I mean, it's easy to look at the black and white of this ordinance, but we've been dealing with this thing for seven months, you know, and to say that this is the first time it's been viewed, I sat in the public office the very first time this got brought up
 when we were allowed together. This is not the first time any of us have had to think about this. We've all had seven months to think about this. So, you know, I think that the emergency clause is so desperately important because 30 days is a death sentence for a lot of these businesses that could use this to pivot.
 And I've talked to some directly. I'm a bit of a figurehead for a lot of these businesses. And I get emotional in some of these meetings because I'm hearing these stories from these people that are just like any tiny little bit that we can do as fast as we can will be the difference. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Public comments closed unless City Council member wants to. Oh yeah, we haven't had any public comment on the emergency clause, have we?
 Okay, well let's do take some comment on the emergency clause. Let's play the rules out here Everybody gets one turn to speak five minute time limit Let's see council by majority vote gives you more time or if city council has questions for you say on the topic Which is the emergency clause no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address who would like to address this again Rob calls is that all right?
 Hello again, everybody. Rob Qualls, 2140 East Jonquil Road. I agree with Councilmember Petty's comments almost entirely as far as, you know, how conservative this is and how much more we could do.
 and especially the parts about the Gulley Park concerts where a predominantly white crowd can go and drink in public even though it's illegal and not have a problem, but people doing the same at Walker Park get arrested. So that's something we need to look at, but we need this passed now as far as the amendment and ordinance we're talking about right now, and then work on the next areas immediately.
 There really isn't time to delay changes. This is a risk reward judgment, and the risk is businesses closing, livelihoods being in jeopardy. So this is the definition of an emergency, and I think it's worth a few angry phone calls to pass this tonight. It may be a little bit faster than some are comfortable with. Thank you. Okay, what other public comment do we have? Okay.
 No? Okay. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. I guess we're ready to vote on the emergency clause. Any other discussion? Well, I have a comment. Although I do express my desire for caution, Mr. Council, despair has convinced me that this is truly an emergency, which I see that.
 And so I will support this emergency clause that publicly it should be noted that I face this a little bit troubled because I do think that there has to be caution as we move forward. Okay. Any other comments? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? No. Smith? No.
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, the ordinance has been amended. It has a new section two, which is the emergency clause, which will require its own vote after the ordinance is passed, assuming it gets passed tonight. And the vote to pass the emergency clause at that point will need to be six votes, and the mayor cannot vote on the emergency clause. Okay, so...
 so are we on the so we're on the third third and final reading but i don't i don't think they've moved yet or we're on the second reading i thought sarah marsh started to council member march started to move to the third grade is that correct council member um i didn't uh matthew petty i believe had said i interjected with the emergency clause i think i seconded it that motion all right all right so matthew you did the third and final reading
 Yes, Mayor. Okay, thank you. So we have third and final reading. We have a motion and a second. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Proggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Warren? Yes. Warren? Yes. Warren?
 In order to establish boundaries for an entertainment district in the city of Fayetteville, we need to promulgate rules for the limited outdoor consumption of alcohol in certain public places and to pass an emergency clause. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Chair, would you please call the roll? Teddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez?
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. But we need, now we need a vote on the Emergency Clause itself. Okay. Kerry, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Both the ordinance and the emergency clause have passed. Very good. Now let's move on to number 12, a resolution to adopt a phasing plan for federal first outdoor refreshment area. Devin, are you with us? He might be all talked out. Absolutely not. Sorry I was muted. Let me reshare. My apologies. Can everybody hear me now?
 Yeah. Okay, thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. We actually preface this item in the ordinance discussion. It's a resolution that governs the rollout of the outdoor freshman area in Fayetteville.
 This stemmed from our focus group sessions last year and it was also the component that had to be changed the most due to the pandemic. The timeline was severely altered from its original intent. We had planned to pilot this at certain events in the summer that no longer can take place. Its whole purpose is to prove concept. I'm going to briefly walk through what this phasing plan does.
 This is the first phase which would begin at the moment this ordinance becomes law and kind of roll through December.
 And so the city as they already has the sidewalk cafe application process with development services. And so that those those can already be pursued, but that possession and consumption of alcohol there can begin. If applicable legacy events, we're defining a legacy event as an event that is operated in Fayetteville the last three out of the five years. We don't know exactly how these events are going to improvise, adapt and overcome.
 to this pandemic, but we hope that this flexibility can help them in that decision making process by eliminating the beer garden requirement should it become applicable.
 Also, the pilot program can begin. And I'd like to touch back briefly on why we have legacy events in this resolution. These are people that we know have relationships with the business community in Fayetteville. They operate successfully and we know we're going to learn from them.
 To go back to the pilot program, it can begin obviously contingent upon staff satisfying that criteria, but we are going to get to work on that tomorrow morning, and I'm very confident we can pursue it quickly and satisfy the requirements to notify you.
 Phase two of the assessment plan, of the phasing plan. This is kind of an assessment phase and I think this is an incredibly important part of this. As Council Member Smith precluded too, we know we're going to learn a great deal as we explore this in Fayetteville. This kind of guarantees a revisit with the sunset clause. However, you know, that sunset clause of January 30th, we would feel it's really important and we've heard this from our partners and I think it's such a great point.
 That no long-term decisions should be made about, you know, this program in downtown until it can really be assessed under conditions of full capacity, not only downtown. But, you know, our anchor institutions operating at full speed and others. As such, we may need to revisit that sunset phase. But the challenge is this pandemic prevents us from knowing exactly when.
 and how long this health crisis will exist and the economic crisis will exist. During this time,
 During the feedback, we're, or excuse me, during this phase, we're really going to look backwards and kind of ask the question, how did it go? What needs to be changed? Were we too strict in certain areas where we could really loosen this up? Do we need to tighten something? The only thing that we know for certain is that we know we're going to learn throughout this process. And this acknowledges that. And this guarantees that it's going to come back to the city council to, as Council Member Smith would say, to get under the hood on it.
 This is also a time when it goes back to you and you can make those decisions about the, the open consumption district. Is that something that we want to look at for the future?
 We still have in here the development of a management plan and making a formal recommendation to the city council should an entity be needed to manage this. Traditionally, what you see in a lot of cities, but to Council Member Petty's point, there are cities that do not have a management entity of this because those districts do govern themselves. But the vast majority of these districts are managed by an entity other than the city.
 Phase three, obviously the fluidity of this phase is really going to depend on the COVID-19 pandemic. It represents the implementation of those changes beginning after that council and that tool is there after this. We need to continue to monitor, we need to continue to improve, and what is, as I mentioned earlier, and I feel it's important to mention again,
 What has been so incredible about this process is the fact that we've worked with our businesses so closely. We want to continue to do that. I think that's going to be important. So I am happy to answer any questions that you have about this phasing plan. But everything that was discussed tonight in the ordinance in phase one can begin right away. Thank you. All right. What questions we got, Devin, on the phasing plan? All right. Let's take a little public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute time limit unless city council by a majority vote gives you more time all right the city council has questions for you please stay on the topic which is the facing plan of the first federal's first outdoor refreshment area and uh stay on that topic please no rude behavior and uh give us your name and address who'd like to address this first okay i'll bring it back to the council it's a resolution
 We'll move we adopt the resolution. Second. Second. Okay, we got some motion and a second to pass the resolution on the placing plan. Any final comments from the City Council? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 guitarist yes marsh yes kenyan yes all righty now then let's move along to number 13. a resolution to request mayor jordan to have his staff prepare a request for proposals to select a professional fundraising company to secure contributions for our city parks man i believe you have this one
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. We've discussed this several times at prior meetings, including agenda sessions, and I've had a couple of great questions from you. I'll just give a very brief overview tonight for anybody that might be seeing this for the first time from their homes. Back in 2017,
 The city went through a procurement process to find someone to develop and then execute a fundraising plan. We ended up not doing that for various reasons. And this is simply a redux
 of that effort, but now with the freedom to update it and rewrite it based on what we've learned in the last two years or more than two years. What's before you, although it's written with language that says to hire an outside firm, we would not be precluded from doing this in-house. Really this is just, voting on this resolution tonight just gives the administration
 the guidance that they need to know that entering into the kind of research that should be done won't be a waste of time. You should expect that if you do vote yes on this, that I would work with staff to try and bring something back to you in a timely manner that would encapsulate answers to many of the questions that have been voiced so far.
 With that, I'm happy to answer any questions, although I do want to advise you that I don't know a whole lot about fundraising. And I really only know what I've recently learned about the process that was conducted two years ago. But I will do my best for you. Thank you. Okay. Any questions on that council? Okay. Alright, let's take some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute time limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if city council has questions for you please stay on the topic which is myself to and the staff to prepare to select a professional fundraising company to secure contributions for city parks that's the topic please no rude behavior give us your name and address and who'd like to address from the public
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. I have a comment, Mayor. Okay. So I'm a bit concerned about the title that's here. You know, if it really is an exploration of trying to figure out...
 you know, how we go about fundraising for our parks. Um, and it's broader than this. I'm just concerned about the title. I mean, cause it, it clearly says in there that we're going to work on a request for a proposal for a professional fundraising company. And, you know, with the COVID we're going to have, we're going to take a big budget hit. And I really, um,
 If it's just all done in-house and it's an exploration and the taxpayer's money is not being used, then I can support this because I do think having a process by which we go about naming our city assets is a great thing. But I am concerned about the title and I'm concerned about using taxpayer money, especially since we're going to have a very, very tough budget a couple of years. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Yes you are. Okay. Mayor I might do, I might make an attempt to answer Councilmember Turk. I'm happy to take suggestions for the title. I'll be the first to admit that since this was added to the agenda, the conversation has expanded as it should and as we had hoped. So I'm happy to take suggestions on the title. What I want to be cautious about,
 is presuming that we have the expertise in-house to develop an actual fundraising plan. We may have the expertise to know how to get that advice, and we may have the expertise to execute it, but right now it does not appear that we have the expertise to develop that fundraising plan itself. However, I'm not certain about that. If over the course of
 The next eight to 12 weeks where these conversations are happening, it turns out that we do have that expertise. You shouldn't expect that we would ignore that. So I'm only explaining this to try and make the intent very clear and to make the intent part of the legislative record. That's why I'm saying I'm trying to give this answer. With respect to the title, I'm happy to take suggestions.
 But regardless of how it may change, I really do want to be very clear about the intent. And I feel I don't have any reason to believe that staff is not in alignment with that intent. So...
 I was just going to suggest an alternative that might make me feel a little bit better. If it said something like resolution of intent. So then you could have the staff be able to explore this and come back with something more a little more defined or full of more information.
 Very well. I'll offer this as a motion and if this doesn't sound quite right to you, feel free to offer a correction. The title should read, A Resolution of Intent to Prepare a Request for Proposals to Select a Professional Fundraising Company to Secure Contributions for Our City Parks. Second. I have a motion to second. Care to please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Second.
 Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, now we've got the amended resolution. I move to approve the resolution. Okay. Second. Okay. All right, any final comments from the council?
 uh just to note mayor i think um an agenda session the question came up about whether other entities like the walmart center or the library used used fundraising companies and i'm not sure but i do know that both the library and the federal public schools have independent foundations that fundraise on their behalf so i
 If in the long term something like that came out, that would be an interesting spin on this. But I think that's a good indicator that it's totally reasonable for us to be spending a little bit of money to potentially raise a lot more. And that's why I favor this. Council Member Smith, I wanted to add a comment about what you just said, but also I've been wanting to comment in general about that.
 uh opportunity we have ahead of us um but what you just said about establishing foundation that was the thing that we decided not to do in 2017. so that is not the intent i don't believe of what council member petty was bringing forward
 That was what happened in 2017 during that RFP that the city rejected and decided not to move ahead on. So that's not the path we intend to take. I am understanding from the conversations I've had with Council Member Petty, also Council Member Turk, and me interjecting what I believe is feasible here or what we can get done.
 identifying the help we need. I think we're always as staff pretty good at making sure we take advantage of the skill sets we have and then asking for help when we see that we need it. And that's exactly what I think Council Member Petty is asking us to do. And so if the language of this existing resolution allows me and as Chief of Staff and my staff to establish a process for the strategy for executing a fundraising,
 that's what we intend to do. Does that meet the expectation of the council with this particular resolution of intent? It meets my expectation. And I'm sorry, I did not intend to suggest a foundation, just potentially seeing what a professional fundraising company might come back and suggest in a much longer term. I appreciate the historical education, but I didn't realize that detail.
 Yeah, I wasn't, I'll be honest with you, I wasn't tremendously keen on that idea back in 2017. But that being said, okay. Any other comments? We have a motion and second to pass resolution. Kerowitz, please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Bunch? Kirk? Yes. I saw our lips move. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Tara, did you get my vote? Yes, ma'am, I did. Thank you. I translated for you. Well, that concludes our business. What announcements do we have, Susan? None. Okay. You've got one, Dr. Mayer. I do. I have a couple of things I want to say tonight as we conclude tonight's meeting.
 I want to take a moment just to thank the people of federal and our our police department for working together as a unified community during Tuesday night's gathering. I want to thank everyone that attended on Tuesday. Thank you very much. I want to thank the city council. I saw a number of city council members there, a kit there. And I want to thank you. I want to thank the people that were there for gathering peaceably to amplify a very important message.
 I want to thank you for being a strong example of how this community comes together to support and respect one another. I love this city, and I'm very proud of all the accomplishments that we all do together. Having said that, I want to give you the latest number on COVID-19 today. This is a little more to the point.
 There's about 358 new cases across the state today, and 203 of them were in northwest Arkansas, with 111 in Washington County, 92 in Benton County. So I cannot emphasize enough to the public, and you're going to hear me say this every meeting that I'm here, this pandemic is not over. We are in an emergency situation.
 We are 65% of the 358 across this state, which told us today. So my friends, when you go out, put on a face covering. When you go out, wear your face covering and do the social distancing of six feet apart. Businesses, require your staff to wear face coverings. Or the customers. Customers, when you go into a business, wear your face covering.
 Wash your hands frequently, and that's about, takes about 20 seconds to do that. We must do this to end this virus. If we will work together, we will stop COVID-19. So thank you all, and that's all the announcements I have. All right, and with that, we're adjourned.