I would like to call to order the city council meeting for June the 19th, 2018, to order. Senator, would you please call the roll? I. Here. March. Here. Here. Batch. Here. Latour. President. Here. Mayor. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. indivisible with liberty and justice for all in first order business we have tonight under reports we have the nominating committee yes again we had a Good number of applicants and a lot of applicants with a lot of diversified skills. We have such an engaged community. It was a pleasure to interview the candidates. If they are not selected this evening, I want to ensure that they know that we certainly hope that they will apply again in the future. Tonight, on behalf of the nominating committee, I would like to submit the following slate. From Mayor Jordan, a recommendation for candidates for appointment to the Historic District Commission. Alexandria Lee, one term, ending 6-30-21. Teresa Turk, one term, ending 6-30-21. Christine Myers, one term, ending 6-30-21. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Animal Services Advisory Board, Laura Florek, one term expiring 6-30-21. And a reminder that we do have a vacancy for a veterinarian or someone that's affiliated with animal health care. If anyone's interested in that, I hope that they will consider applying for that position. The Environmental Action Committee, Brian Nakamura, one term ending 6-30-21. The Fayetteville Arts Council, Ashley Jones, one arts and cultural position, citizen at large, term ending 6-30-21. Zoe Barton won Arts and Cultural Citizen at Large term ending 6-30-21. And we will have, we do currently have a vacancy for a working artist term 6-30-21. So next quarter, I hope someone will, a working artist will consider applying for that position. The Telecommunications Board, we have a vacancy one term ending 6-30-23. The Walton Arts Center Council, Jody Dilde, one term ending 6-30-21. And Cal Rose, one term ending 6-30-21. I submit this slate for consideration and approval. Okay. Sarah? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to accept the slated appointments by the nominating committee. Correct? Mm-hmm. All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all. Now on to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the June 5, 2018 City Council Meeting of Ministers. Number two, resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Black & Veatch Corporation in the amount of up to $83,691. for engineering services associated with the development of a water audit and a plan to reduce water loss number three a resolution award bid number 18-35 authorized contract with 81 construction group incorporated any amount of 118 881.18 with the construction of the east spyglass hill drive drainage improvements project and approved project contingency the amount of 17 830 Number four, and number four, a resolution to approve amendments to the Federal Active Transportation Plan map to improve bicycle and pedestrian connectivity near the newly acquired Centennial Park at Millsaps Mountain. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Mark? I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Yes. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Senator, would you please call the vote? yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes all right thank you all very much now on the unfinished business number one an ordinance to rezone that property describing zoning petition rzn 18-6152 for approximately 23.76 acres located at 4-0-0-5 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard from R.A. Residential Agricultural to U.T. Urban Thoroughfare. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Mayor, before you do that, there's a potential amendment to this. Okay. We have been notified I've been notified by planning that the applicant has desired to make a slight change to comply with What was requested by some of the planning for the City Council members to have? a step back a zone of community services so that the Area right along Martin Luther King would be urban thoroughfare about 10 or 11 acres then then about 12 acres of community services, and then the rest remain as residential agriculture will not be rezoned. But I think we ought to probably first hear from the applicant to make sure this is, in fact, their request, and then anything else you all might want to ask them about that. Yes. Please introduce yourself. Mr. Mayor, Mel Holland, Mel Holland Engineering, and board members, what Mr. – Williams has studied about the change request we have made after a meeting. At the last meeting, we met with several people, three of the city planners and some of your members here, and talked to them, and we are requesting the change as he studied. And I read the proposed ordinance, and I concur with it. 10.77 acres of UT along... The Boulevard, 12.88 acres behind and over across CS Community Services, and the remaining acres, the remaining RA. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to address those. And also Tom with me would like to address you also. He represents this particular project. Okay. Tom, why don't you come up and... Thank you. I'm Tom Joseph. I'm with Griffin Commercial Real Estate. I'm representing the owner of the property. And I will say that that line for the UT, we have moved forward to address your concerns of height. That's now 300 feet back only instead of, you know, the entirety back to the back tree coverage line. So that's number one. And then we self-imposed those height restrictions. We came down what UT would allow, you know, seven or eight, nine stories. We're down to three stories. I think that's what the new zoning that we're putting in there because we want to address your concerns. The theme for this whole project, just what we have in mind, I mean, it's very thematic around Mount Kessler and the new park. Our whole vision is that the project that we're going to develop will be using natural stone and wood, and we want those who are going to be using the parks, whether hiking or riding. to feel like this is a destination place that is an outdoor location that has different businesses that will capitalize. Our whole goal is to leave as many trees as possible because we want that outdoor natural feel. And – It doesn't really work with pavement, like, you know, just to clear the whole thing out. The whole idea for what we've got in mind is a very, very natural, you know, use of the wood and the stone. That's going to be our own covenants for every building that goes there. So, and then the back, of course. So you have a lot of tree coverage in the back as the buffer. And then all throughout, there's some ravines. Those are going to, we're going to leave as many as possible to capture that. But, you know, I will say this, and I think you might have noted it on the email I sent, but I'm very excited because I believe you're going to be able to be proud to display this as, you know what? A lot of times they don't go the way we want them to go. That thing turned out fantastic. When people drive by, they're going to take a look and go, man, that is beautiful. And that's the way we want it. And it just happens to be that because the way we want to use it is very well located and people are going to be going up and down through there for the mountain use for the bike trails. for the people passing by we want to be a destination location so i think it's going to be something you're going to very be very proud of it to display as a city and to point to but i appreciate your consideration of this any questions yes what questions do we have in the council on this amendment is that good all right then and and mayor i don't know if uh garner stole had anything to add they're the ones that actually work with the applicant on this uh mayor i don't have anything to add other than uh John Scott put together a memo and some maps showing the historical tree growth on the site, which is trying to respond to your questions from earlier meetings. As you all know, tree preservation actually is implemented when large-scale development comes in or subdivision happens. plant is submitted but this does give you a snapshot of what our requirements are yes Garner I had asked for knowing exactly so can you tell me exactly the tree coverage I don't see that It's on another map, but I can tell you what it is. I haven't seen it. Is it in the packet someplace? I just missed it. It is. I may be able to get it up here in a little bit, but I can tell you what it is. It's 15% for the Urban Thoroughfare. It's 20% for the Community Services. And it's 25% for the RA, the Residential Agriculture. So 15 and through the middle is 20? Yes. Okay. okay and in our week again I want to emphasize ours is a very thematic outdoor kind of place who's going to be using it that we're they're gonna be we have I can tell you that's gonna be self-imposed for us to leave as many great trees as possible I really think when you look at you're gonna say trees trees trees it's beautiful you know right I'm very pleased with that but I'm sure you can understand our position needs to be in black and white so that no matter who builds there they know how many trees they have to leave it's very serious business thank you okay Well, in fact, that will occur during large-scale development, and it goes to the Planning Commission for their approval. But, of course, a city council member can also appeal that if they don't like what the result was on that. So it can come back to this body. Usually it does not. Usually it's decided by the Planning Commission in conformance with your ordinances that you pass for that. But if there is an issue, it can be appealed to the city council. Thank you. Any other questions? DAVID BURRAGE. I'D MAKE THE MOTION THAT WE AMEND TO THE PROPOSAL FORCE. SECOND. I'LL NOTE FOR THE RECORD, IT'S THE AMENDMENT THAT'S BEFORE YOU RIGHT NOW THAT I EMAILED OUT TO ALL OF YOU ALL TODAY AFTER I HEARD FROM IT FROM PLANNING THAT THIS WAS IN THE AGREEMENT. SO THAT'S WHAT YOU'D BE MOVING TO AMEND TO. OKAY. I WILL TAKE SOME PUBLIC COMMENT ON THE AMENDMENT, I BELIEVE. Would anyone like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to pass the amendment. Any final discussion on it? Please call the roll. Gray? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Hendy? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Batch? Yes. Patera? Yes. Smith? Yes. And rather than suspending the rules, why don't I go ahead and read the ordinance as amended? Okay, I think it's a great idea. In ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6152 for approximately 23.45 acres located at 4005 West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thermal Fair and CS Community Services. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's amended agenda memo from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare for 10.77 acres and to CS Community Services for 12.88 acres. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. And along with this amendment goes with an amended exhibit, too, because the exhibit now has changed to what I tried to send you out. You couldn't really see it in this black and white, but planning will send in, will have the really nice, pretty color copy that will be easy to read, and that would be the new Exhibit A. All right. Gardner, you got anything you want to add to that? No, Mayor. Do the applicants have anything they want to add? Okay. Any questions from the council? Next. All right. Is there any public comment out there on this particular amended ordinance? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Are we on the final reading? Yep. Okay. That was the third reading? Oh, okay. Yep. It's under notes. She always knows. I want to thank the staff and my fellow council members and also the applicant. There's a lot of times I think we get a little... Reputation for being difficult, but I think in this particular case, the process worked exactly the way it should, especially in a city like ours, because this particular spot is a very strategic, important place. And to the credit, I know we're not voting on any development that will come through the normal process, but I do. like the idea that we just heard that they're going to use that area as a continuation of what will be and already is a regional destination and I think soon to be possibly national destination. type park structure attached to the regional park and a world-class uh biking and hiking place so it's very smart in my opinion to use that and use this particular piece of land for for that benefit and it sounds like that they're going to do that so i do want to give a shout out to the city staff for coming together with the applicants with the owners with everybody and talking through it because once once the land goes it goes and i appreciate adela sort of being cautious on this and standing her ground and making sure that this got i think as good of an outcome as we could have gotten and i'm looking forward to to what comes next and and i just want to say thank you to people because i think sometimes they don't get thanks and and i wanted to bring that up so thank you very much thank you any other final comments Okay. Seeing none, Sonia, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Bennett. Yes. Lynch. Yes. Lejeune. Yes. Smith. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number two, a resolution to award RFP... 18-04 to authorize contract RdG a understand that we're going to correct that in a moment yes Incorporate DBA RdG planning and design in the amount of a hundred and fifty three thousand sixty six dollars for the development of the highway 71 B corridor plan to approve a project contingency in the amount of $46,934 and to approve a budget adjustment kit I Mayor, we found out a couple days ago that the name really should be RDGSWB Inc. instead of RDGIA. So normally we would have just corrected that as a scrivener's error, but since we had not passed the resolution yet, I figured let's go ahead and amend it. So I've handed out what Blake drafted up to the correct name on this. So it's both in the title and also in the body, but I would ask that you amend the resolution to the one that is handed out to you right in front of you. Okay. So we would amend it basically to RDG SWB, right? That's correct. Okay. All right. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I'll make the motion as described. Okay. Justin. Second. Okay. Motion in the second to amend to change the name from IA to SWB. for DG SWB. Any comments on that? Any comments from the public on the change of the name? All right. We're heading back to the council. We have a motion to second. With the mover and seconder, please put the motion to second. There we go. Everything's good now. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Right. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. What does staff have on the amended resolution? I don't have any additional comments, Mayor. As far as the process, Mr. Paul Becker would be the person to answer those questions. If you have questions about the contract itself, I'll try to field those. Okay. What questions does council have or comments or whatever we're going here? Sir. Thank you. Thank you. I just as a point of order, I'm curious. I did meet with staff to hope to improve the contract I did kind of feel like I was putting on lipstick on a pig But I wanted this to be the best contract we could even though I still think that we have the wrong team here And I noticed that a lot of my suggested language was not included in the final contract Especially things about identifying our cultural historic and heritage resources I identifying an attainable housing plan and creating these layers of information that we're going to need to really make this project a success. And then I did not receive any kind of an email or notification with the updated contract language. So I'm not sure how that – I mean, I didn't see it until I got here tonight. How do we go about distributing that language? Okay, who would like to answer that? Paul, do you have that? Mary, would you like to come up on – Andrea Rennie is our purchasing manager, and I believe you sent all those revisions to each and every council member, so I don't know why you didn't get it, Sarah. Okay. It went up to the city clerk's office on the 12th of late. The 12th. Unless I'm missing. Now, in answer to you, and Andrea, you can add to this after I'm done. When we looked at your comments, we incorporated... Andrea looked at them, took them back to the negotiating committee. to look at the contract, the one thing we have to be careful of is that we're not expanding the scope larger than what we had originally proposed because then the entire contract changes. So we incorporated those that we felt legitimately we could do and still maintain the scope. Those that we did not incorporate we felt were scope expansion. So that's why. And I think that's where the root of my issue comes from is that There was a communication failure at the beginning of this process. I was not notified that I was going to be on this committee. They sent out an email with the RFP request language in it with less than 48 hours to respond before this went out. No one bothered to call me and ask me to review this. I did not catch it until it was too late and the language had already gone out. And I do not feel like our scope was adequately addressed in that RFP request. And so, you know, that was the original request that did not include South School Avenue or Archibald Yale Boulevard. It did not make much reference in terms of housing or historic and heritage resources. And I really felt like that was inadequate. And so, you know, when we came back, and we changed the language on that to include other parts of 71B, to actually expand it to all of 71B. And so I think that a lot of what we needed to do in this process was left out from the beginning, and that there was not appropriate time given to, for me as the council member who's supposed to oversight this committee or participate in this committee, I did not have an opportunity to, to introduce the things that I thought we needed in this process, specifically related to attainable housing, low impact development, stormwater management, historic and heritage resources, and even just the whole scope of what the project was covering. And so now we have a team that I don't feel is the right team. And I went back to meet with Andrea, who was great. She sat down with me and we went through the contract, but we also went through the process of purchasing. And so we had 13 different teams apply and they all submitted really fat proposals. I went through and read every one of them and scored all of them on a matrix. And then at the end of the interview process, I turned those in and apparently those are all destroyed. Right. So we don't have records of how people voted or what their comments were, which I think is contradictory to our intention of having transparent, open government. So the next team lost by one point. That was the Dover coal team that had done our 2030 city plan and our previous planning efforts. And to me, it just seemed like they were so close and they were such a better team. And they, I just see this as, you know, the 2.0 of that plan. And instead, what I saw during the interview process was, so we brought in the four final teams. And the first three teams all had a very collaborative approach to responding to the interview team. Every member of the team participated. They were all there and working within their specialty and had things to contribute. But the final team, which was this RDG, I saw... a man basically dominate the entire conversation and not include any input beyond the initial introduction of the other members of his team. And when I think about what is going to make this project a success, it's going to be stakeholder buy-in. It's going to be working with the stakeholders along 71B and convincing them that it's a great idea to tear up the street, potentially for years. You know, and that they should endure those disruptions to their business in order to make something better. And I don't feel that, or I don't think that the individual who was dominating this team had the capacity to really listen to others, to work well with others, and to build the kind of stakeholder support and the community support that we're going to need to make the capital investment as well as just the physical infrastructure disruption we're going to have to endure to make this project a success. So, I am disappointed that a lot of my contract language did not make it into the contract. I do understand that that would affect the scope. A lot of these things were already written into the Dover-Cole scope, just as their proposal, and there's probably a reason why RDG was the low bidder, is because they didn't include a lot of these things that I think were really important. This is one of the most important undertakings we're going to have in our community for decades. This is going to remake our Main Street. You think about how the last time we had such a major change would have been when college went to four lanes. you know and so it's really important that we get this right and that we have the right team that's really going to work well with our community and work well with all of the partners that are going to have to coordinate to make this a project this project a success so i don't think this is the right team i don't think we've got the right scope in our contract and i'm going to be voting against it okay who else would like to anybody else from the council Paul, did you have something else? I don't have anything specifically on the contract, but I did want to mention one thing that Sarah brought out. First, the reason we destroy those votes, and it's one vote per person, on the selection committee. The selection committee process, the reason we do that is I feel a very important internal control check on our selection process. Basically, I'm concerned about improper influence within the committee and from outside influences. I don't want anyone in that committee to be intimidated by someone else on the committee For example, I'm on these selection processes. Don Maher's on some of the selection processes. And in our position, we don't want our arguments to intimidate someone because of our position. In other words, we want those people to make up their mind. If our arguments are successful, they vote that way. That way, we don't know how one votes. And that's the reason that we do have... anonymity to those votes. I think it's an important thing in the selection process. I understand transparency, and I think this is a good example of transparency. Alderman Marsh brings out that she doesn't think the correct team was selected. She does have some issues with it, and we're doing that in an open public forum, which we can do. But I think it's very, very important to retain... the protection for those individuals on that committee against intimidation, reprisals, or lobbying from outside influences once a vendor knows that those votes are going to be available, they may approach council members, members of that committee, et cetera. Now, I have full confidence the current staff, and all the elected officials certainly would not attempt to manipulate the process. However, we do have to recognize that fraud exists in government. We put in as many protections as possible, and I think this is a very, very important internal control check. So, Sarah, that's how I would answer that particular question. And, yeah. And I hope all the council understands that. As far as adequate time to review a proposal, purchasing is open. Yes, many times we send the items out and we don't, We ask for a quick turnaround simply because we have such a backlog and some of the projects we have are very important. Anytime any member of that selection committee does not feel that they have adequate time, they can certainly respond to the purchasing department. either Andrea who is the manager of the purchasing department or the purchasing agent who's set it out and request more time we'll be happy to do that in this particular case I don't think we received a request first we heard about Sarah you did talk about that at the agenda session but I just want everybody to know that that's certainly part of the process that we're willing to to do And I think that part of that is that no one, if I had known to expect the email, then I would have looked for it. But, you know, we're not full-time staff. We don't check our email every day. And so, you know, I didn't get this until after it's done. And then I was told, well, it's too late. Um, whereas if somebody had said, Hey, we're going to be sending this out, be on the lookout for it, you know, Thursday or Friday, I would have made the time to do that, but I was not given that opportunity. And less than 48 hours is not an acceptable turnaround time for non full-time staff member with no notification, um, especially on a project that is going to remake the heart of our city. So, you know, I think that throughout this process, there have just been. there have been some opportunities for improvement. And it's too big and important of an issue for me to let slide. You know, this is the heart of our city. This is our main street. A lot of people's business depends on the street. The success of our community is intricately linked to the street. And I think that we can do a lot better than the proposal that's on the table. So thank you. I have a question on procedure. If we were to decline this contract, then are we back at square one and it starts over again? Yes. Yes. Is there an opportunity to take the number two choice if we were not able to negotiate the new As you talk about one of your primary One of your primary issues with it is the scope of the project. We're going to change scope the project We're gonna have to take it back Well, in the Dover coal proposal, they did address a lot of the things that I felt were missing in the scope in the RDG proposal. They may have, but that opportunity has to be presented to each and every person who's going to propose on the project. Mayor and Council, the Dover coal scope of services was more abbreviated, significantly more abbreviated. It specifically responded to the scope of services that we put out. But their scope, and because of the issues surrounding this selection, I spent quality time with it. I really didn't want to belabor the point tonight, but I want you to know that their scope of services followed the request for proposal, which was issued by the city, but the elements of their planning process was significantly less like 50 percent less it did not address the issues that Council Member Marsh is speaking to okay um I'm a little concerned that we're talking about the scope of the contract at this point because it seems like that should have been the conversation that we should have had long before we got here and in fact we did we added the Archibald yell and and the South School part that was missing so to now say that there are other things that were missing from the scope at that point I'm a little bothered by those not coming up at that time so I when we're looking at this contract and the way it meets the scope that we did put out it it it seemed like a pretty good match and a quality proposal the fact that we've got a close vote in our in our selection committees seems like that should be a good thing it means we're attracting many quality applicants and in close votes um You know, we have those here sometimes, and unfortunately, sometimes we don't all – we can't all get our way in a close – you know, close to half of us are going to be a little disappointed there. But, you know, I got some really good advice when I started here, and that was to trust the staff. And so on this one, since I've – i think mark asked for us to see the other proposals and we were told that we couldn't to be honest i was a little a little relieved to not get the other 13 13 proposals to to read through um i think they would have been interesting if we'd had that opportunity but um Without that I'm gonna have to trust the staff on this one that voted in their committee and trust the process in general I'm concerned that if we were to take this back to square one all of the We can see the cost of this contract on our screen, but the cost of delaying that and and Remaking that part of our of our city If we delay that even more we lose out on the potential that we have in between now and then so um yeah i i think that at this point i'm going to be supportive of this one the way it is primarily because i think the the scope issues that we have are are adequate if not perfect we're never going to get them perfect and i think we've got a good contract a good proposal for for what we put out so okay matthew Yes, thank you, Mayor. I agree with just about everything Kyle said. I've been on selection committees where I was the only one who voted the way I wanted before, but I trusted process, and I see that as being very important. I've also been on committees where we reversed our decision afterwards. We did that with the Transportation Master Plan, and it took us at least another six months, maybe even longer than that, to get the next contract signed. The fact that the vote was so close, and I'm not sure that should have been disclosed to us at all anyway, but the fact that it was, it says to me that there's not a sufficient reason to go back and choose somebody else. Because it was so close, that says to me, you know, you might as well have done a coin flip. And you probably needed to be in the room to figure out what the nuance was that would drive that decision one way or the other. I wasn't in that room. So I'm gonna trust what the consensus was that came out of it. As to some of the other scope items, I was very pleased and even eager that we added the south section of 71 to the scope. I thought that was an important thing for us to do. I don't think that some of these other items are going to be ignored, even though they may not result in detailed technical analysis for things like housing or heritage resources. I can't imagine that we would allow planner for a project as important like this as it's to ignore all of our past planning work and all the work product that we've put in before and all the conclusions that we've drawn before. We have a set of documents today that provides quite a bit of planning level guidance for those issues and I think we can manage that contract and specifically about housing because I think housing is probably the most important issue that faces the city right now and probably will be for the next few decades. A proper housing study is really a scope unto itself. I mean, it deserves it. And because it can be so technical. And right now we have a housing study that's underway with the Regional Planning Commission and Enterprise Community Partners. It's sponsored by the Walton Family Foundation. And some of the people in this room and others in this community are on those committees that are being interviewed for that and they're providing data for that. And that should be concluded by the end of the year and we'll also inform this. And really the schedules dovetail quite nicely together. I think if we were to try to combine all of those things into one scope and do it in a comprehensive way, we'd be looking at at least something like double the price or close to it. blessed that we're able to complete some of those items using other resources and some of those things on a regional scale. And the last thing I'll say is, you know, that's just kind of in defense of the process. But I'm actually excited for RDG. I've reviewed some of their past work. I looked at the Oklahoma City plan in detail. I might have a couple of technical squabbles with the recommendations in that Oklahoma City plan. But in terms of its structure and organization and the clarity of its communication, I'm hard pressed to find an example of another planning document. document that I've read that matches it. And I read a lot of planning documents. I go out and I submit RFPs for other cities. I try to do this kind of work. And the Oklahoma City plan is very, very, very good. It's the best in class. Whenever I look at that work history and I see that they propose more than 50 hotel stays, hotel nights, I'm like, between them and all the support staff and the fact that the applicant came here and tried to walk the corridor before they put together the proposal, I think that speaks quite a bit to their commitment and gives me a lot of confidence. Yes. Yeah, thank you, Mayor. I won't belabor the point too much, but I think I agree with what Kyle and Matthew have said in general. And I want to say I also appreciate Council Member Marsh's passion on this subject, because I can't help but think that if there wasn't more conversation like this all those years ago when this corridor was set in a different direction, as it should have been now that we have history as a lesson, I think it would have turned out better. So I do appreciate whether I agree with it or not. A passionate citizen base is not something that we lack, and that's a good thing. And I think that Fayetteville is a world-class city. You can look at... People all over the world who will agree with me on that lots of publications, lots of everything else. A world class city should have a world class staff. If we don't have a world class staff, then then, in my opinion, that falls on the chief of staff and the mayor. And in this particular instance, I do think we have a world class staff and I have to put some trust in their expertise. we can disagree with them we can work with them we can we can flat out say we don't like it but at the end of the day there has to be a little bit of uh of trust in that and and i appreciate the staff and what they do i know they take a lot more time to look at things than i do so um i i just you know i want to thank them and and if we're not We're the watchdogs of that. And if we don't have a world-class staff, then we're doing something wrong. And I think everybody agrees. agrees with that here which is why we do put so much time and effort in bringing the best people uh for the best city in the country to to help run it because we're all a part of it so thank you to the chief that staff thank you to the planning group and thank you to the mayor for his leadership and uh you know with that i i definitely will be supporting this i'm sure it's not perfect but i think it gets us uh it gets us going in the right direction sure yes um You know, I really appreciate Sarah Marsh's efforts on this. And honestly, her hard work is what put that south part of the corridor on this process to begin with. I don't think it would have been there if she hadn't put as much time and effort into seeing that it got on there. I am going to side with staff on this issue. I think as Justin said I think we have a really good staff and I Feel that I feel pretty confident in the process and I think we have a limited budget with this and to To try and include everything in that is It is too much we all have so much money to spend on this and I We kind of have to choose our battles carefully with this. I think I've read over this. I've read over the proposal. I looked at several things that, you know, RDG had done, and I feel confident that they're probably the best choice. Thank you. Okay. All right. I will take some public comment on this. And everybody gets one turn at the microphone. You have a five-minute limit. Keep your remarks to me. Don't engage anyone on the city council, anybody out in public. The only time you can come back to the microphone is if a council member asks you to come back and ask you questions. Please give us your name and address. Stay on topic. If you don't stay on topic, I will ask you to get on topic, and then you need to get on topic or you'll have to take your seat. But with those rules, please give us your name and address and who would like to be first. All righty then. I'll bring it back to the council. I said all that to say I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well said, Mayor. Well said. Well said. All right. Adele. I move to pass the resolution. Kyle. Second. All right. Any final comments from the council? I would like to say this about my staff. I completely and totally trust the staff of this city. You will be as successful as your staff makes you. I think I have a very, I don't think I have a competent staff. I think I have an outstanding staff. And every day they come to work and they deal with all kinds of public issues and in many instances have to deal with the mayor, which can be a challenge within itself. But they do that. Because they're dedicated to this city becoming the best it can possibly be so I want to give a kudos to the staff Of this city and the work that they do and with that so would you please call the roll? Yes, no, yes Yes, yes, yes Thank you all number three An ordinance to amend 164.19 accessory dwelling units of the Unified Development Code to encourage the construction of more accessory dwelling units in federal. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Adele. I move we go to the second reading. Matthew. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And Ordinance Amends Section 164.19, Accessory Dwelling Units of the Unified Development Code to encourage the construction of more accessory dwelling units in Fayetteville. Does staff have anything? Yes, Mayor. Just a few additional items for your consideration. Okay. You had a healthy debate about height, and so we put together some examples. They're generally most communities, many communities are working on accessory dwelling unit ordinances, and many communities are spending a significant amount of time debating it because it gets so close to neighborhoods and where people live. But with regard to the height, they're generally in the low 20s, mid 20s. Austin, Texas actually allows 30 foot. Also, just the alternatives that were discussed two weeks ago are basically being discussed everywhere I find ADUs. I can find them on the agenda. The issue of whether you require the owner to live on the site. It's certainly debated much, and many do and many don't. I think the trend is to get away from that. The alternative regarding when is an ADU not an ADU? When is it kind of a stalking horse for two-family zoning? Usually that brings you to your size limit. Planning Commission recommended 1,200. The existing ordinance is 950. You certainly could, if you felt like that's over the line, you could certainly go back to 950. Another method that I find frequently in other ordinances is limiting the ADU to a percentage of the principal structure. And I think Council Member Smith did some work looking at possibly that alternative. Finally, the item that Planning Commission recommended is kind of pioneering, is allowing more than one ADU. Very interesting idea, attractive idea, but it's certainly simpler to administer if you just allow one. So with that, I look forward to your discussion. Okay. I believe you have an amendment that you were looking at. Yeah. After the discussion last week, I was thinking about different scenarios and how a 1,200-square-foot ADU would play out. And I live in a house that's 1,224 square feet. I can turn it into a duplex. We were later that meeting talking about... Areas with much much smaller houses and we've got some 700 square foot houses in town If you put a 1200 square foot house detached on the same lot with that you've created a new principal dwelling so I I appreciate the Expansion to the 1200 square feet that Planning Commission came up with as as a way to accommodate to ad use on the lot, but I think as I as it's written, allowing for a single one of that size, like Garner said, seriously starts to call into question whether it's still accessory. So I did prepare an amendment that puts it in as a percent of the total, of the primary structure, 70% between 600 and 1350. At 1350, you're up to the 1200 square foot limit anyway. Less than 600 square feet, and you're looking at having a hard time getting a livable space out of it, so below 600, it could go up to the same size as the primary, but not be larger. so yeah i've got i've got that for us to look at if anyone is interested i'll make a motion to amend the height limit oh sorry not the height limits the square footage limits um as you've got okay do we have a second that's a good question yeah um so your your overall uh reason it sounds like is to avoid a situation where you would have something small and then add a much larger disproportionately larger which would then become arguably a principal spot. Yeah, the focus here was just to keep the accessories in scale with the principal unit. I got a lot of concern about free reign for duplexes without conditional use permits. Right. There would be that rule attached. If someone wanted to go that way, then they would understand their size limit based on the square footage of their existing Right. And you can still get to 1,200 square feet total if you're building two. They would just have to, as the total of the two, they'd have to be smaller individuals. Okay. I understand. I will second that. All right. Max? Yeah. Kyle, you just said something that maybe I read this wrong originally. You said that the combined total could still be 1,200 feet? If you have to, I think that was as written. Can you clarify? Yeah, that's in a different section that has already been at least looked at and somewhat approved where it's subsection 4, which limits the combined square footage not to exceed 1,200 square feet. So if you have more than one – accessory dwelling unit then they total could not be more than 1200 in this one the largest that a single unit could be would be 950 square feet thanks i've stated that earlier 950 was the the cap on the ordinance the way it is now and that would still be the cap for any individual adu if you have two you'll have to scale them down to fit within 1200. Okay, well I misread that whenever it was sent out. So I can, I think I can support this with one change and that's where the 600 square feet I think is a little arbitrary. We had, when we amended this on the last revision a year ago, we were throwing around all these numbers. And we settled on 950 because that gave us a little bit more room. enough of the space to put it over a three-car garage a two-car garage figure is somewhere around 750 or 800 square feet really if the minimum was If 800 was the smallest number because so many things are going to be constructed across two car garages I think I'm on board with the framework. So just in terms of thinking through the practicalities of how these things would get built I can go with that. I based this off of a talking with some architects who had ADUs that they ended up not building, and we were just kind of looking at what people were asking for. So that sounds like perfectly good rationale. And would I change my motion to make that 600 feet or – If you're going to say the minimum or that they're at least allowed to be 800 square feet, then the chart would have to be kind of redone because you don't want to have one that's 801 feet and then you do 70% of it because that's going to go down below 800. So I would need to work on that a little bit before. It would not be ready for passage tonight is what I would say. Okay. If everybody wanted 800, then I could do that. Yeah, and I guess just to remind the council, you're on the second reading, so if there's those revisions you want to make, you still have your third reading. Well, whatever you decide to do, and this is – are we clear that garage spaces are not counted toward – it's only habitable square feet? Yes, I changed that to make it habitable so it would be obvious that's what we're talking about. okay okay all right sure okay i would really like to keep it all at 950 square feet um just because in thinking of you know if you have your two parking spaces for your primary dwelling and then one for your adu that's a three-car garage and my house is 825 square feet and the idea that i would be penalized for that and couldn't build as much as my neighbor who was slightly larger you know, when in fact I might be, you know, constructing a three-car carport and then wanting to put something on top of it, it just doesn't make sense to then abbreviate that because my house is small. So, I mean, I like the idea of having just a standalone one limited to 950 square feet because that's your 300 or your three-car garage, but any smaller than that I'm not inclined to support. So you're saying, like in your case, 70% of 800 square feet would be not much? Not much. And it certainly wouldn't cover a three-car garage, which is what I would want to accommodate my own vehicles and the renter's vehicle. What else before we get public comment? It's on the amendment, correct? And the amendment is 600 to 1,350 square feet, then it's 70%. Are you going to change that? Well, I don't know. I think we need to kind of get a consensus of the city council on this. I'll have two or three people talk about it's going to take five votes to, to, to do this. So, uh, I kind of need to know what to draft, what the consensus will be of what is let's talk about the habitable space now and, and let other council members give us their impression on what would be the most appropriate habitable size limitation. Okay. I guess I'll just think out loud. Um, I'm fine with the way the ordinance is currently written. I think that a big impact that I really like, a big outcome of the way the ordinance is currently written, is it helps preserve some of our smallest houses that are on some of our larger lots. We have so many houses that are in the 700 to 800 to 900 square foot range. So many of them are kit houses on there. There are lots that are much bigger than what would be required for a house that is that size. And today, just in terms of a fair is fair mindset, they could do, an owner of a house like that could add on 2,000 square feet if they felt like it as long as they were the only ones living there. Or they could add on 2,000 square feet and carve out 950 of it for an accessory dwelling unit and hold the remainder just for themselves. And I think the trade off in the way the ordinance is currently written against that which is already allowed is we're restricting the size. And when it comes to a CUP for a duplex, sky's the limit. You can propose whatever you want and it's at the planning commission's discretion. So we have, I think, really meaningful and important the ADU ordinance that make it different from those other scenarios. And I think they're meaningful. I think the way the ordinance is written right now is the right way to do it. All that's to say if we're horse trading and some of these issues are deal breakers and we have to fix a deal breaker to get a consensus, I'm ready to do that. If we're talking about the maximum modifying this particular part of it, I think that's My preference to keep it the same, if we're going to amend it at all, my preference would just be keep it simple. 950 square feet maximum for a single ADU, 1,200 square feet maximum for two ADUs combined. Super simple to administer, super simple to understand, kind of fair is fair on if you've got a small house. But again, if we're down into deal breaker territory, I mean, I'm ready to cut a deal to get the broader ordinance passed because I think the outcomes are just so, so important for Fayetteville. I really think this is the most important ordinance we've probably ever considered with respect to housing and transit. Okay, Sarah. Should we send this to ordinance review? It seems like we have a lot of things that we need to discuss and work through. I just want to throw that out as a suggestion. Okay, Mark. I was going to say the same thing. Okay. We're thinking alike. This is big, and we're also talking about, okay, the concerns that I've heard so far are specifically around our historic neighborhoods and looking at protecting the current integrity of the neighborhood based on the current population and how we're going to change that. Let us not... forget that we have an overpop an over occupancy problem we do and so the more square footage that we have available in these units the more likely we are going to have more problems with this situation of over occupancy in my opinion but it's an opinion right now and it's shared by some of the people that have contacted me so I think that what I would like to see is this to go ordinance review where that there are specific people that have specific information and some of these are coming from architects some are coming from people that have neighbors that are over occupied and we've never been able to use our our current over occupancy standards or our occupancy standards and get a control on that so maybe we could have some idea of how we could moderate this over occupation in these sensitive neighborhoods. So I want to have more direct interaction with the people in these neighborhoods that have contacted me, specifically Washington Willow, Wilson Park, Woodland, University Heights. It seems like that's where most of the concern is and this is closer to the University. And these are areas where I have consistently received a lot of complaints about parking and over-occupancy. And so I want to be sure that we are sensitive to protecting these historically significant neighborhoods and to the heritage of this single-family neighborhood. At the same time, I do understand the importance of having these auxiliary units as an option. So I would like to see this go to Ordinance Review Committee so that we can look at this in totality with those neighborhoods especially that are having the impact. I'm sure Justin would be willing to.
 Yeah. Wow, okay. Top of the list. Yeah, or I can go. Kyle doesn't mind. I will definitely work with Sandra and city staff to put something together, get with everybody's schedules. I do agree that this is very important. So I think what Mark just brought up would be good. I think we can take a little bit of time here and really discuss it with the people that have questions. the stakes in the game. And those neighborhoods are certainly ones that come to mind. So I'm perfectly fine with that. I'll get to work with Sandra on that, and we'll send something out. Okay, cut. No particular objections to go into ordinance review. I just wanted to point out that what we're talking about here in amendments is setting the standard for what can be approved administratively. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think if somebody wants something more than what we've got here, they can still go apply for a conditional use permit with Planning Commission. So if your house is too small and you've got a great plan for something that's just past the limit, or if you need... a few extra square feet for design reasons i think that's still available it just wouldn't be the standard that we would see pop up everywhere so that was that was my thought on that okay all right so i guess procedurally if we send this to ordinance review kid what about the amendment that's on the floor right now i would suggest we not actually take any votes right now that we look at it and draw it or I will say the Planning Commission would be allowed to do a variance from some of these standards, not a waiver. A waiver means forget the standard. So there is that or conditional use. It's not an additional condition. It's just a variance the Planning Commission could waive or could pass. I do think that that's why we created the ordinance review. committee because some some ordinances are pretty complex and have lots of issues going back and forth and need careful drafting Even more crap quick careful drafting maybe than some so I think that's probably a good idea to do that and I'll be happy to work with ordinance review to get down your thoughts on that and And I would also say that oftentimes even non-members of a committee can show up and sometimes speak at the Ordinance Review because this is an important issue for all over the town. well i know and that really what i was asking do we have to vote on the amendment does it just stay right there do we have to withdraw it i just need to know what we need to do procedure robert's rules of order are that you either act on the current motion on the table you table it or you withdraw it yes you can either withdraw it or you can table it so it depends on what you want to do yes i mean that's what i'm saying we are going to take it to ordinance review so so we can we can it's yours but i seconded it but if it was if that was flipped i might withdraw it because we can always bring it back yeah i would i would suggest you actually withdraw it i'll withdraw the motion and look forward to seeing it when it comes back okay good Now we'll take a little public comment. This is going back to ordinance review. Does anybody have anything? Is anybody here that didn't hear the rules of public comment, or do I need to go through those again? Only for nobody to get up. Does anybody have any? Yes, come on up. Please introduce yourself. You have a five-minute limit. I think you know the rules. Did you hear me? All right. Hi, I'm Bradley Edwards. I live at 1522 Hotz Drive in University Heights. I'm a former neighborhood president of University Heights University, I don't think we're over occupancy in that neighborhood. I think that the building lots are quite large. And I do know a couple of my neighbors are in full support of accessory dwelling units. So I realize that a lot of people that call and complain about these things are the ones who are concerned. You know, maybe a vocal minority. I don't know the numbers. I haven't seen a poll, but I do know that if the city is using a 2030 plan that it's really important to identify and and that's all over the city. And as far as historic preservation in the willow Washington willow heights. Uh, neighborhood as long as you are, I believe there's a board there that you present your plans and drawings to. So it has to be vetted in those circumstances to adhere to standards. I think I don't know if that's the case or not, but that's the case in other in commercial preservation plans. But so anyway, I think it's actually a really essential. thing for the city. And I'm really pleased that you guys are actually addressing this, because I think there's a, you know, the cities who are progressive, that want walkability, that want good density, these kinds of things are the things that need to happen to make that happen. So that's all I wanted to say. Thank you. Mayor, for the purpose of the public who's watching, just to make sure we're clear, we don't currently have a historic district review or a historic commission to review improvements. It is something that the Washington Willow neighborhood is currently researching, and we had a presentation to you all about the possibility of moving in that direction when one of you talks about sponsoring that to move forward. Okay. We're continuing to work with the Historic Commission on that, but we don't have any in place currently. I couldn't think of any. Who else would like to address this? Briefly, my name is Ammon Jordan, resident of Wilson Park neighborhood, and I am looking over your shoulder this time. I've been looking at the guiding principles in the city plan 2030, and I think that this ordinance is something that you all should strongly consider in pursuit of both the vision and the plan. I personally would like to build a detached accessory dwelling unit. I'm not willing to at this point in time. I think the ordinance is restraining. And I'd like to see it relax a little bit in order to actually encourage that type of dwelling in it in order to achieve some of the statements that have been articulated. So thanks. Thank you. Zarin Ehrman, 849 South Washington Ave. Just something to consider is I think ADUs are not necessarily the easiest thing to build. Typically, you have a house. It would be in the backyard area. And unless you have an alleyway in the back, which I think makes a lot of sense for ADUs trying to build something, you know, get around the side of the house between two buildings and build something back there is really. And then also get the water and sewer utility to the street. It's challenging. So I think as you as you think about this. You're probably not going to see, you know, this huge amount of ADUs constructed, except for maybe in locations where there's a new house that has an ADU as well. So I think that I appreciate it. I think all your comments are great and concerns are great. I just think that just kind of considering that as you as you think about it, it's not as easy as to build as as. that you're seeing. Good, thank you. Anyone else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I assume we're going to leave it here on this reading. We have two weeks, and I'm sure the ordinance review is going to meet and discuss this, correct? And if we don't have the work done in two weeks, then we'll take a little longer. I also go back to the comments that Mark made about getting a lot of public input, especially in those neighborhoods where it could really impact. So, I mean, I don't want to delay things anymore than anybody else, but I think those are very important, and if it takes us a little longer to do it, then so be it. All right. All right, let's go on to new business then. Number one on new business, an order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition, RZN 18-6204 for approximately 0.33 acres located at 127 North Florence Street from R.A. Residential and Cultural to R.I.U. Residential Intermediate Urban. Be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RI-U, Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner. Yes, Mayor. This rezoning application is located north of Weddington and west of I-49. It's in the middle of an existing residential area. It's designated as residential neighborhood area. The plan encourages a variety of residential building types and increased density where appropriate. And the proposal is one of the form-based districts. Looking at the left is the future land use map in the 2030 plan, city plan 2030. On the right is the – Is there a way we can look at the map? Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mayor. There we go. Thank you. Yeah, I was kept trying to find it. Somebody pulled me back. Okay. This is a split screen here on the on the left is the 2030 plan and you see the subject lot here and it's in the And then on the right is the existing zoning what I'm trying to point out is that we have our I-12 and then we have RSF for and then we have this odd corridor of residential agriculture in between these these two districts and And the application is to rezone the RIU, which would reflect the existing uses. There's a triplex on this lot. And they're wishing to do a lot split to add an additional house. So with that, Planning Commission staff recommend approval. I'll let Matt over there. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You're on the phone. Thank you. With that slice of RA, is there any sort of topographical or natural feature that may have contributed to that RA or – Because I don't see anything delineated on the map, or is it just... It looks like there's a whole row of houses already built there, and I don't know how they got built under RA, because RA requires 200 feet of street funding, so I don't know how that happened. It's just a remnant of zoning that doesn't reflect the existing uses. Okay. You can see here, Ms. Wade... Okay, so it's a previously developed lot, and there's no natural features here. Okay, thank you. Okay. Have you all heard anything? Nothing. Okay. All right. All right. What, oh, Mark, I'm sorry. Oh, I was going to move that we go on to the second reading. Well, we have the applicant probably to present. Yeah, I was going to give you the applicant. The applicant would like to say something. my name is kim fugate i'm here representing the applicant and uh it's pretty straightforward and and so we'll answer any questions that you might have but um have nothing really to add i think y'all know what's going on here thank you we have any questions for the applicant all right what public comment do we have on this so now i'll bring it back to the council what's the wishes of council mark i move that we go to the second reading sarah second motion is second to go to the second fee. Senator, would you please call the vote? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6204 for approximately one-third of an acre located at 127 North Florine Street from residential agricultural to residential intermediate urban. Okay. Adele. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sonja, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 18-6204 for approximately one-third of an acre located at 127 North Florine Street from residential agricultural to residential intermediate urban. Okay, final comments from the council. So I'm going to please call her up. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number two. the northern street zone that property described was on the petition rzn 18-6206 for approximately 0.35 acres located at 1760 north walnut avenue from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to nc neighborhood conservation kit Viewed ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4 residential single-family four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Garth. Yes, Mayor. This request is east of College Avenue, Sycamore, Doglegs North, and it becomes Walnut, and then at Doglegs East again it becomes Ash. The area is also a designated residential neighborhood area in our plan, and the NC is a farm-based district consistent with the goal number three. Again, I have this split screen for your information. The future land use designation is on the left, and the corresponding zoning, which is actually very close in this slide, is on the right. And the lot is located here right after the curve, and there's significant topography. There was some opposition from the neighborhood that it's a fairly steep slope, and... But the change actually is minor, the RSF-4 to NC. Planning Commission and staff recommend approval, and I believe the applicant is here. Okay. Would the applicant like that? Thank you. Zarin Ederman, 849 South Washington Ave. Thank you. available for questions one thing I would note is that the neighbor to the north mr. Richard Austin he's the owner he called me after the Planning Commission meeting and said that he was in support of he does not live there it's the rental property but he said he's in support available for questions do we have any questions for the applicant Any public comment on this? Good evening mayor council members Kyle cook 1848 North Wheeler I spoke on this at the Planning Commission I spoke against it at the time and it's not that I'm against neighborhood conservation. I've always supported that Zoning ever since it was created, but I am against dropping neighborhood conservation on this one lot in the middle of an RSF for neighborhood Because this specific lot, the way it lays out, it could be subdivided with that zoning into three separate lots because of the size and the width of it. I do believe in more density in the city. I mean, I've always supported that. But I think we all define what that density looks like and where it should go a little bit differently. I admit that. But my feeling is not every piece of land should have density on it in Fayetteville. I mean, that's part of the city's characters. We have diversity in neighborhoods and we have diversity. Areas don't have a lot of density on them, and that kind of makes Fayetteville what Fayetteville it is. But to me, it's what I want to understand really tonight is about the city's zoning philosophy with neighborhood conservation. Because like I said, I don't understand putting this zoning on this one lot in the middle of a longstanding RSF4 neighborhood. If it's the will of the city to do that, then why do we even have RSF4? Why don't we just reason on everything neighborhood conservation? So I think your vote tonight sends a signal really to those living in these similar established neighborhoods that RSF4 is up for debate on a lot-by-lot basis. So I just wanted to make those comments. Thank you. Thank you, Kyle. Everybody be sure we get the timer going. It's all right. who else would like to address us on this all right i'm going to bring it back to the council all right mark i do want to talk a little bit about the this specific piece of property we have the road wash out here regularly this there is a topography issue here and a runoff issue here and that is my concern of increasing the density is we're going to increase the potential for the velocity that's crossing the area there on Walnut Avenue. And so I think, as Mr. Cook said, I understand an NC zoning is good for a lot of properties, but in this specific property, if you're familiar with it and if you drive this regularly – you will know what we have as far as containment of the stormwater and the stormwater issue specifically in this area. And so I think that we have to consider that as it's being developed. And so I really, I would, to go to an NC in this specific lot, I think is going to allow a development to... It could be developed in that situation that would only add to a problem that we have on this Walnut Avenue already on a regular basis. And I don't know if there's anyone here from engineering that deals with this specific area of walnut, but the washout of walnut in this area is regular. It happens often, and it has to be managed. So you do have some flooding issues in there. huh you got some flooding issues in there well it's it's the velocity that crosses there that washes it out under the the pavement and it's washed out regularly okay all right i think mr cook asked a good question about why do we have rsf4 but um i'm always the first to say why don't we look at the whole neighborhood instead of doing things lot by lot and i think if we look at the whole neighborhood here i'm not sure this change makes sense well first of all I didn't even know that this was walnut to begin with I thought it was sycamore or ash for a long time there um yeah but I I agree with a lot of the comments that have been made in opposition to this you know I think we do I agree with Kyle Smith about we need to look at the entire neighborhood and some of the other areas that where we have chosen to rezone um I felt had a different setup, a different traffic flow, a different, the landscape was different and everything. And in this instance, I think this is a really tight little street. I didn't know that they had water drainage issues there, but I can see that they could because it's very steep and everything. So I will not be supporting this rezone. I just don't think it's the appropriate... Spot when we look at the entire area. Thank you. Okay, John. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. I was intrigued by our Director of developments comment that going from one the RSF for to the new neighborhood Conservation would not be a very major change. Can you explain that? I Certainly. They both only allow single-family residential by right. The NC district does have a possibility of a conditional use permit if they go to planning commission, but the primary difference is the lot width that's required, 70 foot for RSF 4 and 40 foot for single-family for NC. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Chair. um well oh okay i think we haven't remembered um i do you have anything else that's right no sorry i'm inclined to to support this request um i think it it's um you know it's still single family housing it is smaller lots which are good for walkability and this is within easy walking distance of our 71b corridor where we're trying to build a healthy economically vital walkable uh Town center again. So I think that this is an appropriate rezone for that lot. And to Kyle Cook's point, why do we have RSF4? I'm not a big fan of RSF4. I think that NC is a much better place. uh tool uh and if you think about creating a walkable city that 40 foot um minimum lot width is a lot more conducive to walkability and the types of community that our citizens say that we want to create okay more i do agree that walkability is important but i want to talk about this specific street in this specific location and the specific topography And there are blind corners here. It's very narrow. Until there's an improvement and a guaranteed improvement with some sidewalks and some improvements on the infrastructure, you're not going to be walking up and down this street, I don't think, from Sycamore to Walnut to Ash. And I take this all the time. I'm real familiar with this street. Okay. During bad weather, there's always ice on it because it has continual water flow. It's on the side, so you can't really get it cleared. And so the difference that I see is you would have a denser development or the possibility of a denser development with the NC compared to the RSF4 just with the layout of the lot. There's also this blind corner whenever you're going from walnut to ash that I think is precarious. It's precarious now. So if you're adding three compared to maybe two, and I don't know, it seems like that there's also a safety issue from that point of view. But this is not a highly walkable area. I do have a question. Is this in the hillside overlay? It is. Yes, it is. So there are some restrictions that we do have to look at. But this is a very precarious and strange little street that needs some improvement any way we look at it. And maybe if we can get some improvement, I could be more inclined to look at some changes here. Sarah. Yes. I have a question for staff. Is there actually – I'm trying to visually drive up this street. And is there actually a sidewalk here? I think there's a sidewalk on the east side there. On the east side of it? I think it wraps up, yeah. Does it go all the way to college, or does it? I think so. It appears to go, it appears that there is a sidewalk here. This was a part of our capital improvement plan about two years ago to build, I think, a portion of this section that used to not be curb and guttered at all. Okay, because I was kind of remembering some improvements in there, but I couldn't quite place them. So it goes from College all the way up to the top of the hill. It looks like it has a little bit of detachment, and then it gets fairly close to the street, and it goes north. And I believe it looks like it goes over at least this far. The map I pulled up is from the GIS services map with the topography, so you can see that it kind of follows around down to college. Thank you. Okay. Well, John. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to call the applicant back to the podium. Sure. And, young man, I want you to explain yourself. Why do you want this? Well, I have a house on there, a rental house. Its foundation is – That in bad shape it's and it's because of the water coming off and so in order to build it back Essentially we'll have to take it down in the near future. And so I think that rebuilding it With More than one home will be both economically. It's going to be really challenging to do that as a single family house, one unit. And secondly – I think that in the location it's very close, it's walkable, there's a sidewalk to College Ave. It's very close to Woodland, it's close to the Ozark Natural Foods, close to the VA, and so if we're looking at developing along College Avenue in the future, we're looking at having the 71 business corridor redesign. This is within walking distance, and I think that it's important to have more density that's close to 71B. Where the council member Kenyon was referencing a blind corner, is that part of your property? No, that would be, I guess, presumably one lot up coming around Ash Street and coming on Walnut Avenue. Okay. And I guess that's what we're referring to. It's coming down the hill on Ash Street. And then Walnut also is down what I would probably do. There's a very steep driveway on Ash. On this property right now, so I guess backing up out of the street is, uh, is challenging. I would probably need to remove, um, a lot of the, uh, a lot of the soil there. Um, the house takes up most of the lot right now. It's a wide area. Ranch style house. So I would probably do something that's more narrow and have Cars that would come in closer to the grade of the street So it would be a lot easier to back out of rather than kind of a steep slope. That's that's that That they have to do right now. Okay, so your primary reason for going to the new classification is economic You don't think you can make it pay just a single house Yeah, correct I mean, I think, yeah, that's true. Anything else you want to tell us? I had a couple other things, but I think you all have covered a lot of them, so I appreciate your thoughts. Thank you. Actually, come on back, because I've got a question for you too. I said I wasn't convinced this fits in with the neighborhood when you look at the broader area, but as I look at it more, the top of the hill has a more densely gridded, RSF for style neighborhood you're kind of down on the edge of that and their say it's built out less than four to an acre so far right on the edge of College Avenue commercial area. I'm sure you've looked at the zoning map in this area a lot more than I have You want to sell me a different vision for this part of the neighborhood? well Yeah, I mean I understand Mr. Cook's point about rezoning a specific lot. I think that happens a lot of times here. So I think that it – is close. It's within a half mile of the college corridor, and I think that the whole, if we really want to have a transportation network where we can have public, have a bus rapid transit along South College or something like that, then we really need to have people who can walk to those buses or or also have and also have development on these major intersections which would be sycamore sycamore and collagen so this is within walking distance that so I really think that you know, it is in hillside and hilltop overlay. So that does make the density more challenging, and I appreciate that. But I do think that as we look at appropriate locations for higher density along the corridor, along the College Avenue corridor, it makes a lot of sense. So, you know, there's certainly, yeah, I mean, certainly from a... You know, hillside issue, that's one issue, but from a proximity to the college corridor, I think that really weighs the other direction. And so I think when you think about rezoning the whole thing, you know, it's really challenging because you have to have everyone come together. And that's just not typically how we rezone properties, you know, except in the case where a large group of neighbors, you know, come together. So hopefully that answers your questions. All right. Thanks, though. Mark. Mark. I will mention from what I know from financing homes in this area, there's a lot of older homes with a lot of foundational problems, but that was before we had all this. So I know that there's engineering that can certainly handle that, but it does cross my mind. I would like to certainly not rush through this, and perhaps we can take a city council tour and go look at this specific area because I think that it is important. As we're looking at the development of the North College corridor, this is going to be more and more important for us to understand how we can appropriately manage the stormwater runoff, more appropriately manage the traffic flow because it is winding around through here. And if we can take a direct look at this and look at the current housing that's there, I think that we can make a more informed decision. Okay. thank you i'll also uh thank you mayor i'd support that course action of course there's no need to rush this at least not that i've heard tonight i wish nothing more that we had the budget that we could do neighborhood master plans every year over and over again but we don't and so it almost falls to the private sector to rezone their land and to request their rezonings kind of as as opportunities are presented any given year Somewhere between one and seven and one and 10 of the homes in Fayetteville goes up for sale. So we got turnover somewhere around 15% or maybe a little less. And every time that happens, we're gonna see some of those requested to be rezoned. I'm comfortable considering things like this. I don't think it's inconsistent because neighborhood conservation is very, very similar to RSF4. It's not like this is a request for, mixed-use buildings with a bar and apartments, which even I might be a little bit weary of, as it stands to request this for single-family housing in a more traditional format. I say more traditional because when we look at our oldest neighborhoods, this is neighborhood conservation is calibrated to the way they were built. RSF4 is not calibrated to the way they were built. In Trace of Genealogy, RSF4 backed a zoning ordinance in 1970, and it's... It's no coincidence that the adoption of that zoning code was in 1970 and then from 1970 to about 2000, the city grew in land area at a rate about three times the rate that it grew its population. We completely changed the format of the way Fayetteville grew when we implemented that zoning code. The format that you see that is built in RSF4 is different than what Fayetteville grew up with. We just don't know that because most of us grew up in the 70s or 80s or 90s. So we don't remember all of that. We remember what was built whenever we were kids and growing up, and that was four units of the acre suburbs. We don't have a very diverse housing mix. If you look across Fayetteville, it's obvious on its face. More than 90% of all the homes in Fayetteville are single-family detached units. That is not diverse. I mean, that's monoculture. And I don't have anything against single-family housing per se, but the history of these things and the correlation lines up too perfectly to ignore what actually happened. So the proposal, I think, is not really that fundamentally different. It's different in important ways, but not in very fundamental ways. It at least allows for a density that is transit-ready. It at least does that. RSF4 does not do that. There's a question about why we have RSF4. A couple of council members repeated it, and I was shocked when I went back and tried to figure out why. In 1968, the city of Fayetteville hired a University of Arkansas planner to conduct a survey of the people of Fayetteville in anticipation of writing that new zoning code. Questions on the survey were... you know, more or less what you'd expect. One of those questions was, why did you choose to live in your neighborhood? Is it because there are white people there? Is it because you can get a loan there? Meaning a bank hasn't redlined your neighborhood? Two years later when the city adopted its first, or its zoning code, the planning commissioners are documented in the meeting minutes saying, we need to adopt this code, what do we want? Do we want large luxury homes or do we want cheap homes? That's not why we have the code today, but that's why we had the code in the first place. We hired that planner again in 1990 to do our next comp plan update. So I don't blame anybody who lives in neighborhoods like that. Most of us grew up in neighborhoods like that. But at the time, the city was governed by people who did not have the best interests of the entire city at heart. And they wrote the codes to reflect their interests. So I think neighborhood conservation is entirely compatible. I don't think the stormwater issues are significantly different from neighborhood conservation to RSF4. They would be if the proposal was to do some big mixed-use building or something like that, something that was going to have a lot more building footprint. But this is still just single-family development, so I'm very comfortable with it. Mayor, I just wanted to make a quick comment to a point that Kyle has spoken about. And this is not to get into the policy discussion that you all get to decide, but to point out that what we call things and where they're built out are not always the same. When I was the council member where Council Member Kenyon and Petty were. represent today, Washington Willow. It's an RSF4 zoning. In fact, if I turn the zoning on in this map that I'm showing you, you'll see it with the exception of a PZD that was put smack dab in the old St. Joseph's area. But this actual neighborhood, when we were doing a historic district planning for it, it's built out between RSF6 and 8. And so it is one of the most expensive areas livable, resale value areas in the city, and yet it's at a density that people talk about that is higher than a four. And I just point that out to you because I think when we look at these areas, you have to look at where things actually get built out at. in addition to what the classification was because of some of the comments that Council Member Petty just made. But this is one that people like to point to about protecting, and we are protecting an RSF 6 to 8. It's somewhere in between those two depending on where you count within the district and its acreage. And so just think about that as you think about these traditional areas that we also want to still exist. They aren't necessarily on a 4, right? I was going to actually kind of mention what Don just said, because we can take a generalized history of our zoning and it's very informative and nice to know, but it's not a real, it's not real when you look at the way it's been built out. And as far as redlining, there hasn't been redlining in this area in a long time. And so that's also, I think, not valid. But what I think is valid, in an NC we have a 40-foot frontage, and in an RSF4 we have a 70-foot frontage. And when you're looking at the difference between 40-foot and 70-foot, and you look at the percentage difference there, that is a significant difference. That is a significant difference. So that's the way I'm looking at this whenever I'm looking at this between the two. You can say it's not a significant difference, but 70 foot and 40 foot is a significant difference. That's why I want to go and look at it. It could be that the layout would be ideal and perfect once we get out there and walk it off. I have not walked up this sidewalk. I drive up it. I do it regularly. Good. We need to go take a look at this. And I'm not saying that you couldn't change my mind after I went and walked up and down this hill. I'm just saying that based on what I know and my experience in this area, I'm reluctant. So there you go. Okay. Matthew. I just wanted to follow up with the example that Don gave. I think the last time we talked about this about two years ago, the density of Washington Willow, there was a little bit of a conversation about parcel density versus unit density. And I think the figures you just used on parcel density, whenever we count up the number of parcels on any particular block, all the parcels on Prospect are a great example because they're all nonconforming. All of them are too narrow for RSF4. Every single one of them. We just said RSF4 is what we want, who cares what's already there and we put it in. If you look at places like Washington Avenue, probably the most iconic street in Fayetteville after Mount Nord or the view to Old Main. The parcel density is there, the unit density is even higher because you've got all these non-conforming accessory dwelling units. Some of them are attached. Some of those buildings have four mailboxes on them. They're all illegal. If it's so unsafe, how can we have it been in there to bust them up? They're completely safe. At Lafayette and Washington, on both the northwest and the southwest corners of the street, those are historic multi-family buildings. The one on the north side is a historic triplex. The one on the south side is a historic fourplex. We're so twisted up around these ideas that more than one family living on a lot is incompatible that we've forgotten where we come from. That fourplex, we're so twisted up around this that when it was vacant for six months because they were trying to engineer a sale with a house that needed a lot of repair work, that triggered our non-conforming law and we wouldn't let them put it back as a fourplex until they made a special application. That triplex isn't a triplex anymore because at one point a family converted into a single family dwelling and the next buyer, when they investigated turning it back into a triplex, they were told the zoning doesn't fit. Most iconic street in the city. One of them. So I don't believe that there's a fundamental incompatibility when the houses get smaller or when multi-family buildings are next to a house, but they still look like the other houses around. And I think that's what we got a case of here, in my opinion. OK. Sarah, go. Well, I used to own one of those nonconforming properties in the historic district. I had a triplex on Dixon Street that was an old house that was converted probably in 1949. So I have some knowledge of that, of how to get it, you know, getting it repaired, removing a staircase, and having to come to Planning Commission to get the staircase on the outside of the house put back. So I'm familiar with this. I don't think it's fair to say that every time we look at a rezoning, we're always going back and reevaluating. The mistakes that were made with RSF4 in the 60s, and we're trying to replicate that again, I just don't feel like this is the right lot to rezone. I think topography, it's very steep. You know, I just don't think it's appropriate there. So that's kind of my take on it. Sarah? Marsha? Actually... Matt's and Dawn's comments got me thinking. I grew up on the other end of Walnut Street, North Walnut. So that's basically if you were to follow a straight line through over that hill. And I'm looking at the house that I grew up in. It was a 40-foot lot. We were 10, there's a 10 feet between house our house and the house next to it and we shared a driveway with our neighbor and it was a beautiful place to live and a great place to grow up and it was a lovely neighborhood to walk around and when I think about what type of neighborhoods I want to see in Fayetteville's future I hope that everyone has an opportunity to live in such a nice neighborhood in such a walkable area and the only way we're going to do that is to build density so I'm totally on board for this neighborhood conservation I think that's a big step in the right direction Okay. I understand we're going to leave this. We've said all that to say we're going to leave this for two weeks, correct? And we're going to take a tour. And, Mayor, just to clarify, so we will schedule a tour for the council at the next agenda session for those that want to see this area. All righty then. Moving right along. Thank you. Number three, an ordinance to approve vacation 18-6174 properly located at 237 South Locust Avenue to vacate a portion of the utility easement and a street right-of-way kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following inscribed utility easement and street right-of-way are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of the utility easement and a street right-of-way, as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, a 10-foot-wide utility easement shall remain along Locust Avenue and will be extended approximately 8 feet into the proposed area of vacated right-of-way matching the new southern property line and right-of-way. Okay. Okay. yes mayor uh it's located at locust and south this is an illustration of their request it's both utilities and a portion of a right-of-way uh the it's designated we have a map oh okay locust south The red squiggly line outlines what's being vacated or requested for vacation. It's both an easement and a portion of the right-of-way. We need to get a request from SWEPCO to retain a portion of the easement, which is part of the ordinance that City Attorney read, and with that, Planning Commission staff recommend approval. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this? Mark? Could we go back to that? There's a – the applicant desires to build a carport at this location. There's a driveway onto Locust Avenue. Okay, is the applicant here? Okay, enough of that. All right. Mark? It seems like this is always my question, but, again, I think in this area – I'm trying to think specifically where it is – There is a water management problem through here. Is that not right? Do we know that? Because we've done the curb and guttering up and down South Street, and it goes down to the main creek at the bottom of South between school and Locust, and there's problems over there. And if we're going to put more concrete... The applicant isn't desiring to... The driveway is already existing, right? There's a new concrete sidewalk at this location. The setback issues are for the carport, which would be on the existing driveway. The driveway curve return is illustrated. Thank you. Well, I know there's problems over there. I'm just, I can't put it all together here because we have, again, washouts on South Street between Locust and School because there's the very big ravine halfway in the middle of the block. And when we put in the curb and gutter, that certainly helped. But there's still a lot of issues with the way that the water runs down into that ravine, according to the complaints that I get. There's South Street. But if we didn't add any more concrete, we wouldn't be adding to the problem. I don't... But they're putting a rooftop on there. See, if they're going to be building on out into this area here, we're going to get more velocity. I can't support it until I know more, but this is a problem area because we spent a lot of money on getting South Street curb and gutter from... uh, College Avenue or Archibald Yale over to school, and we still have a lot of flooding going on up and down South Street. It's certainly better, but there is some type of bad engineering problem over there. And then we had a burst pipe up on Locust that washed out, if you'll remember, the back of the lawns there, and we had to pay a great deal of money and the damage for the homes there from the water sewer Uh, that's a kind of, I'm pretty familiar with it because we, the damage from that water runoff from that busted pipe on locusts that went to through the bath backyards down to South street cost us a heck of a lot of money. And so I'm just, I'm, I'm only familiar with this issue and I should have. We can also add this to the tour. I would like to do that. It's in the center of town, and you can see both of them. I really would like to do that because... We'll really do that. Thank you. We'll take us on a tour over there. Sounds good. Is everybody good with that? Yes. Okay. All right, number four. Ms. Tyler should finish up the rest of the evening. A resolution to authorize the mayors to sign a license and services agreement with Tyler Technologies Incorporated in the purchase of... Evergov development services software in the amount of $619,048 and five years of software maintenance services in the amount of $260,575 presented to a National Joint Powers Alliance co-operative purchasing agreement to approve a project contingency in the amount of $92,857.20 to approve two associated budget adjustments and to authorize the addition of three temporary full-time equivalent positions to be divided among the information technology department and the city planning and engineering divisions for the implementation of intergov all right who has i think that title is about is oh is that a resolution well thank you mayor and council brad fulmer the assistant i.t director so what what this item is before you is a agreement with tyler technologies to replace our existing hansen software we currently use hansen for both development services and public works and this agreement would replace the development services side of the house which includes community resources engineering planning building safety business licenses, fire inspections. So last year we made the decision to purchase new software versus upgrading our old antiquated software, and the cost of that upgrade was going to be about a million dollars. So we started researching. Last year we started researching several vendors, and we conducted on-site demonstrations, and we chose Tyler Technologies' Intergov product as the replacement for Hanson. So after careful evaluation, we're pretty confident that Intergov will provide the city the ability to design workflow, which that will help us automate our work processes in development services. Also give us the flexibility to accommodate these processes over time, which is something we just don't have currently in our software. Also, this software will give us... some new functionality that we don't have currently that we're excited to uh to add which will be the ability for the public to see where you know where they're at in the development process review which is something which will give them great visibility into that process also on the city side it will allow us to efficiently track the time associated with each step in that review process which that's something that we currently don't have either um In addition, it will give us just a tool set to help us to implement our lean review process, which will help in optimizing the whole Department, the Development Services Department. To purchase this, we are going off a cooperative purchasing contract through the National Joint Purchasing Alliance. In addition, we reached out to several cities in Oklahoma and Kansas and Texas. who also purchased Intergov. So we wanted to reach out to them, verify the pricing. The pricing we got off this contract was good and was in line with what they received. Also, just to confirm that the software is providing a high value for their staff and for their external customers. In addition to this proposal, there's two budget adjustments associated. The first one is just to simply combine two CIP projects, already approved CIP. The first one is the Hanson replacement CIP. The second is the ERP, Capital Improvement Project, which we had savings in that project. So we're basically just combining those funds to purchase this. The second budget adjustment is to fund three temporary full-time positions to backfill staff during the estimated 18 to 20 month implementation period. And from discussions with Intergov and other reference cities, it was determined that this implementation will take a significant time commitment from staff to ensure that processes are created efficiently as possible in just the successful implementation of Intergov. And I like something Don said at the agenda session, that approving development is the sales tax lifeline of the city. And, I mean, we feel very confident that this software will not only bring our technology up to its current level where it needs to be, but it will also improve the overall operations of development services and at the same time deliver top-notch services to the citizens of Fayetteville. So I'd be happy to answer any questions. All right. All right. Mayor, I want to add a couple of things before the council questions any of our staff. And that is the city council actually, thanks to council members Petty and Marsh, I think they helped lead this effort to put the software in the CIP for 2018. It was originally scheduled for 2019. And because. because of our review of all the competing communities and surrounding states when we went and toured those cities and looked at their technologies. Technology is one of the greatest efficiencies that we have within our own development services arena. So the ability to get software that allows us to be much more efficient, more automated processes, transparency tracking, more tracking of actual stages of it, are all benefits that are going to come from this particular implementation. And so it's because of that movement up into the 18 year that's allowed us to do it. The other key timing with this is our current lean government process, which is allowing us to look at our key development processes. We don't want to pick a system and design it for inefficient processes. And so they're running parallel, and that's why this timing is extremely important. And then the headcount to do this is obviously we need strong talent that deals with these processes and protocols, helping us review them for waste. You know, the example I think I gave Some of you individually was, you know, when we have a 17-page report for a vacation and you read about a paragraph of it to make your decision, it's a waste of staff time, it's a waste of effort and energy on something that doesn't need to be at that detail. Those are the kinds of things that we want to improve, and we need our top talent reviewing those items to get to that point, and then designing the system for those new processes. Okay. We already have staff working significant hours over a work week's hours to handle regular development, and that's why we need the headcount so that when we pull those people off, we still can get development approved, because obviously it's not acceptable to delay that process any longer, but also to have talent involved in helping us design both our review, our lean government processes, and design our software implementation. But I mainly wanted to say that, one, we wanted to thank you again publicly for moving it up a year because we do think that this will have a significant efficiency and operational improvement for our division. And the amount of projects that we have going on in master planning today, I think you would be surprised in many cities they might handle one or two of the items we're doing. But we're doing a 2040 plan update. We're doing a – Energy action plan we're doing a recycling and master plan. We're doing a lean government plan. We're doing a technology implementation and three of those for all in the same division and so it's also a taxing item in a workforce that Also wants to have some work-life balance and that's the other important reason for these 20 month positions so that we can get the work done and and keep the processes moving. Okay. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I couldn't be more excited and eager for this. I've taken a building permit through the system and I've given the best polite feedback I can to staff through that process. And staff has been great to work with, but the theme is that getting a permit through requires working with staff, even for very banal applications. And I think the software will fall, will handle a lot of that. I've worked in, I'm working with a couple of other cities right now that have done a lean process and development review, and it's been night and day difference for them. I'm really excited about that, too. And on the last point for the staff, I can support that wholeheartedly. I think when you think about how you manage a city, most departments, you staff those for the city you have today, but for planning, for engineering, for IT, these are three divisions that are different. You have to staff those for the city that you're going to be in. That is a lot different. I think this is one of those items that finally starts to bring us into this century. Okay. John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I tell people in my line of work, my computer is my second head. Computers make us all more productive. We cannot do it by ourselves. We need those electronics. If electricity goes off in my office, we're in bad shape. Okay. And that's just a sign of productivity. I'm excited about this. I agree with Don. Development is the lifeblood of our sales tax stream. We need to keep it going. We need to keep making it more efficient. That will attract more people to build and invest in our city. We have lots of competition from our neighbors, and developers don't have to build in Fayetteville. They can build elsewhere. We need to make this environment friendly and speedy and economical. we want that development here we want that investment here so i strongly support it thank you mr mayor you're very welcome all right what public comment do we have on this bring it back to the council john i move we pass the resolution mark we have a motion second to pass the resolution any final comments john john needs to hit it oh you move mark well i'm trying to take it off Look for it. There we go. It's all fixed now. Okay. All right. There's no final comments. Sandra, would you please call her up? I don't know what I've done. It's all right. Sandra's going to do some magic, I'm sure. Greg. Yes. Mark. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. For the sake of the computers, yes. Yes. Thank you all very much. All right, number five, a resolution to approve a contract with Nelson, Ferris, and Woltz, LLC, for professional landscape, architectural, and engineering services associated with the design of the Cultural Arts Corridor in an amount up to $618,431 for phase, land, and estimated amount up to $881,569. Phase one, I'm sorry. I had an ink spot on there. $891,561 for phase two. Mayor, Council, good evening. As you all may recall, in November of last year, the city was awarded a Walton Family Foundation Design Excellence Grant in the amount of $1.77 million for the design of the city's cultural arts corridor, which is envisioned as an interconnected series of public open spaces along the Razorback Regional Greenway adjacent to downtown Fayetteville from Dixon Street to Prairie Street. The Cultural Arts Corridor contains numerous cultural and educational institutions, including the Fayetteville Public Library, Theater Squared, also a Design Excellence Award winner, Nadine Baum Studios, and the Walden Arts Center. The design of the project in the Cultural Arts Corridor is envisioned as including four primary elements. Those elements are design. The Fay Jones Park land located in the woods adjacent to the Fayetteville Public Library, the West Avenue and Dixon Street Plaza area, improvements along the Razorback Regional Greenway, and then improvements along the city streets that are woven throughout the corridor. In February of 2018, the city issued an RFQ for landscape services for the design of the cultural arts corridor and a selection committee made up of city staff. And Council Member Petty selected interviewed and selected. We interviewed three firms and we selected Nelson Bird Waltz. consultants who were pre-qualified under the design excellence program through the Walton Family Foundation Nelson Bergwaltz is from Charlottesville Virginia Since that time, we've been in contract negotiations with Nelson Bergwaltz and have negotiated a contract for the schematic design phase of the project that includes several deliverables, including public engagement, review and evaluation of all relevant historical and natural amenities within the corridor, meetings with the public and our stakeholders on the project. preparation of rendered schematic designs and finished perspectives for the project and then working with a construction manager to facilitate a schematic design cost estimate the schematic design phase is projected to be completed by late fall this year and its illustrative design package will be used to estimate construction cost and that will be part of the bond referendum administered by the city um early next year as the mayor mentioned the maximum to maximum not to exceed amount for phase one on the schematic design of the contract is 618 000 431 cents the cost estimate for phase two which includes design development construction drawings and bidding services is estimated at 881 000 531 uh and 569 um the detailed scope and design fee for phase two will be developed upon completion of schematic design and will be brought back to you as a contract amendment to this existing contract As a reminder this project is fully funded through a grant from the Walton Family Foundation through their design excellence program At this time I'd like to invite Brett Gassinger from Nelson bird walls to come up for a few moments and tell you all a little bit about their firm and Introduce their project team Thank you Peter and thank you mayor. Thank you council members. Thanks for giving us the moment this evening. I We're really excited to be here. It's an incredible opportunity for the City of Fayetteville to really look far into the future and we really applaud the foresight for those that wrote the grant and for the Council that has supported that. It's really a remarkable opportunity to be able to look not only at specific elements but to think in big district and city-wide terms. I'm Brett Gastinger. I'm a senior associate at Nelson Byrd Waltz in Charlottesville, Virginia. And I'm also here with Susana Pansa and Nathan Foley, who will become frequent visitors of Fayetteville. We wanted to just use just a few slides to say a little bit about our firm and the way that we think we're landscape architects. We are lucky to work in a variety of locations, different kinds of scales, different public spaces in places as diverse as Houston, Nashville, and New York City, and London, and Auckland, New Zealand. We have a long history of built experience of looking at communities, looking at ways that ecology and natural systems can help tie a community together and give it identity. This is in Watercolor, Florida. Next slide. We're also used to working in the public realm in highly and intensively used places, in places that create identity for community and draw people of many different backgrounds into successful urban spaces. This is in St. Louis. Next. We're currently working on major landscapes in Houston and New York City. These are really large, complex projects. Next. Next. But we're also very used to working at smaller ends of scales in smaller neighborhood parks in Washington, D.C., St. Louis. Also working on small park projects outside of Nashville and in Asheville, North Carolina. Next. Next. The project here in Fayetteville is somewhere in between those scales, but it's actually, for us, I wanted to lay that out there. We're bringing a range of experiences and life experiences and personal experiences in these projects. But this project and Fayetteville is has hit very close to home for us. It's very personal because it is exactly the kind of city that we live in. Charlottesville, Virginia is very similar in scale. It has a lot of the very interesting, a lot of the same dynamics as Fayetteville has a large major public university with the University of Virginia. It's anchored by historic downtown core. It has issues of awkward lots. create interesting walkability issues, incredible transit issues. Charlottesville would have a lot to learn from what you have been able to accomplish in Fayetteville. And yet we also have some of the things that I feel that you're looking for with a successful cultural arts corridor project. I mentioned those things because Susanna and Nathan and I, we are all homeowners in that community. We walk to work. We know what it is. We know what the drivers are to try to be part of a community like this. So this, to us, though we're new to Fayetteville, this is really an exciting opportunity for us. And we've assembled an interesting and talented team to help pull this project off and bring it to fruition. It's filled with expertise on both the national and local scale, so that we have the advantage of a breadth of knowledge of the possibilities in both sustainable engineering and design, but also really careful tapping into local knowledge as well. Next. We're going to be working really Quickly over the next several months, we have a lot on our plate during this schematic design. This is, I will say, probably a more robust schematic design than you might expect from other projects. Uh, because, uh, we have a lot to accomplish. We know not only do we need to listen to your community really understand the, the drivers and the opportunities that they see in these places. We want to engage them, but we also want to develop a range of schemes that they are invited to participate in the development of. And then also really develop a good budget moving forward so that by the end of this year, you are moving into that bond referendum season, feeling good both about the design direction and the cost. Next. As I mentioned before, it's a remarkable opportunity, and this is a really important time, I feel, in the economy. continuum of development as Fayetteville advances. It's an opportunity to not only knit the community better together, but also to create identity that really encourages participation from a broad swath of Fayetteville residents. be happy to take any questions and try to explain our process further if there are any and but please know that we're really excited and honored to be here thank you we're really excited too what uh what questions do we have everybody good I don't have any questions, but I'm just about as thrilled as I could be to actually have something that's transformational for the city that has our large tourism component that I know Molly Ron with our Advertising Promotion Commission would like to see to refresh Fayetteville as we see lots of amenities being built around us to bring to life your vision of a major development entertainment and economic corridor here in the city of Fayetteville within our entire Northwest Arkansas region with very engaged stakeholders Who we've been beating over the head don't come with preconceived notions come with ideas and things you'd like to see and let's use the experts and what's fabulous about this is at zero cost and to our citizens. Um, we get the type of funding to have world design that we don't always get to have in public projects of this nature. And so, um, I think we're thrilled about that aspect. We, um, I have toured their work. I saw one as recent when I was over in the Virginia DC area just a week or so ago. I'm thrilled about the team we have come on board, the local people who have a good understanding of our city and the people who are engaged and your initial commitment to even take this on. because the requirement is we build what we design. This is not just a plan for a shelf, and we want it to have significant impact. Another thing I'll just say to you about this firm is they've demonstrated the ability to work under pressure. A project that we toured in St. Louis was started at a time when St. Louis was awarded the – Major League Baseball All Star game and they had one year to do the project and they had no variance in time. And they had a budget that they had to maintain and they pulled it off because the World Series wasn't going to wait on the design and the construction of the park. And so I think their track record speaks for itself. Again, so I want to thank all the committee members that were involved in that selection of Walton family for providing us excellent options to choose from. I hope you understand the scale of what we're taking on. It is truly a generational change for our city. Thank you. I was really impressed with the proposal. I thought the contract language was excellent and a stark contrast to what we just approved earlier for 71B. I really appreciate that you called out the green infrastructure and sustainable stormwater elements. I'm talking about our history and our cultural landscape, and I realize this is a cultural arts district, but I feel like we have culture all over our city and history all over our city. I'm glad that it's going to be recognized here. I do. I know that this is paid for by a grant, and I'm very thankful for that, but I would just like to contrast this for the $618,000 we're spending on schematic design for what is essentially 14 blocks versus the $153,000 that we are spending on the whole 71B corridor in its entirety. I hope that kind of puts into perspective how we're investing in that project. But this is a great proposal. It looks like a very professional team, and I wish the other... teams had met this standard of excellence I look forward to working with you we've been working on this for years more than a decade I think that there was an RFP for one of the sites here before I was elected 2006 2007 And then there was a selection made, but the recession hit and they withdrew and so on and so forth. And I think since then, i sponsored a little land sale and we put that off uh and it came up that we thought maybe this would be an option to get the design services and do something even bigger and and then we made the proposal even bigger uh with the staff idea to include uh faye jones park which i just thought was brilliant um to combine the two and i i think you know i've talked about this before that we're changing the the cities for centuries and and i think it's We don't even know what that means sometimes. I mean, what is the value of having a place to go where you can witness a proposal or other things like that, other life-changing moments? I think we forget sometimes that you're supposed to create those kinds of memories in cities just by virtue of being there. But Fayetteville doesn't really have a place like that. We have our square. Our square is wonderful, but it's only occupied when it's programmed. This could be a new space that is occupied just by virtue of being designed and constructed correctly. And that's huge. That's something we don't have. That's something almost that almost doesn't exist anywhere in the state, although a lot of cities are trying. I think it was about seven years ago now, I sat down, I was at a conference, and Buddy Valines happened to be there. Buddy Valines was the Pulaski County judge for almost 30 years, and the Big Dam Bridge down in Little Rock had been open for just a couple years. It was still kind of new. And I asked him, I had this idea that if I could have dinner with him and ask him the right question, he would kind of give me a secret recipe for how to get stuff done. So I was really frustrated about a couple of things I was trying to do here on the council and how long they were taking. I was kind of a rookie. And he really laughed at me and said that things just take that long because that's how long they take. And the only way they won't happen is if you and everybody else gives up. And we didn't. And this is the start of something that's going to be really transformational, something that is new. And I couldn't be more excited. John. Mr. Mayor, I work with a nonprofit in another state. And I tell them, when the public comes to your facility, there ought to be a wow factor. A good first impression. Landscaping, buildings, whatever it is. When they walk away, you want them to walk away with, wow, this is special, this is neat. For 1.77 million folks, I'm expecting a wow factor. And I'm even more excited about this than the computer we just agreed to buy. So go at it. Okay. Is there any public comment on this? Yes, Bobo. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Molly Ron. I'm the executive director of the Fayetteville Advertising and Promotion Commission. And I had the opportunity to travel with city staff a couple of months back to view a Nelson Bergwaltz project in St. Louis. And I approached this the way that a tourist might when visiting someplace out of town, if this was a place that I would want to spend time when I was visiting somewhere. But also above and beyond that, is this something that I felt that would be quite frankly good enough to put in the city that I love and I know the city that you all love? I looked at how this project, City Park, fit with the surrounding area. I paid close attention to the people that were using the park. I saw school children there. I saw teenagers there. And not teenagers just passing through, but teenagers engaged in that space and using it. And as the parent of a teenager, and for those of you who have ever spent time around teenagers trying to create a space that they will enjoy, that is outside, that is free from technology or not tied to a cell phone, is a very difficult thing to do. So I was impressed by the age range of the children I saw interacting with the space. I saw individuals sitting by themselves, not looking lonely, but being able to enjoy a quiet place, to have lunch, to sit down and take a break. And I saw people interacting and visiting together. So many times when I tour places like this, the design and in particular, The public art part of the design is an afterthought. So in other words, it looks like a really lovely park or a really lovely plaza that afterwards there was some money left over and somebody decided that they were going to stick some public art in it. This project did not look like that. It was done the right way. It was done with intent and intention. I was just really struck by how the seating was not an afterthought. It was designed to speak to the greater goal of the space. The places where the trash cans and recycling bins were placed did not appear to be an afterthought. They appeared to be put there with design and intent, with the user in mind and with the aesthetics in mind. And that is rare. And I was very impressed. I went from excited to thrilled. about what this project means for our city both from a tourism perspective and from a quality of life perspective so thank you for allowing me to speak about it thank you anyone else okay let's bring it back to the council well there's quite a moment um adela i move we pass the resolution there second all right i would like to say a couple of things because i know that when i was a new mayor at the same time Matthew was a new council member. I took a project similar to this to New Orleans for the U.S. Conference of Mayors, and they looked it over and thought that for the area we were a little bit ahead of our time. We were in the middle of that recession just trying to keep everything going. And they said at that conference – that the arts was the third leading economic driver in the nation at the time, which I'm sure is still the same way. And it encompasses so much, but I knew that the arts had always been the fabric, part of the fabric of this city. And I knew if we ever got out of the recession and we could start moving forward, we would do some really phenomenal things as a council and as a city. This is one of those phenomenal things. As we always say, this is again one of those historic moments that we're voting on here tonight. And it's also, we have a bond issue that this will be a part of that will be going to the people. And I believe the people of this city has a vision for the office. And it starts right here tonight, the approval of this resolution. And it's been a long time coming. I remember that first one back in 2008, I believe. And it just never went anywhere. we had the recession hit we don't have a recession now we've got a thriving city we've got a we've got a place that is in the top 10 and i don't know how many categories to live in in the united states not just in a region this arts corridor that corridor is going to take us down to a performing arts district that i believe will be the finest performing arts district not only in this region but in this state probably maybe in the nation So this is something that I'm excited about, and I look forward to passing it and moving along. All right. With that, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. And I believe that concludes our business. What announcements do we have tonight? we have a couple of announcements the city is inviting the public to provide input regarding our 2018 annual action plan for community development block grant funding so you can look at the city's website we're taking input there are events that are taking place there's an email on the site written comments can be received by mail in person We just want to encourage people to provide those comments and the deadline for that is 5 p.m. on Friday, June 22nd. We've been having this out for quite a while, but if you can help us encourage that, we're particularly looking for those underserved individuals or individuals that may not typically be watching for this type of informational feedback so that we can get those in our lower socioeconomic and community development target areas. Also just want to remind the council that on June the 28th, our Gully Park concert series, our next band is called Empty Pockets. It's a polished rootsy Chicago outfit. It's showcases multiple lead singers, rich harmonies, skilled instrumentalists, and old-school sensibility built on American blues and soul. So we've had a lot of great attendance at our Gully Park series so far, and this is our next one. So come on out and encourage your citizens and your wards to take advantage of this programming. Okay, Jess. Yes. I just want to say quickly, for those of you rushing to change the channel at home to the Razorback baseball game, it's been postponed until 11 o'clock tomorrow morning. All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.