Okay, everyone. Well, welcome, everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Federal City is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I'm present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Kit Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxton, City Clerk, Treasurer. Susan Norton, Chief of Staff.
 police chief mike reynolds fire chief brad harden finance director paul becker and two representatives from federal's i.t department city council members city staff and the public are participating online or by phone other than those of us you see before you the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers participation remains of utmost importance to the city of fed bull
 and we have provided many ways to participate in our in our in our view tonight's meeting including contacting city council members city clerk's office or city staff prior to meeting giving through federal's government channel online or the city's youtube channel joining the zoom conference by phone smartphone tablet or computer
 Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand We ask that you refrain from doing this until the public Comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand So as to ensure time to be recognized when recognized, please state your name and address for the record Each speaker is allowed five minutes to comment which staff will monitor Now let's begin
 In the first order of business that we have tonight, we have the nominating committee report. Sarah, you're muted. Thank you. Can you hear me now? I can. Okay. It's making some kind of crackling noise every so often. Anyway, we had our nominating committee meeting.
 June 11th, and we had a great slate of people that applied and just really always top-notch people apply for these positions. But here were our selections. The mayor recommends the following candidates for appointment to the Historic District Commission. Angela Albright.
 uh one term ending 6 30 23 meredith mahan one term ending 6 30 23 and we unanimously recommended that those candidates for appointment as well we have airport board we had one vacancy it was one unexpired university of arkansas member term when ending 12 31 21 we had no applicants for that
 Animal Services Advisory Board, Billy Furman, one citizen at large term ending 6-30-23. Jennifer Boyer, one citizen at large term ending 6-30-23. Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, we had one unexpired term ending 3-31-24, no applicants for that as well. Environmental Action Committee, Claire Kane, one community citizen at large term ending 6-30-23.
 Ryan Boswell, one science discipline term ending 6-30-23. Fayetteville Arts Council, Joelle Storre, one arts and cultural community resident term ending 6-30-23. Olivia Trimble, one working artist term ending 6-30-23.
 PEG Advisory Board, we had one unexpired term ending 6-30-21 and one unexpired term ending 6-30-22. We had no applicants for that. Walton Arts Center Council, Casey Hamaker, one term ending 6-30-23. Mervin Jabaraj, I'm sorry, one term ending 6-30-23. Mervin Jabaraj, I'm sorry, one term ending 6-30-23.
 And those are our, that's our selected nominees for tonight. Thank you. Okay, I will entertain a motion to accept the nomination committee's nominees. So moved. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the nominating committee's nominees. Kerridge, please call the roll. Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay. Just for the record, I want to show that that motion was by Smith and seconded by Gutierrez. Is that correct? That is correct, right? Yes, that's correct. Okay. The next order of business, we have two walk-ons actually tonight. One is Councilmember Petty's walk-on.
 mask ordinance and an ordinance require persons to wear masks face masks that cover nostrils and mouth to help restrict the spread of COVID-19 virus to establish reasonable exemptions to operate a non-emergency business support hotline to set practical enforcement conditions and to prove a budget adjustment.
 They need to suspend the rules to be able to place this on the agenda. Mayor, I move that we suspend the rules and place this on the agenda with the justification that many members of the community have written in and asked us to have this discussion. Okay. We'll second that. We have a motion and a second to put this on the agenda. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez?
 Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, Mayor, with that, let me go ahead and read the body of the ordinance. Okay. An ordinance to require persons to wear face masks that cover the, that's your title, you've already read that, okay. Whereas the spread of the COVID-19 virus has been accelerating in Washington County.
 And whereas the administrator of the Washington Regional Medical System has said it is critically important to take the recent surge in COVID-19 cases seriously, and also has asked the community to, quote, wear a mask when out in public, unquote. And whereas a coroner of Washington County, Roger Morris, has reminded people to wear masks to protect others.
 And whereas Jennifer Dillaha of the Arkansas Department of Health has said that wearing a mask is the most effective action that can be taken to slow the spread of COVID-19 virus. And whereas numerous other epidemiologists have insisted that widespread use of a face mask is necessary to prevent the more rapid spread of the COVID-19 virus.
 especially when humans gather in groups and thereby necessary for the safety and health of Fayetteville citizens, residents, and visitors, and whereas employees and most members of the public and public service areas of places of public accommodation should be required to wear masks to cover their nostrils and mouth for the health and safety of all subject to certain exemptions, exceptions.
 And whereas businesses cannot reasonably implement health directives as intended without municipal support services, and whereas the legal standard of willful neglect can be used to shield any business making a good faith attempt to implement this ordinance from any penalty whatsoever, now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby determines that the health and safety of fable residents require that persons within public service areas in all places of public accommodation are required to constantly wear face masks covering the nostrils and mouth of such persons subject to the following exceptions a
 Masks may be removed while consuming food or drinking a beverage and exercising if social distancing and disinfection best practices are also followed.
 Settings with 10 or fewer persons present, such as a small business office, which do not serve the public in person in areas without normal public access, such as semi-private offices and workshops, do not require masks unless the persons cannot follow social distancing best practices. C, reasonable accommodations may be made for individuals with a disabling condition that prevents wearing a face mask.
 D, masks may be removed in outdoor settings generally while best practices to maintain social distances are followed. Masks shall be worn at managed events when attendance and format prevent social distancing. Section 2.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, are hereby determined that the health and safety of Fayetteville residents require that all businesses, offices, shops, and manufacturing and similar facilities are required to post conspicuous signs at all entrances to their establishment that employees, customers, and visitors to their establishments must wear face masks pursuant to the rules stated in section one of this ordinance to be admitted into their premises.
 Section 3, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determined that places of public accommodation are required to provide disposable face masks for free or a nominal cost for members of the public seeking to enter their establishments and are required to deny entry to members of the public who refuse to wear face masks as required in Section 1.
 Section 4, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby approves a budget adjustment of $100,000 to operate a public safety campaign to raise community rates of mask wearing.
 The campaign shall include the distribution of free face masks to Fayetteville businesses, the operation of a business support hotline, and an outreach strategy focused on high interaction sites. The non-emergency business support hotline shall be available for businesses to request technical and or field support for any reason related to our adoption of the COVID-19 virus
 including requesting free masks for distribution to their customers and the creative use of outdoor space, and generally when implementing health directives and emerging best practices. Section 5, sunset. After the governor's emergency declaration ends, an ordinance to repeal this ordinance shall be placed on the agenda immediately following the end of the state-declared emergency. The city council at that time shall act on that ordinance with all haste
 either repealing this ordinance in whole, in part, or extending the requirement and associated programs. Section 6, penalties on individuals. Individuals with refuse to wear a mask when required will be denied entry to places of accommodation. Places of accommodation may call either the non-emergency hotline for assistance, or they may call 911 if the situation is an emergency.
 There is no other penalty for refusing to wear a face mask, but disorderly conduct and threatening or assaulting another person are crimes that can still be enforced. Section 7, penalties on businesses. No business shall suffer a penalty unless that business fails to implement the requirements of this ordinance due to willful neglect.
 In that case, failure to enforce the provisions of this ordinance shall constitute a violation subject to the penalties allowed in Section 1099, General Penalty of the Failure Code. Section 8, Severability Clause.
 If any provision, sections, or portion of this ordinance is found or determined by a court for any reason to be invalid or unenforceable, those provisions shall be severed from the remaining portions of this ordinance, which shall remain effective in the absence of any invalid or unenforceable provisions.
 Section 9, that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arks, hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because of widespread use of face masks is necessary to prevent the more rapid spread of the COVID-19 virus, especially when humans gather in groups, which is necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents.
 Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such as this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. That's the ordinance. Okay. All right. Matthew, what do you have? Yes, thank you, Mayor. First, I'd like to thank the City Council for allowing this discussion to proceed tonight. We've heard from so many people that I think it's a discussion worth having. And, of course, we do have a true emergency situation.
 in Washington County, and I believe this can make a difference. I want to very briefly summarize the legal language that was read by our city attorney for the general public. I provided this plain language ordinance outline that I'm about to read to the public earlier today, and you may have noticed that many of the communications which we have received since that time have been in reference to the plain language outline I'll read now.
 Sure. The simple list of bullets. First, masks will be required in public service areas. What we mean is that places that are public facing at most of our businesses. We have some strong exceptions to that, some common sense exceptions. For instance, masks may be removed when eating, drinking, or exercising, but we do ask that businesses continue to follow other social distancing guidelines and disinfection protocols as necessary.
 We also are exempting small group settings where social distancing can be followed. Our intention there is for settings such as small offices that do not serve the general public on a regular basis in a person-to-person format don't necessarily need to wear a mask. Another exception is for people with a relevant disabling condition and we've made it not applicable in the outdoors generally.
 except for events that may be large and that are typically managed where the proximity of people due to the number of people or do the event format may prevent people from distancing. We are going to require businesses to help us in this effort. As a team, we're asking that you will post conspicuous signage and the city has made some available as of yesterday. We're also going to ask that you redistribute masks to the general public for free or for a small fee.
 We are going to help you. We want this work. This proposal is to set aside $100,000 starting tonight from our general fund reserves with the goal of a public safety campaign. I envision this public safety campaign includes our fire safety officials, our communications department and our economic development division, in addition to our police force in limited circumstances when warranted.
 But the point of the public safety campaign is voluntary compliance. To that end, the ordinance requires that the campaign targets high interaction sites, such as entrances at popular destinations for shopping or for other tasks and activities. We want to use a portion of that budget to procure masks at a bulk rate and to provide those to businesses for free for redistribution.
 And the ordinance also calls for a non-emergency support hotline for businesses. The intention is that businesses can call the hotline for any reason related to our adaptation to the outbreak. The City Council in recent meetings and tonight will consider and has considered proposals to make outdoor areas more accessible for business activity.
 as well as there are a variety of confusing health directives which must be followed. The intention of the hotline is to provide technical and field support for implementing any of these changes. The ordinance includes a sunset clause. The intention is for the council to reconsider this when an emergency is declared by the state is over, but to preserve our authority as we see it, to reconsider the law in its entirety under our own purview. Finally, the notion of penalties, and this is very important
 The ordinance proposes no penalties on individuals and practically no penalties on businesses. The only penalty for an individual is that they will be barred entry. If a business has difficulty enforcing this requirement, crimes such as trespassing, disorderly conduct, threatening or assaulting another person can continue to be enforced. We will also distribute masks for free to anyone we encounter. I intend that a
 Component of the public safety campaign is that all safety officers would be equipped with ample masks for distribution to anyone that they encounter that does not already have one. I want to be careful, though, that this is not intended as a reason to stop people. This is intended as a way to help people and to boost rates of voluntary compliance.
 Finally, I want to speak about the penalty for businesses. There is a penalty for businesses, but only if you willfully neglect the rules that we are proposing tonight. What that means is that if you are making any good faith effort to post the signage, to distribute masks, and to enforce the other requirements here, then you can not suffer a penalty. The standard for willful neglect is very high.
 you must demonstrate that you do not and will not and you intend not to follow the ordinance in order to suffer a penalty. I'll give you some examples of the way this ordinance could be implemented, would be implemented in practical terms. Consider a mechanics shop. This ordinance would require masks to be worn in the customer service area of the shop but not in the workshop itself.
 It would require masks to be worn in a corporate lobby where the public is received, but generally not in areas which are restricted to employees only. It would be required in all public-facing areas of a retail store, so practically almost all of the store, such as a grocery store or a hardware store.
 There has been a lot of talk about this ordinance as a mask mandate. They have been implemented across the country and of course we have a population in Fayetteville that is well informed and knows what other communities are doing and how other states are reacting. But this ordinance is much more than a simple mask mandate. It has been crafted carefully based on feedback from numerous businesses across several different sectors.
 It is also bolstered by other components. The public safety campaign is essential to boost voluntary compliance with mask recommendations. I think combined, we can achieve very high rates of mask wearing in our community, enough perhaps to actually flatten the curve as our economy reopens.
 Widespread mask use could be that powerful. This ordinance is intended, therefore, to support business efforts. I do not believe that they can implement the directives from our state without municipal support. And the feedback that I have heard from business managers, from service workers, from owners, is that that's the truth. They can't stand alone. I want to talk a little bit about the notion between the about the tension between the state.
 and any municipal actions that we may take. First, I'll point out that there is a severability clause in this ordinance so that if the state does choose to challenge us in court, the entire ordinance is not under threat. Second, and I think this is a little bit philosophical, I believe very strongly that the issue of local control, the issue of home rule deserves a zealous defense.
 I think it is a terrible mistake with long-term impacts to simply accept what another politician has told us, especially when the impacts across our state are so disparate. Washington County is unique. We are suffering unique effects that demand a unique urgency and unique restrictions. An epidemiologist from our own state
 Agree. Mask wearing is the single most important thing we can do to control the spread of COVID-19. I believe that if the state disagrees with this program, with our notion that mask wearing should be done at a high rate for the public safety, that they should have to argue why our program should stop. They should have to justify that. We should not accept that position
 as the de facto position of our state or of our city. There are other options for the state. There's been a presupposition that this will be immediately challenged with an injunction. I don't know that that is a correct presupposition. It may be a likely one, but there are other options. The governor's directive can be simply amended. The health department directives can be amended by the state health board. There are many ways to reconcile this.
 What's important though is that we state clearly and with legitimacy, the legitimacy of a legislative action, what we believe is right for our community. That's how we gain a venue to have this discussion and to have a zealous defense. I ask, what does simply accepting what we've been told or what the common perception is do for our citizens?
 What has simply accepting what the federal government wants done for our state? We're not ahead of anyone simply for being friendly. We must ask for what we want. That's why this ordinance includes an emergency clause, which is the last thing I'll talk about. It's not simply because there is an urgency, but it goes directly to the notion of state and local jurisdiction. With an emergency clause, this will be law tomorrow.
 which means if the state does take the extraordinary action to challenge our law instead of reconciling their directives with what's best for our citizens, then they will have to undo a law. That is a different thing than simply reinforcing a directive. Undoing a law is a different proceeding. It's a harder proceeding and it puts us in a better position.
 I appreciate again everybody that has agreed to discuss this. I am, you can maybe tell, trying to be as earnest as possible and as dispassionate as possible, even though I have a great deal of passion for what I am asking you to join with me in doing tonight. We've worked on this for the last two days. Today we've heard from state delegates,
 the farmers market, the Fayetteville Independent Restaurant Association, Partners for Better Housing, healthcare workers, service workers, business owners, mothers, grandsons. This isn't my ordinance. The plain language outline I read to you earlier is what the public has seen and what they are supporting. If you vote for this tonight, I would, if you're willing, make you honorary co-sponsors or legitimate co-sponsors if possible. This should not be my law. It should be all of our laws.
 to be the law of the people who have written us. I look forward to the discussion. Thank you. Okay. What discussion we have? What questions, council, do we have? I certainly appreciate Council Member Petty for bringing this forward. I did worry about the fact that we don't have home rule and it'll often is targeted, I think
 and I didn't want us to be targeted, but I think this is necessary. So thank you, Councilman Petty for bringing this forward and hopefully we will get enough support that it won't be that big of an issue on the state legislative level or judicial level. So I would be happy to be an honorary co-sponsor.
 I would also be happy to be an honorary co-sponsor. Our primary responsibility is to the health, safety, and welfare of our community, and I believe this is consistent with those goals. And so thank you for bringing this forward, and it definitely echoes the sentiment that I'm hearing from the community. I have a couple of questions. So, Council Member Petty, thank you for bringing this forward. I've been in discussion with lots of folks in the last week, pretty much echoing what you've got here.
 But I wonder if you've corresponded or heard any information from like the Dixon Street merchants or the Chamber of Commerce, because, you know, with the emergency clause, I'd like to be able to have the business community, the larger, as large as possible business community on board.
 Thank you, that's a fair question. We have heard from several of the merchants in our downtown, the Fayetteville Independent Restaurant Association. I'm not certain of their membership, but their board includes staffers or owners or managers at Bordino's. And I know that their membership includes several of our Dixon Street restaurants. However, I have not heard a formal statement from the Dixon Street Merchants Association, that particular entity.
 nor have we heard or requested an official statement from the Chamber of Commerce. However, as you can tell from the correspondence we've received, there have been many business owners who have become aware of this ordinance. I do not want to give the impression that the amount of outreach that has been done in the last two days could not be better with more time.
 It absolutely could. We should have a discussion with the broader business community when we do an ordinance like this. But, and I say this cautiously after much careful thinking, time is of the essence. People are already dying. They're dying faster, more of them. If there is a challenge operationally with this ordinance,
 I tried to address this concern, to anticipate and address this concern with the Willful Neglect Clause. The way the penalties are structured with the reliance on a Willful Neglect Standard means that any business making a good faith attempt to follow these practices cannot suffer a penalty. It is not a high standard to meet. It is easy to demonstrate.
 So I hope that we can rely on that or take comfort or security in that willful neglect cause. That's why it is included is to give everyone in this body, in this jurisdiction, and also our constituents peace of mind for exactly that reason. And I'm committed if there is something we can change in this ordinance to make it stronger, let's have that discussion. I'm eager for it. I have a couple more questions. So have you heard from any business owners that are against this ordinance? Yes.
 No, I haven't, but I want to be fair in that I have not gone down an exhaustive list. I'm certain that there are business owners in the community that could be against this, but I have not heard any significant volume of opposition.
 The emails that I received today, I think mostly are the same that the rest of you have received. I counted one in opposition and there wasn't a claim that that person was a business owner. The overwhelming sentiment among business owners I've talked to is that they need the city to help them, to give them figurative and literal backup.
 uh and some comments that i didn't expect i heard from more than one restaurant operator that they were more afraid of bringing a case in through the back door than in through the front door meaning they're afraid that their workers will contract covet 19 from elsewhere in the community and they won't discover the case until it's already inside the restaurant that's
 some of the worst fears that I've heard from restaurant operators. But I have not gone down an exhaustive list. I'm sure there are some that are in opposition, but I believe, I'm hopeful, I believe that the vast majority, maybe three standard deviations out, the vast majority of businesses want some help with this.
 My next question, sorry, I've got a lot of questions here, is Chief Reynolds, is this enforceable? Do we have, I just wonder what the burden is on the police and also what kind of, if there are any problems that they would anticipate enforcing this?
 Well, I'll do my best to answer that because it's a lot to take in, obviously, in the last 10 minutes. But from what I'm hearing from Council Member Petty is that law enforcement would have a limited response. And from that limited response, what I took from that is if a business owner
 ask someone to leave their business because they're not complying with the mask ordinance then their criminal trespassing if it goes to the next Level where they start becoming verbally assaulty then it would become disorderly conduct and then it could obviously Escalate from there. So when one of those crimes would be committed is when the police would respond at that point I
 I guess I have some questions as public health officials or public health safety officers. I'm not sure the exact terminology. I tried to take all that in, but what is that definition? You know, who in the city,
 would that apply to? If that applies to the police department, then certainly based upon what I'm hearing in that ordinance is that the police department will respond to those other complaints as well. So I guess I'm asking for a little bit of clarification with that. But as far as it relates to responding to the calls where other criminal violations would occur,
 I think I have a lot of faith in our community that that would be very rare that we wouldn't see compliance there. We respond to shoplifters all the time. Rarely do they escalate. Every once in a while they do escalate to where they fight with the employees and it turns into a robbery at that point. But those are rare occasions that we have to respond to those.
 And then just looking at the capacity of the calls, that was a big concern for me. You always hear me talk about that. I talked about that with the recent noise ordinance discussion and just the capacity that the police department has. Out of 25 cities, 25 major cities are the largest 25 cities in Arkansas. We're 24th when it comes to per capita officers at 1.55. The average I think is 2.26.
 So I was concerned about the capacity and then I went and looked at the mayor's order and also the governor's directive since about March 12th as they relate to the COVID-19 pandemic. And when I look at those, we responded to 263 COVID occupancy complaints where they were having over occupancy.
 And so that's over a three month period. And then I also looked at complaints in our parks and our trails as they relate to the mayor's orders, people using amenities, and we responded to 234. So that almost comes out to 500 calls that we responded to in the last three months.
 So I guess in providing you all that information, Council Member Turk, I guess what I'm saying is I anticipate more of the same if this is passed tonight or passed in the future, that we would see something similar to the same type of complaints that we've seen with the mayor's orders and the governor's directive and be happy to answer any other questions that you might have.
 I have one follow-up question for you. So being able to respond to those 500 complaints in the last three months, how has that been on your officers? Did that stretch you thin or were you able to absorb that additional workload or how did that affect your office?
 Well, fortunately, it certainly, we were able to absorb that. It did not overtax us at all. And it has a lot to do with the directives that I've given my officers during this COVID pandemic as well, is, you know, we're not out there being as proactive as what we normally would be. So, you know, our arrest statistics are down over 80%. Our traffic citations are down 90%.
 So a lot of what we normally do proactively is not being done. And then our call volume has been down as well. I think the last time I checked overall since March 12th, when you compare year to date, 2019 to 2020, I believe we're down about 7%. But I will say this,
 over the last couple of weeks, the call volume has come up and we're actually up year to date now compared to last year, overall 2%. So we've seen a rise over the last couple of weeks as we've moved from phase one and now this week moving into phase two. So we're starting to see our call volume return to the same rate. So it is a concern, something that we could certainly monitor.
 To be quite frank, I think given the current current situation nationwide as it relates to law enforcement It gives me a little bit of pause too For the police department or any police department to be involved in enforcing a health regulation I just think that there's a lot of perceptions out there. I think that we're a better police department, uh
 than most, I think we've proven that in the efforts that we've done here at the Fayetteville Police Department, but it certainly gives me concerns because that could be the perception. And we all know that that could also turn into the reality. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this? I would. Matthew, I'd like to thank you for working so hard on this and making it, you know,
 hopefully making it a reality i think for the citizens of our community this i think people want to do what's right and it's not been made abundantly clear that that we need to do this i mean i think it has been but for some people maybe it hasn't been and this removes all ambiguity of of what we what we expect of our citizens and and why we expect it
 You know, I do believe it will help boost compliance and help people, you know, know what they need to be doing. And I think for businesses,
 If we help them, if we provide them with the masks and the direction they need to take with those, I think if I had a business, it would make me feel safer having my business open because it would make my employees feel safer. As a business owner, I would be taking my employees' help seriously by providing them
 providing the mask and everything. And I also think it sets a good example for our region as a whole, because Fayetteville is not just Fayetteville citizens, it's people that come in from, you know, other places. It's people that come in from Madison County to do shopping.
 And I didn't hear what the rates were today, but Friday, I think there were 32 cases in Madison County. And one of those cases belongs to someone I know. So when they come to Fayetteville to do shopping and stuff like that, I think it helps them that maybe.
 their counties don't provide these things and they think well I have a mask from Fayetteville at least I know I need to be wearing a mask now so that's uh just my two bits there and I really appreciate you doing this thank you Matthew thank you I'd also like to just Mayor I have a question um Matthew the hundred thousand dollars that you've gotten about budget adjustment to support this is there a particular reason why we chose the general fund as opposed to our emergency reserves that we've
 allocated for COVID response? No, not a particular reason. I suppose it was just a habit. If I'm being perfectly honest, I didn't consider other funding sources because I knew that this one was available and had ample funding. I think in our last presentation, we were looking at several million dollars that were there. So no, I didn't give it a great deal of consideration.
 Just to fill in some of the gaps on business outreach and conversations. When we were sent this today, I quickly did a survey of Ward 4 businesses, and I'll note that we need more jobs on this side of town. Mostly what we have is restaurants and gyms that are already fairly well covered under the state guidelines, car dealerships that will conduct a lot of their business outside, medical clinics and veterinarians that I expect to be available
 I have this fairly well under control. So I called the four sort of largest destination retail outlets, Walmart, Harps, Walgreens, and Westwood Gardens. And I invited them to join us tonight and to register and provide comment. And so we may hear from some of them. But to sum up what I heard in those conversations was,
 They don't relish the idea of having to enforce this, but they understand that it is healthier for their customers and their employees for people to be wearing masks. And I believe the primary reason for not enforcing it so far is that concern that,
 They may drive a customer away to another store. And they don't want to be responsible for being the corporation that says, no, you have to do this. And so we have an opportunity to provide them some cover. And to, you know, we have a lot of people that are
 take that mandate from their corporate headquarters and put it in the people's headquarters here in city . In city hall and on all of our Zoom screens where we are not just responding I hope to the feedback that we have gotten today in this kind of rapid response but for weeks we have been hearing people in the community demand this and plead for it and beg and wonder why it had not been done already.
 So the
 The final conclusion that I heard in those conversations was it won't be that major a change from their already current practices of monitoring people as they come in the door. They will work with what is asked of them and they will figure it out. I appreciate that flexibility on their part and that responsibility for the community. I just wanted to say that publicly to them.
 And to follow up on the idea that this may get challenged in the courts, I'm sure it will be challenged in the courts. But this is an unprecedented time and lots of untested assumptions here about the separation of powers between legislative branch and the executive. Federal level and state level. The governor has got some executive orders out there that are not going to be
 will be interesting to see how they apply when overlapped with the legislature's power grant of the cities. I'm encouraged that the courts have been deferring in favor of action for public health in the last months, and I hope that that will continue here.
 I'd like to add something else. I, you know, I've read through most of the emails, well, not most of the emails. I got through about the ones that I had received for about 3.30 this afternoon, and they were still coming in as we were sitting here. I could see them popping up. I was really surprised. I expected there would be some pushback from businesses somewhere, but I hadn't seen that. That had not manifested itself.
 And, you know, I was expecting someone would come forward and say, look, I'm stressed out enough. This is going to be too much for me to handle. This will be the straw that broke the camel's back. But we haven't seen that so far. So I'm feeling really positive on that front as well. So I just think it's the right thing to do. Thank you. Thank you.
 Matt, thank you so much for bringing this forward and for your work on it. And I would be happy to co-sponsor as well.
 I do wonder, or actually I want to segue on what Sarah Bunch was just saying, Councilmember Bunch, that one of the things that I learned from the emails, which I didn't at all, it had not occurred to me, that I was very happy to see that other people from other communities were willing to
 leave their community in Northwest Arkansas and come and shop and support our businesses if we do this. And that was incredibly encouraging. And I just hadn't really thought about that piece of this opportunity. So I think this is an incredibly good thing. I think, you know, us taking a very progressive approach
 forward movement toward helping keep everyone safe will actually improve the economy, which I've really been feeling like is the right way to go from the beginning. So I'm very happy to support this. I do have a question for you, Matt. Were you able to do you hear anything from
 And these are three areas, so I understand if maybe you can just answer just to one. But food delivery, and this might already be covered under the state, but food delivery, food processing, and food preparation. Because I feel like food is an area that is affecting all of us. We want to really support our local curbside pickup and restaurants there.
 But if our people who are preparing the food don't have any already, you know, restrictions and things to do with their masks and things like that, I'm afraid that us wearing our masks in general public is not really going to help if our food isn't protected. So I just wondered about your, if you heard anything on food preparation, food delivery, and food processing. Okay.
 The short answer is not nearly as much as I would like. And this may be an opportunity for me to acknowledge to everyone, you and the public, that this ordinance has gaps in it. It is not an ordinance that captures all scenarios. Part of that is intentional, but another piece of that is that I am not an epidemiologist or an expert on these issues.
 It may be that we should come back and do something more specific to food preparation and food processing, but I did not feel that there was a great deal of clarity on how to craft a reasonable law around those issues. That doesn't mean that the ordinance fails to address it at all.
 In fact, if a particular setting, such as a kitchen or a food prep area, is too small for the number of workers within it, for them to properly social distance, this ordinance does require them to wear masks. But if it is large enough that they can socially distance, that is a gap in this ordinance. However, my experience in numerous conversations with
 with people in the food sector is that if they have an experience driven restaurant, meaning if they're not a bottom line driven restaurant, and I mean this especially about some of the franchises, there is already a robust sanitation practice and a robust mask wearing practice.
 So in some ways I think of this ordinance as an 80% solution and hopefully more like a 90 or 95% solution. And if we can achieve that, I'm hopeful we can figure the rest out socially, but we may still need to come back with a lot of close, some important gaps that I've missed. Okay. Thank you. I'd also like to thank council member Petty for bringing this forward. When I, when I first saw it, I was kind of on the fence because I know that,
 We could run into legal trouble. This is not, even if we vote for it tonight, probably not the end of it.
 But frankly, just being selfish, I'm ready to teach at the U of A again. I love my job. I wanna teach in front of people again. And if we keep climbing, that may not be a possibility. And I think that we need to do what we can to make sure that students can come back. I know we're talking about sales tax of like bikes, blues and barbecue, but imagine the sales tax if we don't have our students come back.
 Imagine the hurt for landlords when they don't have people that fill their buildings. It's going to be, I think, worse in the fall if we have another peak than we've seen so far because people are already here, they already had contracts and they kind of stuck around.
 they don't come back or they come back and then immediately have to leave. It's gonna hurt us. So I'm willing to kind of stand behind this fight for the city and hope that we can continue to have the students and they can receive the education that they deserve. Thank you. Okay, what are the comments do we have in the council? Questions? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. It's a five-minute time limit. Bless City Council. A shorty vote gives you more time. If City Council has questions for you, please stay on the topic. It's the mask ordinance. And please no rude behavior. And if you will, give us your name and address, please. And who would like to be first? Mayor Rob Qualls is up. Okay. Rob. Rob.
 Hello, everybody, council and mayor and staff. My name is Rob Qualls. I'm at 2140 East Jungle Road in Fayetteville, and I am representing for Fayetteville tonight. We began sharing a change petition about 24 hours ago, and it is just short of 1,000 signatures. It's like a 950-something and
 It's pretty amazing to watch that grow. I'm really surprised just how little pushback I've seen regarding this ordinance. One argument that I have heard against the ordinance from a few people is that there are, I heard a council member,
 a bunch kind of allude to it too, that there, some people may be confused as to what the guidance is. You know, there are some people that refer to early CDC guidelines, Surgeon General guidelines, World Health Organization guidelines that at one point didn't recommend wearing a mask, but that has changed. I think it's important to know that, you know, as a result of more research, those organizations now all urge people to wear face coverings
 Every major health organization I know of, every state official that I know of, local, our mayor, our council members, county officials. I work at Washington Regional, and both in a statement earlier last week and in the town hall today reiterated, if you...
 even when you're around people wearing a mask. The hospital, as an employee there, I'm required if I go on site to wear a mask the entire time from the time I get out of my car until the time I return. So there's really not much ambiguity there. There's really not a controversial thing that that's the guidance right now is wear a mask. Like I said, I work at Washington Regional. My wife was furloughed, but she's now back at work. She's a nurse
 And so she's exposed, she's potentially exposed to this virus every day she works. When she comes home, she immediately puts her clothes in the dryer, takes a shower before she can hug our kids. My department, half of us in my department have been furloughed. We need this to be over. We need to do what we can to really to try to eliminate the infections here and at least stop the growth.
 so that we can go back to the lives that we all have worked for and deserve. I'm also on the board of the Fayetteville Public Library, and I believe this ordinance will help keep library staff and patrons safer. Like the city, that's our mission as a board, is to make sure that everybody that comes into that library for work or as a patron is safe. Governor Hutchinson has repeatedly dismissed federal guidelines
 as being one size fits all approach that doesn't fit a rural state like Arkansas. But now he expects Fayetteville to follow the same guidelines. That's flipping. That just doesn't make any sense. He also said that he believed wearing a mask was just not Arkansas. I'm a native Arkansan. I've been around a few different parts of the state and working as a community to keep people safe is absolutely Arkansas.
 It is also absolutely Fayetteville. So I really, as well as many other people really took offense at that comment. It is possible that the governor, legislature, some other state office may again try to stop Fayetteville from protecting our people. But as council member Kyle Smith said, and I often wrote this down and often refer back to it when these things come up that failure to act out of fear that the state may preempt us has exactly the same result as not trying.
 let's not do their job for them. Let's stand up for what's right and make them do the work to stop us. Even if this does go to court, I think the ordinance will have still made a difference in the time it takes for the court system to address the challenge. And I think that's a great result. I want to thank Council Member Petty for all the work he's done along with everyone else. And I hope that this gets passed. Thank you. Anyone else? I don't see any other public comment right this minute. Kathleen Paulson.
 Yes, go ahead. Kathleen, I believe you're muted. Can you unmute and then speak? Yes, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you very much. This is, my name is Kathleen Paulson. I'm at 115 Mountain Ward, and I'm a physician at the University of Arkansas. I appreciate Mr. Petty for bringing this forward, and I cannot tell you how important I think it is and how strongly I support it. We all need to keep in mind that
 At least, and this is based on the best data that I can find, that at least 30%, but more likely to 45% of all spreading within the community is from asymptomatic shedders. That is persons who have the illness but do not have symptoms. And that is not even taking into account those who are pre-symptomatic.
 The three to five days before people actually break out with symptoms, people are potentially at their most infectious. And that is why we all need to be wearing masks to protect everyone else around us. You must assume that everyone else has it, and you must assume that you yourself have it.
 have the infection. And that is the way that the countries that have been the most successful at limiting spread have done so. By social distancing, yes, but by having people collaborate and cooperate with mask wearing. So thank you very much, Mr. Petty. You're welcome, thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay, we'll bring it back to the council. Mayor, there were a couple of requests for clarification that I'd like to cover now. Sure.
 Thank you. Chief Reynolds, you asked for a little bit of clarification on what is intended by the term safety officer. It's a good question. That term was chosen for flexibility as the administration implements the intended public safety campaign. I recall that at the beginning of the outbreak.
 Many of our calls were staffed and fielded via dispatched fire safety officers, as well as police safety officers. So the use of the term safety officers is meant to maximize the flexibility for the administration in the safety campaign.
 To that end, I'd like to talk a little bit about what that safety campaign may look like. I envision tabling and mask handouts and health directive signage and such at every
 high activity entrances of places like hardware stores or grocery stores. I'm envisioning that for a brief period at the beginning of the public safety campaign to raise awareness that we will place actual staff at those locations to distribute masks and to inform the public of these new requirements.
 And I also envision that the way that masks are distributed to businesses that are requesting it may be done by any kind of safety officer, but that we may have a run on request, of course, at the beginning of the program.
 The intention in laying out a couple of tenets of the public safety campaign is to provide guidance to the administration, but not to preclude other actions, especially creative actions that the administration may choose to engage in to conduct that campaign. $100,000 was chosen as a reasonable budget based on...
 the public engagement work plans that have been included in other work plans at the city, where engagement has been a priority, such as our comprehensive plan and our 71B corridor plan and our solid waste master plan. Public engagement is a big part of planning in Fayetteville, so we know it's effective. And we also know based on the budgets associated with those projects that we can get a lot done with this amount of money. However, it may not be enough. We don't know how the outbreak will continue.
 And I think we should challenge in a friendly manner the administration to spend all of this money to great impact and to come back and ask for more if necessary. I think this is something that we need to commit to doing, mask wearing, that is, and supporting mask wearing.
 I also, the very last thing, and perhaps this is a little bit trivial or may seem trivial compared to everything else we've talked about, but it isn't. And Council Member Scroggins reminded me that this is something that I wanted to make sure and address on the record. And it seems unclear exactly how this may impact classes at the University of Arkansas. Our assumption would be that it does not affect what the University of Arkansas does on their campus. However,
 It may just be what is necessary to persuade the administration of the university to establish policies that are consistent with the city of Fayetteville. And that could be meaningful, even if the requirements cannot be imposed directly. I've been really appreciative of the questions. I'm here for more questions if there are any. And again, I want to thank the organizations that have helped with this for Fayetteville, for their work on the petition.
 I mentioned these earlier, the farmers market, the Fayetteville Independent Restaurant Association, Partners for Better Housing, and the numerous healthcare workers, business owners, business managers, and customer service workers that have written into us so far. Thank you. Matthew, a question? Yes, go ahead.
 You know, I appreciate your emergency clause here, your Section 9 that you added. However, I'm wondering if you wouldn't be willing to consider maybe delaying the implementation of that clause for maybe three days. And the reason why I say that is because the businesses are going to have to ramp up. Some of them are going to have to find masks. The city will need to find masks.
 And the outreach campaign that you envision, which I completely support and encourage by the city, it's going to take them a little bit of time to structure and organize and reassign people to be able to put that into place.
 But I recognize that the weekend is coming up and the weekend is an area where we have likely the greatest exposure in certain facilities. So I'm just asking you if you would be open to delaying the implementation until Friday. Okay.
 Thank you, Council Member Turk. I first feel that I should acknowledge and appreciate your sentiments about the emergency clause. I know that you are, as a rule, more skeptical of the emergency clauses than the rest of the Council has been in recent meetings. And I feel it's important to acknowledge and appreciate that you see the urgency tonight. So thank you for sharing your thoughts about it.
 I don't know exactly where I would fall on that request personally. My instinct is that it is important for us to act decisively, but I'm not sure that precludes what you're asking for per se. Instead, what I'm thinking about, and I apologize, I'm kind of thinking out loud here.
 The willful neglect clause, I know I've mentioned it before, but the standard that says, we've established a standard that says, as long as the business is making a good faith effort, there's no risk of penalty. And so to post conspicuous signs as the law requires and to take steps to acquire masks is sufficient. It is sufficient to meet that standard.
 So I'm not sure what would as a practical course be gained by a delay of implementation of a few days given the willful neglect clause. And it may seem like I'm relying on that quite a bit. It's because it's important. It also happens to be the first time I can recall that we've ever used this standard to try and approach
 an ordinance like this, but we've done that because we want to boost rates of voluntary compliance. So I would be curious to hear the other thoughts of the other council members, because I do believe the emergency clause is important. I hope the willful neglect thing convinces you, but I respect if it doesn't. I wanna hear from the other council members because the last thing I would do is endanger any emergency clause at all.
 I appreciate your willful neglect clause in there, but I was just trying to make it simple because I think some business owners and the public may not quite understand what that means. And that is sort of a nuance, an important one to your ordinance. So that was sort of my thinking too, just to make it more simple. I have a follow-up question on that for Kit. I think that the, the idea of the business owner
 There's an implementation delay even with an emergency clause due to newspaper notification requirements, isn't there?
 There is a little bit of a delay and I can say that I've never seen an emergency clause that didn't say immediately. I mean, that's the whole reason you have an emergency clause because there's an emergency and you want to enact that and have it effective as soon as possible. So I've never seen an emergency clause that had any time delay built within the emergency
 In order to enforce any punitive parts of the ordinance, that's what requires publication for any of the, like fines or anything to be imposed. The rest of the ordinance would go into effect. So do you know how long that delay is? What's the, is it just, it has to be published in the Sunday paper or how does that function? Well, I don't publish the ordinances, so I guess I defer the city clerk to answer that question. I understand.
 Kyle, could you please repeat that question? I'm sorry. Since the enforcement of punitive measures is contingent on the publication in the paper, I was just wondering when practically the ordinance could be published in the paper. I know we are struggling some here lately with our newspapers reducing their circulation and going digital, but what's the time frame on that process, even for an emergency clause?
 So, Kyle, I've been talking with the Northwest Arkansas Democrat Gazette regarding that. And for any ordinance that we publish, they will only publish that in the Sunday paper. I've been working directly with Kit Williams and Blake Pennington, and they've been in contact with Kathy Wells with the Democrat Gazette. Thank you. I think that would give the the.
 I think it is important that we are clear immediately that this is the standard. This is what is medically required for the patient to be able to get the vaccine.
 I think that is recommended for public health. That advice does not take effect in three days. That advice should have taken effect weeks ago. I have a few comments on the emergency clause. I also am very careful about invoking the emergency clause. Because I do want to be sure the information is being shared. I think that is a very important point. I think that is a very important point.
 public is informed. However, the way I view this is there ever was a health emergency. I see this as a health emergency. I'm not trying to escalate it to a level that is higher than I think it is. So I do think that the willful neglect does cover the owner of a business or a business management because the basic.
 responsibility that they have is pretty easy to implement. It doesn't say they have to have masks in their, does it Matt? It doesn't say you have to have masks, it just says that they have to enforce that people are wearing masks. So they're not gonna have to run out tonight and buy masks. Is that right, Matt?
 It's mostly right to be absolutely clear the ordinance requires that businesses will distribute masks to the public and have those in their possession to distribute them, but the willful neglect does give them time to acquire those masks in good faith effort. Okay, that's what I was trying to get clarified and I appreciate that. So,
 Very seldom do I just immediately support an emergency clause, but I think that this is it. And also it lets the general public know, especially how many have we heard from that are so concerned about this, it lets them know we're taking this seriously because it is a serious matter. And so that's why I have no problem invoking the emergency clause on this legislation. Thanks. Thank you.
 I don't have a problem invoking the emergency clause either and I appreciate uh Councilmember Turt um consideration for the businesses time giving them time to to prepare and get things ready
 I feel like that we really don't need to delay this at all and we're quite a bit behind, unfortunately. Could we have already prevented the spike in where we are the number one county in the whole Arkansas, state of Arkansas leading cases? So you know, I just, we're so past this point that we just need to take.
 to do what we can to stop as much as we can while we can. So I would definitely support the emergency clause. I was also able to, I was able to get a little bit of a break
 to read from the Arkansas Health Department, Department of Health, the directive on resuming restaurant and dine-in serve operations. They updated their phase one and from their phase one to phase two.
 And it clearly does say that staff who comes in contact with the public should always wear a mask that covers the nose and the mouth, but the staff in the back are just encouraged to wear a face mask. So, yeah.
 It's that's probably majorly problematic for me that the people who are preparing food are not required to wear a mask. And I'm willing to have some discussion and maybe amend that as soon as we can. I don't wanna complicate what we already have out there now, but I'm happy to listen and hear what other people have to say. But I definitely think we're in an emergency state and I'm willing to go with the emergency clause.
 Okay, we are, this is an ordinance we're on the, oh, one thing, Chief Harden, would you talk about the masks this minute? I've been looking at, if we're going to provide the masks, I understand that's correct, Matthew, what, how we would go about getting the masks and
 Chief Harden has been, he was telling me that they're very difficult to come up. Is that true? No, that's absolutely correct. It took us better than a month to get our hands on 2,000. We had 1,000. Us and the police got 1,000 as well. I honestly don't know. I believe Paul was talking with Andrea on that. Did you find out? I'm just trying to figure out the logistics here. We won't really be able to...
 to know when delivery will be until we place the order because nobody will commit until you actually place the order with them. So it's going to take some time before we can procure masks. So that will take a while. Exactly how long, I'm not sure. We'll get on it and try to find out and get them as quickly as possible. But that will take some time. They are difficult to get in time. And Paul, you raised a question to me about,
 the process for competitive bid? I mean, is that something we need to dispense with before? Well, we can do it this time. If we go for over $20,000 worth, we would actually have to, that would violate the procurement law. We'd have to come back with that. What we could do is keep it under $20,000 worth of masks at this point in time, get a shipment.
 Once we locate a vendor, come back at that point in time to deal with that. So probably the first order would be however many we can get. I believe you mentioned the ones that Henry had saw were about $3 each. We've seen some that are looking at $3 apiece. We could go ahead and try to place an order for as many as we can get for that sum.
 get those as soon as possible. And then we talk about the procurement situation after that and place a second order. Getting those alone will be difficult enough. So we'll place an order as big as we can initially and then follow up. Well, okay. So we don't have to put it out for bid, right? We should put it out for bid if it's over $20,000 or get a waiver, however,
 However, what I'm suggesting is we put it out for as many as we can get for $20,000 where we can procure them, get that order placed, receive those masks in, and then get a secondary order. We come up with a secondary order, see how many we need, get a feel for that. And at that point in time, we'll bring the purchasing back that we can override the need for competitive bidding.
 so that would be about 6 000 we could get in our first order is what i was just trying to get at so mayor i need to interject i apologize um it seems like there is a miscommunication that the expectation is that we will provide the highest level of mass uh based on the pricing that has been put forward three dollars a mask um says to me that it seems like we've miscommunicated because
 face masks, disposable face masks that are used commonly by healthcare workers, especially when higher-performing masks are not available.
 are what's recommended by the CDC as a minimum standard. And right now they're available on the consumer market for much lower costs than what has been stated tonight. So I don't feel as though we need to go through a procurement roundabout right now, except for understanding what the process is.
 But I do feel obligated to make the intention clear as we're having the discussion that this is about providing masks that are effective and that we can provide at volume. Right. And I understood that, Matthew. So the research that we did initially was just for a.
 I think it was a three-ply fabric, and it was not of the type that would be needed for severe situations. I think it's what most people are being able to buy. But if you're meaning those little surgical, that's a different story, too. They're cheaper. So we did need some clarification from the expectation of what we believe would be effective.
 The expectation that I think right now, and I might be wrong. I don't want to say that this is exactly the right answer. It's why it's not specified in the ordinance. The intention is for whatever we can do at the, at the necessary volume. I would expect that means bulk purchases of disposable ear loop masks as commonly worn by healthcare workers, but I wouldn't preclude creative solutions like calling on the
 manufacturing industry of Fayetteville, the cottage industry to create masks for the citizens. I don't want to preclude notions like that and want to encourage the city to pursue things like that. So that's why there's not a price limit. I appreciate that we're having the discussion about expectation. Okay, I'm just trying to figure out which way we go on the mask because I'm hearing $3, but I know that you can buy those little cheap masks
 i think they're a little more inexpensive than that so i'm trying to run some numbers on how many with it we possibly might need because i've got to figure out we did have a we did have a type of face covering uh that we did get that's washable you could clean it and that was in the dollar or so range too we could look at something like that but what suggestion will be is we'll look at we'll get as many as we can uh
 as quickly as we can for up to twenty thousand dollars and then look at uh at secondary uh secondary purchases from there well i think if i understand councilman petty if we needed to spend more than twenty thousand dollars then you all would have to approve that and i think in the discussions i'm hearing tonight everybody wants to move on this pretty quickly so
 I guess I'm trying to say I probably need more money to work with. I mean we can use the $20,000 but if we need $50,000 if I have to bring it back to the council of course I can call the special city council if that's the case. So I can do that. Mayor, do you have a question?
 So I'm wondering those emergency funds versus general funds. Paul, do we have the same limit on emergency funding, the same requirements on those as we do with general funds? It's not just general fund. It's any type of bidding, any type of procurement.
 Okay, what I would suggest right now, first off, as the ordinance is written, it doesn't talk about what fund it comes out of. So we'll procure $100,000 in the emergency fund this point in time since it seems to leave it up the administration. However, the procurement rules apply across the board.
 we should be able to get some type of substantial amount of face coverings for $20,000. Again, what my recommendation would be, we do that. We procure what we can for that amount of money. In the meantime, we find sources or another source, and we go out for a larger purchase at that point in time, come back. Dr. Johnson,
 if it looks like there's more money uh then we discuss a budget adjustment for over the amount we have
 but right now any type of masks in any kind of volume it does take time to get them so i i believe that's what uh what chief harden wanted to relay to you that just the procurement of almost any kind of mass does take time and it's difficult but we'll certainly move on it as quickly as we can mayor question for paul sure um one of our uh
 are common processes is to waive competitive bidding for exceptional situations where the bidding procedure is not feasible. Would this qualify the emergency situation and the time limits? And is that something we could do now in this ordinance? So, to bring you up a little bit? Because we don't have procurement toward you with a specific vendor, et cetera. Once we establish a vendor, we could do that.
 Okay, as you remember, normally we would come back when we come back with an ordinance, we waive competitive betting, or we name the vendor for the amount and we push that forward. We don't have all that information right now. That's why again, what I'm suggesting, well, I've mentioned a couple of times that we do what we can for $20,000 at this point in time, just getting that number quickly is gonna be a challenge for us. During that period of time that we come back,
 with a ordinance to waive competitive bidding for a larger quantity. Council, just give me enough latitude to let me work on it. I'll make it happen.
 Mayor, thank you. I think that's what we're intending to do. And I wanted to say that Paul's plan makes sense. That's a workable plan. And I wanted to encourage the council members to think in terms of program management. This is a program that will need to be managed. We're talking to the people that we're going to ask.
 to manage it and that means after the first 20,000 we'll know how many we need, how fast we're distributing them, if we need to change the kind of masks we're purchasing, or so on and so forth. And the last thing I'd like to say is, I hope that we can use this as an opportunity to pursue new partnerships. There's no reason why we couldn't speak with the Vice President of Purchasing at Washington Regional and piggyback on one of their orders.
 or something similar so i i really want to encourage and this is an undercurrent the entire proposal that we approach our covid response creatively in ways that we probably never have in the past okay all right let's see where are we what other comments we got let's see i had a couple
 Ken, I know you had some legal concerns. Do you want to share that with us? Well, I can address those. Obviously, I sent a memo to the city council because I am very concerned that this is beyond the power of the city council to do. And why would I be concerned about that? Well, if you look at the directives from the Secretary of Health for this COVID virus, they all began the same way. It says the Secretary of Health,
 in consultation with the governor, has sole authority over all instances of quarantine isolation and restrictions on commerce. I did quote a case to you about the Department of Health Regulations, and to quote it again to you here, the state health department has the authority to promulgate health regulations having the effect of law.
 for the purpose of efficiently controlling communicable diseases. I wonder why they think they have that authority. Well, if you look at the statute, ACA 20-7-109, authority to regulate public health, it says that the power is confirmed, this is a state statute by the legislature, an old statute, power is confirmed on the state board of health.
 to make all necessary and reasonable rules of a general nature for the protection of public health and safety, the suppression and prevention of infectious, contagious, and communicable diseases, and the proper enforcement of quarantine, isolation, and control of such diseases.
 Because the legislature chose to use all, because the courts have interpreted what the Board of Adjustment puts out for its directives as a matter of actually kind of creating actual law and not just regulations, then I'm very concerned because the State Board of Health and the governor have made it clear on numerous occasions,
 that not only they believe they have the sole authority for these sorts of regulations, but they will not attempt to regulate face mask wearing by the general public in many situations. Now, as a personal note, I believe in face mask wearing. I think it is by far the smartest thing to do. I do it myself, and I wish everybody did it. But in this case, it is only a question of law that I'm addressing as your city attorney saying,
 And my concern is that if in fact the governor did not like the fact that despite the fact he has told us numerous times that he has a sole authority over these issues, that he will just go ahead and let Fayetteville go its own way and do things he has expressly said he would not do, which is require the wearing of face masks. It's possible that there will be no action taken.
 Of course, the Attorney General doesn't have to have the governor to request her to take action. She can take action to defend any state statute that she believes is being violated or attack any ordinance that she believes is in violation of state statutes. So it wouldn't even have to be the governor doing anything. She could easily represent the Board of Health.
 and maybe doesn't even have to represent them, but she could probably challenge our ordinance. One would hope that she would not. This ordinance obviously is intended to preserve the health and safety of our citizens. We have many statutes that grant us that power to protect the health and safety of our citizens. But every one of those statutes that has that also has this provision.
 Not inconsistent with the laws of this state. That's both the purposes generally and that's the one that says that you can, as the city council, enact as you deem necessary to provide for the safety of our citizens' ordinances. Well, it still has that phrase in there, not inconsistent with the laws of this state.
 And the prime law that I, of course, am concerned about is that law I quoted to you earlier, authority to regulate public health, which seems to place all necessary reasonable rules from a general nation within the power of the State Board of Health.
 So I think because of that, I am very concerned as a city attorney that we might, you might, as a city council, for the best of reasons and in all good faith, you might be very well exceeding the power that has been granted to the cities by the state. And this should not be viewed upon as some sort of power struggle between the city and the state. The cities and counties...
 are created by the state, by state statutes. In any power struggle, we lose because they created us. It's like if one of the boards or commissions decided they wanted to take on the city council that created them and demand that they have rights that the city council cannot change, they would be wrong. The city council created our citizen committees and the city council has full authority over them
 And it's almost the same when you're dealing with cities and the state legislature that in fact the state legislature created us They empowered us with these state statutes but they also limited our power to make sure that Any ordinance that we would do would not be inconsistent with the state statute. So
 Certainly, if you want to pass this, I can't recommend that as a city attorney. As you know, I supplied another potential option, which would use the power of our citizens to actually
 ensure that our businesses, I think, would begin to do the same thing you're wanting them to do now, but they would do it because of what the citizens would be telling the businesses rather than what the city council would be telling the businesses. And that would certainly be legal. I have a lot of concern that this particular proposal is beyond your authority. And I hope we would not get Challenge Vegas passed, but
 I would expect we probably would. So that's all I need to say on that matter. Okay. I have a response to that. I think that sometimes if you're an elected official and you're representing your constituency, then you do the right thing and move forward with what they ask you to do. Even if we're challenged, we have done the right thing. And so I don't have...
 any reservation about moving forward on this. This actually makes a statement again to every municipality that we do not have home rule in this state, we have Russell's rule, and it is not allowing different personalities of different municipalities to govern by the will of the citizens that live in that municipality.
 We had, what, 15 minutes worth of reasons not to do it. But to me, it's as simple as this. This is the right thing to do.
 I have a question. If in the worst case scenario, if we do get challenged, what do you see the worst case scenario? They'll ask us to, that we cannot enforce this ordinance or what else could potentially happen? Are we talking about what are the other things that could happen? Well, I'm not really sure what the worst case scenario could be. I obviously, I don't know.
 We could be, you know, the Attorney General could take us into court and to get an immediate temporary restraining order, a preliminary injunction against everyone enforcing the ordinance. But whether there would be much in the way of damages that we'd be looking at, I really can't opine on. I haven't been able, you know, this, I didn't know anything about this until yesterday. And that's when Matthew emailed me and said he wanted to do an ordinance.
 So I really am not in prepared at this point in time to say what all the downsides could be. I hope not very much, but I certainly cannot assure you that it would not be. Thank you. I'm interested in moving this to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith?
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. In order to require persons to wear face masks that cover the nostrils and mouth to help restrict the spread of the COVID-19 virus, to establish reasonable exemptions, excuse me, to operate a non-emergency business support hotline, to set practical enforcement conditions
 and to approve a budget adjustment. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Let me add to that title, and to approve an emergency clause. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Okay, Karen needs to know again. Sarah, you made the motion? I made the motion. Who's the second? I second. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggin? Yes.
 Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance require persons to wear face masks that cover the nostrils and mouth to help restrict the spread of the COVID-19 virus
 to establish reasonable exemptions to operate a non-emergency business support hotline. We set practical enforcement conditions to approve a budget adjustment and to approve an emergency clause. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? Mayor, I'm glad that Mark reminded us that sometimes this is just about doing the right thing because Kit's sort of recitation of the circumstances there was a reminder that the right thing is done
 All we've been asking from our state government and it's what they've been failing to provide for us. In fact, to hear Kit explain the lack of action from the body that has claimed sole control, that almost rises to the level of willful neglect that we started this conversation out with. This isn't choosing to go it alone for Fayetteville. We've been left alone in northwest Arkansas to fend for ourselves.
 This is choosing to lead. This is hopefully choosing to lead our other Northwest Arkansas neighbors because we are all in this together and I hope that they will join us. I support this for the health and safety of our 80 plus thousand Fayetteville residents. I hope that Springdale, Rogers, Bentonville, Farmington, Centerton, anybody who sends their residents, excuse me, their residents to Fayetteville to shop, I hope that they will join us.
 and pass something very similar to this, because we can't stop this by ourselves, but we all have to do our part. Okay. What are the final comments do we add to council? I think some excellent points have been made tonight. I know that I've been on the front lines of this thing, as you have, since March, and it has been a grind every day, and that includes weekends.
 And I have tried to work within the confines of what the state government has had me to work with. And I had been concerned probably about three weeks ago when I saw the numbers begin to increase. Because I had felt for a while that we had not hit our first wave. And unfortunately, I'm afraid we have not hit our second wave yet. So, yeah.
 At the end of the day, the top priority we have to do is be sure that citizens kept safe. And we have to, we were elected to make decisions. We were elected to do what we thought was right. And I remember when we did the LGBTQ ordinance, we were challenged by the state. We, our tree preservation ordinance has been challenged by the state. Our sign ordinance has been challenged by the state.
 And I want to say that the city attorney has always done a tremendous job in defending the city. When this is passed, I can assure you, council, whatever that you pass tonight, I'll make it work. I'll make I'll do I'll look at the logistics. I'll look at how we organize it. And we'll put it together. I think it will take probably more than one hundred thousand dollars.
 but if that is the case so be it um but i i want to to thank the council for all being together on this it is uh this is a major decision i know that i meet with the mayors from the region tomorrow and i usually don't have a great deal to talk about but tomorrow i'll have quite a bit to talk about so i know a lot of them will ask where are we and what are we doing and tomorrow i'll be able to send
 So thank you, Council Member Patey. Thank you for the City Council. And what we enact tonight, I will be sure that it's enforced to the letter of this ordinance, and on we go. Kara, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Yes. Was that on the ordinance? Yes. We still need a vote on the emergency clause. I need a motion to second on the emergency clause. I move we pass the emergency clause. Second. Who didn't second? Was that Mark that said to you? I did. Okay. Motion to second. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turr? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Thank you, Wong. Thank you, Fayetteville. All right. Let's move along to, oh, Kip, did you have one that you were going to want? Well, I think I'll withdraw that in light of the ordinance passing. I don't think you need a resolution. All right. All right. Thank you, Council. Moving along to consent agenda. Number one, approval of the June 4th, 2020 City Council meeting amendments. Okay.
 Number two, a resolution authorized the acceptance of a non-matching 2020 COVID-19 emergency supplemental funding program grant award any amount of $117,051 for the police department's fund of overtime equipment, personal protective equipment, and disinfectant supplies, and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three.
 A resolution to approve a Professional Engineering Services Agreement with FTN Associates, LTD, pursuant to RFQ number 20-01 in the amount of $78,500 for the analysis of the Hamstring Creek, Hamstring Creek Cributary 3, and the South Fork Hamstring Creek for the potential improvements to help alleviate flooding, number 4.
 A resolution to approve supplemental agreement number one to the contract with Burns & McDonnell Engineering Company, Inc., in the amount of $52,967 for additional water and sewer design services associated with the Highway 112 project and approved budget adjustments.
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 20-41, an authorized contract with Emory Sons Incorporated in the amount of $440,907.46 for the construction of Old Wire Road and Old Missouri Road intersection improvements project to approve the project contingency in the amount of $66,136 and to approve budget adjustments.
 Number six, a resolution to approve a contract with Sweetshire Construction Incorporated in the amount of $325,885 for the construction of the steamboat drive in Dorothy Jean Street connection to approve project contingency in the amount of $48,880 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is one of our 2019 transportation bond projects. Number seven.
 A resolution to authorize the purchase of bunker gear from Casco Industries Incorporated pursuant to a reasonable cost of purchasing contract in amount not to exceed $107,000. Number eight, a resolution to authorize an application for a matching grant from the United States Department of Agriculture Community Compost and Food Waste Reduction Program in the amount of $90,000. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. I move we.
 Adopt the consent agenda as read. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? For recording purposes, the motion was made by Councilmember Smith and seconded by Councilmember Marsh. That's correct. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herg? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh?
 Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay.
 All right. Thank you all. Mr. Mayor, the first item on new business is not actually there yet. It should have been there, but in order to assist the city council, instead of saying we should have tabled it for 12 days instead of two weeks, I suggested it to be tabled until July 7th, which was not really the intent of the city council, but they went ahead and did that. So if they want to discuss the rules of order procedure, they need to move to...
 removed this resolution from the table so they can then be before the City Council. Okay. I move we take the resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the Fayetteville City Council from the table for consideration at this meeting. Okay. And a second? We got a second? Yes. All right. Well I guess we better hung this meeting to discuss that. Karen would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, resolution to amend the rules of order and procedure of the Federal City Council to require the public to sign in to speak to limit city staff and applicants presentation time to 10 minutes each
 to only allow public comment for amendments by city council approval and to make other changes kyle i believe you have this uh yes mayor this came out of the ordinance review committee after council member petty introduced it um
 There's been no change since we looked at it last week, but just to recap the five major things that are proposed here as changes. Number one, it does not reduce the time for public comment as was originally proposed, but it does encourage speakers to wrap up at three minutes instead of four minutes and 30 seconds in hopes that we can move along a little quicker.
 Number two, amendments and other motions do not automatically get comments. That's to avoid confusion that we occasionally have over common consensus procedural and clerical amendments. But those motions could include a call for comment, in which case we would allow three minutes per speaker.
 The third thing we've asked for is for the mayor and clerk to set up a sign-up procedure to facilitate quicker queuing and communicate how much time is expected, help record better records of who has spoken to us. But it also includes a call for unregistered comments at the end of that in case somebody has an additional thought that comes up that they did not sign up for.
 The fourth thing is to limit, as the title said, 10 minutes for sponsors and staff and an additional 10 minutes for applicants. And then the final thing is that any of these time limits can be extended by unanimous consent or if someone objects by a majority vote. Okay, Matt, you want to add something? Yes, please, Mayor, thank you.
 First, I've said this several times, but I really do want to express some heartfelt appreciation for the way that this resolution has evolved, especially due to the work and contributions of any of you who attended an ordinance review committee meeting. You can tell it's different. It's different because of your input, and it's a better proposal than it was when I brought it forward.
 I just wanted to briefly raise two points, not about the content of the proposal, but about the practicalities of implementing it. I mentioned at our last meeting that our communications director and our city clerk have attended more meetings virtually than they have attended meetings in person.
 And it's for those reasons that I am advocating that we vote on this sooner rather than later so that we can have a clear set of rules to be implemented when we resume in-person meetings so that we don't have to train our staff on two sets of rules, two different times. And to that end, I would also invite a discussion tonight about
 the way that we vote in these meetings. We conduct verbal votes, although we have the technology to click a button. That may save us some time. That's not why I raise it. It may save us 30 to 45 seconds per vote. And with 50 votes or 60 votes on some evenings, that is significant. But I raise this point for the same reasons that I mentioned.
 that our communications director and city clerk have attended more virtual meetings than in-person meetings. You may not realize it, but there is, maybe you do, there is a lot of work that is happening behind the scenes that is being done by a lot of our staff, especially our city clerk.
 in these meetings. There is a lot of paper pushing and clicking and manipulating of data, even just to conduct a vote. It's a little hectic, I think for anybody. And I am consistently impressed that our clerk, both our past clerk and our current clerk
 have been able to manage it so well. So I would invite a discussion about that, again, from the intention of considering the practical matters of managing our meetings. And again, I thank everybody for making this a better proposal. Okay, what questions do we have, council or?
 statements are well when i look at this i don't think we're making anything easier i think that what we have right now is easy it allows people to voice their opinion i don't think anyone can get through
 every point that they may not anyone but a lot of people cannot get through every point they want to make in three and Then we have to have some kind of action to make it to five and then we can make it more This is adding more work. It's not less work as far as I can say I'm trying to think through the process and again, I mentioned this last time if you've been to a state hearing and
 I won't name any agencies, but there is a whole new game in how you sign up to get the priority to get where you are. Yes, we now have written into this that someone can come up at the end, but it gets more complicated rather than easier as we move along. I know we've had some late meetings. I know that we have some people that are very long-winded.
 But we should, when we changed to the 10 minute limit, that was improving the flow of the meetings. And it did. How many times has someone been cut off at 10 minutes? A lot, but not a whole lot, because we need to allow everyone to have the opportunity
 Fayetteville is known as an engaged community, an engaged city. And anything we can do to promote the engagement and to make it easier for a citizen to speak out regarding any issue, I think is valid and valuable. So I, in no way, and I'm trying to say that there was not a lot of work put into this. There was. I'm just simply saying I don't,
 from my point of view, see how this really is allowing the community to have the opportunity to express how they feel on different issues. So that's just my point of view. Okay. Who else would like to speak to us on this? I would just like to clarify that there's no additional action required after three minutes.
 That's just when the color of the timer changes. Currently somebody goes for four and a half minutes and the mayor just interjects, hey, would you please wrap up your comments and they go on for another 30 before they're asked to sit down. The change here is just to move that gentle interruption from the chair to three minutes instead of waiting for four and a half. So there's no action taken still until the same five minutes. I have a comment. Okay.
 As I mentioned, I think two weeks ago, I'm very concerned about the sign-up process. And I continue to be concerned about that because of my previous experience at some of these various state and federal meetings. It's clunky. It doesn't allow really last-minute folks to come in and sign up. It's not an easy situation to...
 I also question our timing if we choose to vote on this tonight. We've had very little public comment since we have done our Zoom meetings, relatively speaking. And I would really like to hear from the public about these changes. And we just have not gotten that kind of interaction and comment that we have in other issues in the past before we started doing the Zoom meetings.
 And I do believe, I mean, that's one of the wonderful things about this great town is that we have so many passionate and engaged people. And I really do not want to do anything to limit their ability to provide us with their information, their perspective, their opinions, their recommendations. And especially right now, since we're not having very much public dialogue.
 So I just think, I know our intentions have been good and I know that there's been a lot of work that's been put into this and I commend everybody for their efforts, but I think the timing is terrible and I really think we should hold off on this item. Thank you. Okay. Mayor? Yes.
 Thank you. I wanted to take a moment to thank Councilmember Turk for acknowledging where the intentions are on this ordinance. For my part, and I can only speak for myself, even another two weeks doesn't feel like it is a mistake that happens.
 I can support that along with the consensus of the rest of the council. I don't feel strongly in any way that these rules need to be adopted tonight. I do feel that it's important that we adopt them before we resume public meetings if we're going to adopt them at all for the reasons I stated earlier. I would like at this time to ask Keith Macedo
 our information technology director for the city to speak a little bit about how they think a signup process may work, because I think some of the, obviously the experiences and the concerns that have risen from them are legitimate. And I think that numerous council members have stated that they hope a signup procedure would help with some of those issues. And so I'd like to invite Keith to talk a little bit about what their current thinking is.
 Thank you, Councilman Petty. Just kind of a reference to a brief conversation we had a couple weeks ago yesterday
 We did create a laser fish form, kind of a draft, IT staff working along with Kara and the city clerk's office to kind of address public comment issues. When the COVID started ramping up in the area, so we were really looking for an additional method for the citizens to respond.
 request comments to meetings. So I was kind of in draft form. We didn't continue with that, but we did create one that would be a good starting point for this process.
 I apologize, somebody just walked into my office. So we would have to make some tweaks to that. One of them would be adding a drop down list for what item, whether that was a consent item, whether it was new business or old business. And then we'd have some free form text on what exactly that you would want to comment on which item. So we could kind of have a standard template
 that we could use for city council meetings where people could request to speak and that could be published prior to the meeting, could be published during the meeting. We could have an iPad or some type of device at the city council chambers to where obviously we have to take care of
 sanitizing that device in our current situation but be able to have people uh enter their information at that and then we would have some staff member be able to kind of monitor that and see who was requesting to speak but i do think that we have a technology that could be used a laptop tablet mobile phone to allow our citizens and the public to request to speak if needed
 And Keith, the process you described, the technology you just described, would this form be accessible to members of the public from their own devices? That's correct, yes. It would be publicly accessible. And other than staff time, there is labor with our staff to configure it, but there's no additional cost to the tool. Thank you. Thank you, Keith. I think that's meaningful for the council.
 I do want to say in good faith that I'm personally sensitive to the concern. And if the council does implement a sign-up procedure, if it doesn't work, I hope the staff will bring us that feedback as clear as possible so that we can react to it. Mayor Jordan, may I say something just for one moment? So thank you so much, Keith Macedo, for bringing up sign-up.
 that LaserFish form that our IT department worked directly with me on completing and creating. So that has been published to our site. So if you go in and take a look at the city of Fayetteville.gov, I'm going to go ahead and share my screen with you. Okay, as you can see, if you go to the city's homepage, you go to government, you can go to City Clerk Treasurer. That's going to take you to this homepage. And then you're going to click on submit a comment.
 this button and it's going to take you directly to this submit public comment and I believe this has been live since around the end of March 1st of April and I can get that specific date and
 The reason we brought it live to remind everyone, we needed a registration process so that we would include the Zoom bombing that happened when we first started Zooming. So this process allowed people to have a way to say that they wanted to go ahead and sign up. And so that's how people get in right now in order to be able to raise their hands to speak via Zoom. What other comments do we have in the council?
 Yeah, I just want to say thank you for Keith and
 Kira for helping us get this technology going. I do think, I know we had, there is a lot going on, but I think this is a good time to start working on this because of the situation. We're not in person. So it kind of gives, gives time for people to, to interact digitally and they're having to interact digitally. Hopefully there's
 There's ways where people could get help if they needed help on the digital side, if they could call the clerk's office, which I'm sure you do take and can help people fill that form in. So just I feel like this is a great time to start a new process that's fully digital and then can translate to helping us get into a new type of sign-in sheet.
 And also just being able to record the people who are coming to speak. A lot of times I can't hear people say their name or their address, and I would love for that to be part of the record. So I think that gives us an opportunity to spell people's names correctly and document that. Could I just add also that it seems like you could even have a hybrid approach. You could do as much sign up as you can digitally and then sign.
 after the mayor has invited all those who have digitally signed up, then the people who are here and didn't do that could be asked to speak as well, just to see how that could be implemented. Thank you for pointing that out, Susan. I think that was the intent we discussed at the committee, and I'm sorry if I didn't make that clear in my summary. What other comments do we have? Okay. Well, let's take a little public comment.
 Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute time limit. Unless City Council, by a majority vote, gives you more time. Or if City Council has questions for you, please stay on the topic, which is I'm in the orders of order and procedure. And please no rude behavior and give us your name and address and who would like to be first. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council?
 I have a brief question and it's for Council Member Turk. I would just like to be explicit. I heard what you said earlier about tabling and so I wanted to ask you from a position of trying to garner goodwill. If we were to table this today for another two weeks and the ordinance were to return to our business at our next meeting more or less under the same conditions
 After tabling, could you see yourself supporting the ordinance? Thank you, Council Member Petty. I guess I would really, my motion would be to table it until we have a public meeting again. I really, we're not, as you see, we didn't have any public comment on this tonight. I think the public is intimidated with our process now. I've heard that from many people.
 not just my age or older, but also younger people. So I think there's significant obstacles to their participation. And I would really like to hear from them about these revisions to the procedures, to the process. I also feel that, yes, we've had very long meetings in the past,
 And, but that's kind of what we signed up for. That's why we ran for office. We ran understanding that Fayetteville is very passionate, very vocal. Our citizens are very engaged. We're not like other cities in Arkansas. And that's a good thing. But it also can be exhausting. I get tired too. So I'm just, I just think it's part of us. Yeah.
 So my motion to table would be until we had a public in-person meetings again. Thank you for explaining that. I appreciate it. And I would second that if it were to come about. Well, we're on the resolution now. Are we going to hold it two weeks? I guess my question is, are we going to hold it two weeks? Are we going to vote on it tonight or not?
 Or do we have a do we have a do okay so Teresa you have a motion and Mark you have a second to hold this until the public can come back to City Hall if I understand that correct. Is that right? That's correct. Okay just trying to get my bearings there. All right what discussion do we have on that?
 I'm definitely okay tabling it, but not indefinitely or until people can come back. I kind of agree with Council Member Petty that I would like this in place when people come back. People have been discussing about this. I just don't see the purpose of waiting indefinitely. Well, okay. What other comments do we have? None. Okay.
 Okay, this is a motion to table it till we get, till City Hall basically is opened again. Does that summarize a fair enough summary? Yes, that is, Mayor. All right, thank you. All right, would you please, what, Teresa was, made the motion, and Mark, you made the second, correct? Correct. Okay, Karen, that's, all right, would you please go to the right? Scroggins? No. Bunch? No.
 Bunch? Tirk? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? No. Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. And I don't know if you got Councilmember Bunch's vote. It failed anyway, regardless. I voted no. Okay, well there you go. I voted no. Mayor, I would move we pass the resolution.
 Okay. Second? Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. All right. Any final comments from the council before we vote?
 Mayor, just the same final comment I think I made at the last meeting, that this is something that gets reviewed at the first meeting of January every year. And I think that going ahead and giving it a trial now gives us a chance to know how it's going to work before we get to our next natural review point anyway. If we don't like how it goes, we can change it again, and we'll have that opportunity in January. Okay. Any other final comments? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Okay thank you all. Moving along to number two.
 And again, Mayor, this was one where the original thoughts from the city council was to table it for a couple weeks. However, it was tabled to July 7th. On the other hand, on this particular case, I believe that Robert Rhodes, who's representing the applicant,
 who was going to get a bill of assurance has actually not been able to do that yet and actually would like to leave it tabled until the 7th i hope garner's here and maybe he can fill in some details i'm not really sure of so we could leave it here or do you want to table it it doesn't need to be table it's already been tabled to the seventh they'd have to remove from the table but i just want to make sure that garner has the same understanding that i have that
 or Jonathan, whoever's there, that the applicant really would like to have it tabled until July 7th. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I did get an email from Robert Rhodes requesting that it be tabled until July 7th.
 In that case, then, Mayor, we just, the City Council doesn't need to do anything. Just leave it where it is, right? And it will be tabled until the 7th, as was done two weeks ago. Okay, so I guess I would ask, is anyone in disagreement with that? Okay. Since I can't see anybody. Okay, we'll leave it right here until July 7th. Okay. The next one is an ordinance. Whoops, sorry, sorry, sorry. I left one out. No, I did not. Under new business. Oops, I missed one. Okay.
 oh i'm sorry yes indeed an artist rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 20-70 76 for approximately 4.84 acres located at 3010 west old farmington road from rsf 8 residential single family agent eight units per acre to nc neighborhood conservation i will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading
 Okay, well I guess you just read it. I guess you just read that. Okay. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes its own classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre, to NC, neighborhood conservation.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. It is now on the third reading. Okay, official. All right, Gardner. Mayor, I don't have anything to add to the presentation two weeks ago. I believe Mr. Teague is here, the applicant's representative. I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 Okay. Mr. Teague, would you like to speak to the council? Okay. All right. I'm going to open it up for public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Well, I guess that's all changed. No, it hasn't changed. We'll know next week. What? Hang on. Okay. Well, all right, Brian, why don't you go ahead and speak for the council?
 Oh, thank you, Mayor. Yeah, this is Brian Teague, and I'm representing the property owner and be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have for Mr. Teague? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is the, any final comments from the council? All right, Carrie, would you please call the roll? Did we have a motion and second to move to the third rating? No, we're ready to move. Okay. Scroggins? Yes. Okay.
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay. Now, let's see. We have an ordinance to amend Ordinance Number 6250 by amending its Section 2 to delay its effective date until December the 5th, 2020. Teresa, I believe you would like to not table this amendment.
 and you would like to make it effective on the 1st of July.
 Is that correct? That's correct, Mayor. Last night we had an Environmental Action Committee meeting, and unanimously they voted to go ahead and enact the polystyrene ban, effectively July 1st. It made me really rethink and reconsider delaying that. They made some very good points about why we should go ahead and enact it now, maybe
 we've already delayed it uh two months and maybe this would be unfair to some of the other businesses that have already made the switch they've made change to compostable materials or plastic and so they made some very good points and i guess i would like to withdraw this um if that's the proper procedure what you just need to do is move to table this particular proposed ordinance indefinitely
 Okay, I move to table this ordinance indefinitely. Do we have a second? Second. Okay. Any comments on it? I have a question, Mayor. Go on the table. Has your office received numerous comments about this? I know we got the email from one business owner. Have there been multiple issues? I've gotten three emails.
 Three businesses, and one of them was, well, I don't want to go into who the businesses were, but they said that they had already ordered their material and that it was their supply chain that now they would have to scrap everything that they bought and sell.
 I think was the compulsion. Basically that they were not able to satisfy the orders because of a delay with the supply chain. Yep, so those were the, there was I think three businesses. I think though that Mayor you would have the power to, and when you're administering this ordinance, that if someone, because of the COVID virus pandemic problems,
 has legitimately attempted to get all of the kind of styrofoam that they need, you might not have to give them. We don't really have a willful neglect in here for a standard, but I don't think that if it's an impossible thing for a franchisor to get, that the franchisor should use the
 non-styrofoam materials that they have, but be able to continue to use their others at least until they can get the replacement for the styrofoam from the franchisor that they must buy from. So what you're saying, they would use up their stock of styrofoam and then change over when they do a new order? I think that you are granted some discretion here if it is impossible, basically,
 for this franchisee to get the proper materials. Okay. What do you think about that, everybody? My concern was that the notice that we'd had might be the tip of the iceberg for a much bigger problem. If you only had three companies complain, then I suspect that...
 uh it's not as bad as as i might have imagined and as my clothes will testify i've been eating out a lot since the uh the pandemic started and i'm amazed at how many people have even in this managed to to switch over and it's been it's been kind of neat to watch the transition as the time time has come up so i think that i'm seeing lots of our restaurants who are able to to get this and and meet the requirements so
 Okay. Anyone have any, what do y'all think? I know you've got opinions. I heard several tonight. So what do you think about that? Teresa?
 One of the issues that we discussed last night was that, just kind of like Kit said, if their supply chain does not provide for that particular size of beverage container, I think one of the letters that we got said that they received the order for two other sizes. So as long as they're making a good faith effort to try and comply,
 I think we should go ahead and have this be implemented July 1st and not penalize these other businesses and establishments that have made the changeover. So I'm just asking here. So if I get it, we may have more than three. And they know that I have, I can give them more time. So I would basically tell them that they could use their stock that they have
 and make a good faith effort to replace it when they order again? Well, I think that they need to show that they have acted in good faith already. Okay. And usually this will probably only affect the franchise businesses which are required to buy their utensils from the boss on down the supply line.
 Now, I think that that material is still going to be available because this is a national chain. And so maybe in this region they don't have it, but certainly I'm sure in other regions they would have it where styrofoam has also been outlawed. So this should be a short chain that you would give them there, but you might be generous and give them a little bit of slack. Okay. I'm not a real big fan of polystyrene, but anyway. Okay. Then I'll...
 If it's all right with everybody, I'll make a judgment call on this thing. Great. Okay, thank you. Thank you. That's one out of eight, Mayor. Okay, I'm gonna assume that this is okay. So we're going to table this particular ordinance. We have a motion and a second to table it indefinitely. Any final comments from the council? Okay.
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. All right. And thank you, Teresa, for sponsoring that. All right. Number two, a resolution to approve change order number two,
 to the contract with NAB Host Construction Corporation for the pre-construction services related to the replacement parking deck for the Cultural Arts Corridor Project at no additional cost to the city. I wanna repeat that, at no additional cost to the city. So this is something that's relatively rare. Wade, would you have that one? Wade, if you're speaking, we can't hear you, try again.
 uh-huh well wade's there i just wade try try again okay wade can you reselect your microphone which microphone you're using keith's down there to help you hang on can you hear me now we got you yes you can yes all right great yes yes we can hear you all right thank you keith all right
 So thanks mayor and council. Uh, yeah, so in february this year selection committee chose nab holds over several interested firms Uh, their selection was based mainly on experience and also the efficiencies of combining The arts corridor project and the deck parking, uh the experience we talked about, you know they've got 14 parking decks under their hat and uh
 Northwest Arkansas Regional Airport is probably the most recent that we're all familiar with. But some of the efficiencies we talked about we're realizing tonight with no pre-construction fees because the efficiencies of both projects means that they can waive the remobilization fees on the Civic Plaza would be eliminated. Right.
 they've reduced the general conditions and general requirements since they'll have a project manager, a supervisor, field offices, all the temporary facilities. So we won't have to duplicate those fees and also a voluntary fee reduction overall from a four and a half percent to two and a half percent because there will be more volume. And so anyway, the total incentives are close to $400,000.
 of to be able to combine these two projects together. And so with that, I will take any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Wade on this? Okay, let's open it up for some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's five minute time limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time. Or if city council has questions for you, please stay on the topic, which is an Abholts Construction Corporation change order number two,
 and no rude behavior please give us your name and address and who would like to be first all right i'm going to bring it back to the council and so reading yeah no this is resolution i'm sorry we approve the resolution okay do we have a second who did the second wow okay thank you kyle we have a motion in a second to pass a resolution any final comments to council
 I just want to thank NABHOLTS for this opportunity and this generosity. We appreciate that. Yes, absolutely. Thank you, Sylvia. All right, Caravage, please call the roll. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Petty.
 I believe Council Member Petty indicated he had to step away from it. Okay. All right, number three, a resolution to approve the vacation of $106,000.
 54.22 square foot portion of a tree preservation easement located southwest of North Gregg Avenue and West Lawson Street in exchange for the owner's offer to dedicate an additional 443.34 square feet of tree preservation easement. Yes, Mayor. I believe that our city forester, Melissa Evans, is here to do the staff's presentation.
 Okay, but Melissa. Yes, mr. Mayor. This is a project that came through for development review in 2018 and has been newly constructed in 2019 and 2020 Since that construction has taken place the owner would like to place a storage building on the property that's 12 by 24 feet and
 and wants to place it in a portion or a portion of that shed to be placed in part of the tree preservation easement. This part is in a clearing in that easement. There is some overhead canopy. There are no trees in that portion of the easement that he wants to vacate for the storage shed.
 And to do that, he is willing to give some additional easement at the north side of this tree preservation easement, which is more than double the area that he wants to vacate. In that portion, there are two tree trunks located in that section along with additional canopy. So staff is in support of this tree preservation easement vacation. And I'll be happy to answer any questions you have.
 what questions do we have from the council okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak five minute time limit unless city council by a majority vote gives you more time or if city council has questions for you please stay on the topic which is the vacation of southwestern north greg avenue and west lawson street hog trough
 Thank you, so stay on that topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first? All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. Move we approve the resolution. Do we have a second? Second. Okay, we have most in the second. Any final comments from the council? Okay, Tara, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay.
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty?
 Okay. I guess he's still stepped away. All right. Let's go on to number four. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7100 for approximately 0.16 acres located at 514 East Johnson Street from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas
 Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map Exhibit A and the legal description Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Garth. Yes, Mayor and Council. This is a fairly straightforward request that came to you in a circuitous route. It's located between Olive and Mission, north of Johnson Street. The property owner wanted to construct an accessory dwelling unit. As you remember, non-conforming lots are allowed by our development code.
 to build a home and accessory building. But the problem here was that the lot is 150 feet deep, 50 feet wide, and has a significant tree on it and the property owner wanted to save the tree. So they wanted to put it within the 15 foot rear yard setback which is required in the RSF4.
 As you can see, the surrounding properties are all zoned RSF4, but the predominant lot sizes are conforming with RSF8 and are smaller than are allowed under the RSF4.
 It's designated as residential neighborhood area. We encourage a variety of residential building types, increased density where it's appropriate. It gets a high infill matrix score and the proper zoning is consistent with 2040 plan goals. And no issues were identified to date and planning commission and staff recommend approval.
 I believe Kristen Knight is representing the applicant and Ms. Knight has requested sharing a map with you. Okay. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Oh, okay. Kristen, do you have anything for the council? Yes, I heard that in the, are you able to hear me? Yeah, I can. Okay, I heard in the agenda session that there was some questions about the lot sizes in the neighboring area.
 parcels and so I was going to share an image that I put together that of course now I'm struggling to share with you. That's how it was going to happen. Okay are you able to see this image? I am not. Okay I apologize I have it right here. How about now?
 yes there we are so this neighborhood was developed in the early 1900s and has a very consistent development pattern and character that it's not consistent with the rsf4 zoning applied post development and this immediately adjacent area as shown in the image that i'm sharing nearly 75 of the lots are non-conforming due to either lot width or lot area an rsf8 zoning would make this parcel
 within three inches of a conforming lot and allow further development of the lot to be in keeping with the character of the neighborhood and the development patterns found in the historic district.
 The purpose statement for the zoning code for this area would be the RSF 8 residential district is designed to bring historic, plated development into conformity and to allow for the development of new single-family residential areas similar in lot size, density, and land use as the historical neighborhoods in the downtown area. I think this is a perfect example of the application of this RSF 8 zoning.
 With that, I would respectfully request the council's approval to rezone this parcel. And while I have the opportunity, ask that maybe in the near future, the staff or council members look into the surrounding area. If we are encouraging this infill development and accessory dwelling units, this is a prime neighborhood for that sort of development in keeping with the city plan 2040. And as you can see, this would take a lot of development approval to make some of those happen. Thank you.
 So I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Okay, what questions do we have? I have a question. Okay. I didn't quite understand about the tree that Garner was talking about. Could you please explain how the tree factors into the RSF8 request?
 There are in most of this neighborhood some really large established trees. We have a 24-inch maple and a 22-inch pine that we're trying our best to work around as well as an existing thousand square foot house and a carport that's been there since the first aerial photographs in the early 60s. So...
 This change in zoning changes the back setback, which is allowing us to use an area that doesn't have any significant trees and preserve the trees that and really work with the natural amenities on the site, which is really what the if we go back to the accessory dwelling unit code is what is encouraged.
 councilmember the uh rsf4 and rsf8 setbacks are very very similar with exception the rear setback the rsf8 has a five foot rear setback rsf4 has a 15 foot rear setback so by putting the accessory dwelling in it further to the rear they can save some trees that are between the the main house and the back of the lot thank you both for that explanation that helps me out quite a bit thank you
 okay what are the questions do we have in the council okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak five minute time limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time or if city council has questions for you stay on the topic which is the rezoning of johnson street gold wash and uh um no rude behavior please give us your name and address and who would like to be first
 okay i'm going to bring you back to the council which wishes the council this is an ordinance did the per the count the council people of this board hear from anyone i didn't hear from anybody do we have enough do you think enough time has been given for them to get their letters and give feedback word two correct i believe that's ward two i didn't hear anything from anyone okay
 Do you think we need to give people a little bit more time in that area? I mean, I don't know. Mark, what do you think? I would rather give more time. But yeah, I think so. I really think people are not figuring out how to be interactive these days.
 i'm up for holding it here to give give that group a little bit more time i mean i i appreciate the explanation of the tree and everything i think that's good and um it seems like i mean i haven't gotten any any emails but i'd like to hold it here okay so you want to hold it here on the second reading mark yes okay um first
 Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, it is first reading. That first. Yeah. You want to hold it on the first? Yes. Thank you. All right. So we'll leave it right here. Okay. Number five is Matthew. Okay. We'll just leave it. All right. Number five. An ordinance rezoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7080 for approximately 0.20 acres located at
 360 North Arkansas Avenue from RMF 40 residential multifamily four units per acre to DG downtown general. Kid. Be it ordained by the city council or the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas.
 Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the properties on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre, to DG Downtown General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Thank you.
 Okay, Garner. Yes, Mayor. Was I successful in sharing? Yes. So this is a one lot rezoning request. It's located, it faces Arkansas Avenue between Reagan and Lafayette. The lot has an alley to the rear. The surrounding zoning is RMF 40. Downtown General is located.
 east of Gregg and south of LA 333, which is, but none of it is adjacent to this parcel. The adopted plans, city neighborhood area, of course, you know, encourages a variety of uses and residential building types and increased density where appropriate. Gets a very, very high infill matrix score, about as high as you can get.
 um there are there are a lot of issues associated with this request as i'm sure you've heard um from staff's perspective it's an ideal location for the proposed use if you really think about proximity and reduction in trips and convenience for um
 to take advantage of a campus, there's no better location than this location. It's been used for a fraternity in the past intermittently. And when it hasn't been used for fraternity, it was predominantly student housing. The existing lot size density requirements are absolutely obsolete. And I can't emphasize this more. I checked this afternoon,
 And the last five fraternities and sureties that were built all had to have variances from Board of Adjustment. So if you think about it, this size fraternity could not possibly locate here if they had to purchase an acre of ground with land prices unless they were extremely fortunate in terms of wealth.
 Pass variances were granted also on this lot. In fact, in 2008, the Board of Adjustment did grant a variance from the one acre lot size, but there's another provision in the ordinance, which is that it requires 500 square feet of land area per resident for a fraternity or sorority.
 other issues that were discussed at the planning commission this is of course a very very important historical street uh that can't be over emphasized and there are design issues and i know at the agenda committee uh council member petty asked jonathan kurth for uh examples of
 what other university communities are doing to make sure that there's a graceful interface between the community and the university. And they're all over the country. That memo that Jonathan wrote was sent to you this afternoon. I thought this is not part of the zoning, but the applicant did share with the Planning Commission a proposed zoning plan
 design for the fraternity. It shows a three story building. The Planning Commission recommended denial of the request. They did say if approved, they suggested additional design controls. Staff recommends approval because we think this use is appropriate on this lot.
 There are many issues as you will probably hear from the public, many of them are valid. There's a concern about the setback. The setback actually on the RMF 40 and the downtown general are now identical. And I know there's confusion about that because at one time,
 uh there the setback was 25 feet from the street but that has subsequently been changed i'd be happy to answer any questions i believe the applicant is represented by blake jorgensen okay blake do you want to speak to the council okay uh what questions does council have mayor question for garner um can do you have any information or insights into the the rationale
 for some of those zoning requirements that are very specific to Greek houses. What's why the 500 square feet in the one acre minimum, you know why those came about? I had, Council Member Smith, I had those very same questions. And that's why we actually pulled the staff reports on a number of the variances that went through the Board of Adjustment. And staff in 2008 took the position,
 that the requirement was invalid and recommended approval of the variance. That they took the position that fraternities and surreptitiorities in the zoning code are multifamily housing and it was, it actually created a hardship and they recommended approval,
 typically staff is reluctant to find it a hard show. Any other questions? Mayor? Yes. Thank you, Garner. And I appreciated Jonathan Kerr's report to us. I read it carefully.
 And I'm still interested in learning if there are other cities who have targeted signature streets themselves with design standards or design requirements. I'm curious about that because I think Arkansas Avenue is one of our signature streets. It's not just another street. It's special.
 Just like the view of Old Main that you can see from the entire length of the procession down Lafayette is special. It's unique in the city. And I do not have any per se problems with what the proposed zoning would allow in general, but Arkansas Avenue is special. And the
 I'm not going to oppose this over the uses or not over the density per se, although I do have some questions about it. But the form in terms of the way the buildings meet the street
 on Arkansas Avenue as they do today is something that I think is very important to preserve because Arkansas Avenue is special. And I mean this specifically in the way the buildings meet Arkansas Avenue and address it in terms of setbacks and landscaping and sidewalks and so on and so forth. I don't have the same concern.
 about side streets to nearly the same extent as I do about Arkansas Avenue proper. So I want to be transparent with the applicant because I think that goes to the basis of the appeal and the comments that the planning commission have made. And if this does stay on our agenda past tonight and staff is able to extend the research that's already taken place with some examples of other cities and what they've done on a,
 street-based program, I'd be curious to see it. So I'll just put that out there in the interest of being transparent about my current way of thinking. Austin, Texas has what is called a Great Streets Program. And it has mandatory provisions in it as well as incentive-based provisions. The mandatory provisions are based towards, are directed towards the city projects, meaning that the city does
 projects in the designated great streets, which is basically all of downtown Austin. They have to meet the great street standards, which means wider sidewalks and some special features. It has this incentive program for private development, meaning they get a density bonus if they meet the great street standards, if they're rebuilding the sidewalk in the street. So that's an example, but I think,
 street-based design standards are fairly common. Special, try to preserve the character of special streets. Thank you. It sounds like you get exactly what I'm curious about. I have a comment. Sure.
 I biked down Arkansas Avenue on Sunday and took a look at the area and the other surrounding buildings and it is historic. It is probably one of the most historic streets in Fayetteville and with the view that Councilmember Petty mentioned.
 I would ask that maybe a good way to go would be to ask the Historic District Commission, along with developmental staff, to really investigate how we could make Arkansas Avenue a historic street and provide specific protections for that street and the frontage in the future.
 because I do think it deserves special consideration. We've also had a tremendous amount of public concern about the building and the fronting of this fraternity house that I think should also be recognized. Thank you. Okay, you go. If this property were in the hands of the U of A, would we be able to tell them that we couldn't redo the three zone?
 What was the question? If the property was owned by the U of A, we would have to grant them the rezone. Is that correct? They would not be under our zoning requirements. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions?
 Mayor I just wanted to acknowledge that the applicant in all fairness I think missed the call earlier for introduction and has had their hand raised for a few minutes. Okay that'll be fine. Blake do you want to speak to the council? Can you hear me? Yep. Okay good. Yes I was trying to share my screen and yes this
 This obviously is a very important element to add to Arkansas Avenue. Hey Blake, this is Garner. I just, I was sharing and I just unshared so you should be able to do it now. Oh okay, great. I will switch that here in a second. Actually I'll do it right now just so we can tee it up in case there's some problems. Y'all need to see me, you need to see my screen here. Let's see, hold on real quick. I'm getting there.
 I was curious about the little creature in the back. Yeah, that's my son drew that. That's nice. Not for sale, but you know, he's only six. That's really cool. Can you see that? No, I can't. I see me and chief of staff and city attorney. Hold on. Let's try again. I feel like we're back to you again, buddy.
 Well, let me start. While I'm navigating this, I'm going to talk. We did issue a bill of assurance. And don't mind what you see on your screen. Just hear my voice while I get to this thing. We did issue a bill of assurance that namely addresses the setbacks. And I believe Kit has a copy of that. And let me see if I can't.
 You know, I understand there were some setbacks, concerns, and we see the, I want to really get to, let me ask you this, Kit, did you have, have you had an opportunity to show the bill of assurance? Unfortunately, I have not. We were working on Matthew's ordinance basically all afternoon, and so I wasn't able to look and find your thing on the email yet.
 And the ordinance will have to be slightly changed to reflect that you're submitting a bill of assurance. So I don't think we should have a final vote today on this. Sure, I'm gonna do something extra here and try to, man, I have a presentation from the architect that really helps try to exemplify what we're trying to get at here. And I don't understand why it's not sharing my screen right now.
 I guess this is why the Planning Commission probably didn't have an opportunity to give us an opportunity to say, hey, this is what we're trying to present. This is what we think we could do with our project. But this is where I kind of get, let's see if I can do this. Blake, when you can, maybe can you email it to? Oh, yeah, I can email it right now for sure. Just email it to the clerk or something? Yes. Hold on real quick.
 Hold on, let's try this. Can you see that? Yes. OK, we'll start with this. Let's punt and go back a few minutes here. I apologize. It's a late night. We understand everyone's getting a little bit tired here. I do have two other participants with our team, a representative from SIGGAP, which is Phillip Knight and the architect,
 Melissa Scopac and what we've done is we've tried to take a picture of every structure along Arkansas Avenue and show that there is some due process to where the architect has said here's the elements of the street going from north to south. You have the 410 Arkansas Avenue with a traditional red brick heading south 402 the plank siding at the Latter-day Saints structure
 And I'm going through this a little bit rough because I want to save time for both the architect and the owner to try to weigh in on what we're trying to present. But one thing we did lack at the planning commission and that I'll chalk it up to maybe the zoom meetings and whatnot. But as y'all know, you know, we've been doing this for 35 years. Typically we come to city council with a very concise direction from the planning commission.
 And I think, you know, just given the nature of things here and there, we didn't have an opportunity to get any feedback from them of saying, you know, here's our structure. What do y'all feel like is wrong with the fabric of it? And on our side, hey, here's why we did what we did do. And we felt like we tried to incorporate the traditional red brick, the multi-story columns and the plank siding and...
 And we went through basically from north to south and said, okay, you know, we have the 370 Arkansas Avenue with multi-story columns. Here's our structure. The house, the very due south of it is 358 Stillwell. We've worked with them namely because they have a tree that is on their north property, which is our south property.
 And, and the historical context of our structures has been there for a very long time. It had a basement. And the original, this is this is kind of where, you know, this is the zoom problems here we are. You know, the property has been there for a long time and we're trying to preserve the typical outline of where it was. And so what plenty commission did see was a structure that.
 three feet off the right-of-way. Well, we arrived at that maybe ill-willed because when I say we, I should probably step back and let the architect, KSQ, and the owner, obviously Sigma Phi, they came in several years ago and they got a board of adjustments to have their fraternity on this site.
 Then, once they got that, they, you know, in the previous past years, they decided to renovate the structure and go with this new site plan. And through that process, they were under the impression that they had development rights to build this structure. Get to current day standards. We come in. We think we're going for a grading permit and done.
 Obviously, due to the zoning, we don't have that opportunity to develop due to the landmass not being large enough. So we step into this rezoning thinking it should be fairly easy.
 We understand that now we have some elements to work out, but we do want to open this thing up as a conversation. We don't want it to be, here's what we're presenting. We're not giving. You guys give us some feedback. We want to have a conversation. And I think that's where we're at tonight. I want to leave these slides up. I want to pan through them as the other members of our team do.
 converse with you all so that we have a dialogue because not judging, but that didn't occur at Planning Commission and that's why we appealed and we hope that we can have a conversation with everyone at City Council and staff and say hey, here's what we'd like to present,
 And we want y'all's feedback. So given the, hopefully I can keep this screen up while y'all can allow the other two members of our team to kind of go in this a little bit deeper. You know, we have an architect that can elaborate on this. Y'all know me from the past, I'm just an engineer. I can talk about, you know,
 2D water lines, sewer lines, but the vertical components, I'll leave it to the experts. So with that, I'd like to keep that screen up there. If I can't, I'm glad I could at least get in y'all's hands. And also, yes, the bill of assurance that was presented, I understand y'all have a lot on your plate. I can share that as well, but it basically says we're going to ensure that we'll have a 15-foot front setback
 a 15 foot rear and seven foot sides. And that is, uh, that basically, and I think Garner can weigh in on this, that it, it, it meets or exceeds the current zoning standards, which for the arm at 40, we could, there is a bill to zone that we are allowed to, um, you know, move our site or, uh, our building in and around on. We have listened to the neighbors as much as we can. Um,
 And if I need to share that bill of assurance, I'm certainly happy to, but I think the, obviously I think the context of the streetscape is more important. So I'd like to see if I can't turn it over to the other members of our team. And I appreciate y'all's time tonight. Blake, Melissa Scopac is up first, if Melissa wants to go. Yes, Melissa.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council members for allowing me to speak on behalf of Sigma Phi Epsilon. I'm Melissa Scopac with KSQ Design, the architect for the proposed SIGGAP building. The reason we are discussing this evening was encouraged and supported by planning staff.
 From the beginning, our design goal was to create a meaningful contribution to the neighborhood. We have strived to accommodate the programmatic needs of Sigma Phi Epsilon within an economical, simple design that minimizes the impact of the massing and height of the new building. The materials we chose are traditional brick and plank siding to reflect the history of Sigma and the residential qualities of the neighborhood.
 The doors and windows are intentionally kept to a modest size and a proportion to create privacy to strengthen the residential aesthetic. The design incorporates three prominent columns at the front facing Old Main on the University of Arkansas campus. The columns reflect the Greek tradition and are inspired by the three pillars of SIGGAP, virtue, diligence, and brotherly love.
 Throughout the design process, we have worked with SIGEP to create a simple and balanced design that stays within the zoning requirements as much as possible and adds to the rich history and diversity of Arkansas Avenue. Most of the response and opposition of this rezoning assert misunderstood information on the design of the proposed building. The property has been functioning as a fraternity for 35 years, with 12 of those years being under Sigma Phi Epsilon.
 The Fayetteville zoning code for RMF 40 allows for unit 26, which is a multifamily dwellings or fraternity within the zone.
 the same information is also stated for downtown general rmf 40 requires one acre for a fraternity which 360 arkansas avenue our property does not have in the provided email from uh jeff block property owner for 370 arkansas avenue the three fraternities that reside also on arkansas avenue
 Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity resides on a sixth of an acre. The Kappa Alpha fraternity resides on a half of an acre. And the farmhouse fraternity resides on a third of an acre. All these fraternities are not one acre, but were approved to be built within this zone. I know they may be under Arkansas, but we're still on the same street.
 The current site plan and build assurance show that the SIGGAP proposed building will meet the front, side, and rear setbacks. Setbacks for RMF 40 and DG have a 0-foot to 25-foot build-to zone from the property line, not to the curb. With the appropriate setback on the front, the proposed building meets the RMF 40 building height regulations and fire code requirement of 30 feet in a portion of the front.
 The reason for the rezone is to accommodate the land area per dwelling. Based on provided information from concerned citizens, most fraternities on Arkansas Avenue do not meet the land area per dwelling requirement. With the walkability established by campus and the city, parking on site is not a great concern. As mentioned during the agenda session last week, SIGGAP has the opportunity to provide money to a pot for downtown general parking.
 Each fraternity member is also a student of the University of Arkansas and has access to campus parking. Scooter and bike parking will be provided on-site to promote sustainability within the neighborhood. Fraternities like SIGEP provide members with the feeling of belonging, appreciation of community, and intimate connections during the ambiguous college years.
 A sense of belonging is a human need. College is not easy and SIGGET provides necessities to help their members grow to their destined positions. A new residence on their property in Arkansas Avenue, like those granted to the other three fraternities on the avenue will be their home and safe place. A fraternity can play a critical role promoting mental health and establish lifelong patterns of healthy behavior, which is part of developing innovators and leaders.
 We are in a time in history where a sense of belonging and positive mental health are required to make it through the complicated college years. Thank you. Thank you. Blake, how much more of a presentation do you have? Well, I'm not sure if Phillip Ignite still has his hand raised, but hopefully seeing the illustration of the other structures juxtaposed to our proposed,
 allows us to open up a dialogue. If you see a hand raised for Phillip Knight, hopefully he gets a chance to speak. If not, we certainly want to entertain the conversation here tonight. So thank you very much. Okay, what's the wishes of the council? I'd like to know. You want to hear from Mr. McKnight or what? I mean, I don't think this is, I think this is going to be back to the council in two weeks.
 So go ahead, Mr. McBride. Go ahead and I'll give you about five minutes here. Very generous. Thank you, Mayor Jordan and Fayetteville City Council for allowing me to speak. I am Phillip McKnight. I live at 1969 West Archer in the city of Fayetteville. I'm currently on the Alumni Board Association for the SIGGAP fraternity and have served in different capacities for over 25 years and have served on the National Board as Regional Vice President.
 We are presenting this project to the City Council for approval. It is our hope that you will allow us to rebuild our fraternity house that was on the same site. Based on previous understanding and conversation with the Building Commission, we demolished the old house to make way for our new home. In 2008, the City approved the lot to house a fraternity, and we purchased the lot building at that time with the intent to rebuild it at a later date.
 In 2015, we worked with City Planning Department and the Fire Department Chief to determine the suitability of our building to the site. At that time, the building was reviewed and the Planning Department asked that we move the building to within three feet of the property line. The Fire Department also requested that we limit the height of the building to 30 feet due to the fact that the ladder truck could not drive down Arkansas Avenue. We have made that adjustment as recommended from the Fire Department to the plans.
 Go forward to 2020. After demolishing our fraternity house, we proposed a plan that incorporated the comments from the 2015 City Planning Department and Fire Chief. The current Planning Commission expressed concern about the building being within three foot of the property line. The other concern was the setback on the side of the building that is adjacent to the neighbor's large oak, south of the lot.
 After the initial meeting, the architect, along with the help of the engineering firm, adjusted not only the setback from the front property line to 15 feet, but we also shifted the building to ensure construction would not get into the roots of the oak tree. The original building had a full basement with a concrete wall that prevented any roots from the oak tree to develop into our lot. We confirmed this with an overlay of the old building to the new building, and the roots would not be impacted.
 We also do not want the chance of negatively impacting the Oak Tree. Adjusting location of the new house caused on-site parking to be eliminated. We have researched this adjustment to determine if there is plenty of parking via a parking deck for student vehicles that are within walking distance of the new facility. We will, however, have parking for scooters and bikes on the property.
 The new building was designed to enhance Arkansas Avenue. The classic red brick facade emulates historic farmhouse property, the new Kappa Alpha order fraternity and the former Sigma Nu fraternity. The ionic columns provide the perfect tie-in to the rest of the buildings on Arkansas Avenue. This facility will also have on-site management with the resident scholar slash ADA department. This resident scholar will be tasked with not only supporting students,
 By the way, the students just completed their 20th semester with a GPA of over 3.15. You also help with the studies, but also the management of student activities. Sigma Phi Epsilon is consistently in the top three year after year at the University of Arkansas. Thank you. You've got about one minute to finish up. All right. Thanks, sir. This facility will be substance-free facility and any events will mirror the U of A policies for events.
 We are merely asking the City Council to allow us to rebuild our fraternity house, a house we believed previously had been approved by city leadership. Thank you. Thank you. All right, let's take some public comment. I think I already laid the ground rules out, didn't I? Yeah. Okay. Maureen Hogan is up. All right, Maureen. I'm sorry. Can you hear me now? I can. You can? Okay. I can hear you.
 This is Maureen Hogan Block. I wanted to first thank you for your work and your patience and for reading all the very passionate letters from the neighbors who are opposed to the building that is proposed to loom over the senior walk, although I see they are redesigning it as we speak. It is not compatible with the area.
 The question before you today is whether or not you want to allow spot zoning for an incompatible building and that it should be approved for the small lot at 360 Arkansas Avenue, which is 0.2 acres. The building they removed was about 4,000 square feet. They are replacing it with 14,000.
 It's hard to divorce the decision from the many issues that are arising concerning the fraternity and the unneighborly behavior this particular fraternity has exhibited over many years. And your primary concern hopefully will be not to lose a beautiful historic area that attracts tourism to Fayetteville overall.
 But if you need to just consider the data, please refer to the charts on Jeff Block's letter from last week that had charts at the bottom that proves that the proposed 14,000 square foot building does not fit on the 0.2 acre lot.
 City approval means either the city or the university will have to commit to building new larger sewer access along Arkansas Avenue or the alley behind the fraternity which I see you had a number on that alley and they will have to address the ongoing water drainage issues in this area
 It also means that the city will be accepting at least the loss of eight mature trees as they dig down. To say that they had a basement on that much smaller building is not the same thing as digging down right next to a hundred year old tree.
 And the lot line, so close to the lot line, when the buildings are on the other side is brick, means some fire safety issues. I don't know what the code is exactly.
 There is a very complicated trash pickup system, as Paula pointed out in her letter, and it means that there will be extra work and personnel that this city will pay for all the time to deal with the trash issue.
 The parking problems are exacerbated. The noise nuisances, the smell, the vermin from the trash, which they will probably want to relocate to Arkansas Avenue as there's not access to the back.
 then consider the work and expense the city takes on for the benefits of a fraternity that can, variance in hand, toss their plan and build an even bigger, more unreasonable building five stories tall with no setbacks at all. As my mother always said, when someone shows you who they are, believe them. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Mayor, next is Jack Otten. Okay, Jack, you have five minutes. Thank you. Can you hear me? I can. Great. Thank you for your time. I appreciate the council's time and I appreciate the ability for us to come together and speak about this issue. My name is Jack Otten. I'm at 4190 East Canvas in Fayetteville. I'm a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon and have been for over 30 years. I have served in various positions with the fraternity, including past alumni board president.
 And I can tell you that over the year, all fraternities, all Greek organizations have their challenges. We're no different. But what I will say is this. We have a tremendous amount of great young men that I've been 
 privileged to know over the last 20 years of my involvement with the alumni board and these kids are good i shouldn't say kids they're young men they're good neighbors they're good citizens you know philip alluded to their grade point earlier they've had 20 semesters of grade point over three point which is unheard of really in this day and age especially during my time when i was in school but that not being not being said there but uh one thing i would like to also point out is uh mr kenyon earlier when you're talking about i believe it was the matt the uh
 Matthew, he mentioned about doing the right thing. And I agree. You know, I think we all are charged with doing the right thing. And these young men have done a yeoman's work and done what has been asked of them for the last, I can't tell you how many years. And they, in good faith, they've done everything that's been asked of them. By doing the right thing is giving these guys an opportunity years ago. And here we are today trying to make that reality happen.
 And it's very difficult sometimes because fraternities get a bad rap. You know, I think that in this, well, in this instance, I heard something about being unneighborly. I would like to know what those examples are so we would have a chance to discuss and rebut those because our young men have been good neighbors. Our young men have done the right thing. You know, occasionally they may have some issues, but like I said, everyone will. You know, also I wanted to say that
 you're petty talked about arkansas avenue agreement more lived here for over 30 years i love arkansas avenue i was seeing old maine jack you're breaking up on us fraternity houses that are on there okay can you hear me now yeah i can hear you now but you keep coming in and out
 Okay, well, I'll try to wrap it up here. But, you know, Arkansas Avenue is special, we realize that. And that's why we've gone to the effort to make the design compatible. And especially when you look at you've got three other fraternities on that street, we've tried to emulate their designs.
 And we took what most people would consider an eyesore down. The old house was not attractive. It didn't fit with Arkansas Avenue. It didn't blend in with that special street that we have. And that's another reason why we wanted to make it
 and improvement, spend the money and resources and capital to improve Arkansas Avenue so it will stay that gem that we have in Fayetteville. So I understand that there's always gonna be concerns. I understand that there's always gonna be opposition. But at the end of the day, we are putting a beautiful building, a brand new building on a site that will do nothing but help the young men that live there have a better experience at college
 should hopefully improve property values with a new with a brand new facility i just would hope that you take mr stoll's uh recommendation of approval and grant us approval to build this house and i thank you for your time thank you who else would like to address mayor next on the floor is uh i don't have the person's name but the telephone number ends in 735 could you please announce yourself
 Yes, I'm Evelyn Stilwell. I'm the next-door neighbor to the proposed house. I want to recommend that...
 we consider that the lodestar of deciding to rezone anything should be general compatibility with the neighboring parcels and since we are zoned rmf 40 and our zoning requires an acre lot to house as many young men as they propose to house in this
 building which they're proposing 14 000 square feet as opposed to the 4 000 square foot structure that had previously been beautiful structure so the bulk of the building they plan to build there i appreciate the design elements they've tried to incorporate but it still stands out it has no parking
 the other structures in the neighborhood and on Arkansas Avenue are set back farther, which I think their building should be as well to fit in with the beauty and the grandeur. I believe that the vote should be no because I think to vote yes will change the look and the grandeur of the entrance and Arkansas Avenue which has been built to be beautiful for over 100 years.
 So that is, I'm Evelyn Stilwell, the neighbor at 358 Arkansas Avenue. Thank you. Thank you, Evelyn. Who else would like to address this? Next up is Jeffrey Block. Go ahead, Jeffrey. Can you hear me? I can. Great, thank you. My name is Jeff Block at 370 Arkansas Avenue, next door to the proposed SIGGAP House at 360. Okay.
 Mayor Jordan and City Council members, I want to thank you for the opportunity to speak with you tonight to express my strong opposition to the spot rezoning of 360 Arkansas Avenue, the SIGEP House from RM 40 to downtown general. Thank you for reviewing our previous letters to the Planning Commission.
 Just an aside, if there are new plans in regards to showing any setbacks, we have not seen them. We would love to get copies of that to be able to comment on it clearly. But to continue, in a January 12, 2016 memo, City Attorney Kit Williams crystallized our priority for rezoning. Quote,
 Probably the most important factor and underlying reason to have zoning in the first place is to promote compatibility among neighboring parcels. To cut down the average distance from the eastern edge of the senior walk to the front facade of the buildings on Arkansas Avenue from 30 feet to 3 feet for SIGEP is not compatible.
 to build with no side setbacks and very little on the front facade is not compatible. 14,000 plus square feet on 0.2 acres of land is not compatible. The end of the gracious, open, historic flow of the entrance to the University and Old Main with a blockade at 360 is not compatible.
 Another reason we are opposed to the downtown general spot rezoning is our past experience with SIGGAP. We feel an undue burden will be placed upon us with the downtown general rezoning. In the proposal, there are opinions regarding sewers. Blake Jorgensen states, quote, city water and city sewer are already available, unquote. But Jesse Master states, quote, sanitary sewer is not available to this parcel, unquote.
 To accommodate 14,000 square feet, there must be a connection built to either Reagan or Lafayette streets. This is an undue burden, excuse me, undue burden if the potential line were proposed through our land. This would substantially devalue our property if we were able, if we were to develop or sell it in the future. And aside, we are not selling or developing. Our past experience with SIGF makes us less than trusting in their actions.
 We have been good neighbors to SIGGAP, allowing them to use our driveway off Reagan to access 360's parking easier than through their tight entrance on Arkansas Avenue. But we informed them in the fall of 2019 we were rescinding permission and access would be closed off.
 We were then shortly thereafter presented with a letter from SIGGAP's attorney claiming that they had acquired a prescriptive easement across our property. They were claiming adverse possession. Details are in my letter from today, but the conclusion was SIGGAP did not have any claim to our property. The experience was extremely unpleasant and costly in legal fees. This brings us to today.
 I fear an undue burden of more legal wrangling and substantial legal fees to protect our property if downtown general is allowed. Therefore, please vote no on the spot rezoning request at 360 Arkansas Avenue.
 Allowing a massive building similar in bulk to the Frisco to be jammed into a tiny lot will forever change the gracefulness of Arkansas Avenue as the entrance to Old Main and the university and destroy a historic neighborhood.
 and i do want to comment also i don't quite understand the setback that they're talking about haven't seen the plans but is the setback from the curb or is it from the sidewalk and still the average setback from the sidewalk is 30 feet of the buildings along arkansas avenue this also is a three-story structure as we've seen jeff you've got about 30 seconds here sure
 Anyway, there are no setbacks on the sides from the plans that we have seen. It is an imposing structure. But again, thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today and please vote no. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us? Paula Maranoni is next. Okay, Paula. Okay, can you hear me? You can. Thank you, everybody.
 When I moved back here to Fayetteville in 1995 and moved into our grandparents house here at 617 West Lafayette Street,
 The first thing I noticed was, oh my gosh, this place has just been forgotten. I mean, not just this area. Our little historic neighborhood right here was the original entrance to the university. Not just the original entrance, but the origin of the university. It's not just Arkansas Avenue we're talking about.
 It's this whole little area. It's like a time capsule from the Lafayette Gregg House where Lafayette Gregg crafted the legislation to bring the Arkansas Industrial College here in 1871. Gregg family has been in that house or on that property continuously for 172 years. My family has been on this property for 115 years.
 The blocks have been in their property for 111 years. We know the history of this area and we have tried to protect it. I spent eight years of my life trying to save Carnal Hall and what it resulted in for me being yelled at by chancellors and you name it, they wanted it down so bad that after it was done,
 They have now spent upwards of $300 million restoring the projects, the historic structures on campus and adding onto them in the correct way. I ran into Chancellor David Gearhart at a reunion in 2013. We went to school since first grade together. I thanked him, they were getting ready to spend 248 million on restoration and that was,
 So 180 from what I went through, trying to raise the awareness for the historic nature of this area. And I thanked him and he said, "'Well, it's because of you, you know." And I said, no, how would I know that? And I thanked him again, but the thing is,
 was the catalyst for getting all that done, for totally turning around the university's opinion of their historic legacy. And the city is not doing that. When in 2006, we, 25 of us here in this little neighborhood, went to the meeting.
 And we said, take us out of the downtown master plan. There is nothing in the zoning that will protect us. And so we got taken out. And at that time, RMF 40 would protect us because it had a 25-foot setback and related to the height. It has been changed a number of times, and nobody told us.
 So we clearly need an overlay and we don't need to look at what some other city is doing. We know what we have here. The people who live here and we are knowledgeable about what needs to be done. Putting that building in there will, the downtown general allowing shops and eateries and all that commercial activity will be very important.
 destructive to this area. It will be the catalyst that will begin to destroy it. Todd Ferguson with the university said,
 He's the university's land planner. He said the land use plan analysis mentioned that rezoning will open up the neighborhood for mixed use and commercial development. From the standpoint of the university properties in the area, there is almost no chance that our buildings will be demolished in the foreseeable future to make way for an urban frontage of mixed use or commercial buildings.
 Please note that two of the U of A buildings on Arkansas Avenue are listed on the National Register of Historic Places and that there are no plans to replace them with new development. In addition, the buildings UA has constructed recently along the street
 Paula, you have about 30 seconds. Everybody gets five minutes. Yes, sir, thank you. In addition, the buildings University has constructed recently along the street have been placed on their sites to respect the existing scale and alignment of the neighboring historic homes. So we're opposed to this and please don't zone it downtown general. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, who else would like to address us? Next, Mayor, we have Rachel Gurner. Okay, go ahead. Hi, can you hear me? Uh-huh. I'm Rachel Gurner. I live right now in Ward 2 at 383 North Fletcher. I've lived in Ward 2 for seven years, but in August my family will live next door to the property we're discussing.
 I also want to say it's my first time addressing the council and I've waited three and a half hours. And I just really want to make note that I'm very passionate about this. I also want to say my concern and my opposition for the proposed property. Similarly to the other neighbors, the applicant is requesting to construct a massive 14,000 square foot fraternity house. It's only 0.2 acres, as we've already heard.
 I do want to say the applicant said they found parking at the U of A within walking distance, and I want to know which lot specifically. I'm a staff member at the U of A, and I know parking is so valuable and scarce of a commodity. I don't want to accept a vague answer about where you've added spots for 50 residents. Also, as mentioned, rezoning would allow this oversized property to disturb the light and airflow of the adjacent properties.
 As other neighbors have said, the building with outside areas is not compatible with the neighborhood. This property proposed will create trash, sewer, noise, and parking problems. I'm also concerned about the damage to the historic mature trees as mentioned by the City Council members. Thank you, Councilmember Petty. The preservation of Arkansas Avenue is really important to the city. It's a special historic avenue.
 Also, and this is where I really want to press into this, I don't know if it's within the scope of the Council to consider behavior, but I want you to weigh the past behavior of the fraternity. They have not addressed how they will be better neighbors. Their GPA is not a measure of their character. I'm concerned about the problems the fraternity will cause in the neighborhood based on the problems they have caused in the past.
 Their past actions have shown that there will be issues with public drunkenness, obscene loud music, arguments, property damage, trash, etc. As a guest at 358 Arkansas right next door, I witnessed this behavior myself.
 And as Mr. Otten requested, neighbors have already written to the council with innumerable examples of their poor behavior. There are other fraternities on Arkansas Avenue, for example the farmhouse fraternity across the street, and we don't have issues with them. And so setbacks, trash, sewer noise, and architecture aside, I don't think the applicants have addressed these character concerns. In sum, I'm not opposed to fraternities.
 and I appreciate the design concessions that architects have tried to make. However, I'm opposed to the number of residents that want to squeeze into this tiny property without addressing these valid behavior issues that the neighbors have already raised. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Mary, the next speaker's phone number ends in 687. Would you introduce? That is I. Can you hear me? Yes, and that would be who?
 I am Diane Block. I am Jeff Block's sister and the co-owner of number 370 North Arkansas Avenue, which is next to the fraternity's property. And I live in Santa Fe, New Mexico.
 I will not go through all the things that I have said before at the Planning Commission meetings and in my letters, my two letters to you, June 5th and today, regarding my strong opposition to this bill.
 However, honestly, after the fraternities presentation tonight and saying that these fraternity students are so exemplary and have been such good neighbors, I must say that
 list all of the reasons that I feel they are not good neighbors and that the entire building, which is too large and will have 50 students living there, that's including the two ADA students, will only exacerbate the problems that I'm going to enumerate right now.
 This is a spot zoning as others have said, and it is not compatible at 14,000 square feet with 50 students. Since 2008, Sigma Phi Epsilon has subjected us and our tenants around the corner on Reagan Street to behaviors dangerous to our personal security and health and consistently deprived us of our right to the quiet enjoyment of our property.
 The following behaviors and actions have been an unreasonable nuisance to adjoining properties and as I said will become exponentially worse. With the number of students, no parking, drinking at rush and other parties that are attended by hundreds, literally hundreds of students at a time and they plan for only one public restroom on their first floor.
 The other problems have been over the years, public drunkenness, noise, threatening arguments on our own lawns, back steps, parking areas between 10 p.m. and 3 a.m. without warning. Fraternity members and guests continually have trespassed on our lawns and parking areas late at night to look in our tenants' windows on Reagan Street to vomit,
 to urinate and unfortunately to defecate. I hate to have to mention this but I feel you need to know all the ramifications of your decision. A tenant in one of our apartments photographed these unsavory behaviors and we tried to resolve them with no trespassing signs and by speaking to the fraternity. They were not resolved. Our signs were kicked over or destroyed and
 completely ignored and that they cost us some money too. There was a break-in in our property at 370 Arkansas Avenue by a drunken fraternity brother wearing only his underwear at two in the morning several years ago. And he got into the upstairs
 part of the duplex and threatened one of our tenants who said he was going to call the police. The student did not believe that it wasn't the fraternity that he had entered. These are the kinds of things we've experienced. In addition, we allowed them by our permission to use our driveway and stated that this could be denied at any future time, but they were not good neighbors in return.
 THEIR PARKING LOT WAS OFTEN JAMMED WITH FRATERNITY CARS, CARS OF GIRLFRIENDS AND VISITORS AND MOVING VANS THAT BROUGHT IN THEIR EQUIPMENT FOR PARTIES, MOTORCYCLES AND THE LIKE, FREQUENTLY BLOCKING IN THE CARS OF MY FAMILY AND OUR TENANTS SO WE COULDN'T EXIT ON
 on our own driveway to Reagan Street to get out for appointments or to let emergency vehicles in too. Ms. Block, you have 30 seconds.
 One of the worst incidents, when I politely asked one of the students to move the car that he was blocking me in with, he refused to move because he was writing a paper, and he yelled obscenities at me. This I reported to the police of the city, to Greek Life, to the university police, and spoke in person to fraternity members to no avail.
 this and other problems that we have had for 11 years. And no help. Ms. Block, your time's up. Time's up. Okay, could I say one more thing? No, no, everybody gets five minutes. Okie doke, thank you very much for hearing me. Appreciate it. You're very welcome. All right, who else would like to address? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. So. Mayor. Yes, Matthew.
 Mayor, I have an inquiry for the applicant. Blake, it seemed like earlier you were lamenting that you didn't get a chance to present some information, some even new information to the planning commission and you, I think, speculated that they may have considered your application differently had you been able to do that. If I got that right, I wanted to ask you
 Would you prefer to have another chance at the planning commission with your new information? Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. All right. Yeah. Well, I honestly, whether it's the planning commission or the city council, I do think that a lot of things that have been presented tonight were out of context of something that, you know, was to the neighbors five years ago, seven years ago. Yes, we have a bill of assurance that's presented to you all.
 We have a new architectural standard that we try to present. And I think it's fine to be left on this first reading. I'm not saying I want to go back to planning commission. If that's what you prefer, I just want to, I would like to have a dialogue because when I look at the elements and this is, this has nothing to do with, you know, a lot of what has been spoken about tonight is, you know, it's, it's tough. It's not, it's,
 Rezonings are about context of the neighborhood, and we never talk about what's being presented. We never say this is what we're presenting to the neighborhood. This is what we are doing tonight. We are actually offering up a bill of assurance saying we are presenting a fraternity. We are presenting a fraternity with this neighborhood.
 elevation and architectural standards and setbacks. We never do this with any ever rezoning. Rezonings are about compatibility with the neighborhood. And I understand we are opening ourselves to exposure to saying we want to be offering a bill of assurance. We want to be offering here's the context of the streetscape.
 And it just didn't happen at planning commission. I understand that, but it's in front of y'all tonight and I'm okay leaving it on the first reading, but, and yeah, it was kind of, you know, it's my fault. I don't understand why the, I gotta learn how to share this thing, but I wish the next time, and it kind of goes with what y'all were saying earlier about city presentation.
 I'd like to be able to present stuff to city staff and they can share the elevations, the bill of assurance with you all directly so that it's not on the presenter. And I'm not trying to, that's my fault. I just, it's, you know, this technology, we're dealing with this stuff in real time. The bottom line is a lot of the people who had comments tonight said,
 They thought that we were building a 30-foot building three feet off the right-of-way. And we don't want to press them into reacting to tonight's meeting with new information. We want to table it. We want to say, here's the new information. I don't know how to disperse it properly.
 But we'd like to be able to say, I mean, we'd like to say here's our new bill of assurance. Here's our new architectural renderings. Here's the context of where we feel like Arkansas Avenue fits in with this structure and have a conversation because it hadn't happened. The conversation has been, no one wants, the thing is, is a fraternity has been there for a long time
 Do people want that to keep going? Well, that's a different conversation. But we're not talking about, we're talking about a fraternity that's already been there. We want to rebuild it in a better standard. And we do have that standard in front of you all tonight. And we don't expect you to make a decision tonight. We expect you all to have a dialogue. And, you know, we're in a different time. We are definitely in a different time.
 Thank you and what I heard was that you would you understand that we aren't going to vote tonight and you would prefer that we did not send it back to the planning commission you prefer we have that discussion here. Correct me if I'm wrong but that's what I heard and I just wanted to clarify it. Thanks. Okay is it then it's the wish that the council leave it here on the first reading. Is everybody good with that? Yes. Okay well we'll move right along.
 um number six an ordinance rezoning that property described rezoning petition rzn 20-7086 for approximately 0.51 acres located at 1278 west hendrick street from rsf8 residential single family eight units per acre to riu residential intermediate urban tip
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and legal descriptions at Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre, to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map,
 of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. Okay, Gar. Yes, Mayor, in the interest of time and recognition of the length of your meeting, I'll be very brief because you've seen this item in the last year. This lot was the subject of a rezoning request from RSF four to RSF eight last year. So it has, as all of you will recall, it has a complicated history.
 There was an error made and council did zone it RSF eight. And my understanding of council's action was that that was to provide somewhat of a transition or a step down to the surrounding RSF four. It is designated residential neighborhood area. The infield score is seven. I mentioned the complicated zoning issues.
 The by right allowances of the R.I.U., the lot sizes are small, and it's an extensive increase in density. And of course the zoning was approved last year. Planning Commission recommended approval of the R.I.U. on a five to three vote. Staff recommends denial. We do think that the RSF-8
 has a lot of potential or some of the other single family district RSF 18 might work also. I would point out that we're seeing RSF 8 development and it's too late tonight, but I'm happy to talk about later. Development with ADUs that really do meet the city plans goals
 for a variety of housing types. I could show you one, and there are probably many more of those, where the main structure is about 1,200 square feet and there are a couple ADUs associated with it. You really do get a variety of housing types. And so I think we, my point is, I don't think we should give up on,
 the combination of single family development and accessory dwelling units. I'm happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have for Gar? Is the applicant here, Gar? I believe so. I'm sorry, Mayor, I should have pointed out. The applicant's name is Mr. Pupit and I think he is present. Okay, would you like to address the council? Okay. Can you hear me?
 I can. Okay great. Yeah my name is Bill Fugate. I live at 1275 East Oaks Manor in Fayetteville. Yeah our intention with this rezone is just being able to increase the density and really get three lots out of it. You know the intent is to have single family homes right there,
 that are small enough to be affordable. This is in walking distance to the university, the bike trails, HARPS grocery store. And so I think it fits in with the city's goal to reduce urban sprawl and create affordable housing. I'm happy to answer any other questions you might have. Thank you. What questions do we have for the applicant or the staff?
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five-minute time limit. Unless the city council by majority vote gives you more time. Or if the city council has questions for you, stay on the topic, which is the rezoning of Hendricks Street, West Hendricks Street. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and who would like to be first. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mayor, I have a comment. Sure. Sure.
 Thank you. I wanted to talk a little bit about the notion of variety and how we understand it. Especially I wanted to raise the idea that there's a spectrum of variety and that our comprehensive plan and our future land use designations try to capture this, but I don't agree with the characterization that was given earlier. I know that we talked about this the last time,
 pretty extensively that we saw rezoning on this street. And I don't wanna simply repeat my arguments. The future land use map of course does call for a variety of residential housing as Garner mentioned earlier. But I think it's something of a mischaracterization to say that single family houses with the potential for accessory dwelling units meet the standard called for in this future land use designation.
 The type of variety or the level of variety described by single family houses with accessory units is the kind of variety that is allowed all over the city. And this particular location has a different future land use designation that calls for a higher level of variety and the kind of variety that is already allowed everywhere, an increase in the level of variety. We know, and I think we might see a presentation on this soon in detail,
 that single family exclusive zoning is a high barrier to entry. The homes are just more expensive. It's new construction and the homes are bigger. The sticker prices are higher. I feel a little bit like what we hear about residential variety in our future land use map on this rezoning and the other rezoning we saw recently are
 post facto justifications for a staff recommendation for single family housing alone. It just feels to me like we are not following what has been set forward in the comp plan. And I worry that it's because our planning department has taken it upon themselves to navigate the politics of these decisions, rather than to make a simple technical recommendation about the outcomes as they relate to our express goals.
 So in any case, I'll be supporting the R.I.U. zoning absent hearing something new that compels me otherwise. Okay. Any other comments? I have a comment. Sure, Teresa. Thank you. We did see this recently this last year, and we talked about how that initial mistake really compounded and changed the neighborhood.
 And we heard a lot of comments from neighbors at that time. And just like we've talked about before tonight, we're not hearing a lot of public comment. I mean, we did on the Arkansas Avenue issue, but on almost all the others, it has been extremely limited. And I don't,
 This has been a stable, modest neighborhood. The neighbors do not want to change. We talk about compatibility. We need to keep that in mind about compatibility of neighborhoods. And I believe that the recent COVID situation is really going to affect us economically in the long term.
 I'm glad we passed the mask requirement tonight, but we don't know if students are really gonna come back in the numbers that they did this fall, that will be this fall. We don't even know if we're gonna have Razorback football. So we have a lot of unknowns here, a whole lot of unknowns. And I think we need to be very conscious of that.
 and not make dramatic changes to a modest neighborhood that most of the neighbors do not want them. So I will not be supporting this measure. Thank you. What other comments do we have? I also support the neighbors that have so, fought so hard to protect the heritage of their neighborhood.
 There is a building opportunity the way that it's zoned that I think can meet the goals of the builder. There is an opportunity there, but we know that there was an error made on this street as council member Turk said, that started a domino effect and is used as an anchor to make an excuse for rezoning.
 I'm sorry to say it and I've said it before, but when we do these zonings and infills and we talk about affordable housing, it just hasn't happened. And I know it's because it's a supply and demand thing, but what is in this neighborhood already is affordable housing. That's what's in this neighborhood. So I think we can preserve that and preserve the heritage of the neighborhood, respect the
 wishes of the neighbors that live here. You know, when you buy property in a neighborhood like that, it's speculative if you want to change it. But I think that it's also very important to realize you bought in a neighborhood where people love their homes and they love their neighbors and they love the heritage. And that's why they decide to live there. And to change all of that by doing one property at a time,
 I think is unfair to the people that have established their home and their lives there. This may be what we need to do more is not spot zoning, but rezoning of larger areas where there's a lot of input. And that simply has not happened in this neighborhood. So I will not be supporting this. We haven't even got to the second reading. But anyway, continuing along, what other comments do we have?
 Yes, so thank you, Mayor. It feels like not that long ago that we had a tour at that location and we met with the neighbors and it was pretty clear that they were opposed to that zoning. So that's still very clear in my mind and I'm going to continue to stand with them.
 for the preserving of their neighborhood as they like as it is. So I won't be changing from my feelings from last year to this year. So I'll support the neighbors to oppose the zoning, up zoning. Okay. What other comments do we have? All right. What's the wishes of the council? Mayor, I think this should be considered in context with the next one. So I hope we'll hold this here on the first reading until we've had a chance to discuss what follows it.
 Okay, we will do that. Well, let's move along to number seven. An ordinance to rezone that property is described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7089 for approximately 2.0 acres located at 1139, 1213, 1237, 1251, and 1232.
 83 West Hendricks Street from RSF 4, residential single-family, four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, which is a...
 and the legal description exhibit being both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Section two that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. Okay. Garner. Yes, Mayor. I'm still out here in Zoom land. This is...
 This application is right across the street from the one you just looked at. And it's for a larger area that is predominantly occupied by very small modest houses on relatively large lots. The zoning is RSF4 with the exception of the RSF8 and the RFS12 that on both ends kind of bookending.
 across the street from this request it is designated a residential neighborhood area it's not designated city neighborhood area yellow not blue the infield score is seven and the plan does recommend looking for opportunities to increase density with the appropriate infill
 It has, as we already discussed, council members mentioned, complicated zoning history. The by-right allowances of the R.I.U. are extensive. In this, with this application, the applicant did submit a bill of assurance for your consideration that would limit it to single-family dwellings.
 Staff feels that the RF8 is a better option, as I mentioned with the previous application. Planning Commission recommended five to three vote approval of this application and staff recommends denial. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Mr. Marks is the applicant, Mayor. Okay, yes, are you there? Okay.
 Mr. Marks, go ahead. Yes. Mr. Marks. Yes. Okay. Mayor and staff, thank you for allowing me to speak on behalf of my application. I am requesting a RIU rezoning. And in keeping with the neighborhood, I have submitted a bill of assurance for single-family residential use only. I have support of the neighborhood. On the same side of the street, just three lots up, I have a bill of assurance for single-family residential use only.
 Just in the last council meeting, you approved an R.I.U. with no restriction. That lot was actually facing Mount Comfort Road, but extends through to Hendricks. The single family residential bill of assurance keeps this area in a single family residential area with more density, which is, of course, what what staff is asking for. So I'm here for any questions. OK, great.
 What questions do we have for Mr. Marks or staff? Okay. Well, then let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's a five-minute time limit. Unless City Council, by majority vote, gives you more time. Or if City Council has questions for you, please stay on the topic, which is the rezoning on Hendricks. Please, no rude behavior. Give us your name and address and who would like to be first. Okay.
 I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Mayor, I'd like to make a brief comment. Yep. Thank you. I expect that we're gonna hold this on the first reading and like we did the one prior, I just wanted to take a moment to better explain my past votes. I think there has been...
 a presumption or if I've been included in the description, my decisions in the past maybe have not been well understood. The clerking error that led to the rezoning, the zoning designation of the property we just talked about was not something I really considered when we took the recent rezoning action on it or the rezoning action a few weeks ago, or nor will I consider it
 for this rezoning action. I don't think I was alone in considering those rezoning actions and the way I'm going to describe, but at least for me personally, I think it's important to make sure that my intentions have been understood or clearly communicated. When I look at this property, I look at its proximity to the university, its alignment on the corridor. We have a linear region.
 that's arranged mostly along 49 and it's right on it. It's so close to other services, including schools, including parks and the list just kind of goes on. I really only consider those things with respect to the goals of our comp plan whenever we've rezoned this. To the extent that someone might characterize that this is
 only happening because of a clerking error, I don't think is correct. These kinds of actions have been called for in our comp plan for a great number of years. Okay. Yes. I was going to take similar approach of talking about past votes, but mainly that's because Mr. Marks mentioned the through lot from Mount Comfort to Hendrix that we voted on a couple of meetings back. And I...
 on the first reading of that one I was pretty harsh on the developer and on the third reading I ended up voting for it without saying anything and it really came down to the public comment on that one and I know we haven't heard any here but I suspect the comment we've heard on these last two issues in the neighborhood are all still equally as relevant and and like Teresa and
 to maintain their character as a modest neighborhood. But I believe that what they are asking for is self-defeating. And in this instance, with the bill of assurance for single family, I'm concerned that they're going to end up with something that is neither modest nor in the character of their neighborhood.
 The previous lot with no restrictions as an R.I.U. allows small houses to be built to hopefully make an effort towards affordability. Here we have a bill of assurance that would limit them to a single family house in a zone that lifts the cap on occupancy.
 This isn't even a stealth dorm. We are being upfront about it. We are going to build large expensive houses and rent them by the room to college students. That is about the only thing I can imagine for this arrangement. That is not the character that I believe the neighborhood is looking to preserve. Garner, do you have that exhibit we talked about? We have talked a lot about variety and affordability.
 if Garner's got, this is something I was snooping around the GIS maps and just happened to cross and ask Garner to show for us. Yes, I do. I need to re-share here. I'm sorry, I think it was on your last presentation. It is and I'm going there. I just need to share it again.
 Well, the gist is when we talk about variety. Can you all see it now? Yeah, we've got your whole desktop, Garner. Oh, that's not good. If you'll just maximize the window, I think we'll be okay. Yeah, yeah, I'll get there. There you go. Our current citywide zoning is not going to produce variety.
 Our number one largest zone by land mass is our SF4.
 with 29.4% of the city's land area in that one zone. The next one is residential agriculture at almost 27%. And then we dropped down to RMF 24 at 5%. That's the gap between our top two residential zoning categories. And the next one is from 30% to 5% of the city's landmass. We're not gonna produce variety like this.
 And I know we've also talked about affordability, but this is a supply and demand problem. We don't produce enough smaller housing for it to meet the demand. We've got a glut of this one type, and that's going to have market influences. If we're going to meet these goals, we have to be intentional about it and think
 I don't feel like that's necessarily the way we take this when we look one lot at a time. Or when we let developers come in with crazy bills of assurance to meet the politics of one neighborhood without the consideration for our whole system. Because when we give veto power to one street, then that has a ripple effect that the rest of the city has to absorb.
 I won't support the bill of assurance. The jury's still out on the RAU. I look forward to more conversation over that, but let's pick a zoning type that actually fits the goals of the neighborhood instead of trying to manufacture it. Okay, we've got, all right. Both these are still on the first reading, six and seven. So. Leaving it on the first? We're just gonna leave it on the first council, both of them. Sounds good.
 Okay. Okay. All right. Before we go to eight, I would like to take a moment. Garner, I want to thank you and your planning staff for your work, your integrity, your honesty, and your service to this city. So thank you all for all that you do. Thank you, Mayor, and I'll pass it on to the staff. All right. Okay. Number eight.
 An ordinance to amend 172.04 parking lot design standards allow restaurants and cafes to expand operations into private parking lots and declare an emergency kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 17204, Parking Lot Design Standards, of the Fayetteville City Code, by repealing Section 17204B and enacting a new Subsection B as follows, Subsection B, Pedestrian Access. Number 1.
 Pedestrian access shall be provided from the street to the entrance of the structure by way of designated pathway or sidewalk. Section 2 parking lots may be utilized by restaurants, cafes, and similar uses where pedestrian seating, access, or service does not interfere with safe and functional circulation.
 If a parking lot utilized for outdoor service is determined to represent a hazard to pedestrian or vehicular use, sites may be required to include an implied or physical barrier with landscaping elements, gated fencing, changes in ground surface texture, material, or color, or similar treatment, Section 2.
 And the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because it will provide opportunities for Fayetteville dining establishments, residents, and visitors to comply with the directives issued by the Arkansas Department of Health regarding limited occupancy and social distancing, which are necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of Fayetteville residents.
 Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. Okay Matthew, I believe you have this. Yes sir, thank you Mayor. Thank you Council again for considering another ordinance related to our response to the COVID-19 virus. This one is a very simple
 This outcome was recommended by the Transportation Committee whenever we discussed the outdoor refreshment area, I believe two meetings ago, maybe one meeting, I'm getting a little confused. In any case, this concept has been reviewed by the Transportation Committee. I regret that I did not request a strike through and replace version of this ordinance so that you could see how simple the changes were.
 What we've done is we have lifted some of the language that we were already using in the mobile food court ordinance about safe parking lots when customer service areas are combined with parking lots and inserted it here.
 You'll note that this does not require a permit. It does not require a business to inquire with the city to take advantage of this. Instead, this is written such that if there is a safety issue that is observed and reported to the city, then the city can insist that reasonable changes are made. But otherwise, this ordinance is written in such a way that presumes businesses can proceed in a trustworthy and competent manner.
 Very simple. The bottom line is this will let people expand their dine-in seating out into their private parking lots. Happy to answer any questions. Questions from the council? Okay let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. There's five minute time limit unless city council by majority vote gives you more time. Or if city council has questions for you, please stay on the topic which is parking lot design standards.
 and no rude behavior please give us your name and address and who would like to be first okay i'm going to bring it back to the council what's wishes to council mayor are we on the first reading with this we are i'm moved to suspend the rules and go to the second reading okay we have a second okay have a motion in the second care which please call the row scroggins yes bunch yeah yes smith yes
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. And Norwich's amendments section 172.04 parking lot design standards to allow restaurants and cafes to expand operations into private parking lots and to declare an emergency. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Okay we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Kerrick would you please call the roll.
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. An ordinance amends section 17204 parking lot design standards to allow restaurants and cafes to expand operations into private parking lots and to declare an emergency. Okay, any final comments from the council?
 I'd just like to thank the Council for considering this tonight and considering the emergency clause. I know that there are several businesses who are eager to take advantage of this as soon as it's available. Any other final comments from the Council? Is there going to be a quick question? Yeah.
 Matthew, are they clear in terms of is it okay in terms of alcohol in that space? Are they already educated to know how to do that? Do we need to have some education there? I saw Devin turn on his camera in enthusiastic anticipation. I might allow him to answer the question. Happy to answer the question. Can everybody hear me?
 Yes. Okay, thank you. So what this can do, I think it can speed up. So the ABC has actually issued a statewide rule change, and it is called a outdoor service area rule change, where if the city is okay, if they go into those areas, they can apply with ABC to serve alcohol. It actually does something that acts...
 812 cannot do. It actually extends the liquor license boundary. It's a very big deal. We've been in communication with ABC. It's a very easy process.
 I cannot speak for the Soma district that you may have seen in Little Rock but I suspect that's a reasoning why you see that flagging tape around it it can be as something as simple as flagging tape or a rope just to annotate that barrier so there are options and we'll get communication out on that tomorrow we actually have some up on our website right now under the outdoor freshman area page awesome thank you Devin welcome anything else okay Caravage please call the roll
 Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. That passed, but we need a vote on the emergency clause, Mayor. Okay, I need a motion and a second on that. I move we approve the emergency clause. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second. Kerowitz, please call the roll.
 For the record, I show that motion by Councilmember Gutierrez and seconded by Councilmember Marsh. That's correct. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Okay, well that concludes our business. What announcements do we have?
 Yes, Mayor. Three announcements. Curbside recycling will resume this coming Monday, the 22nd, with the additional optional drop-off locations if residents prefer to do their own recycling and drop-off. And those additional recycling locations that we put up at the onset of the COVID pandemic will remain until a week from the 22nd to the 29th, but the permanent ones will, of course, continue.
 be taking recycling as they always have. The bulk waste events that were scheduled for last spring have finally been rescheduled to June 20th at Butterfield Trail Elementary and June 27th at Holcomb Elementary. And then tomorrow there will be a blood drive, City of Fayetteville blood drive in the parking lot at KUAF across from the Fayetteville Public Library all day. Thanks.
 Mayor, I have one announcement I'd be happy to report. Yes, please. I'm happy to say the United States Supreme Court ruled yesterday in support of equality and against discrimination inflicted upon our gay, lesbian, and transgender citizens. This is exactly what Fayetteville's own Uniform Civil Rights Protection Ordinance did after our citizens voted to support and enact that ordinance almost five years ago.
 The decision by the United States Supreme Court shows that Mayor Jordan, our city council, and our Fayetteville citizens had it right when they sought to protect our gay, lesbian, and transgender citizens from discrimination. The Arkansas legislature brought shame to our state when it passed its Right to Discriminate Act, misleadingly entitled the Intrastate Commerce Improvement Act. Arkansas Attorney General Rutledge sued Fayetteville and fought for over three years for
 to nullify our citizens' efforts to support equality. The wisdom of Circuit Judge Doug Martin's ruling upholding our Uniform Civil Rights Protection Ordinance has also been vindicated by the United States Supreme Court decision yesterday. Sadly, the Arkansas Supreme Court reversed Judge Martin's ruling and held that the legislature's Right to Discriminate Act legally voided our citizens' past Uniform Civil Rights Protection Ordinance.
 It is too late now to attempt a further appeal to the federal courts, but this United States Supreme Court landmark ruling proves that the Fayetteville City Council and our Fayetteville citizens were absolutely correct to support equality for all of our citizens. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Ken. Very well said. Thank you, Ken. Very well said.
 I'd just like to thank Kit for all of his efforts five years ago, six years ago, and then all the different appeals and court battles that he's been in, as well as the mayor for having courage, stamina, tenacity, and knowing what was right and fair. So it's just, it makes me so proud to live in this city. And then we've got the Supreme Court to back us up. So thank you so much.
 Thank you, Teresa. I want to thank the city council because there was a council that voted that ordinance in.
 And then it ended up to a vote of the people twice when we were tenacious enough to get it passed the second time. And then the Supreme Court stepped in. But the point being was I knew we were right then and I know we're right now. So it's wonderful to see the Supreme Court back as the United States Supreme Court back in this one.
 I have other comments for the state Supreme Court, but I probably won't say those quite tonight. But anyway, thank you all. In fact, counsel, thank you for your courage on a lot of touchy issues. And I also want to say that as we go forward in this pandemic, the pandemic isn't over. Everybody certainly needs to continue to wear their masks.
 and everybody needs to do their part and stay six feet apart and keep your hands washed frequently. Thank you, council for your service. I appreciate you all and I love serving with you. So thank you again. Mayor, thank you for your leadership.
 thank you so much mayor you need to wear your mask too yes the mayor wears his everywhere's he goes i've got the one with the little uh screwdrivers and uh little pocket set on it that's my favorite one okay thank you so much bye-bye bye-bye thank you everybody good night thanks everyone