I'm going to go ahead and call the call to order the City Council meeting of June the 15th 2021 Care would you please call the roll Jones here? here Eddie Scroggins Here sir here, Pittsburgh here It's here. Oh, yeah, Mayor Jordan here. Okay, would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you all and welcome. I believe the first order of business that we have tonight is the report from the nominating committee by Councilmember Bunch. Yes, sir. I'm ready this time. Thank you.
 Okay, this is our report for the nominating committee. We met last week and the mayor recommends the following candidates for appointment. The Historic District Commission and the nominating committee concurs with these recommendations. Mark Harper, one term ending 6-30-24.
 Alexandria Lee, one term ending 6-30-24. We have two vacant terms that one ends in 6-30-24 and one ends at 6-30-23. Nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Animal Services Advisory Committee, Laura Florek, one citizen at large ending 6-30-24. Edwin Velasco, one citizen at large ending 6-30-24.
 Board of Adjustments, William Finer, one unexpired term ending 6, excuse me, 3-31-24. Energy Improvement, District Number 1. We have a vacancy on that and it's one unexpired term ending 12-31-21. Environmental Action Committee, Stacey Buff, one community citizen at large term ending 6-30-24. Fayetteville Arts Council, Jessica DeBiari,
 One arts and cultural community resident term ending 6-30-24. Leah Urby, one working artist term ending 6-30-24. Peg Advisory Board. Brandy Walsh, one term ending 6-30-25. Hope Beatty, one term ending 6-30-25. Walton Arts Council, 6-30-25.
 Cal Rose, one term ending 6-30-24. Jody Dilde, one term ending 6-30-24. And that's our report. I hope I pronounced everyone's names correctly. Thank you. Okay. I will entertain a motion to second to accept the nominees by the nominating committee. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to accept the nominees of the nominating committee for all the boards for the city. Okay.
 Carol, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. OK. What about Holly? Hertzberg. Yes. OK. Wait, hold on. All right. Thank you all. Now, I have a walk-on tonight.
 And it reads, a resolution authorized the Chief Finance Officer Paul Beckard to sign a coronavirus state fiscal recovery fund agreement.
 which will allow the city of federal to request federal funds pursuant to recovery fund legislation we will need a motion in a second to put this on the agenda and that's correct your mayor this is something that just came up and so we could not put use a regular agenda session so we do need to have a motion second to suspend the rules and place this on the agenda
 So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to put the resolution on the agenda. Carol, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes.
 Yes. Ms. Gitts-Hiraz. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. I have asked Kit to read the resolution and then we'll turn it over to Paul. Yes, I'll be happy to do that. This resolution was provided to the City Council yesterday, but the public really hadn't had much of a chance to see it, so I'm going to read it. Whereas the American Rescue Plan Act passed by Congress has allocated direct funding to municipalities with populations of over 50,000.
 And whereas to access that funding, municipalities must register online, name an authorized representative whose identity is verified, and have that representative sign the funding agreement. And whereas the Mayor has assigned Paul Becker, Chief Financial Officer of the City of Fayetteville, to register as the authorized signer, and whereas CFO Paul Becker's identity has been verified by the Treasury Department,
 And whereas the City Council needs to authorize CFO Paul Becker to sign the Coronavirus State Fiscal Recovery Fund Agreement so the City can receive its allocation which is expected to be approximately $17.9 million. Now therefore be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby authorizes Paul Becker, Chief Financial Officer, to sign a Coronavirus State Fiscal Recovery Fund Award Terms and Conditions Agreement, a copy of which is attached to this resolution, as the City of Fayetteville's authorized representative. Paul. Yes, I'd like to make a few comments. I requested that the mayor allow me to come forward and ask you to walk this agenda item on.
 The reason is because although the American Rescue Act plan was very highly publicized, very few specifics were given immediately. Talked about direct funding to municipalities, over 50,000 people in population.
 However, it was never quite postured how this was done. Originally, we thought the money would be directly sent to the cities, and we would take it from there. However, as it went on, it asked for an authorized individual to go online, become ID'd. So we had personal identification of myself. The mayor directed me to do that. And when I went on to apply for the funds,
 I had not known this before, but it asked me to sign an agreement for all the terms and agreements of the grant. And now all of those terms and conditions I did attach to the resolution. They're very, very normal. They're the normal federal requirements, but this is postured as a grant. Didn't realize that at the time, so I'm kind of in limbo now. I don't, I am not authorized.
 unless the city council authorizes me to commit the city to meet the terms and conditions of that grant. What will happen is once I do that, we should receive the funding. It'll be in the area of 18 million dollars. The numbers keep fluctuating, don't ask me why, but it's in the 18 million dollar range. We get it in two increments.
 Once we receive this money, this resolution has nothing to do with the appropriation or expenditure of that money. We're still evaluating programs and things that we will come forward and make a recommendation. And I know I've talked to a couple of the council members about some of the issues thus far. We'll take this money, we'll put it in escrow,
 Request it, put it in escrow, come forward with a plan at a later point in time, which time you comment on, change, approve, whatever. And that will give us the authority to expend the money. But this is no authorization to expend, no authorization appropriate strictly to ask for the money, get it in, put it in escrow so when we're ready to go, we're going forward. And certainly, we're getting a lot of questions because many of my peers in the area
 have already requested and received those funds. So that's what I'm asking at this point in time. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Do you all have any questions? I just have a clerical question. I'm not seeing the actual resolution in the email or on the packet. I do see there's information about the...
 we got does everybody have a copy actually they came in email but it's easy for things to get lost i have that page have i got one here's the spectrum yeah oh we don't have the rest the actual resolution that get read i don't have that that's right i i have it uh
 Pulled up on the city website in agendas Show it it was actually part of the agenda. I think well That's one of the reasons why I wanted to read the resolution to make sure everybody's on the same And let me read again just the the operative one Which is the very last things where you are are actually doing something now therefore be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and
 Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arksaw hereby authorizes Paul Becker, Chief Financial Officer, to sign a Coronavirus State Fiscal Recovery Fund Award Terms and Conditions Agreement, a copy of which is attached to this resolution as the City of Fayetteville's authorized representative. So as Paul said, it's just to authorize him to ask for the money. Okay, that sounds good to me. I just didn't see it in this packet or the email, but eventually it'll be in there.
 Okay, is there anything any other questions from the council? Okay. All right. Let's take some public comment then Everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic. No rude behavior Please give us your name and address who would like to speak before the council on this topic Nothing on zoom do have anybody here in the chamber that would like to speak on this. I
 All right. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Council, keep in mind this is not just spending the money here. This is just getting the funding in, and then we'll decide how we're going to spend it as we've got a whole bunch of committees out there that's working on different ideas, and I know you all have been sending in your input, but right now I know some of the cities already, to the north of us, have already received their funding, or about to. So I wanted us to be...
 course with that so move we accept the resolution second second to accept the resolution any final comments from council okay care which police call bro yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes the mayor the resolution passed all right thank you all very much
 It was important that we got that out of the way. On the consent agenda, number one, approval of the June 1, 2021, city council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve the purchase of petroleum-based oils and lubricants on an as-needed basis from various vendors and in various quantities through the end of 2025. Number three, a resolution to approve a joint funding.
 agreement with the US Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and
 and monitoring at various locations in the city of federal in 2021 with the amount paid by the city not to exceed sixty one thousand seven hundred twenty one dollars number four resolution expressed willingness of the city of federal to apply for federal aid funds through the northwest arkansas regional planning commission in the amount of six million dollars for two road improvement projects and to approve a city match of one million five hundred thousand dollars for the projects
 Number five, a resolution to approve change order number four to the construction manager at-risk contract with Flintco LLC for the police headquarters project in the amount of $8,654,440 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 police headquarters bond.
 Project. And number six, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the total amount of $14,891 recognizing donation revenue from citizens and local businesses to the Parks and Recreation Department. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Kara, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Inyon. Inyon.
 Yes. Eddie? Scroggins? Yes. Ben? Yes. Turf? Yes. Perksford? Yes. Yes. All right, thank you all very much.
 uh move along to unfinished business number one an ordinance to amend various chapters of the unified development code to update stormwater regulations for developments in federal this was left on the second reading what i have here so i will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading tonight so moved second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading care which please call the role jones yes
 Yes. Petty? Scroggins? Yes. Funch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Herbstberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. An ordinance to amend various chapters of the Unified Development Code to update stormwater regulations for developments in Fayetteville.
 And I will, I guess, remind the City Council that at the last meeting I did present two potential amendments to help clarify this, especially Exhibit H. They both relate to H, which is Chapter 170 of Stormwater Management and Drainage. And I think both of them seem
 what is needed and I'm ready to answer any questions on them but what will happen is that if you do want to accept these potential amendments you would have to make a motion to change exhibit a to reflect the amendments that I had presented to you all at the last meeting and I'll be happy to answer any questions what questions do we have in the council if I remember okay
 So we would need to change exhibit A to reflect the amendments that you have. Eventually, I would hope they would consider making those amendments. They can wait for public comment if they'd rather do that first or whatever they want to do. And also, I don't know if Mr. Pugh wants to make any comments.
 Well, our rules of order and procedure, if I remember correctly, we don't take public comment on amendments. Do we? Yes, that is correct, unless city council calls for it. That's right. Correct. I'd like to open it up to public comment on the amendment, if everybody would allow that. Well, it's either unanimous consent by the council or a motion and a second, and then we vote.
 So I move to allow public comment for any amendment? Well, you don't have to. If everybody's okay with it, then we'll allow public comment on it. Okay, by unanimous consent. Yeah, by unanimous consent. Okay, everybody good? All right. So we will... Kit, do you think you need to read the amendments for the public? Well, I can... There are two basic amendments, and the first one was to amend Section 170.02, Adoption of the Drainage Criteria Manual.
 And we've had this particular section in this code for a long time, I think about 25 years. And what it has always said is that the city engineer can make amendments to this.
 can't be contrary to the actual code itself and it should be in the spirit of what you're doing, but sometimes there's minor tweaks and stuff that need to be done and the manual itself, the drainage criteria manual itself is fairly long and so that's why it's not in the code because it's like 80 or 90 pages and it's got diagrams. So it's really probably better not to have it in the code. And so basically
 There were two reasons I recommended this particular amendment. First is that if you all adopt the Exhibit H as recommended, it doesn't agree with the current drainage criteria manual. So I don't like to see it be in conflict. So that was one of the reasons I did it. And the second one was to have the city engineer actually report to the city council of any amendments they're going to make.
 Just that way you all will know if they are amending it and why and what they're amending it on. So it just really is another informational item so that you all know what's going on all the time with this manual. So those are the two things that are changed in my proposed amendment. Mayor, I wanted to say that Alan Pugh did have some clarifying statements he wanted to make about the amendment. Yeah, I'd like to hear from the staff.
 Thank you, Susan, and thank you, Mayor and Council. One thing that I did want to ensure that Council was aware of before they heard the amendments or decided on the amendments, we did speak about the legacy drainage plans, and the image that should be on your screens now was shown to the Council as the known legacy drainage plans. That is not revised with the exception of we've become aware of one additional one, if you will,
 Bear with me. Up behind Lowe's, there's an existing commercial business park called Timberlake Office Park that we don't feel would be
 impacted by the proposed amendment as drafted by the city attorney's office, simply because it does have language in there requiring that there be repetitive law structures and continual flooding. Although there are some issues with the city of Johnson that may require us to ask to relook at that as this develops out. We don't anticipate any major changes, but I wanted to make sure that the council was aware of that slight provision.
 before moving forward with any amendments certainly i can answer any questions that you might have on that okay what questions do we have council for alan on this and that was the second part that did that wasn't the drainage criteria manual amendment that related to the second proposal i had okay any questions
 Okay, then I guess we'll take some public comment on that particular amendment Everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken in segments three and two minutes Don't engage anyone in the public or any city council member stay on topic. No rude behavior Please give us your name and address who would like to address us on this Hallie Brown 3658 Mount View Drive Fayetteville Ward 4
 Good evening everyone. I talked to most of you here this evening and I would like to say thank you for taking the time to listen and showing an authentic interest in my father's and his community's perspective on this very complicated thing called stormwater drainage.
 When it rains for many of us in new subdivisions like myself, it's very inconsequential. It means the kids need to come inside and find some inside games, or perhaps I can't go to Kessler and get that hike in, it's too muddy, or move the car in, we might have some hail. But for people like my father,
 It triggers an alarm system where he has, where he's prompted to go check kind of incessantly if there's water at the end of his road or creeping up to his back door at an uncomfortable level. It certainly is not a fun psychological exercise and it does not make for a good night's sleep
 You know, there's a continuous family text thread that, hey dad, where's the water? Hey, you know, can you see it? And across the street I have Gail, who is a retired Pinnacle Foods manager, and she said, and I quote, Allie, it's just really hard for us to not panic when we see continuous days of rain on the radar. So back to my father, he is a vet and a retired mail carrier.
 and hero to me and my siblings. He's lived on Valley Drive for 36 years and in 2017 that flood delivered 9 inches to his home, 2 inches above that qualifying 100-year flood mark for the 7 inches. So it did destroy his home. The insurance cut a check that did not cover
 all of the money that's required to restore the integrity of the home and to give it dignity. But silver lining is that I got my dad as a roommate for a few extra months and we came back as a family to rebuild the home. We built it back better. We love our home. It's humble. It's charming. I certainly had an idyllic childhood in that low and medium income neighborhood.
 And after canvassing in Ward 2, I love Ward 2. I love the people in it. And I certainly will plan on checking in on Ward 2 constituents. On Valley Drive, we have Barbara, who is a retired administrator staffer for the university. We've got Susan down the street. To the right of us is David. He hung electric lines for 40 years, pulled tree stumps.
 To the left of us we have a family, a young family with two toddlers that came from Wyoming in search of this place, paradise called Fayetteville. We've got Vonda up the street who's retired from Superior Foods and they all have residual trauma lingering in their life due to that 2017 flood. So at the beginning of my education on stormwater management, I perhaps incorrectly hyper-focused on
 the developer side of things. I believe Mayor Jordan, Ms. Norton, Mr. Williams, especially Ms. Turk has been really responsive with that departmental correspondence and assuaged our worry about a big developer coming in with bad drainage plans and flooding us out. We asked and we received so thank you, Mayor. I really, we really do appreciate it. My father really does appreciate that.
 But I did incorrectly hyper focus on the development side of managing water. I've gathered it's hard to control water and I started to learn that older neighborhoods suffer from what sheet flow erosion is and are likely to be LMI neighborhoods which are likely to be renter occupants and which are are likely to be
 at times, dense with people of color. So they have less resources to deal with the water brought on and damage brought on by mismanaged water. So the most important thing I think I wanted to say is that this issue inconveniently... 36. Yeah, this issue inconveniently
 intersects with class and sometimes race, unfortunately. And for the city to appropriately tout its efforts on climate change, it must pass the Stormwater Utility Fee Ordinance.
 That's at the heart of management of the water as well, to bring in money for projects like stream bank restoration and predictable drainage cleaning schedules. From what I'm told, we need to be in stream banks, planting trees, and it's costly to do this. Tom, Al. I would like to give the speaker two more minutes. All right. Okay. And everybody in agreement? Okay, you have two more minutes. Okay, thanks. From what I'm told, we need to be...
 in the nooks and crannies of those older neighborhoods, building up those stream banks with trees or constructs that mimic nature because nature can absorb the water best. So this in conjunction with holding the developers accountable with the best practices with that green storm water worksheet.
 i think that that's the ticket here and um this effort will be seen as faithful building a city that is shiny and new because it's going to happen alongside these older neighborhoods rather than despite them thank you for your time i appreciate it thank you who else would like to address us do we have anybody on zoom susan not with a hand raised okay i'll bring it back to the council on the first amendment is that
 Correct, yeah, every time We just we do we need to do it one at a time Can we do all your amendments at once? Yeah
 Okay, do you want to vote on this separately, the one that just has the drainage control manual, drainage criteria manual, or do you want to vote on the one that actually was addressing more of a problem at the same time? Or we could wait until we hear the other amendment and get public comment, and you can vote on them both at the same time. You could if you wanted to. How about that? That's fine.
 Okay, well the speaker there actually has been in contact with with councilmember Turk and myself and the mayor and That's one of the main reasons I drafted the second amendment it will allow the city engineers and especially our stormwater engineer to
 to look at issues where we've had problems in the past downstream of lots that will be potentially developed, which are part of another plat. And normally if you've already had a plat approved, you've got a stormwater management plan for that plat already approved, then that's all the developer has to do.
 In order to look at these three different areas that have been described, including this new one that Alan just told us about, we had to have language in here that would authorize our stormwater engineer to look at the problem and then be able to require, when this new partial is being developed, that they do comply with the current best practices, with our current ordinance that you all are passing, and also that they will consider
 some cost shares because developers are not required to stop all the water from going away from their property. But I think if we're trying to affect drainage problems downstream, it's probably much more cost effective for the city to work with a developer in the cost share situation to have increased attention or other things that can help actually reduce some of that flow. And when we do that, part of that's going to be the city's cost.
 Because we're doing it not just for this developer, but we're doing that for the people downstream our taxpayers and so that this amendment is designed to do just that and I think that it was also kind of explained a little bit by our stormwater engineer But if I'll answer any questions that you might have on it, but that's why I drafted it the way I did Okay, what what questions Alan? Do you want to weigh in on that one? I?
 I think our city attorney covered that one fairly well, but certainly I'll be happy to answer any questions that anyone has as well. Okay, Tracy. Mayor, I have a question for Alan. You know, Alan, my only concern with Kitt's amendment is do you have the authority backing you to be able to require the developer in these legacy drainage situations to
 to actually make these changes. I just wanna make sure that you feel that you have enough authority that's been given and wouldn't be pressured to minimize some of these requirements to protect properties downstream.
 Thank you, Councilmember Turk, and I do appreciate that concern. In my opinion, the way the amendment is drafted, such that it's tied directly to known downstream flooding, and several of these areas downstream of our existing legacy plans do have known flooding, it's fairly significant.
 It's not very subjective, at least in my humble opinion. If we do have that downstream flooding that they are required to go back and take another look at that, abide by our latest drainage criteria manual that would include water quality, it would include channel protection as applicable. And then potentially in some of these instances re-look at those detention requirements, although those did not change drastically. To answer your question, I do feel like it would cover
 the situations that are most at hand and in consultation with our city attorney he felt that tying it to that was the most defensible from a city standpoint okay thank you any other questions from the council I will say a lot that can be accomplished if this is passed will still result or still rely upon the City Council
 for agreeing to whatever cost shares the stormwater engineer and developer could come up with. So obviously we need to pay our fair share too, but I think this is probably the best way to spend our money is upstream of these problems. Okay, any other questions? Okay we will take public comment again.
 same rules fly everybody gets five minutes to speak wrote in the segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address who would who else who would like to speak on this other amendment anyone on zoom ally do you want to speak on this one i just want to raise the size that i appreciate the responsiveness from our
 local government and everybody's willingness to listen. I do sincerely hope that this amendment has teeth in that that the residents of Valley Drive and surrounding neighborhoods can, I've been told by engineering that it's you know large-scale developments with large impervious areas such it doesn't, it won't help but it won't make it worse. So I do feel like it's fragile and
 And we certainly will be looking at this issue as we receive more rain. And I can certainly tell you that in Ward 2, that this is a big ticket item for them and their financial health. And they've worked really hard to set their self up to be able to enjoy this time in their life. And...
 And so I just hope that this is the right thing to do and that it's followed up on, and I appreciate it. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council now. We have two amendments before you that we have put together. Is everybody clear on that one?
 I move that we approve the two amendments that Kidd has drafted. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to pass the two amendments that was drafted by the city attorney. All right. Caravans, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay.
 It's yours. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Now we have the amended ordinance before you. So let's start on that. Alan, do you have anything you want to add to the amended ordinance that you have not already said? We might, Mayor, if please, as a council, just go quickly through this.
 that presentation just for anyone that wasn't available in the previous meeting. You have 10 minutes. Okay. I think most of us know kind of what these covers so I'll cover this very briefly, but our current single-family home and duplex are exempt from water quality detention requirements. And what we've been seeing is an increase in an
 pattern of development that we're referring to is that lot split single family resident pattern. So where we had one lot before, that may be split into three or four lots. And where you had one home before, that may become three or four homes, drastically increasing impervious area and negatively impacting some neighbors. I did have the opportunity to meet with another neighbor today that was having very similar impacts from an adjacent development. So a very timely discussion. Um,
 So that is really the development pattern that we're seeing and those negative impacts which we're trying to mitigate led us to a scenario wherein we would propose that we regulate even down to the smaller developments, but in that regulation that we eliminate use and we look solely at impact by impervious area.
 So that will allow us to transition between these currently exempt properties and requiring the entirety of the drainage criteria manual. For instance, if a duplex, as we've noted before, is built, it requires basically nothing from a drainage standpoint. Whereas if you go to a triplex or a quadplex, it requires the SIP process, which would bring in
 the entirety of our drainage criteria manual. So we're trying to really soften that curve, that line in the sand, if you will, between requiring nothing and requiring everything.
 So we've proposed three different levels. 1,200 square foot of additional impervious area and below would continue to be exempt. 1,201 to 6,000 square feet of impervious area would be required to work through the Green Storm Water Practice spreadsheet, of which there are several examples and we've talked about previously in council, so I won't go over that in great detail unless there are questions.
 And then level three, 6,000 to 10,000 square feet of additional impervious area are required to go through that same green stormwater practice spreadsheet. But it would also bring in the requirements of some extended detention based on a 50-year, 30-minute storm event. And then the abbreviated tree preservation plan in which those developments would be required to abide by the tree preservation requirements associated with that particular zoning plan.
 And in an effort to kind of help developers go through this process, we did develop a cookbook that includes the green stormwater practice spreadsheet. Some operation and maintenance manuals and some other things to allow people to work through that process without the need to go hire necessarily hire an engineer or design professional and go through that expense.
 The additional requirements are only for single-family homes and duplexes outside of platted subdivisions with an approved drainage plant. So those newer subdivisions, larger subdivisions, that runoff has already been accounted for, and we're not asking the individual lots to account for their own runoff as that expense has already been laid out by the developer of that subdivision.
 And then thirdly, with the remainder of these revisions, we are proposing some flood damage prevention code revisions. And it's commonly referred to as a no adverse impact. So that would make it a little bit more difficult to fill in our floodplain areas. It would require some engineering analysis to ensure that we're not negatively impacting upstream and downstream and adjacent neighbors like could happen today, especially if portions of floodplains are
 filled down or one side of a floodplain is filled in, obviously that water has to go somewhere and could be pushed onto an adjacent property. And that has obviously negative impacts on those adjacent properties. And the legacy drainage plans we've already looked at a little bit before, so I won't belabor that. But certainly here to answer any questions that the council may have moving forward. Okay, what questions do we have in the council on this?
 okay all right well then let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address i'm i'm going to start off with do we have anybody on zoom nobody with their hand raised okay then let's go to
 in person folks, so who would like to address this? Anyone from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Alright, what discussion do we have from the council or we're down to the third and final reading, so
 Anybody got any comments? I've got a short comment. I just wanted to thank the staff For going back and drafting this and really trying to get it right And and balance and also fill in some of these Exceptions that have happened. So thanks to Alan and the whole team for for doing that Anybody else? Okay care which please call the roll. Yeah. Yes
 Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Moving along to new business. In order to enact 94.06 third-party inspection and report system fire protection and prevention ordinance conditions,
 concerning third-party protection and control inspection testing and maintenance reporting of the federal code, KIPP. Whereas the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code requires periodic testing and maintenance of certain fire protection systems, alarms, devices, equipment, and other features, and whereas the fire code official is authorized by the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code to approve reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals,
 And whereas pursuant to Section 107.2.1 of the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code and Standards, required tests and inspection reports shall be available to the fire code official at all times, and such records shall be filed as directed by the fire code official.
 and whereas the city has adopted the provisions of the arkansas fire prevention code and standards current edition and the provisions of technical codes and standards and has made the same applicable as fire prevention code of the city of fayetteville in section 173-02 fire prevention code building code of the unified development code
 And whereas the City Council desires to amend its fire prevention code to require inspection reports to be provided to the City through a third-party inspection reporting system. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby enact section 94.06 third-party inspections and reporting system as follows section 9406 third-party inspections and reporting system subsection a
 Inspections and maintenance require the owner of the property where any device, equipment, alarm, system, or any other feature is required for compliance of the provisions of this article, or is otherwise installed on the property, shall cause maintenance, testing, and inspections of all such devices, equipment, alarms, systems, and features in accordance with the code and applicable reference standards and specified intervals.
 If following inspection and testing any device, equipment, alarm system, or any other feature does not meet manufacturer specifications or fails to perform as intended, then it shall be repaired or replaced in accordance with subsection E below. Maintenance, testing, and inspection shall include without limitation the following fire protection systems. Number one, automatic fire sprinkler system.
 2. Commercial kitchen hood system. 3. Fire alarm system. Subsection B. Qualification of inspectors. Only qualified personnel shall make inspections or perform testing required by the current editions of the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code and the adopted provision of technical codes. Qualified personnel shall include, but not be limited to, 1.
 Personnel who are factory trained and certified for the type and brand of device equipment alarm system or feature being inspected or tested number two Personnel who are certified by a nationally recognized certification organization approved by the city number three
 Personnel who are registered, licensed, or certified by the Arkansas or the City of Fayetteville perform the required inspection and testing. And number four, personnel of the fire department. Subsection C, reporting of inspections and tests. Records of all installations, inspections, tests, and maintenance required by this section shall be provided electronically to the City's designated electronic reporting system.
 Completed records shall be submitted no later than 15 days following the applicable installation, inspection, test, and maintenance. The submitted report shall contain all information required by the City's designated electronic reporting system. The fee for any report filed using the electronic reporting system shall not exceed $15 for each type of fire protection system.
 Subsection D, retention of records. Records of any device, equipment, alarm, or any inspections and systems inspections, tests, and maintenance.
 required by the current editions of the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code and the adopted provisions of technical codes shall be maintained on the premises for a minimum of three years following the date of any inspection test and maintenance and shall be copied to the fire department and his contractors pursuant to either provisions of city code or upon the request of the fire code official subsection e repairs
 If any device, equipment, alarm, system, and any other feature fails its inspection or operational test, within 30 days of such inspection or test, the property owner shall make all necessary repairs to make the item fully operational. Defective parts must be replaced with manufacturer-approved parts.
 If repair is not possible, the item must be replaced with devices, equipment, alarms, systems, and features in accordance with this code and applicable reference standards. Completed records shall be submitted no later than 15 days following the applicable maintenance, repair, or replacement requirements.
 The submitted report shall contain all information required by the City's designated electronic reporting system. The fee for any report filed using the electronic reporting system shall not exceed $15. Additional inspections and testing may be required of the repaired or replaced device, equipment, alarm system, or other feature upon the request of the fire code official.
 Chief. Good evening, Mayor and Council. So this is not a, it's not anything new. It's something that we have been doing. What we're doing with this ordinance, though, is adopting what it is or how it is that we want the inspections coming into it. So it's going to be in a digital format. Currently, I think they come in in a myriad of, you know, from a fax, email, just letter.
 And then a lot of times they don't come in. Out of the 750 businesses in the city, we only receive about 360 annually inspections. So we're hoping with this new format that we will get more thorough and frequent reports and dictated inquiries that we should receive them. So I brought the fire marshal here. If you'd like to speak to him and ask any questions specifically, I'll try my best to answer you. Thank you.
 What questions do we have? Yes, Tracy. Thank you, Chief. Do you all currently, I just noticed there was a not to exceed $15 charge. Do you all currently have a similar charge, or is this an increase or a change? Well, currently, and this fee won't go to us. This is a fee that is assessed to the businesses from the inspector, from the third party inspector. And we're saying that it will not be more than $15 for this fee.
 And yes, it is currently charged. I can't say all businesses or all of the inspectors charge it, but I can tell you like the ones that inspect our fire stations, we looked at them and it says right on it $15 fee. And it says AHJ, which is the authority having jurisdiction, which appears all throughout the fire code. So it is being assessed by many businesses already. Okay. Thank you very much. Any other questions for the chief? Everybody good? Okay. Okay.
 Let's take some public commenter but his one turn to speak you have the five-minute duration Broken in the segments of three and two minutes. They'll engage anyone in the public or any councilmember stay on topic No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. We will take zoom Comments first and then we will go to the in-person comments Just have anybody on zoom. No, sir. I
 Okay, then we will take anyone that's here in the public that would like to address this So I will bring it back to the council what discussion do we have from the council Move to spin rules and go to a second reading Second motion second to go to the second read Care would you please call the roll Jones? Yes, Indian. Yes Scroggins yes
 Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. An ordinance to enact section 94.06 third party inspection and report system fire protection and prevention ordinance concerning third party protection and control inspection testing and maintenance reporting of the federal code.
 move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second yeah motion second to go to the third and final read here would you please call the rough jones yes kenyon yes scroggins yes bench yes third yes earthsburg yes get to your eyes yes
 And in order to enact section 9406, third party inspection and report system fire protection and prevention ordinance concerning third party protection and control, inspection, testing, and maintenance reporting of the Fable Code. What final comments do we have in council? Kerridge, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes.
 church yes earthsburg yes the trs yes all right thank you all let's move on to number two an ordinance to rezone that property describing zoning petition rzn 21-041 located at 431 east martin luther king junior boulevard for approximately 0.20 acres from nc neighborhood conservation to riu residential intermediate urban kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RI-U Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville arcs I hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 John
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the City of Fayetteville Development Services Department. This property is located just southeast of downtown on the south side of Martin Luther King, just west of Martin Luther King's intersection with Wood Avenue. It's currently developed with one single family home, which was built in 1910 according to county records.
 In a long-range planning context, the property is in the northern portion of the Walker Park neighborhood plan area where some more intense development was anticipated. You can kind of see here on the illustrated plan in the darker red represents future footprints that that illustrative plan had anticipated as being buildings into the future.
 As a part of the Walker Park plan, this property was rezoned to NC, Neighborhood Conservation, in 2008 to reflect the anticipated and desired mix of uses and housing types that the plan had indicated. You can see on the map that there were several properties that were rezoned, DG, Downtown General, which allows a much wider spectrum of uses and different types of housing.
 This was further advanced in recent years with some more recent rezonings, particularly to the east. Those of you that are new to the council that were here in 2019 may recall the property you see on the map here in brown, just east of this one, was rezoned to R.I.U., which brings us to the request at hand, which is identical to that one, to rezone the property from neighborhood conservation to residential intermediate urban.
 In considering the request, staff found the proposal to align with existing land uses and adopted plans. At a high level, the rezoning of the property leverages a lot of the existing amenities and services in the area, including the nearby fire departments downtown and on Happy Hollow. There's a section of existing trail immediately to the east, and it's in close proximity to Walker Park itself, of course.
 uh this and the location's proximity to downtown make it an ideal location from staff's perspective for infill the rau zoning district further supports this through the incremental allowance of that zoning district for somewhat larger houses it doesn't allow going up to a five-story building height that you see in some of our more intense multi-family districts in fact as a lower height of two stories against the street that you can go up to three as you move further away so
 That was done in an attempt to respect existing development patterns. From an environmental perspective, the property is not located in a flood plain, nor does it have any hydric soils present. There's the nearest protected stream, the Spoutspring branches, several blocks to the west, so that was not of concern to staff in evaluating this.
 Lastly, the property's location, Walker Park, and its future land use map designation or residential neighborhood area suggested to staff that it would be an appropriate place to support some additional variety and housing types.
 That said, it is worth noting that staff did receive one piece of public comment during the planning commission process. The neighbor immediately to the west did have concerns about parking in particular. If you've ever been on Martin Luther King in this area, you know that on-street parking is not allowed, and this particular resident had concerns that that was being disseminated through the surrounding streets that do allow on-street parking.
 Similarly, they had concerns that this may compromise what they felt is a purely single family area and might harm the characteristics of the existing street.
 We, not in an attempt to rebut those comments, but it is worth noting that the RAU zoning district is a tool that we often see to be used for single family dwellings. You can see that immediately to the east of this property, it was rezoned to RAU and they're building single family homes. It simply allows a lot more flexibility in that regard for infill development.
 All told, staff and the Planning Commission both recommend in favor of the request, with the Commission forwarding it unanimously. Discussion was very limited at the meeting. The Commissioner who did speak did feel that they were in agreement with staff's recommendation before making a motion. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. You have an applicant here. Yes, I'm happy to take any questions. I believe I have Heath Myers from Blue & Associates is here virtually as I understand it.
 Yes, would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes. It doesn't appear that he's identifying themselves yet, but that was based on a conversation earlier today. Heath Myers? Is Mr. Myers online? Or here. There is a phone number listed without a name, so that's why we were calling out to see if he was here. Okay. Well, let's come back to that one then. What questions do we have of the staff on this one?
 Have you all heard anything? I'm sorry. Jonathan, just since the public was concerned about the parking, could you address that? If it was zoned RAU, is that any different than neighborhood conservation?
 It is not. Our parking code is based on the type of housing being proposed, not the zoning district. So if single family dwellings are built, that's required to provide two onsite parking spaces per dwelling. If they did want to do attached housing, it's required to go, that's when it starts to be required by the bedroom. So if they did a triplex or a quadplex, if they were one bedroom per unit, it could just be one space they have to provide.
 it gets higher like some of the ones you see closer to campus where they're four bedrooms sometimes you have to provide four parking spaces you know the questions has the yes have you all heard anything no but i'm just noticing on here on the tree preservation that it's the new i just want to make sure i understand the current one um allows or requires a 20 percent
 minimum canopy and the new one is 15 that is correct several of our single family districts have a 20 or 25 minimum canopy whereas more of our urban districts tend to get down to 15 or 10 minimum requirement it is worth noting as you all often see at many of these meetings if it was developed under the exemption we previously discussed for single and two family dwellings which until the stormwater ordinance is enacted it wouldn't be subject to any tree preservation at all
 Okay, thanks. And I appreciate you noticing that. That is something staff started trying to incorporate more of those environmental considerations into our upfront reports for you all. Okay, anything else? Any other questions from the council? Okay, well then let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak for five minutes, broken in segments of three and two
 don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address i will take zoom comments first is there anyone on zoom that wants to speak on this no sir okay then we will take anyone that's here in person that like to speak on this okay i will bring it back to the council
 Excuse me, Mayor. Mr. Hickson just got online. Who? That's the applicant for the next item. Oh, the next item. Sorry. Oh. Steve Myers just got online, and his hand is raised. Well, let's go back to Mr. Myers then. Mr. Myers, would you like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes or so. I know. Mr. Myers, you'll need to unmute. Here you go. I'm sorry. We cannot hear you. We see that you have unmuted.
 I can't. Okay. Well, let's continue on with the council. We're back to the council yet again. So what discussion would you like to have or action or whatever? What if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Is that where we are? Yes, you can. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Okay.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 I move we suspend the rolls and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 And your nits are easily on that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 21-0 for one located at 431 East Martin Luther King jr Boulevard for property a fifth of an acre from NC neighborhood conservation to RIU residential intermediate urban comments from the council Okay Care would you please call the road Jones? Yes, Indian. Yes, Eddie Scroggins, yes
 Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Kirksburg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. You can tell Mr. Myers he can go ahead and hang up. Needs to. All right, number three.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described rezoning petition RZN 21-042 for approximately 22.80 acres located at 1000 West Bulldog Boulevard from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre and P1 institutional to P1 institutional. Kip.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 24, Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre, RMF 40, Residential Multifamily, 40 units per acre, and P1 Institutional to P1 Institutional.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville-Archtar hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Okay, Jonathan
 thank you mayor this property is southwest of downtown fayetteville it includes several parcels that are between the main university of arkansas campus and fayetteville public schools high school building to the south the property is most likely recognizable to most as the location of fayetteville public schools administration building the football field the baseball field and further north the former location of the boys and girls club on clinton
 Property records indicate that the vast majority of the property has been in the school's hands since very likely the late 40s, although they have acquired some periphery parcels in the intervening period.
 As the property owner, the school district plans to move forward, they would like a consistent zoning across the entirety of the property. They have several improvements and modifications to buildings that they would like to pursue. And currently they have a split zoning on much of their property, which you can see on the left-hand side here with about five acres of the overall 23-acre site still zoned for multifamily development as a legacy of previous periods.
 You can kind of see indications of why it was that way. On the left hand side, there's kind of the ghosted footprints of building footprints that are no longer there, especially Long Stadium where that has been realigned and larger university buildings have been built, which is much more clear on the right hand side of the screen.
 As far as staffs going, these do initially appear to conflict with the request, especially where infill metrics really suggest that there's a lot of amenities and services that would be beneficial towards building additional housing in this area. Similarly, the property is designated a city neighborhood area on our future land use map, which is the part of town where we typically want to see a wider mix of uses.
 uh at the same time however this property has indeed been used for a very long time by the school district and there is no indication that they will not be using it as the high school campus for or in perpetuity in fact it predates any of our zoning codes we think it's appropriate to to align our zoning code with with the uses of the property similarly if you dig a little deeper into some of those metrics we use to ascertain the appropriateness of a rezoning request
 The school being there actually contributes to many of those, so it's kind of a catch-22 in that regard, where if the school wasn't there, they'd have a lower infill score and lower considerations.
 So, on the balance of issues and with in mind that the school district does plan on making significant capital improvements and using the property into the future for the high school, we do recommend approving the request of staff. The planning commission agreed. They also agreed that the likelihood that housing would ever be developed on any other portions of the property that are zoned multifamily was very unlikely and they unanimously supported the proposal.
 with that i'm happy to take questions and i believe zach hickson is available virtually uh for the applicant thank you thank you so you have an applicant here tonight at present we'll see if you would like to speak to the council you have 10 minutes mr zach hickson is on thank you mr kurtz i have nothing further to add to that but i'm here to answer any questions you may have okay what questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff okay
 then let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minutes broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address we will take zoom speakers first do you have anybody on zoom susan
 yes sir and then we will take in-person people next that might be here so is there does not look that we have anybody out in the audience so i will bring it back to the council what discussions or actions would the council like to do this is an ordinance it is on the first street
 just have one comment um since i've pointed it out on the last one i'll point it out on this one that it the breeze zoning is actually increasing the tree preservation to five percent so it's going from 20 to 25 percent there's not a lot of trees there but so i guess
 I don't know if things have already been done. I mean, it's just taking into account what's there to do 25% of preservation. That is an interesting nuance. When I started here, the community I came from didn't have a tree preservation ordinance. So my understanding was you have to plant 25% of your property worth of trees, which is a misconception. I feel like that leads to a lot of friction with our community.
 state legislature in particular. If a property does not have 25% canopy, we don't make people plant up to 25% canopy. Similarly, 25% is the aspiration, and our foresters work very hard with developers to keep it if it's already there. But built into our ordinance is the flexibility where if you do have to cut some of that down, you may have to plant on site.
 So to get back to your question, if you're already below the 25%, anything that's removed at that point does have to be mitigated. The preference always being, of course, that it's preserved on site. Following the next tier in the hierarchy is that you'd have to mitigate on site. And then going down from there, possibly mitigating on other properties, which the school district has many that could potentially plant trees on. Great, thanks. I almost want to be difficult and ask about dead trees, but I'm not.
 I move to suspend roles and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Yes.
 And nor nits reason that property is crime and rezoning petition RZN 21-0 for two for approximately 22.8 acres Located at 1000 West Bulldog Boulevard from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre and RMF 40 residential multifamily for the unit per acre to be one institutional moves Then the rules and go to third and final reading. Thank you. We have motion to second to go to the third and final reading I
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 in order to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition rzn 21-042 for approximately 22.8 acres located at 1000 west bulldog boulevard from rmf 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre and rmf 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to p1 institutional any final comments from the council anything else you'd like to add jonathan no mayor thank you you're very welcome
 What was that term you used with the state we have? Friction. Friction, yes. Very well. Yes, I have considerable friction. Very good. All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Thank you all very much. Okay, number four, we have an appeal.
 An ordinance to rezone that property, describe and rezoning petition RZN 21-028 for approximately 5.1 acres located on West Weddington Drive east of Michael Cole Drive from RA Residential Agricultural to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban and NSL Neighborhood Services Limited, KIPP.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban, and NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect a zoning change provided in section 1 Thank You mayor
 This is a property I believe the council got familiar with earlier this year. It's located on West Weddington on the southeast corner of Weddington and Michael Cole. It's an undeveloped piece of land. It's somewhat unusually shaped. It's got over a thousand feet of frontage on Weddington, but it's only about 200 feet deep from there.
 In broader terms, the site is about two and a half miles west of Interstate 49, about a quarter mile shy of Double Springs Road, so it is getting somewhat towards the western extents of the city.
 Before going further, I wanted to give just a short history of the property to remind you all how we got to where we are today. A previous request was submitted to staff in late 2020 to rezone the property, which is currently residential agricultural RA to RMF 18, residential multifamily, 18 units per acre. Staff recommended denial of that request and in January of 2021, the Planning Commission agreed and denied it almost unanimously.
 This request was appealed to City Council where it lingered for a few meetings the applicant advised that they wanted to amend the proposal That was not forthcoming for a few meetings Ultimately and for the first meeting in April a request was brought forward To rezone the property from RA to NSL neighborhood services limited for about half an acre at the hard corner of Whittington and Michael's Michael Cole and the remainder of the property to RIU residential intermediate urban and
 Staff's recommended changed or track staff's recommendation changed to approval we did support the amended request but council felt they needed the input of the Planning Commission and remanded it to them for consideration that was heard in May by the Planning Commission where a motion to forward it failed it failed by four to five this was appealed to council so although it may seem like an appeal the same request it's just the same property it's a different request.
 Which brings us to the request again, which is about half an acre of land on the southeast corner of Michael Cole and Weddington.
 proposed to NSL neighborhood services limited. It's a zoning district that allows smaller scale non-residential uses and up to four family units attached in a building all the way down the single-family homes and that runs into RIE residential intermediate urban for the balance of the land which allows single two three and four family dwellings and
 In evaluating the request, again, you probably heard some of my comments last time I was here, but it may bear reiterating. We did have some mixed findings on this one, both ultimately came down in favor of it. A lot of that was based on the future land use map, which designates the site as a residential neighborhood area, which does support a mixture of housing units, especially with potential for non-residential street corners, similar to what you see at Weddington and Michael Cole.
 Our findings in terms of city plan 2040 were somewhat more mixed. That's mostly given the location of the property. As you all know, goal number one of city plan 2040 is appropriate infill, and goal number two is kind of the inverse of that, which is discouraging sprawl. And at locations like this where it has access to a lot of existing infrastructure, it gets challenging making that distinction whether it is indeed appropriate infill or not. Again, staff ultimately came down in favor of it, that it is.
 Some of the issues that came up in considering both the first request and this one were the potential for a complete neighborhood. Staff feels that the addition of neighborhood services limited at the corner does allow the potential for a non-residential use there, which could provide the bones for services to the surrounding residential area.
 Similarly, there were concerns about traffic and congestion. As you get this far west on Weddington, there's an increasing lack of services that would deter people from getting in their vehicles and driving further east, where congestion gets increasingly worse as you approach the interchange.
 Another consideration that we see in this part of Whittington is the challenges of asserting land use compatibility. It is certainly a busy corridor with a lot of infrastructure, but a lot of it is still agricultural in character. So in those regards, it's difficult to ascertain or assert land.
 pure land use compatibility. Staff found that between the subdivisions on the north side of the street that attached residential housing to the west and homes immediately to the south, that this proposal did complement those.
 it is worth noting that we did receive a significant amount of public comment in the form of a pretty lengthy petition with the very first request a lot of concerns were cited with that they ran the gamut all the way from those that i've mentioned about traffic and congestion but also just i think there was comment about a general fatigue with all of the development and construction that's been occurring on west weddington and that the residents are are tired of experiencing that day-to-day um
 More recently with the current request, we've not seen that petition resubmitted again, but I did want to keep it in mind just because it was submitted and doesn't mean it necessarily wasn't brought forward. As you all know, some people or some signers of petitions feel like they've made their opinion known once. They don't need to do it again necessarily, so I don't want to assert whether they intended that to apply to this request or not.
 It is noteworthy that we did get a few inquiries with this request, and one resident did speak in opposition to it at the Planning Commission meeting. Their main comments were with regards to the location being questionably appropriate for development, given its distance west of I-49.
 So that said, and again, staff does recommend approval. Again, also the Planning Commission did fail to vote in favor of a motion to forward this item. There was quite a bit of conversation on this one. Those that were supportive of it felt that the modified request improved it substantially enough to allow that potential for services near residential uses. Those opposed felt that we were creating a situation where we're 
 A dense sprawl was basically being created where we may be getting a density level that the city wants to see, but maybe at a location that we perhaps do not. Also, the applicant at the meeting took or decided or opted to show some development plans to the commission.
 and a lot of the conversation revolved around that and concerns about whether those development plans met development codes currently or not. It is worth noting, as Mr. Williams often says, and staff tries to advise, that we're not looking at development plans with a rezoning request. It is hard to ignore them when you see them, but ultimately the property could be rezoned and the developer could move on to a different place and not move forward with that project. So it's worth considering
 the request on the face of it and with that i'm happy to take any questions the council has and i believe robert rhodes is here in person as the representative for the application are you representing the applicant you have 10 minutes
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. I'm certainly not going to need 10 minutes. I've had the pleasure of talking to the two esteemed council members from Ward 4 and earlier today and based on those conversations, and I think some of the questions that Mr. Scriban brought up at the agenda session, I
 I believe that this most certainly is going to be left on the first reading tonight, and therefore I'm not going to take your time and do a full-blown presentation. I do want to tell you though just one thing that this is kind of a classic case that I think
 uh count this council and i think prior councils to that always kind of liked when somebody would come before whether it was the this council or the planning commission and it got it got public pushback and after that public pushback there's you know sort of a give and take and in this case the petitioners
 They heard, they listened, they listened to what staff had to say, what the Planning Commission had to say, and they revamped it pretty dramatically with a whole lot less density. We're here tonight to listen more and certainly would be available for questions. Thank you. Thank you.
 council members from ward four i mean have you been hearing anything or help me out here a little bit um i really haven't heard much but we're going to have a ward four meeting um coming up in a week and a half and sure um i think that that would be a great opportunity to really put it on the agenda and reach out and make sure they're aware of this so that's um but i really haven't heard much i haven't either but i'm looking forward to our work for meeting
 so you'd like y'all would like to hold it on this reading okay so i guess we'll hold it right here for two weeks you want to hear from the public i'm sure you do um all right let's take some public comment then uh everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. We will take zoom comments first then in person comments second Susan do you have anybody on zoom? No, sir Okay, and there's no one I see from the public here. So yes I've got some questions probably for staff and then some comments on How different is this?
 from RMF18? In terms of... Could you basically build RMF18 or something close to that with the new zoning?
 I would say no, generally. I think the biggest distinction between the RMF 18 zoning district and either of the proposed zoning districts is the size of the buildings. Under RMF 18, you can build up to a five-story multifamily building, which admittedly is unlikely this part of town.
 The R.I.U. zoning district breaks down building sizes a bit more. You can only build up to two stories near the street. If you want to go to a third story, the building needs to be set back a little bit further. Similarly, you can't build multifamily, so the maximum number of units you can attach by right is four. If you wanted to pursue multifamily, it would have to come through as a conditional use. So in those terms, I would certainly say not.
 I think hypothetically the residential intermediate urban zoning district has no density like many of our hybrid or reform based districts, however you like to call them.
 the constraints on the density becomes our development code as far as tree preservation and drainage standards and just the other pieces of the zoning code like building height. So I would assert that it could not be the same. Theoretically, you could potentially get the same number of units, but I think the massing of the building would be much more relatable to what's in the area. Okay, I guess that's good to hear.
 It's kind of known in the development community now that if you want to build houses, you trick city council with form-based design and they go, oh, that's great, we're going to get mixed use, and then you don't. So I'm not entirely sure how I'm going to vote on this because we had a massive petition basically against housing there at density.
 it's like oh well now we're going to do foreign base but they can still basically do the same thing um so not entirely sure how i'm gonna vote on this i'm glad we've got some more time um but it seems like some of the planning commissioners and it didn't even pass uh voted based on the potential for mixed use but like it's it's only a potential uh and unless the developer doesn't want it and then there's then there's time
 This is also pretty far outside the mayor's box. Weddington is already a death trap. So that's a concern. So there's a lot of concerns about residential density out here. I mean, I would love to see some services so people started going west on Weddington instead of east. But I'm not sure how I think about this one. So thank you.
 And I'm sorry, I think I should have asked you all if you had any questions for staff. The applicant and I moved on to public comment. So what, do you all have any questions for the applicant or staff? I have a question for Councilmember Scrock. And did you mention, I believe at agenda session you were interested in connecting about notifications for appeals? Is there any forward movement there?
 So on, yeah, I was asked about this from staff. I don't think that this particular item needs any more requirements than we already had. I don't like changing the rules in the middle of the game.
 But I do think that moving forward we should do that and I'm under the impression that that is moving forward, that for future appeals that there will be new notification. So hopefully that will be brought to us to vote. But I don't think it would be fair to this applicant to change the rule here. Sure, yes, I was definitely referring for the future. Okay, thank you. Anything else?
 Okay, then we will just let this one sit right here in two weeks. We'll look at it again or do we have We got yeah, thank you After God I might have a spare moment or two here And so we do so so in two weeks y'all We have a meeting on the 28th, okay, so we'll make sure that's on the agenda. Okay, good. All right. I think that concludes our
 business what announcements do we have? Mayor I have a few since we're here with such an early night I thought I'd take the opportunity to let people know about a few things that are going on.
 The, you all recall you passed the resolution of intent to have the Office of Economic Vitality work on a revision to the economic recovery, economic development plan which also includes an aspect for economic recovery and I wanted to remind everyone and the public at home that there is a platform on our Speak Up site.
 to invite individuals to sign up if you'd like to participate in any of the focus groups that are ongoing right now. The plan is underway, has been very active. There's also a questionnaire for people to be able to articulate their priorities for our economic recovery and economic vitality moving forward. And specifically one question.
 about the American Rescue Plan that Paul was just here to talk to you about receiving the grant funds. So that's online right now and people are welcome to please join.
 Number two, good news for the City of Fayetteville, the League of American Bicyclists has honored 30 businesses in Fayetteville for the Bicycle Friendly Business Award and City of Fayetteville has now received a silver designation up from last year's bronze designation. So we're continuing to excel in our bike friendly businesses. Thank you all.
 Tomorrow on the Fayetteville Square from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. the Community Blood Center of the Ozarks will have the Blood Mobile and the Blood Drive. There will be prizes and t-shirts. It's advisable that you register online, though it's not absolutely necessary, but on our website you'll find a link to register if you would like to make an appointment between 9 to 3. And finally the Gully Park Concert Series kicks off next.
 a week from Thursday on June 24th with jukebox. Thanks. Okay. Anything else? I would like to say that the Federal Police Department tomorrow is having a pop-up party at Asbill Park from 12 until 2. I have one other announcement too, Mayor. Sure. Slow Streets is happening on June 20th from 11 to 2 at the corner of Betty Joe Drive and Jewel.
 in Fayetteville, so people want to look that up. Participate in that. Anything else? All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned. Good work.