I'd like to call the City Council meeting of June the 16th, 2015, to order. Sondra, would you please call the roll? LeTour. Present. Long. Here. Gray. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Tennant. Here. Schottmeyer. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Joining the signing of the pledge of allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God.
 Good evening, everyone. Good. All right. Under the first order of business we have tonight under the City Council meeting presentation reports and discussion items, we have the nominating committee report. Mark, I believe you have that. Yes. Once again, we had an incredible number of excellent applicants for the openings and
 Unfortunately, everyone couldn't be appointed. If you were not appointed or you have an interest in the committee, I certainly would encourage you to apply again. We do this every quarter and the applicants and the applications we receive are generally pretty incredibly, it's tough for the committee to make a decision, but that's what we have the task to do and this is the slate that we will be nominating this evening.
 The Mayor recommends the following candidates for appointment to the Historic District Commission, and this also went through the approval of the nominating committee. Jerry Hogan, one term, ending 6-30-18. Christine Myers, one term, ending 6-30-18. And Will Watson, one term, ending 6-30-18. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment.
 The Animal Services Advisory Committee, Allison Lowe, one citizen at large term ending 6-30-18. And Nicole Ferguson, one citizen at large term ending 6-30-18. To the Audit Committee, Scott Pacheco, one term ending 12-31-16.
 To the Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals, Allison Quinlan, one unexpired term ending 3-31-20, and Joe Terminello, one unexpired term ending 3-31-20. The Environmental Action Committee, Josh Crantenden, one citizen at large, term ending 6-30-18.
 The Fayetteville Arts Council, Nathan Morton, one working artist term ending 6-30-18. Donna Smith, one arts and cultural citizen at large term ending 6-30-18. And Sean Morrissey, one arts and cultural citizen at large term ending 6-30-18.
 To the Telecommunications Board, Candice Baldwin, one unexpired term ending 6-30-17. Aubrey Shepherd, one term ending 6-30-19. And Allie Taylor, one term ending 6-30-19.
 To the Town and Gown Advisory Committee, Alex Femister, one University of Arkansas student term ending 9-30-17. And to the Walton Arts Center Council Incorporated, Bill Waite, one term ending 6-30-18. I nominate these on behalf of the nominating committee and request they're accepted as published. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the nominations by the nominating committee.
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? Luture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Okay, under the consent agenda, number one, approval of the June 2, 2015 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to award bid number 15-32 and authorize the purchase of two Peterbilt 348 trucks with three rear loaders from Peterbilt of Fort Smith in the total amount of $369,180 for use by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division. Number three, a resolution to award bid number 15-33 and to authorize a contract with T.
 NT Green LLC of Federal Arkansas for the replacement of insulation at the City Recycling Center in the amount of $38,000. And number four, a resolution to award bid number 15-34 and to authorize a contract with Lee Earthworks LLC of Winslow, Arkansas,
 for the Federal Senior Activity and Wellness Center parking lot expansion project in the amount of $35,063 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,506.
 we'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda's red so moved second the motion is second to accept consent agenda is red sondra would you please call her up yes long yes gray yes marsh yes kenyan yes yes yes shopmar yes okay next order business we have is public hearing b1
 A resolution authorized the city attorney to seek condemnation of possession of certain lands owned by Jerome Lopez and Elizabeth Young and the Randall J. Wright Trust needed for the Highway 45 and Owyre Road Intersection Improvement Project.
 I'll open up that. Well, Mayor, as I explained at the last meeting, we thought we had all these resolved, and I can inform the City Council we now have all these resolved with papers in hand. So this should be probably tabled indefinitely or it can be voted down, but we don't need to have a public hearing because we do not need to go forward with any of these condemnations. So we could table indefinitely if we wanted to. Mr. Mayor. Yes. Yes.
 I was going to move we table indefinitely. I'll second that. All right, we have a motion and a second to table this item indefinitely. Senator, would you please call the roll? Leteers? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Okay, under unfinished business number one.
 A resolution to amend the Master Street Plan by removing a bridge connection on Raven Lane over Claver Creek south of Crystal Springs, Phase 3. Deputy Mayor and Council, the applicant has requested this item be tabled indefinitely also. They have indicated they will be working on different options and meeting with staff and neighbors to bring back for consideration. So I would recommend that you table this item indefinitely. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to table this item indefinitely. Any comments on that?
 Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Lutcher. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Kennett. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Okay, number two. An order to rezone that property describing zoning petition RZN 15-5044 for approximately 16.02 acres located at 4065 East Huntsville Road from RPCD 08-3071 Residential Plan Zoning District 10.
 Bridgedale applies it to RSF 7, residential single-family, seven units per acre, NS neighborhood services, and CS community services. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. A motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Couture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5044 for approximately 16 acres located at 4065 East Huntsville Road from RPCD 8-3071, residential planned zoning district Bridgedale Plaza to RSF 7, residential single family, seven units per acre, neighborhood services and community services. Chair Greg Musil.
 Mayor and Council, there were two specific items that were discussed, I believe, at the Council meeting last time, two weeks ago. One was the intersection of River Meadows Drive and Huntsville Road and the dangers real or perceived there, and also drainage. And so I want to give you an update on both of those things that we've determined since that meeting.
 Regarding drainage, when the previous development proposal was reviewed, the developer was required as is normal to provide adequate drainage facilities to meet the flows created by this development which includes detention and also moving water through the site.
 We've also required them to assist with draining the natural bowl that exists in this area, and I think you heard some residents speak of that as well. We would expect the same type of improvements with the future development in this area, so there was no reason to believe we would not apply those same standards, and we actually have additional standards now that we apply related to water quality and our one-year storm events. And so if a rezoning is approved and development is submitted, we would review those under our current standards as opposed to the standards five or six years ago when we reviewed this project last.
 Related to the intersection, we asked the police department to run some vehicular accident data for us to consider this particular incident.
 intersection from a safety standpoint. We ran that from January of 2013 to present, so about two and a half years worth of data, and we also compared it to the Stonebridge Road and Huntsville Road, which is now signalized. The number of accidents at River Meadows Drive and Huntsville Road numbered six accidents in that location, and there were 16 at Stonebridge and Huntsville.
 Huntsville. That stone bridge in Huntsville now is signalized. It was signalized within the last six months to eight months, I believe. We did speak with the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department. To their knowledge, a warrant analysis or study has not been conducted at that intersection. That's certainly something the city can request to be done to see if this River Meadows Drive would qualify or meet the warrants for a signal. As I mentioned at the last meeting, that's completely up to the Highway and Transportation Department because Highway 16 is under their jurisdiction. But
 That is something we can certainly look into doing. Even before a development plan came forward, we could certainly look in that. It sounds like it's already an existing condition.
 With a future development, obviously more traffic would potentially exacerbate that condition and so what we would look at is as we do in many cases possibly an assessment for a portion of that traffic signal. We would look at the development and how much traffic it is producing within that intersection to understand what that impact would be. So that's something that's very common that we look at with development proposals because
 Because we're not looking at the development now, we could not say what that would be, but we're comfortable with continuing recommending in favor of the rezoning request as stated. What questions do we have, Jeremy? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? So you're not bringing it back to the count. I'm sorry. Someone's coming up. Please come up. Hello. My name is Pat Hoskins. I live at 1128 St. Andrew's Circle in Stonebridge. My street empties onto River Meadow, and that's what part of this that I want to address is
 I couldn't quite understand everything he said because I was in the back, but it seems like they had possibly addressed the use of river meadows as an entrance into the new development. And that's what I want to address. It's just reading from the planning zoning memo. They said any rezoning action will increase traffic congestion in the area. Highway 16 is a very congested roadway at peak times. In particular, it's very difficult turning out turning left out of river meadows onto Highway 16.
 And that's what we're experiencing now. We go from our street to River Meadows and we get out and it's very difficult. There's construction going on but it looks like it's going to be a long-term project, multi-year expansion of Highway 16 which really makes it even worse. So I was surprised to see that the plan for this development shows it entering River Meadows and then entering into the new development rather than directly off of Highway 16.
 So we'd like to ask maybe the council to look at the, ask the planning zoning to do some kind of traffic study to understand what's going to happen there. I think the plan is to add 57 houses, and you figure out, you know, most houses are going to have two cars. So we're going to add 100 cars going in and out of that place that's already dangerous. And I don't understand why that was approved. So I've just asked that you take another look at that.
 and see if there can't be another entrance rather than use an existing neighborhood entrance, which is already very narrow. We're also concerned about the drainage. The slope of the property slopes toward my backyard, which is back up to that property, which is in Stonebridge. So unless the slope is changed, the drainage could come into our neighborhood. So we'd like for you to take a look at that again also before the next reading.
 So we need, I guess, a review of the traffic study, especially when you look at adding that many cars coming into an existing street rather than bringing them in somewhere else, and also look at the drainage. Thanks for your time and attention. Okay. Jeremy, do you have any questions?
 Generally, the detail of those types of review are done at development review, not a zoning review. Certainly, traffic conditions and concerns can be considered as part of the rezoning request. Essentially, you're looking at if you think it would create such a condition that the zoning should not be approved, you simply vote against the rezoning as generally the standard that you're applying there. What we would likely do is look at the traffic. We don't know what access points because we're not reviewing a development plan now, but we would look at what access points are necessary for the development.
 development of that size would likely require multiple access points, not just one. And so it's something we would look at as part of the development plan. And the same thing as I mentioned before, the drainage plan, once a proposal is presented to staff and the planning commission, we look at the details of where the drainage goes, where it drains to, where detention ponds are located, what flow is within the neighborhood. As I mentioned before, there's an existing bowl already sort of to the southeast of this property that we'd like to try to get
 get through the property convey through the property in order to get back to the river because currently when it rains it simply sits there and doesn't really go anywhere so those are definitely two issues that we're aware of with this project as well. I'm sorry I should have told you about on the public comment everybody's to when they come to the microphone to get one turn to microphone and give your name and address and that one term turn unless the city council member brings you back up to ask you some sort of questions or.
 uh... all remarks be directed to me and uh... no remarks to the counseling congress counsels whole don't single out any individual council member anybody from the public and uh... everybody's to behave respectful courage to another or yes ma'am high-end when the pattern and i know that one one zero six eight and the sparkle my property is behind the proposed development and a lot has been said about
 why this should not be done. And the reasons are, number one, there is poor drainage in the area. This will only make it worse. Number two, the density of the housing project is seven houses per acre. That's 84 people. That's 84 houses, probably anywhere from 80 to 160 people. There is also 80 to 160 cars. There is not good...
 from the subdivision this development will only make it worse the one entrance into the proposed development does not work and if dead horse mountain road is flooded we have one last exit from the subdivision so this development may have been good in the past but right now it has no
 benefit to the existing community. It will only make things worse in the area and the traffic much more dangerous to the residents. I ask that you not rezone this area. Thank you very much. Who else would like to address us on this? I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? I'd like to hold it on the second reading. Anybody okay? Okay.
 All right, we'll hold it right here then. Okay, number three. An ordinance to amend Federal Code 97.088B2B and its Exhibit A, donor recognition signs to amend 97.088D facility naming and its Exhibit B naming park facilities to clarify that the city council has final authority to name park and trail facilities.
 I'll entertain a motion to go to the Senate. Mayor, actually, this is an amended ordinance because the City Council talked to us at the last meeting and asked us to make sure that they had ultimate final authority on naming. And so I worked with Connie Edmondson, Parks and Recreation Director, and we came up with a proposed amendment.
 So rather than suspending the rules or anything, I think maybe I should read that part of the ordinance that has been changed, which will be everything after the now therefore. And we will address the amendment first and then go on to the other. This would be the proposed amendment that I'm reading right here. And you read the proposed amended title. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Feb. Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council for the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend Section 97088 of the Fayetteville Code by deleting Subsection I in its entirety and enacting a new Subsection I as follows. Donor recognition signs in City parks shall be sized in accordance with Exhibit A, donor recognition signs unless otherwise determined by City Council resolution.
 Section 2 that the City Council for the City of Thale-Arks I hereby amends section 97088D facility naming by deleting its final sentence in its entirety and enacting a new final sentences as follows Final naming of the facility may be as recommended by the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board with final selection and approval by the City Council naming of the facilities should meet the naming park facilities policy attached to Exhibit B on the
 unless otherwise determined by City Council resolution and section 3 that the City Council for the city of a lark's I hereby removes and deletes in their entirety the current exhibit a operation policy for donor recognition and exhibit B naming park facilities operation policy and enacting as their replacements the attached exhibit a donor recognition signs and exhibit B naming park facilities
 So that would be what we have proposed to respond to request ensure that the City Council will have final decision on both of these areas. So I'm a boy except the amendment is published second we have motion second to accept the amendment now is there any public comment on the amendment. Okay I'm going right back to the council Connie do you have anything you want to say on it.
 No, I appreciate you reviewing this. I think it's something that will help us get more donors. It will help us to recognize donors for their charitable gifts, not only for the regional park, but many of our park improvements throughout our whole system. So thank you for your consideration. Okay.
 All right. Any final comments from council before we vote on the amendment? Yes, Alan. I'd just like to thank Connie and her department for all their hard work on this. I know that the revisions took some work and the original one did too, so thank you all very much. You're welcome. Okay. All right. If there's nothing else, Sandra, would you please call the roll on the amendment? Luttre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Hetty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Kemp.
 And now you might want to move to suspend the rules and go to, I guess, would actually be the second reading. Second reading. So moved. We have a motion to second. Second. Go to the second. Second. Senator, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. And in order to amend the FAVO code section 97088B2B and its exhibit A, donor recognition signs, and to amend section 97.088D, facility naming, and its exhibit B, naming park facilities, to clarify that the City Council has final authority to name park and trail facilities. Conning?
 I think it covered many of the things on it. We did add a year to it. A 25-year recognition period was given to three different categories. The bronze category, which is for donations of $25,000 to $250,000 that would go on a donor wall. A gold category, which is the donations over $250,000, which would be naming for a field, a court, or a facility. Okay.
 and the trails facility gold category, which would be for a trailhead. We put a 30-year recognition period for a complex with a donation of $1 million to $5 million, and we did not put a time period to donations over $5 million to name a park. All of the donors will receive the first right to renew their naming rights for an appropriate donation upon consideration of the time period or after conclusion of the time period,
 And the city will also reserve the right to remove a donor's name from the facility if the city council determines by resolution that a donor would otherwise cause undue embarrassment or other issues for the city or its citizens. We believe that we have a good amendment to our ordinance that will help us bring in some more money so that we can build the regional park and other park facilities. What questions do we have for Connie on this from the council? Jeff? How's fundraising going? Okay.
 We're working on it. Good. Not as quickly as we hoped, but I think the more publicity that we get on it, the more people will step forward. And once you go out there and you see what we're doing and what a beautiful facility it's going to be, I think there'll be a fight over who gets their name on what, I hope. How would a benefactor go about making a contribution? Thank you.
 how do you go about it we have a group called friends for parks and if they just call the parks office i'll give them the contact information and they can go with them they are an umbrella of the community foundation a 501c3 entity so thank you thank you good anybody else okay is there any public comment on the amended ordinance okay gonna bring it back to the council
 Second. We're on the, we could go to the third and final reading. I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Thank you. Lutera. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. In order to amend Fable Code Section 97088B2B.
 And it's Exhibit A, Donor Recognition Signs, and to amend Section 97088D, Facility Naming, and it's Exhibit B, Naming Park Facilities, to clarify that the City Council has final authority to name park and trail facilities. Okay. Final comments from the Council. Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Luttre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes.
 Okay. Thank you all very much. Under new business, number one, an ordinance to amend 34.27 sale of municipally owned real property to authorize the use of a realtor for the sale of the two houses at Gully Park. Kip.
 Whereas on March 15th, 2015, the City Council authorized the sale of two houses at Gully Park with minimum bids based upon their appraised values, and whereas despite considerable staff effort and expense, only one property received a bid which was later rescinded, and hereby determined that in this limited circumstance, it is in the City's best interest to hire a realtor for the sale of these properties.
 Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby enacts section 34.27 of the Fayetteville Code as follows. Section 34.27 subsection e. The City Council authorizes the use of a realtor for the sale of the two houses at Gully Park.
 The realtor shall be selected in accordance with the city's formal competitive bidding procedures. All offers for the sale or purchase of the city property shall be subject to final approval by the city council. There was an attempt earlier to sell it under the old sales municipally owned property ordinance. Unfortunately, that was not very successful, and we felt, I guess, kind of came to me, and we felt like what we needed to do here is actually try to use a realtor.
 to see if we could have any better luck. That was not allowed under the code, so we have to change the code to authorize that. So I wrote a very limited exception only for these two houses, and that is what we have presented to you. Connie, I don't know what comments you might have. Thank you.
 I think on the first try we did have it in the provision that you must bid at least the minimum bid must be the appraised value of the homes. And I think that kind of made people not as interested in them. We had quite a few viewers. We had six different showings. We had hoped to sell the homes, but it just didn't happen. But it's a great location. I think it's a great buy for somebody who wants to live next to Gully Park.
 Okay. You can take public comment if you want. I don't care. You can take public comment first if you want. I just have a quick comment. My comment is I appreciate this idea because this being a Ward 3 property and it's a pretty unique spot in town and I think that I'm not a real estate agent. People in the city are not real estate agents and a real estate agent
 Eats and sleeps this sort of thing and so not only do they see more people and talk to more people but the uniqueness of this property is something that can be visualized and talked about through a real estate agent I think better than any of us so. I understand the for sale by owner because sometimes you can save fees and things like that, but I think this will be worth it, I think, in the end of the day, we may be getting more for the property than than giving up those fees to use a real estate agent, so I applaud.
 you and Kit for doing that, Connie. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any other questions from the council for Connie on this? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I have one question. Sure. How would we go about picking that realtor exactly? We would use our standard selection process where we –
 send it out for RFP, which is a request for proposals, where we can actually consider not only what they offer and what they say they're going to do and select the best one like that, but also we can look at the price, how much, you know, what kind of percentage are we going to be expected to pay. So it's a standard procedure that we do in many, many sorts of selection processes. Sometimes for some...
 professions like engineers you have to an RFQ which you ask for the qualifications you can't consider price but I think with Realtors we can and I think that we're going to do that any other questions okay
 No public comment. We're ready to go to the second reading. I move we go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Luture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Hinnon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. An ordinance amends section 3427, sale of municipally owned real property to authorize the use of a realtor for the sale of the two houses at Gully Park.
 I move we go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Cassandra, would you please call the roll? Latour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Shopmark. Yes. And orders to amend section 34.27, sale of municipally owned real property to authorize the use of a realtor for the sale of the two houses at Gully Park. Any final comments from the council on this?
 Sandra, would you please call the roll? LaTure. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Okay, number two. An order for zoning that property described in zoning petition RZN 15-5053 for approximately 2.16 acres located west of 4195 West Persimmon Street from RSF 4, residential single family, four units...
 per acre to our residential office. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, section 1, that the City Council for the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification for the following described property
 from residential single-family four units per acre to residential office, as shown in exhibits A and B attached here to and made a part hereof, and Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jeremy. This is a two-acre undeveloped parcel of land in West Fayetteville. It's located off of Persimmon Street between Cedar Crest Academy and Catherine's Place, just north of Owl Creek Elementary. The current zoning is RSF4, which is single-family residential.
 single family residential four units per acre. The request is to rezone the property to RO, which is our residential office designation. That allows for small scale office buildings, single family and two family residential offices as well, and small businesses and professional office uses. Our city plan 2030 future land use map designates this area as a civic institutional area and RO generally would fit that category, particularly with the surrounding uses, which would be very compatible with this particular use.
 The Planning Commission forwarded this item to the City Council with a recommendation of 9-0, and staff is also supporting the rezoning request. Okay. What questions do we have for the staff on this? Anything? Is the board forward? Everything look good over there? Okay. Damn. All right. Any public comment on this? Good evening. My name is Scott Blacksher. I'm with Blue & Associates. I'm representing my client here. I think Mr. Pate's done a great job representing what we're trying to do with the property, but I'm here to answer any questions that y'all may have.
 Do we have any questions for the applicant? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? See, now I'm running back to the council. What do you all want to do? Motion to suspend the rules and move to second reading. Second. The motion is second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Luture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Kenyon.
 An ordinance rezoning that property is cried and rezoning petition RZN 15-5053 for approximately 2.16 acres. Located west of 4195 West Persimmon Street from residential single family, four units per acre to residential office.
 Maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Son, would you please call the roll? LeTour. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. And ordinance rezoning that property is described in rezoning petition RZN 15-5053 for approximately 2.16 acres located west of 4195 West Persimmon Street from residential single family four units per acre to residential office.
 Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Luttre. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Okay. Number three, we are going to ask you to table that. I guess I better read what I have here. Resolution to award a contract in the amount of X.
 to Contractor Incorporated for the construction of the Maple Street and Lafayette Bridge Rehab approve a project contingency of X and approve a budget adjustment which is unknown. So um Jim
 Jeremy, take it away, please. Mayor, we were scheduled to receive bids last week as Chris Brown, our city engineer, reported on the Maple and Lafayette Street bridge restorations. We received several questions from bidders having difficulty finding subcontractors and suppliers for some of the specialty items because these are historic restoration bridges. So we've extended the bid deadline to Friday, June 26th at 2 p.m. Because of that extension, we're requesting the City Council
 table this item until July 7th to allow us more time. Generally, this results in better bids and more competition in the bidding process. Okay. We need a table here. I move that we table this. Second. Move the motion and second to table this item until how long? July 7th. July 7th. Okay.
 Everybody good? All right. Senator, would you please call the roll? Luture. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tenant. Yes. Shopmar. Yes. All righty then. Number four, an ordinance to ensure uniform non-discrimination protections within the city of federal for groups already protected to varying degrees throughout state law. Kip.
 Whereas laws including the Civil Rights Act, the Arkansas Civil Rights Act of 1993, and the Arkansas Fair Housing Act provide favorable citizens with protections against discrimination on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, age, sex, religion, and disability, and whereas the General Assembly has determined that attributes such as gender identity and sexual orientation do require protection,
 And whereas Fable citizens deserve fair, equal, and dignified treatment under the law, and whereas Fable seeks to attract a diverse and creative workforce by promoting itself to prospective businesses and employees as a fair, tolerant, and welcoming community,
 And whereas the protected classifications in Arkansas Code Annotated 6-18-514-B1 for persons on the basis of gender identity and sexual orientation should also be protected by the City of Fayetteville to prohibit those isolated but in proper circumstances when some person or business might discriminate against our gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender citizens,
 And whereas in response to the concerns recently expressed by the citizens of Fayetteville on a similar issue, the Fayetteville City Council recognizes their interest in participating in the democratic process and invites the citizens to decide whether gender identity and sexual orientation should also be protected by the city of Fayetteville. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby refers this ordinance to the Fayetteville voters for their enactment or rejection in a special election to be held on September 8, 2015. The operative provisions that will be enacted by the Fayetteville citizens into the Fayetteville Code, if approved by a majority of Fayetteville citizens voting in an election, shall be as follows. Uniform civil rights protection. Purpose.
 Fayetteville is a welcoming, fair, and tolerant city which endeavors to ensure that all of its citizens and visitors will be free from unfair discrimination. Since federal and state law already protects citizens from most discrimination, the Uniform Civil Rights Protection Article shall extend existing protections to lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender citizens and visitors as recognized elsewhere in state law.
 Employee. This definition adopts and incorporates herein the definition of employee as stated in the Arkansas Civil Rights Act of 1993. Employer. This definition adopts and incorporates herein the definition of employer as stated in the Arkansas Civil Rights Act of 1993.
 Gender identity means an individual's own bona fide sense of being male or female and the related External characteristics of behaviors that are socially defined as either masculine or feminine Gender ID may or may not correspond to the sex assigned to the individual at birth housing accommodation this definition adopts the incorporate and incorporates here in the definition of housing accommodation as stated in the Arkansas Fair Housing Act of 1993 place of public resort accommodation assemblies or amusement or
 This definition adopts and incorporates herein the definition of place of public resort, accommodation assemblage, or amusement as stated in the Arkansas Civil Rights Act of 1993. Furthermore, this shall not mean any religious facility or other religious institution, including their owned and operated schools and daycare facilities. Real estate broker or salesman. This definition adopts and incorporates herein the definition of real estate broker or salesman as stated in the Arkansas Fair Housing Act of 1993.
 Real estate transaction. This definition adopts and incorporates herein the definition of real estate transaction as stated in the Arkansas Fair Housing Act. Real property. This definition adopts and incorporates herein the definition of real property as stated in the Arkansas Fair Housing Act. Sexual orientation means heterosexuality, homosexuality, or bisexuality by practice, identity, or expression. Applicability and exceptions.
 A, the Uniform Civil Rights Protection Article is only applicable to discriminatory actions occurring within the Fayetteville City limits. B, this article adopts and incorporates herein the entirety of Arkansas Code Annotated 16-123-103, applicability of the Arkansas Civil Rights Act. C, churches, religious schools and daycare facilities and religious organizations of any kind shall be exempt from this article. Discrimination offenses.
 The right of an otherwise qualified person to be free from discrimination because of sexual orientation and gender identity is the same right of every citizen to be free from discrimination because of race, religion, national origin, gender, and disability as recognized and protected by the Arkansas Civil Rights Act of 1993. The Uniform Civil Rights Protection Act adopts and incorporates herein those rights as quoted below.
 the right to obtain and hold employment without discrimination, the right to the full enjoyment of any of the accommodations, advantages, facilities, or privileges of any place of public resort, accommodation, assemblage, or amusement, three, the right to engage in property transactions, including sales and leases, without discrimination, four, the right to engage in credit and other contractual transactions without discrimination,
 And five, the right to vote and participate fully in the political process. A person engaging in a real estate transaction or a real estate broker or salesman shall not, on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, engage in any conduct likewise prohibited by Arkansas Code Annotated 16-123-204 prohibited acts of the Arkansas Fair Housing Act on the basis of other enumerated attributes.
 D. No employer shall discriminate against nor threaten any individual because such individual, in good faith, has opposed any act or practice made unlawful by this Section, or because such person, in good faith, made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing related to the Uniform Civil Rights Protection Article. Establishment and Duties of a Civil Rights Commission. There is hereby established the Civil Rights Commission.
 The Civil Rights Commission shall review and decide complaints of alleged discrimination in violation of the Uniform Civil Rights Protection Article. The Commission will provide to the City an annual accounting of the number of complaints received and outcomes. The Civil Rights Commission shall consist of seven members, composed of the following. Two representatives of the business community, two owners or managers of rental property, one representative with experience in human resources or employment law,
 two citizens at large, at least one of whom identifies as gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender. Members will be appointed by the City Council, each for a term of three years. Appointments shall be staggered so that each year, either two or three members' terms shall be available for appointment by the nominating committee. Members of the Civil Rights Commission may be removed from office by the City Council for cause upon written charges after a public hearing.
 The Civil Rights Commission shall meet, and this is a meetings, Civil Rights Commission shall meet for an organizational meeting within 60 days after the citizens enact this ordinance and every year thereafter following the appointment of new members. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson. A majority of the membership of the Civil Rights Commission shall constitute a quorum
 All meetings shall be open to the public. The Civil Rights Commission shall adopt rules necessary for the conduct of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of the city's Uniform Civil Rights Protection Article. Staff support. The City Attorney's Office shall receive complaints on behalf of the Civil Rights Commission and assist the Commission in performing its duties and carrying out its responsibilities. Complaint, procedure, and enforcement.
 A. A person asserting a claim of discrimination, hereafter referred to as complainant, pursuant to this Uniform Civil Rights Protection Article, must present such claim in writing to the City Attorney's Office no more than 90 days after the person has knowledge of the facts giving rise to the claim of discrimination. The City Attorney's Office will, within two business days, notify the Civil Rights Commission that a complaint was received.
 Subsection B, informal mediation or conciliation between the alleged discriminator, herein referred to as the respondent, and the complainant shall be attempted by the city within four business days and before any other enforcement measures can begin.
 Such mediation or conciliation measures shall be pursued in accordance with the confidentiality protections provided by Arkansas Code Annotated 6-7-206. Mediation and conciliation shall be concluded within two weeks after the complaint is received unless both parties agree to further efforts. C. If conciliation efforts are successful in resolving the complaint,
 the Civil Rights Commission will be notified of resolution and take no further action. If conciliation efforts fail to resolve the complaint, the Civil Rights Commission shall notify both parties that a hearing will be conducted at a specific place and time, not more than 14 business days after the conclusion of conciliation efforts, but not less than five business days after issuance of the notice of the hearing. Conduct of the hearing.
 The Civil Rights Commission shall review the initial complaint and may receive any additional evidence from the complainant. The respondent shall have the opportunity to explain and provide evidence or to rebut any allegations of illegal discriminatory acts. No person shall be compelled to be a witness against himself in any formal or informal hearing. After considering all the evidence presented, if the Civil Rights Commission determines that the respondent has violated this article, the Commission shall forward the original claim and their findings to the city prosecutor. Penalty.
 A person's first violation of this ordinance shall carry a penalty of up to a $100 fine. Fable City Code Section 10.99 General Penalty shall apply to any subsequent violations. No violation of this article shall be construed to be a misdemeanor or felony. Severability. If any part, provision, or section of this ordinance is held invalid or unconstitutional, it shall be severed from the remainder, which shall remain valid and enforceable.
 Section 2. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arcotel hereby determines that if the Fayetteville voters fail to approve the referred ordinance, the ordinance will not go into effect. But if the voters approve the ordinance, the ordinance quoted in Section 1 will be enacted into the Fayetteville Code and become effective 60 days after the approving election. Okay. Ellie, you want to start tonight? Be happy to, Mayor.
 You know, ever since we had the adoption and the repeal of our original civil rights ordinance some months ago, I've been thinking, as have many citizens, how can we come together to make sure that Fayetteville is on record that we are a city that protects the rights of everyone
 and that we do not believe in nor support any form of discrimination at any time. So I have gathered together a group of local lawyers who had expressed to me their interest in writing, helping to write the ordinance. And after many drafts and months,
 We have before you tonight an ordinance that I believe we can be proud of, most of us, in the city of Fayetteville. Listen very carefully to the complaints and the concerns of the business community.
 many opponents, we listened carefully to the concerns and tried to answer as best we could those concerns while still keeping our focus that no individual works or plays in the city of Fayetteville in fear of discrimination. So I...
 have this to present to you tonight and I look forward to our discussion. Thank you. Any of the co-sponsors wish to make any statements at this time? All right. What discussion? Yes, John. With all due deference to Alderwoman Gray, let me say this. If I'm a member of the LGBTQ community and I choose to live out what I believe, I am protected under the ordinance.
 If I'm a member of the community that believes in traditional marriage and I choose to live out what I believe, I'm subject to prosecution. I can hardly see how this ordinance protects everyone. It protects one group at the expense of another group. As long as that's the case, I cannot support it. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Now there's a lot of people who want to speak on this issue tonight, and I understand that.
 Now, these are the rules for everybody tonight, whichever side you're on on this. So that every interested citizen will have time to speak, I would like to establish order and a process to advance the public's participation tonight. Number one, citizens of Fedville will be allowed to speak first. When you come to the microphone, participants will be asked to give their name and address at the microphone. Number three...
 Each person will have one turn at the microphone unless asked to return by a city council member. Okay? All right, number four, there will be a three-minute maximum length of time, and the chief of staff has a handy-dandy little timer over there.
 And it will blink green and yellow and then red. And when it hits red, your time will be up so everybody knows exactly how much time they have. And nobody gets any more time than anybody else. I got a few calls on that last time, but you have to understand that was over an eight-hour period with me watching that clock. This will make it somewhat easier. Number five, all remarks are to be directed to me or to the council as a whole.
 No remarks will be directed to any council members, and no personal attacks will be allowed on a council member or anyone in the public. Okay? I'm going to call you down for that. All right. Now, everybody, you know how to behave here. Everybody needs to be courteous and respect one another. I don't want no hand clapping, no booing, no cheering, no yelling, no laughing, no hollering. Not going to have that. Everybody's going to remain orderly. Be courteous. Be respectful of one another. Now, respect.
 Having said all that, who would like to be first tonight? Mayor. Yes. I need to ask a point of order. Sure. I have 14 amendments I'd like to offer to this ordinance to make it more palatable for those of us on this side. Would I do that now or later? You know, here's what I'm thinking, John. You can give all your amendments right now, and they can address those amendments as they come up to speak, but they only get three minutes to address all of them.
 So you want me to give my notes now? I would prefer that. Okay. Just whatever they are, we'll write them down. Now let me tell you all something, too. You may have questions about all this. Whatever questions you got...
 We'll write the questions down. We will answer them in the final statement, so we're not just going back and forth and back and forth up here all night. Whatever questions you've got, we'll write them down. We'll get you an answer as we wrap up here. Okay, John. Mayor, I'm going to make these in the form of a motion. If they're seconded, we'll have a discussion. If it lies for lack of second, we'll go on to the next amendment. Okay. Fair enough? You want to do them one at a time? That would be fine. Yeah. That would be fine. Ask questions.
 My first amendment is section C of the definition shall be amended to replace the last sentence thereof as follows gender identity Corresponds to the readily observable biological and scientifically determinable Fact of a person being either male or female at birth. Okay, that's your motion That's my move to amend it that way is there a second? Yeah, I got that part John. Is there a second on the amendment? Okay, that one dies for lack of a second. Okay number two
 Section 1 shall be amended to provide that the entire ordinance be printed on the ballot. Further, the City of Fayetteville shall provide no summary statement or shortened description of the ordinance to the Washington County Clerk for printing on the ballot.
 That's your motion. Yes. What question do you have, Alan? Can we do that? I don't think that would be feasible by the Election Commission. I've been told by the election officers that they would not be able to do all that. I would like to see it all on myself, but they simply say that it would either be impossible or extremely expensive for them to do that. Okay, but that's still your motion, correct, John? Still my motion. All right. Is there a second on that? Okay. Next, Amendment 3.
 Section 1 shall be amended to provide that no city of Fayetteville resources shall directly or indirectly be used to promote the approval of the ordinance by the Fayetteville voters.
 Explain it to I I want to ask what in there. What do you mean by yeah? I'm trying to direct would be using city resources like picking up the city cell phone and making a call Asking someone to support the motion support the ordinance would be taking city money using city cars city fuel That's indirect promotion of the ordinance that's illegal under our Arkansas code and
 I just want to make it clear that we're not as a city. We're going to remain a neutral party as a city council, as a city government. We're going to let the people decide it, not us. Now, I thought that elected officials could campaign one way or the other. I think that is correct, and I think that this is really not a germane amendment. This should be a separate ordinance if you want to try to bring that forward. That, as an amendment to this ordinance, I just don't think that it's—
 We're presenting something to the voters that vote up or down, and for them to vote up or down on this doesn't make—I don't understand that. If it's against state law, whatever the state law says, I'm sure that the city council and the city will certainly obey the state law. And there are restrictions, obviously, on something like that, but I don't think this is really a proper amendment to this particular ordinance. THE COURTLAND COUNCIL PRESIDENT The idea is—
 I would suspect that the majority of the city council is going to vote for this ordinance and will promote others to vote for this ordinance. I just want it to be a fair contest that the people decide it, not the city council deciding it. This time, unlike 119 version 1, where the city council decided it, this time we're putting it to the people to vote. So let us stay out of it.
 And I agree, we can all campaign for whatever we want to. We're not bridging your freedom of speech as an individual, but you can't do it as a mayor or city council person. Is there a second on this? As for lack of a second, let's go to number four. Kit, you were right. This will go very quickly. Well, I appreciate you going through them like this. I mean, I don't have any problem with it. All right. This is Amendment 4.
 Section 1 shall be amended to provide that the scheduling of an election shall be held in abeyance until the Attorney General of the State of Arkansas has rendered an opinion as to whether the proposed ordinance violates Arkansas Code Annotated 14-1.401. If the Attorney General determines that the proposed ordinance is in violation of the foregoing statute, then the ordinance shall be considered void ad initio and no election shall be held. Thank you, Chairman.
 Our Attorney General is working on an opinion on our proposal right now. Okay. And we think it would be a waste of resources and a waste of time to move ahead with this before that opinion is issued. She is the highest law enforcement official in our state. I realize we may have differences of opinion here in this room, but we should give deference to our Attorney General's opinion. And I don't know if she's voting for the ordinance or against the ordinance. I don't know what her opinion will be, but I think we should wait on her.
 Yes. Alderman Latour, you said that the Attorney General is working on that. Do you have any idea when that may be determined? Have there been any indications? The first person I spoke with in the Attorney General's office said it's usually a month-long process. I have it on pretty good authority that one of our state representatives is asking for expedited treatment, so that could be ready before our next Council meeting. I don't know indefinite terms. I would think certainly within a month, but possibly as short as two weeks.
 I would just say that this is an issue that will be probably decided by the courts. The Attorney General renders opinions, but in fact, the normal case is that if a case is going to be litigated, the Attorney General renders no opinion because that would be kind of contrary to her position as just rendering an opinion as opposed to letting the courts decide this matter.
 There are several civil rights ordinances that have already been passed in Little Rock and other cities, so there could be litigation there, there could be litigation here, and this is something that really needs to be decided by the courts rather than just an opinion from an attorney general who has no—this is not a conclusive decision. This is just her opinion as we have an opinion from the Little Rock City attorney. His opinion is not conclusive either. Neither is mine. That's what courts are for.
 Well, right now, there's no court case pending, so the Attorney General is perfectly free to issue her opinion. And we elected her Attorney General, not the city attorney of Little Rock or, with all due deference, Mr. Williams yourself. Well, I was elected city attorney of Fayetteville to render opinions on city ordinances.
 She wasn't rendered elected Attorney General to render opinions on city ordinances and in fact the act is not yet into effect. So for her to render an decision on an act that's not even in effect yet would be unusual I should say. I'd say the entire state of Arkansas elected her to give opinions on proposed laws in a broad sense. Alan, you had something.
 I respect your idea here, but I would have to say that the Attorney General, as a partisan elected official, I don't think should have a role in deciding nonpartisan elected person's votes or the determination of what happens here. We're supposed to be nonpartisan people serving our city, and I don't think that we should bring partisan politics into that. You know, Mayor, point of order. We're discussing a motion with no second. Okay, you're right. You're right, John. I just—
 We'll make sure nobody else asks any questions. We'll see if you get a second. There's a motion. Is there a second on this? Okay. Number five.
 Section 2 should be amended to provide that if the ordinance is rejected by the voters of the City of Fayetteville, the City of Fayetteville shall not enact another ordinance concerning discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity for a minimum of two years from the date of the election which rejected the ordinance. This provision alone shall survive the rejection of the ordinance by the voters. Okay. That's your motion? That's the motion. Okay.
 I don't think that's probably legal. You can't really tie the hands of a future city council. Amendment 7 talks about the right to actually bring ordinances forward. And so I just think that I understand. I think you're probably going to have a much longer time than two years if this fails without any statement.
 But I don't know if this city council could tie the hands of a, I do not think that this city council could tie the hands of a future city council. Mr. Williams, every time we enact an ordinance, we're not actually tying the hands of future city councils. If we enact this ordinance as I propose to amend it, future city councils can change the ordinance, can invalidate the ordinance, can revoke the ordinance. Their hands are not tied in the least. All of us on city councils do this all the time.
 circumstances change, our voters' sympathies change, we change our ordinances accordingly. Okay. Is there a second? We have a motion on the floor. Is there a second to this motion? Okay. Number six. Thank you.
 Section a of the discrimination or offense shall be amended to provide that the observance or practice of Gender identity or sexual orientation shall be subject to the same limitation as set forth in Arkansas code annotated 16 dash 1 2 3 dash 103 B for religious observance or practice That's your motion. That's the motion. Is there a second? Okay number seven. I
 Section 1 shall be amended that the ordinance shall be put to a vote at the next regular general election in November of 2016 All right, that's the motion. Is there a second? Okay, number eight complaint procedures and enforcement. I
 Section D shall be amended to provide that notice of the complaint be provided to the respondent with notice in a similar manner as the service of a summons in a civil suit. Respondent shall have 30 days after service to respond in writing to the complaint. Any hearing shall be set not earlier than 60 days after receipt by the Civil Rights Commission of the written response by the respondent. That's your motion. Is there a second?
 I'm not going to second it, but I think that the requirement for notice could be a good thing. If we have an Ordinance Review Committee meeting, I'd like to discuss this amendment specifically there. Okay. Okay. I have a question. Okay. I thought that if we don't have a second, we can't discuss it. Wasn't that your point, Mr. Chairman? We don't have to discuss it, but it can be taken up later if there's an Ordinance Review Committee. Okay. I second. Number nine.
 Mayor, if you would, as a point of order, just would you announce this motion dies for lack of second? Okay, I certainly will. Okay, good. Well, let me just say the other previous eight amendments have died for a lack of second. Thank you. I apologize. Yes, John, go on. Amendment 9, I move that we amend as follows.
 Complaint procedures and enforcement, Section E, shall be amended to provide that the Arkansas rules of evidence, including but not limited to the exclusion of hearsay evidence, shall apply to the conduct of the hearing before the Civil Rights Commission. Okay. That's your motion. Is there a second? Motion dies for lack of second. Number 10. Thank you.
 Complaint Procedures and Enforcement Section E shall be amended to provide that the respondent shall be presumed innocent of a violation until determined guilty beyond a reasonable doubt by the Civil Rights Commission. Is there a second on that? Motion dies for lack of a second. Amendment 11. Thank you.
 Complaint procedures and enforcement, Section E, shall be amended to provide that the respondent shall have the right afforded in the U.S. Constitution, Amendment 6, to confront each witness against her at the hearing. Okay. Is there a motion? Is there a second? Motion dies for lack of a second.
 Amendment 12, Complaint Procedures and Enforcement, Section E, shall be amended to provide that the respondent shall have the right to appeal any adverse decision against him to the State Circuit Court.
 I don't think we could give them that right. It's really just a recommendation they can make. There's nothing that they can do beyond that. Now, if the city prosecutor accepts the case and decides to prosecute, then certainly they have a right, and they are convicted, then they would have a right to the state to appeal that to the circuit court. But there's really nothing to appeal out of the Civil Rights Administration. It's just an advisory decision. May I respond to that, Mayor? Yes, you may. Thank you.
 If I go before that Civil Rights Commission and I'm judged a dirty dog discriminator and the prosecutor declines to take the prosecution, prosecutors, as you all know, has prosecutorial discretion. He can avoid the case or he can take the case at his discretion. If he avoids the case and doesn't take it, I'm left with a label of dirty dog discriminator. What's that going to do to my business? What's that going to do to my family? What's that going to do to my reputation in the community?
 I have no redress. That's what makes this particularly odious. We have to have a place to redress that grievance. That's why we asked an appeal to the state circuit court. I just don't think we have the power to be able to do that. The courts don't have to just accept whatever we want them to accept, and there's no actual adjudication that has been made so that there's no way that the state court would accept a, quote, appeal
 from a body that only has advisory rights at the best. I don't know how you can say no adjudication has taken place. I'm still labeled with a bad label, which lowers my reputation in the community, which impedes my ability to make a living to support my family. I just think it's beyond the city council's power to be able to require the state court to hear something like that. All right, that's your motion. Correct, John. That's number 12. Did it die? Is there a second on the motion? Just give me a second. All right.
 All right. Number 13. Okay. Thank you. Complaint Procedure Enforcement Section 8 shall be amended to provide that it shall be a defense to any alleged discrimination that the respondent holds a good faith belief in traditional marriage and that her alleged discriminatory acts were a reasonable expression of her belief in the sanctity of traditional marriage. For this purpose, traditional marriage is to be defined as the marriage of one man to one woman. Is there a motion to the — is there a second to the motion?
 Okay. Dies for lack of a second. Amendment 14, last but not least, complaint procedures and enforcement, Section F, shall be amended to provide that the Fayetteville City Code, Section 10.99, general penalty shall not apply to impose imprisonment on anyone cited and fined under this ordinance. Is there a second to the motion? Motion dies for lack of a second. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. Thank you, John. Okay. Let's see. Where are we?
 Is there anything else from the council before we take public hearing? Okay. Now, we've laid out the ground rules. Now, when you step to the microphone, please give us your name and address, and the chief of staff will start the timer. Everybody gets three minutes, right? Okay. Here we go.
 Hi, Mayor. My name is Danielle Weatherby and I reside at 564 South Piermont Drive in Fayetteville. I moved here two years ago from upstate New York where I clerked for federal judge and practiced law for seven years. I represented employers and school districts in employment discrimination lawsuits. So I'm very, very familiar with Title VII as well as state and local employment discrimination laws. Thank you.
 I took a huge, huge leap of faith to come here two years ago to join the University of Arkansas School of Law's faculty. I uprooted my husband and my two children really because I believed in this city. I believed that I could have a future here. Since I've been here, I've fallen in love with this city. It's a beautiful city, and I've loved it.
 been just won over by the city. And so I was really touched and honored when Alderwoman Gray asked me to be involved in the writing of this ordinance. And I've worked really, really hard with Alderman Petty and the city attorney as well as other people in the local community from all different walks of life.
 the academic community, the business community, the church community, the LGBT community, people that opposed 119 to craft what we thought was the tightest, most foolproof ordinance, and not just something that could fly nationwide, but something that was right for our city of Fayetteville. And I'm really, really proud of what we created. I'm confident in the final product.
 And so I just wanted to introduce myself and I'd be happy to answer any questions if any of you have them. But I'll give the podium over to somebody else. Thank you. Yes. Ms. Weatherby, I have a question. In the ordinance it refers to evidence that the commission, that this commission heard
 and it will use that evidence to determine whether it should be turned over to a prosecutor or not. But nowhere in this ordinance does it define what rules of evidence to be used. We don't know if hearsay evidence will be admitted. And you, as an accomplished attorney, know that hearsay evidence is inherently unreliable. But the ordinance doesn't even exclude that. How can you call that evidence?
 Well, Alderman Latour, I agree with you that there are certain rules of procedure that govern judicial proceedings and proceedings before tribunals. The proceeding, the informal proceedings, certainly at the first step of the procedure,
 of the enforcement mechanism is it's a conciliation. So it's a non-formal conciliation or mediation that takes place that would be confidential. And then the next phase of the enforcement mechanism would be similarly informal proceeding before the commission. And I agree with our city attorney's opinion that I believe this council doesn't have, thank you. I'm sorry. Okay.
 My name is Lowell Grisham. I live at 310 North Washington Avenue here in Fayetteville. I just want to say thank you to the good hearts and the good heads that crafted this resolution, bringing together people of diverse opinions and a wide spectrum of our community. I think it's beautifully put together, and it expresses the spirit of this city that was at the forefront of civil rights rights
 legislation and freedom in the civil rights days when I was a child. This is the way Fayetteville should be. And I thank you for the good work and thank the council for your consideration of this fine resolution. It seems to be in the spirit of compassion, freedom, and love. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. My name is Justine Turnage and unfortunately I cannot give you my address because I don't have one.
 I have lived all over Fayetteville over the course of the past eight months. I've been seeking employment, certainly not without experience. My resume is almost nothing but management positions. Last job I nearly got, they were going to hire me in from the street as a manager, until they found out about my trans status through my background check. And I've tried being up front. I've tried letting it slide under the radar. Doesn't seem to matter.
 So my story is not unique, not in this city. There are several of us going through the same thing. It's more of a statistic, really. Now, in the last campaign, there was a lot of questions regarding where is the problem of discrimination in Fayetteville. And in the course of trying to pass that ordinance last year, it really exposed a lot of what that problem is. People were able to see the roots of discrimination in our city. We were dehumanized.
 humiliated. It was brutal. The morning of the special election, I woke up to a radio alarm with an ad talking about how people like myself and others are predators. Before I could open my eyes in the morning, laying in bed in my home. So that is what we have been forced to endure. And that's what we continue to endure. And that's why we're back now, because we needed this then and we need it now. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, my name is Dwight Gonzalez. I live at 455 West Skelton Street in Ward 1. Okay, I don't want to take it. In Ward 1. First of all, I'd like to thank you, Mr. Mayor, for giving me a citizen and taxpayer the honor of just three minutes to address my counsel.
 when I should be awarded a lot more, even if it requires subsequent sessions. Inside this article, it says, whereas, in response to the concerns recently expressed by the citizens of Fayetteville on a similar issue, and then it talks about recognizing their interest in participating in the democratic process. Ever since I've talked about this, people said, haven't we already issued this? Haven't we already discussed it? Hasn't it already gone through the democratic process? Yes.
 You didn't give us a chance. The last ordinance also cost the city quite a bit of money to have, even though Mr. Tennant wanted to have it put on the special November ballot. Mr. Latour wanted to put it on the special November ballot.
 Part 2 of the Fayetteville Vision 2020 Guiding Principle says it will maintain city infrastructure and facilities. On Skelton Street, there's 35 residences along that street. It is approximately half a mile long, and there is 35 pothole improvements along that where the water line has broke. And that is just in the times where you can count where it hasn't broken more than once.
 So I can count 35 separate places on my street where the water line isn't even, where it has busted, and that's not including the times where it's just busted in the same spot. Verse number four there says a financially sustainable city government providing top quality responsive services. My street is so narrow, sir, that every other week when the water line does break, the asphalt truck comes down my street, the other truck carrying the backhoe comes down my street, and then nobody can leave my street.
 Even in a compact car, you have to have a scooter in order to lead the street while they're fixing your water. And I live in a city, sir, where I don't even have reliable water service, but we can spend $40,000 for a special election when the people already requested, asked to have it put on a free ballot.
 Now we're asked again to put it on a free ballot, and you don't listen. You don't want to. You'd rather spend $80,000 and throw it out of the way rather than provide my family and the rest of the people on my street with reliable water service. And then number five there says a revitalized South Fayetteville. I live in South Fayetteville, sir, and I can't even get a proper street with proper water because we're discussing things that, in accordance to this ordinance that I read here, says are rights already established to all of us.
 It says we already have them, and yet now, in less than six months, we're talking about it again. So, sir, my question to you and to the rest of the council, even though I'm not allowed to address them, is why can't we put this on the November ballot? Why? Thank you, sir. Thank you. Hi, I'm Dr. Lisa Corrigan. I'm the director of gender studies at the U of A. And I also like water, but I'm here to talk about violence. Thank you.
 I'm particularly interested in how the conversation around LGBTQ citizens in the city has revolved around issues of potential violence. And I'm really interested in thinking about how LGBTQ citizens, children, and adults are at risk statistically higher than
 about bi violence by heterosexuals than heterosexuals are by LGBT citizens. There was an NIH study in 2004 that documented that really only 1.6% of Americans identify as gay or lesbian and another 0.07% is bi.
 Although if you ask the American public, they actually think that 25% of Americans identify as LGBTQ. Statistically speaking, the people who are most likely to be affected by violence in a community like Fayetteville are LGBTQ citizens, and they are likely to be singled out for things ranging from discrimination at the housing level or employment level, ranging all the way up to sexual assault and rape.
 So I think that we should think very seriously about the kinds of scholarship that have already been done on the issues of civil rights ordinances and how they can actually create positive steps forward to prevent violence in our communities, particularly those studies that have been done by the American Psychological Association and the American Medical Association, which continuously report on violence against LGBTQ citizens and residents. So while I appreciate that people have fears...
 folks that they may not think that they know, I think that it's more important for the City Council to support ordinances like this that look out for all the citizens at once. I support the ordinance, and I'm also happy to answer any questions. Mayor, I have a question. Yes. Can you explain the dilemma I asked about earlier?
 If I'm a member of the LGBT community, I'm protected. If I'm a member of a community that believes in traditional marriage and I live out what I believe, I'm subject to prosecution. How do you explain that difference and say we're all protected?
 I mean, the thing is that if you identify as a heterosexual in this culture, you're already incentivized to perform that. So you get tax breaks, and you get hired, and you get promoted, and you get higher pay, and all of those things have been documented for decades. So there are actually incentives to promote your status as an out heterosexual that do not apply to everyone. So the claim of reverse discrimination is a false equivalency, sir.
 It's a bad argument. I cannot argue. Okay, John, let's listen to the mayor. Please, time's up. Thank you. Excuse me, Mayor. On our timing thing...
 Should we not? I thought that the alderman's questions. No, Adele, but I mean, how long do you all want to go back and forth and debate each and every person? I mean, it's up to y'all. I don't mind if you all want to have many questions. Yeah, I mean, I mean. I'm good. I'm trying to keep the speakers to three minutes, but if Council member wants to ask a question, then I think I need some input from the Council. Do you want it
 Well, I personally just think we need to be reasonable about how many questions we ask, but, you know. Well, let's do it this way then. The council members can ask the questions of whoever the speaker is as long as they want to go then. Okay. Yes. My name is Lisa Faith Stewart, and I live at 2130 North Chestnut Avenue here in Fayetteville, and I am transgender. Like all trans people, I live in a perpetual state of fear.
 Do you think I don't see it?
 People point, stare when I walk down the street. You think I can't hear people whispering everywhere I go. I can't go to Walmart. It doesn't matter if it's Joyce or Martin Luther King. I can't go to Walmart without feeling like some sort of sideshow attraction. People stare. People whisper. Mothers cover their children's eyes. And I see these things. We all see these things. And it breaks our hearts.
 But that's just the best case scenario, and I have to live with that every day of my life, with or without this ordinance. But stares and whispers can turn into violence and aggression in an instant. And I have to take that into account in everything I do every day of my life, because my life may depend on it. As a transgender woman, I have a 1 in 12 chance of being murdered. There's more than 12 of us in this room right now.
 Recent estimates say that there's about 700,000 trans people living in the United States.
 90% have experienced discrimination on the job. 25% have been fired due to transgender status. 28% have been harassed by doctors and medical personnel. 19% have been outright refused basic health care. 20% of us are homeless. 41% of us have attempted suicide. That's 287,000 transgender suicide attempts.
 as opposed to 1.6% of the general population. Because of statistics like these, trans people cling to concepts like safety in numbers and seek out what we call safe spaces, places where we can be assured that we can relax and just be human.
 Like many of us, I keep a list of known safe places. For example, if a group of my coworkers wants to go out for drinks on Dixon Street, I have to ask which bar before I can tell them if I'm going to go or not.
 I can tell you which businesses in Fayetteville have provided friendly, quality service to myself or other trans people versus which places I'm more likely to be stared at or whispered about. I can tell you which restaurants will treat me like any other customer and which restaurant managers will walk into their kitchen and tell their staff, oh my god y'all, there's a tranny in the dining room.
 and watch every single staff member walk through the dining room and pass the table just to catch a glimpse of the freak. It doesn't stop at bars and restaurants. After my legal name change, I had to update my information on my bank account. The service rep responded by saying,
 Just, I just need to know, what in the world made you want to do something like this, which led to me having to explain all of the various psychological and medical aspects of what it means to be transgender? Time. These aren't just stories. They're my own lived experiences. This is why we need the ordinance. Thank you. Okay, now, counsel, let me come back to you again one more time on the questions you asked the people. Is there some sort of time range you want me to give them, or do you just want to just...
 Yeah, I may ask just mayor. A council person can ask one question and they respond that gets an additional 3 minutes that began by about an additional one minute. Yeah, one man. Okay. Okay. I don't know that. Okay. All right. So Jim becomes up the questions asked one time against one minute to respond to by good. I got it. Yes. Your name and address please.
 Mayor Jordan, city council members, my name is Paul Sagan. I live at 2112 East General Oaks Lane in Fayetteville. I pastor Covenant Church on Weddington Drive, and I've been a resident pastor in Fayetteville for 32 years. First and foremost, I'd like to say I'm a sinner saved by the grace of God through the death of Jesus Christ alone and have been called here.
 for most of my life or to proclaim that good news of forgiveness to repenting sinners i'm here to ask you in the best sense of that word repent which means in hebrew to turn and in greek to change your mind about putting this ordinance forward i believe this ordinance does not substantially change what was presented before this rewritten ordinance 119 seeks to grant special rights
 to be to people based on their erotic preferences and proclivities. Though it exempts churches on its surface, this law, in truth, does no such thing. Churches do not exist merely
 In the sanctuaries and buildings which they occupy, that is only the church that is gathered on Sunday. When it is scattered, it consists of people who own businesses, who work for employers, who work in government service, who teach, in short, work in all aspects of the life of the city of Fayetteville.
 I believe that this law will be used, as it has in many other communities, to deliberately target Bible-believing Christians who own or work in businesses such as caterers, photographers, florists, wedding venue operators, and have moral convictions based on religious belief that homosexuality is wrong. In addition, it will create a hostile work environment.
 hostile work environment for citizens in all walks of life who have moral convictions about the Bible about homosexual behavior and this will violate the conscious protection that our US Constitution gives people of all religious beliefs in the First Amendment and
 It is interesting that one of the rationales of this law is bullying. I believe that it does just that to those who have those beliefs. And I believe it not only discriminates against evangelical Christians, but members of other religious groups like Roman Catholics, Eastern Orthodox, Mormons, Muslims, Orthodox Jews, to name a few. Our utopian town, which I love dearly and have spent my life here, will rapidly become a dystopian one.
 like so many others in our nation if sexual identity becomes the mark of special privilege here. It divides us and creates ill will and division, and we should be working together as citizens for the good of everyone, not just for the erotic rights of a few. Thank you. Thank you. John, you have a question. Did you know I agree with everything you said? I figured as much. Thank you. Evening, Mr. Mayor.
 Paul Fanoff, Aqua Crossing in Fayetteville. This uniform civil rights protection ordinance is absolutely shameful. First, it is irrational. Fayetteville already has a reputation for being a regulatory nightmare. An ordinance that puts businesses at risk cannot possibly benefit any workforce. Second, it is self-contradictory. It states that Fayetteville is a welcoming community, but yet its government must coerce its citizens to be welcoming. Which is it?
 Third, it is arrogant in its disregard of state law and for the community as a whole. Fourth, it is blatantly deceptive. It claims to be, and I quote, in response to concerns recently expressed by the citizens of Fayetteville on a similar issue.
 December 9th was not a response. It was a special election and a defeat and repeal of an identical issue. Fayetteville voters condemned Building 119, yet barely six months, it's back on the market with a fresh coat of paint. It's still unsafe and it needs a wrecking ball, not a sales pitch. Fifth, it is a fraud in its pretense at outreach and conciliation. There was no outreach previously.
 to people who opposed 119 because of conscience or because of its harmful unintended consequences. Sixth, it is divisive. The city attorney's advisory letter to the city council makes clear that lawsuits are a virtual certainty if this ordinance is passed. It is not kumbaya, and everybody knows it. Seventh, it is authoritarian. It exposes an agenda-driven fixation by some on the city council.
 Our public servants are not our masters, and marketing pretexts and good intentions will never trump natural law, state law, or the constitutions of this state or the nation. Eighth, it is perverse in its abusive language. Authoritarian rule is not marketing. Threats, fines, and incarceration are not persuasion. They are coercion, force, and violence.
 Ninth, it presumes the faith community is stupid. It offers a veneer of exceptions to lure religious communities into complacency while retaining a clear and present danger to the God-given individual freedom of conscience of people of every religion.
 Tenth, it is an irresponsible assault on longstanding traditions that virtually invite civil disobedience, because this is not about discrimination. It is about silencing those who will not abandon their faith and applaud the new enlightenment of our would-be masters. It will make the next election very interesting indeed, because we will not forget this abusive process now and in the future. And the fact that we couldn't even get a second...
 on something as simple as that we will not put people in jail like animals because of this is proof of that thank you thank you mr pitt my name is linda burnett 805 sunset drive i would like to say first that i am grieved that neither side understands each other and that the effort has not been put to see from the other person's perspective i may disagree with the lifestyle
 but to be accused of not caring or loving breaks my heart, and I have friends that are gay, and yet I disagree with the lifestyle. I believe that freedom of conscience is probably the most important freedom that we have in America, and if I cannot live according to my conscience... You see, my faith does not happen in a church building. It happens every day.
 For those on the other side who do not understand people of faith, and I don't believe they do any more than people of faith understand that community. People of faith have, some of us, have a relationship with God. It is not religion. It's not do's and don'ts. It is a love for God himself and his holiness.
 And because of that, we want to live a particular lifestyle. If someone came to me and I was a baker, now I need to find this out, if I'm a baker and I don't want to bake a cake for a homosexual wedding, is it against the law? I need to know that, yes? It would be. Okay. If someone came to me and said, I want you to write on top of this cake, I hate fags, I would say, I'm sorry. I cannot give you my business. I will not do that. It violates my conscience.
 I should have the right to not violate my conscience if I have a bakery. I don't have a bakery. I love to bake, but I don't have a bakery. When I go to Walgreens, I have a favorite wine that happens to be at Walgreens. It's $3.99. There's a particular woman. She's an older woman. She could check me out. But you know what? When it comes to that bottle of wine, she says, excuse me, I can't ring you up. I'll go get someone else.
 In her conscience, she disagrees with drinking. I have never grabbed her by the scuff of the neck and said, I demand you ring me up because you make me feel guilty for drinking. And so you're going to ring that bottle of wine up whether you disapprove or not. No, I respect her living according to her conscience. And that is what, this is what breaks my heart.
 That if people could understand that there are people of conscience that simply say, I can't condone that behavior by helping you do something that my heart just isn't in. And so that's just what I wanted to express. One last thing. If you're doing it in September so that the students could vote, I would no more go to Europe and live there for two years and expect to change their laws. Thank you, ma'am. You missed me.
 Michael Collins, 1625 North Giles Road, Fayetteville. Please leave my tires alone this time. It's disappointing that we have to be here again, Mr. Mayor. I'm sorry. We already voted on this. We already said no. And frankly, we've lost trust in this body to make any decisions and to hold the power after it comes about. We need a new body to make this decision. You ramrodded the last one. There were untruths told about it. We exposed them. We won. We won.
 Now you do not hold the public trust to be able to do this again, especially with a special election. And then with the power to just change it by fiat afterwards without us having the power to repeal like we did last time, I worked, like most people, most conservatives, two of my jobs today. And I was counseling another person spiritually, and I would rather be there doing that right now, but now I'm here doing this today.
 We're worn out, we're tired, we want rest, and we don't want this law. We've made that clear. But again, in answer to a question I've never gotten here, who appointed this council to be the judge of what is moral and law in opposition to thousands of years of established order?
 If we were to look at humanity on the clock, we are microseconds into the history of mankind. Yet in the last 20 years, you're going to not just change or add diversity, you're going to reverse morality. You're going to reverse discriminate against people of moral conscience over one issue that you don't agree with. I'm looking at the Constitution for you can have religious conscience unless this body disagrees with it. You have religious rights unless we don't think they're reasonable. It's not in there.
 I'm looking for anywhere in the laws that says that heterosexual only can have this law. Our law makes us all equal, and it doesn't reference sexuality, nor should it. So we shouldn't give special rights to sexuality either.
 and that we can live in true diversity. Diversity doesn't come from a top-down tyranny. We should learn this from the colonization where we drew lines in the sand that divided cultures and morals and ethics and religions and caused wars, more wars than we defeated. We get diversity with growth. Growth draws diversity in. Sometimes diversity we don't want, and that's great. That's the true diversity that we should be seeking.
 In conclusion, let me just reference Martin Luther King. A lot of people say this is a civil rights issue, and I think that's an insult to him because he disobeyed laws that violated natural laws. He says, one may well ask, a letter from a Birmingham jail, how can you advocate breaking some laws and obeying others? The answer lies in the fact that there are two types of laws, just and unjust.
 Now, what is the difference between the two? A just law is a man-made code that squares with the moral law or the law of God. An unjust law is a code that is out of harmony with the moral law. I'm tired of being called a bigot. I'm not. Those laws that he was fighting are more like these terry bean laws than— Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Margaret Connard. A lot of people know me as Peggy. I'm a citizen here for over 40 years. I live at 102 East Elm. I'm a social worker, a teacher, a professor, a therapist, and a lesbian. And I try to speak here with a voice from all of these experiences. I really see our diversity in Fayetteville, as in the world, as a strength for our future together. Thank you.
 And this is what we are saying to ourselves, the citizens of Fayetteville and you, the city council, when you bring up this ordinance again. That's why this is such an important piece of legislation is because we honor diversity and we want to make sure we're all included. It says we're all one, we are connected, and we are community. And it says to LGBT people, you are whole, you are human, and you are just as important as anyone else here.
 Fayetteville has always been a haven, a beacon of light of really how true democracy should work. Fayetteville is a real democracy. Everyone here gets to have a voice. Sometimes we don't like the length of time we get to speak our voice or how it's legislated, but the reality is we all get to speak here. And what we need now from everyone is a sense of clear seeing and clarity and understanding
 with respect and compassion for everyone here who is speaking and listening. Our diversity in the world is the strength for the future that we so desperately need, and that's why I support this ordinance. It's time for us all to come together on one earth to solve our problems in peace with true democratic action.
 We are in the process of going from a society that excludes any person who identifies as LGBT to one of inclusivity, treating them and seeing them as equal citizens. This requires tremendous bravery on our part, tremendous bravery. By including and protecting LGBT people against discrimination, we are changing how we as a society perceive them. We are changing and undoing a pattern
 what was once a very socially accepted, very human pattern of condoning discrimination, just because of their sexual identity. This is a tremendous shift in our culture and our world that requires an open mind and a willingness to listen without judgment, and again, tremendous bravery. Anais Nin, the poet, wrote,
 And then the day came when the risk to remain tight in the bud was more painful than the risk to bloom. Fayetteville must take that risk to bloom. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Quinn Montana. I live at 602 Whittem Ave. The idea, I'm here to say that the idea that this ordinance pits one group against another is patently absurd, right?
 There is no religion within whose tenets there exists the provision or exhortation to discriminate to those outside their faith. This is even more so true of Christ's teachings. I believe this ordinance represents the best of all the people of the city of Fayetteville. I applaud you for all the work that went into it, and I urge our citizens to support it. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Hunter Hampton. When I'm done here, I'm going to turn around and help my husband out to the stage. He's disabled, so. Sure. I'll start by saying I am a Catholic man, and I am a sinner. I am fully aware of this, but got a Bible verse here. 1 John chapter 4 verse 20. If you say you love God, but do not love your neighbor, then you are a liar. That's pretty straightforward.
 This does not infringe on anyone's Christian beliefs. This does not infringe on anyone's beliefs. There is a gay couple in the Bible, and at that moment, Jesus didn't care. He accepted it because it was normal. I got fired a couple months ago. It was about February. I asked if I could be here when we were doing this the first time. It was at the university.
 independent contractor, I asked if I could be here to speak and to support my people. And I was told no, because it wasn't important enough to leave work. My rights were not important enough to leave work. That doesn't sound right. That whole time I was dealing with discrimination at work, being called a queer, having my husband made fun of,
 And nothing was done. When it was brought up to HR, nothing was done. It is disgusting that we are deciding on this. In the 50s, it was a morally corrupt problem that black men were being asked to vote. What is wrong with this? We need our rights. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name's Jeff Hampton. I live at 920 North Leverett Avenue.
 And I'm afraid to give you the rest of my address, because I'm already getting harassed about what we're doing. I'm a transgender gay man. More accurately, I have an intersex condition. God made me with kind of indeterminable sex organs, and that's as much as I would like to get into in public. My God does not make junk. And I second that first book of John, 420. What is so hard about love thy neighbor?
 You know? Seriously. It's pretty black and white to me. It doesn't say, unless he's gay, unless he's black, unless he's poor, love thy neighbor. It's not hard. I was originally going to talk about something else tonight, but a couple hours ago when we got here, um, Hunter and I had been looking for a new apartment, because I can't handle, like, yanking my wheelchair up and down a flight of stairs every day.
 And we put in several applications, one of which was denied because on the paper they required me to fill out a physical description as well as a copy of my driver's license. My driver's license says female because I am too broke to file the name change to change my gender marker.
 And they denied me because my physical description, my awesome mutton chops that I'm cultivating, my clothes, my face, which restroom I use, doesn't match that little letter on my driver's license. How is that fair? How is wanting to have a house special rights? How is wanting to have safe spaces special rights? It is the same thing that
 that people not in the LGBT community take for granted, because they don't have to worry about getting beat for using the right bathroom. Are you guys gonna use the guiding principles, or are they just wall decorations? Especially number 10, our reputation as a safe community, because right now, the fact that I am afraid to give out my address, there's something wrong with that. And we are back here discussing this, because clearly, it needs to be discussed.
 This is ridiculous. You know, my grandma was dealing with the same thing about black people many long years ago, and we are still having to have this talk about who counts as people. Why am I not people? Why are my trans friends, my LGB friends, not people? Thank you. Hi, my name is Danielle Stoddard. I live at 122 North Aqua Crossing.
 I'm so overwhelmed with the number of things that I can address here. I guess first I should start out by saying I'm bisexual, my brother is transgender, some of my best friends are transgender, I have tons of friends in the LGBT community. This is the first time I've come out publicly saying I'm bisexual because I can pass as straight. And the fact that I have to pass as straight to get treated like a person is ridiculous.
 Why should we live in a country where that is what you have to do to get ahead or get treated like a normal person? Anybody that is saying they've been discriminated against for their beliefs, for being Christian or any other religion because they're against this, they don't have to prove.
 what they're being discriminated against. If I come up here and say, which this just happened, that I was called a queer and told I better watch out because my husband said something about being for an equality ball, if I say that to people, I have to prove it, because that kind of stuff doesn't happen. I did the research on an actual survey that was done in Fayetteville
 for the trans population, and then I looked at the nationwide numbers for the murder rates for transgender individuals. It is staggering for me to sit here and say that within four months, if the national average was applied to our city, within four months, every single transgender person in this room, every single transgender person in this city would be murdered. Do we care about that?
 We need to be a safe place to live. We don't need to have people saying that they can't find a place to live, they can't find a job, they can't even find a bar to go to to hang out with their friends if they don't fit the mold of straight, white, Protestant, whatever. I just don't know what else to say about it. We need to be inclusive. We need to show love.
 We don't need to say, well, only for this group of people or only for that group of people. If we truly want to say we shouldn't be arguing this because Fayetteville is already inclusive, then why do we have all of these stories of it not being inclusive? We love it here. That's why we want to fight for this ordinance so we can continue to live here. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Jennifer Chadbourne.
 I currently reside at 701 Sycamore Street. I moved here from Portland, Maine in 2007, and notwithstanding my tour in the military to include being deployed to Iraq, I've been very happy to call Fayetteville my home, well, when I've been here. I was here for the last civil rights ordinance discussion, and I'm happily here. You know, defending freedom overseas is one thing, but defending freedom here in the American democratic process is quite something else, so I'm happy to do that again, too.
 We are seeing and hearing very real stories of law-abiding American citizens being discriminated against by their fellow citizens of Fayetteville. And I have a problem with this. How can I look myself in the mirror and say that I defended freedom and at the back of my mind knowing that it's being denied to otherwise good people just because this one category of people doesn't like the way that they live?
 I mean, sure, we've heard a few mentions of things like special rights, but special rights are not special rights when they're just giving the same rights you've always had to a group of people that you don't like. Part of the reason I'm here tonight is that I have experienced discrimination here in Fayetteville and in the military. I have experienced physical violence at the hands of other people. I know what it's like, maybe not for the same reasons as my fellow citizens, but it was still, well, crappy.
 I would never wish that on anybody else. I was an American soldier. I will never quit. I will never leave a fallen comrade. People who are experiencing discrimination here in Fayetteville, I consider comrades. I am very happy to call this place my home. I've tried convincing a couple of my Army buddies to move down here too. And I would like to do everything within the realm of the law to make it a place worth convincing them to come to. So that's why I urge you, Mr. Mayor, to consider approving this ordinance. Thank you.
 I'm Jerry Patton. I live here in Fayetteville, 524 North Shady Avenue. Looks like the state and the federal government has covered everything that you've got in this ordinance. I can't support it. Anything that chips away with freedom of religion and freedom of speech, I'm going to have a problem with. And I've got a problem with this ordinance. I had a problem with the last ordinance.
 I hope you'll consider the actions by the state of Arkansas to be valid. I think it was mentioned in Kit's opening statements when he read the ordinance. Everything is going to be superseded by the state in a great deal of this. I don't see the need. We have already rejected this. It's gone through a lot of expense, a lot of tax dollars. Hopefully...
 This will disappear as quickly as it came about. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I'm Valerie Benderra, Fieldstone Ward 4. I would like to offer myself for a couple of amendments, if I may. The first one is in regards to the gender in the bathrooms. Census ordinance, like others in the country, have placed out a welcome mat for pedophiles and sexual predators to the women's bathrooms.
 I suggested that those who wish, those transgenders who wish to utilize a women's bathroom procure an ID issued by the city of police
 so that they are recognized as transgender. This is for the protection of the businesses that operate a public bathroom so that they are not sued. Also protections, I know that you want to make a safe environment for the children that would be molested and for the women that would be sexually assaulted in the bathrooms, which has happened before in the cities.
 and I will tell you right near and if I find a man I don't care how he is dressed in the women's bathroom I will scream bloody murder at bloody murder and make sure that guy permanently sings soprano. My other ordinance since this ordinance and its parent ordinance was specifically put in place to force Christians to bow down and worship Satan to force Christians to take the sign of the beast if
 if they do not want to lose their homes, their businesses, and their livelihoods, and their freedom. This ordinance is specifically designed to force Christians to participate in the satanic ritual of gay marriage, incestual marriage, messages between animals, and marriage between inanimate objects, and marriage between any other perverted, sexual, immoral,
 horrific thing a human mind can imagine. Whereas the city of Fayetteville has made it quite clear that the Christians
 who refused to bow down and worship Satan will be punished. I then ask an amendment that the city recognizes the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of Arkansas, which recognizes Christians have the right and the freedoms to worship and obey the Lord God Almighty who holds the universe in his hands. And I also that...
 I'd also like to mention that they will not be forced to participate in the city's choice of religion, satanic religion, and that they, as a Christian, will be allowed to freely worship and obey the Lord God Almighty without fear of having their businesses, their homes, and their freedoms taken from them.
 And I will say that I will not bow down to Satan. Along with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego and martyrs of Christians across the years, I will not bow down. I will not worship Satan. I will not participate in your satanic religion. Amen.
 I will freely be taken to the city square and slaughtered before I worship Satan. Thank you. Okay. Who would be next? Hello. Excuse me. I'm kind of under the weather. My name is Josh Waters. I live at 3156 Rockford Drive here in Fayetteville. Last time I was here, I spoke out against Ordinance 119.
 I stated then that I do not think anyone should be discriminated against because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. I still believe that today. And now due to changes in this ordinance and changes at the state level, I believe that this new ordinance should be passed. The previous ordinance was not as clear on exemptions for religious organizations. The new ordinance states that religious organizations of any kind will be exempt.
 This broad exemption, as well as the passing of a state RFRA, should provide the religious exemptions needed for the baker not baking a cake for a wedding scenario. Also, a clear process of how claims of discrimination will be handled is included in this ordinance. Now, a confidential and informal mediation will take place to address the situations. This remedy seems very reasonable and should protect both parties interested. In addition, no longer would a single administrator be in charge.
 I believe this new ordinance will show the true character of those previously opposed. Previously, people said that they agreed with the spirit of the ordinance, but thought 119 was a bad law and overbroad. I believe the changes that I've mentioned should adequately address those concerns. Those previously opposed have a chance to unite behind a cause for true equality.
 For those who truly think that equality under the law should extend to all people, regardless of their sexual orientation, this is an ordinance that truly balances religious freedom and equality. I want to thank those who work to redo this ordinance in a way that will work for Fayetteville and ask the City Council to vote yes on this ordinance and that those previously opposed to support this ordinance. Thank you. Mayor, I have a question. Mr. Walters? Yes.
 Yes, sir. Can you please explain to us how a person becomes a member of the council that will be appointed? A member of the commission? The commission, the council that this ordinance establishes. How does one become a member of that commission? I believe it goes through the nominating and appointment process like others should more. Can you explain to me the process of someone getting on the nominating committee? I don't know that process.
 Mr. Mayor, was it one question in a row? Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Please state your name and your address. My name is Donna Wansower. I live at 2149 South M Avenue, and I'm straight. I'm white. I'm smart. I got a full ride through college. So I don't experience much in the way of discrimination, but I have friends who do.
 I have friends who are bisexual. I have friends who are transgender. I have friends who don't really feel attached to any particular gender at all. I took gender studies in college, and it was brought up that physically, there could be as many as five genders. But the issue is that there is discrimination that happens.
 It's easy for someone like me who hasn't personally experienced myself to think it doesn't happen or that it doesn't happen enough that there needs to be a law. But if that's really the case and this discrimination is such a non-issue that there should not be a law protecting our fellow humans, then why not put it on the books anyway? It will have about as much effect as the law that says it's illegal to walk your cow down Main Street on Sundays.
 But there are people who are facing discrimination. We're hearing their stories. I see this with my friends, and it's said that this issue has already been decided. But only 29.4 percent of the population voted in this last election. The difference between for and against repeal was 320 votes. That hardly seems to me like a conclusive majority.
 It's so, in a population of our size, that's hardly anyone. There's that many people in my old apartment complex. And just this law needs to happen. It's much clearer than the last one. There's more procedures set up. And I think that it is really critical that this law happens because less than 100 years ago, women weren't considered the same as men before that.
 African Americans were not considered the same as people. Before that, if you didn't own property, you weren't able to vote. Special rights, they're not special. Getting a house, being able to get a house is not a special right. It's something that the rest of us have, that those of us who are straight, whose gender identities match the identity we were assigned at birth, we don't have to worry about that.
 And there are people here that do, and that's not fair. That's not right. Please get this on the books so we can vote for this. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. My name is Jake Warlow. I live at 954 West Peachtree. I listened to the reading of the proposed ordinance today. I hope we all did. I thought it was pretty reasonable. When I listened to it, I thought, if I was someone who would be against this issue,
 against this proposed ordinance, what is it that this ordinance would keep me from doing that I wanted to be able to do? You know, a lot of people have talked about religious objections. You know, this notion of one man, one woman would not, it is just a central component of their religious beliefs, and this ordinance would contradict that. And I'm not sure how I feel about that. You see, I really...
 wonder how that notion would square with the religious doctrine I grew up with, the Bible. It is true that I believe Paul said that man should be with a woman, but as several others have already pointed out, there's a lot of stuff in the Bible. And I think the two gentlemen... Stay with me. Apologize, yes sir. A lot of people talked about neighbors and I recall another
 verse about neighbors. I don't remember exactly how it goes, but I believe it's in Mark, and it says something along the lines of, love God and love your neighbor. There is no commandment more superior to these. These religious objection arguments were, decades ago, these people said the same things were said about segregation, in opposition to segregation. The reality is that sometimes values evolve.
 People of all communities of all and I think you should enact this ordinance and put it to a vote all that said One very reasonable thing. I heard earlier from another councilman was that This idea about putting the ordinance in its entirety on the ballot now. I understand if that's financially unfeasible for whatever reason, but it is ridiculous and beyond unjust
 that if someone wants to read this ordinance before they vote on it, that they should not be able to read it. Something should be done to make that immediately available to anyone who asks for it on vote day, if that's the way you guys end up going. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, my name is Mike Emery. I live at 2884 Wildwood.
 I've been a resident of Fayetteville for almost nine years. I am a gay man and I'm a veteran. The reason this ordinance, well first off let me say I commend bringing this ordinance back because I think the way it was rewritten and redone and reapproached is spot on and it's what the city needed. The hatred and vitriol that came out of the 119 debates have proven that that was what was needed. You could look even today.
 through social media, face-to-face interactions with people. There is discrimination out there. The state alone right now, for the most part, it's changed a little bit, has systemic discrimination against the LGBT community. 500 couples were married May 2014 in this state. Myself and my husband were one of those 500. Our marriage was not recognized until a couple weeks ago with the court order.
 The governor and the attorney general are not appealing, so those marriages are standing. So there are changes going. This ordinance is a step in that direction along the lines of true equality, and I urge that it do go through and do pass. So I do thank you all for your time. Thank you. Hello. Raymond Sweet, Joyce Boulevard in Fayetteville.
 I want to say thank you to the council for bringing this forward. Looking at you all, you all appear to be people of privilege, people of the majority, and if you're not, you certainly can pass that way. And that's something that's not true for a lot of our transgender community here, as well as lesbian, gay community, particularly when they're with a significant other.
 i support the non-discrimination ordinance i have three children in various fayetteville schools i am an active member of a fayetteville church i pay taxes and utilities for the city of fayetteville i volunteer serving the underprivileged yet if i were to relocate to a job in fayetteville i could be fired because of the way i was born i was born in a female body i could be refused services for my children and myself because i am transgender
 Speaking here today, I risk my safety, particularly in the men's restroom and the locker rooms. I don't think anybody would welcome me in a women's room either, nor would I want to be there. When we talked about the bathroom issue last time, which I'm sure is still on a lot of people's minds, it really wasn't about the transgender community. Rather, a lot of the fear seemed to be about the gender-conforming males who lacked morals or were criminally ill.
 who aren't transgender that would try to disguise themselves in the women's restroom. I believe in the ability of our Fayetteville Police Department and our courts, and I ask everybody to believe in that too. By passing this ordinance, Fayetteville sends a message that it is not okay to disrespect and harass people because of their core self, whether they are transgender, gay, African American, or disabled.
 Since this issue has been opposed under the guise of Christian teachings, I want to say that from my readings of Jesus, discrimination is not the Christian thing to do. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, I'm Dale Manning, and yes, Opal has come back as well. We live in Ward 3 and are for the proposed non-discrimination ordinance. So I just want to say one thing is that you're right. We shouldn't need discrimination.
 to have this ordinance. We shouldn't. But let me give a couple of examples of why we really do. We need this because just since last year, it became expedient that a whole organization be made, an organization for the trans people to come together and seek solace among each other. It also sparked a fine...
 A fire to educate and remind Fayetteville that we are your friends, your family, and the people you see in the grocery store. We need this because as it stands right now, I'm still afraid to go and change my name on my lease. If they choose to tell me that I have to leave my house of almost three years where I have been quiet, I have not been destructive, and I've paid my rent on time every month.
 It won't just be me that is homeless, but the other two people that live under my roof as well. Yes, homelessness is so prevalent in my community that we have to offer up couches just to keep people safe. No one wants their family out on the streets. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Noah Meeks. I live at 2736 North Valencia Avenue. And...
 I wanted to thank the City Council, first of all, for having the courage to revive this ordinance and revise it into a form that we hope will pass. I wanted to ask for a point of clarification. I heard the word sexual orientation and gender identity. And to my understanding, straight is a sexual orientation and cisgender is a gender identity. Therefore, straight and cisgender people would also be protected under the ordinance.
 And if LGBT business owners were to discriminate, they would also be subject to repercussions. Is that correct? That's what I understand. Is that what you understand, Kel? Yes. Thank you. Hi, Mr. Mayor. My name is Jean Champagne. I live on Black Canyon in Fayetteville, Ward 1. I've been a property and business owner here in northwest Arkansas for nearly 30 years. I'm a business owner.
 And I actually have a concern that you're probably going to yawn and say, oh, not that topic again. But I do want to bring up a topic that's legitimate, very legitimate to me. My husband and I raised five children, but through the years we actively parented 40-plus foster children here in northwest Arkansas.
 Three of our beloved children are adopted from the Department of Human Services here in Fayetteville, Arkansas. And so from my perspective, we witnessed firsthand how at the hand of predators, and I'm not saying homosexuals or transgenders, I'm saying sexual predators,
 young, vulnerable, innocent human lives were broken, even shattered, as they suffered acts of sexual perversion that I can't even repeat here on this platform. So today, I'm not here to speak out against homosexuality, but I have a real issue with how this ordinance will open the door to allow opposite genders access to gender-specific public places.
 I like to go to the Fayetteville Athletic Club and when I walk in that woman's bathroom, there's a lot of naked women in there. I would be really uncomfortable with a male in there, but how do I know that that person isn't a predator dressed as or acting as a predator?
 transgender, how do I know? How can I feel comfortable allowing my children in public restrooms not knowing if a sexual predator is saying, ah, I've got the perfect way in now. All I have to do is pretend that I'm this and I get access to my prey.
 So I'm here to remind all of us, I ask you to please hear me out. I'm a mother. I raised many, many, many children who were victims of sexual acts that caused deep, long-season rooted problems. So I'm here to remind all of us that through this revised ordinance, male sexual predators are going to be given an open door.
 They simply have to mask themselves as a homosexual, a transgender, or a bisexual by practice, identity, or expression. Simply by claiming so, they have the right to prey on women and children who have unwittingly entered the predator's newly granted domains.
 So as someone who has literally spent a lifetime loving, protecting, and fighting on behalf of the broken individuals who have suffered under the hands of sexual predators. Time. Time. Thank you. Hello. My name is Olivia DeMille. I'm not a Fayetteville resident. It's still just open to Fayetteville residents. I'm a Fayetteville business owner, but not a resident.
 is it the federal residents that's right we were we were trying to push everybody forward on the line some folks that don't have an address but yes come on hello my name is april rafferty and i am currently in the process of moving to the city of fayetteville i was raised here in the city of fable my entire life um i speak today before you as a survivor of childhood sexual trauma
 Ma'am, could I ask you a question? Are you a resident of the city? Yes. You are? Okay. And your address would be? Well, I'm not able to give that to you. I didn't realize that we were able to say that we were in fear of retribution. But you are a resident? Yes, ma'am. Okay. My goal in life is actually to protect my three children. I have three young daughters. And I just wanted to point out some statistics right now. Recent studies have shown that one out of three children in America suffer from childhood sexual abuse, and that's in a given year.
 Mandated reporters such as teachers, doctors, counselors are required by law to report any suspected child abuse of any kind including sexual. So most professionals will define child sex abuse to include both direct sexual contact. Excuse me ma'am. Y'all please. Okay. Yes go ahead. Both direct sexual contact and indirect contact such as exposure to children. Okay.
 Studies also show that females are to be more likely the victim, while the vast majority of the perpetrators are male. This is how I explain what a predator or a perpetrator is to my three young children in terms that they will understand. A predator is like a hunter. The first step to hunting is that you have to have a place to hunt. You have to have somewhere that you can go where you know there will be prey.
 The second step to hunting is your camouflage. You have to fit into your surroundings. You have to change your environment. You have to change your clothes, your smell, your scent, everything to fit in so that your prey is not alerted that you are there. Then you wait for the perfect moment to catch your prey off guard because they are completely unaware that you were there waiting for them. The prey never sees it coming. And then the hunter takes their innocence as his trophy and
 My problem with this rewritten ordinance has nothing to do with gay rights in any way, shape, or form. My problem is that it opens the door for sexual predators to camouflage themselves however they must in order to gain more access to more hunting grounds. I am the voice of childhood sexual trauma. I am a survivor. I only survived by being adopted through Washington County Department of Social Services by Jeannie and Dennis Champagne, who have helped me recover some of my childhood and have taught me to never be a victim.
 I will fiercely defend that right that I have earned. I plead with the city council, the mayor, and the people of Fayetteville today to keep this door closed and to not give the hunters more hunting ground as I believe that they have taken enough. Thank you. Thank you. Hey. My name is Alborz Sedeqian, and I live in 605 Betty Joe Drive. I've been in Fayetteville for almost four years, and the reason I just wanted to talk for a short bit is that one of the greatest things I've seen here is that I can express myself freely.
 They think that I couldn't do it in my own country. And that's what I was hearing. People actually were talking sort of the same thing that I hear from my own country. The religious people make this argument that, first of all, we let this person express themselves. It's against our religion. That's why you're not allowed to drink wine, because it's against some sort of religion. So in my opinion, as long as I haven't infringed on anyone's right, no one should stop me from expressing myself.
 And second, the idea that people actually talk about the sexual predators is the same thing people say in my country, if you drink wine then you might get drunk and do stuff. Well, we have police for that. So in my opinion, both of the arguments that people actually make, if you want to go down that path, this country, this great country might turn into some of those shitty country we have in Middle East because people think that they have the right to stop people from doing what they want to do just because it's against the religion or there are some possible venues for some misbehaving.
 Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Laura Phillips. I live at 2055 South Klein, Ward 1. Yay. I want to clear up a few things. This is a new ordinance. This is not 119 Take 2. We did indeed reach out to the other side with people of different opinions and invited them to several roundtables. They were poorly attended. We have given people opportunities to speak on this.
 Um, let's see what else. I'm a straight white married woman of faith. I am a Christian. Um, this is what, this is the people say, what would Jesus do? Jesus would vote for this. I'm just saying, you know, you love people. You care about people. You move on. Um, it doesn't in any way, um, create a special class. Someone said earlier that this, that we already have the same rights under state and federal law. Well, you know what? We don't.
 in Arkansas and along with 28 other states, you can be fired for being LGBTQ or suspected of being that. And it doesn't matter. And that's kind of crazy. And even if Fayetteville didn't have any reported cases of discrimination,
 We're better than that. We should be able to say, you know what? We have not had a case of discrimination in this town, and by God, we're going to keep it that way, and we're going to pass this ordinance to make it so that everyone knows that you can come here and grow your family and grow your business and grow yourself and practice your faith and be who you are. And that's okay. And that's all I have to say. I trust you guys. I know you'll do the right thing. Thank you.
 good afternoon mayor william collins 1736 buckley drive i've been a resident of city of fayetteville for over 20 years moved here raised a family love this town fayetteville has been very good to our family but i'm actually here as a businessman i actually run several technology companies we're currently
 looking for location for locating a new company. And a little disclaimer, I was part of the repeal of 119 effort. I would still be part of that effort for strictly on a business side. We have removed Fayetteville as a location for a possible place for our business here because quite frankly this is a
 really scares me as a businessman. Maybe other people who run their businesses run them differently, but I see a tremendous amount of impact on my business, and we just don't want to be part of that. And so we respectfully took the name of Fayetteville off of our search list several months ago. Thank you.
 Nathan Sutherland Kordsmeyer, 833 South Curtis. I am a big ol' queer. I say this not because it is your business, but because it is important for people to understand where other people are coming from. And I've heard a lot of people say today if they just understood the opposition a little better, maybe they wouldn't be so opposed. So here's the thing. Being queer is not easy. It is not ever easy. It may get better, but it never gets easy. When you are a little boy and your uncle tells you, don't ride your sister's bike because you look like a queer.
 When you're in school and a teacher tells you it's your fault you got beaten up because you were playing with the girls, not the boys. When you are at your first job and you are fired because someone finds out that you are a faggot. It does not ever get easier.
 But you learn to endure, and you stand, and you fight. As a little kid moving to Northwest Arkansas, my grandpa told me, Oh, that sucks. Lots of funny people down there. Not funny, ha ha. Funny, queer. And I didn't know what he meant, but I knew that he was talking about me. I moved to Springdale, and I heard horror stories about Faggotville that was full of drag queens and homosexuals. And I didn't know what they were talking about, but oh my god, I knew that I wanted to come here.
 I wanted to be at a place where I could express myself and feel safe. My husband's from Conway. He has the same story where he's from.
 Yes, discrimination happens here. Yes, it sucks. We need this ordinance not just to stop the discrimination, but because there's some kid in Arkansas somewhere desperate for a place to belong. And this sends the message that you can find a place where you'll feel safe and you can find a town that you can call home and you're not going to be judged just for something you were born as. Thank you. Thank you.
 My name is David Garcia. I live at 252 Thompson Avenue, just off of Dixon Street. I'm a very proud resident of Ward 2, very proud of our council people. And I thank the entire city council for what you're doing here tonight. I myself am proud of you, and you make me proud of our city. And a lot of the arguments here that I've heard tonight really puzzle me. As far as I know...
 Predators do not need an excuse or a special dress to go after children. They've been doing that forever. Yes, we need to be concerned about sexual predators, but to equate that with this ordinance, I myself find very, very offensive and disingenuous. And I understand the questions of conscience, and one should be able to follow their conscience.
 But it's very real to me that the good Christian people of the United States had it as a matter of conscience that they could own slaves. They had it as a matter of conscience that they could segregate against people of color. That they had it as a matter of conscience that interracial marriages were blasphemy, acts of Satan against God.
 Your conscience does not give you the right to discriminate against your fellow human beings. There has to be agreements under which we deal respectfully with each other, and that's what's going on here. My libertarian brethren expressed the concerns about the power of government and the power of guns to force things on people, and I understand that concern.
 But I'm also aware that the government was using guns against citizens of the United States in Ferguson last fall, in Baltimore this past spring.
 and there were good citizens of Fayetteville out in the street demonstrating against that, against that use of violence and force against American citizens. And I did not see a single one of the libertarian opponents of this ordinance out there in the streets demonstrating against violence toward American citizens. So their concern here sounds disingenuous to me. I think there's something else going on.
 And it's that what's really going on that we need to address. Whether it is hatred, bigotry, fear, I can't judge them. I don't know. But we need to speak to those root causes and try to work together to get past it. I'm very glad that the drafters of this ordinance are working together.
 With the chamber to get past it. Time. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, council members. Yes. If no one else has a question. Mr. Garcia? Thank you. Where do you write your blog? I've forgotten. Fayetteville Free Zone. Okay. I very much enjoy reading it, so I just wanted to make sure I knew where to go and read it next time. Thank you. FayettevilleFreeZone.com or Fayetteville Free Zone on Facebook. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, David. Wow, I know.
 My name is Peter Tonneson. I live at 3500 Hearthstone Drive in Fayetteville. I have a lot of things I want to say. I deeply resent this three-minute limit. I think it's not called for. This is a complex and very controversial issue. It's already been decided once by the voters. Now it's back before us. It's the same law. It's just been camouflaged as...
 part of the Arkansas Civil Rights Act, and yet it omits the most critical section of that law, which is the section that protects individual faith. It's like a conscious omission from what this law is. This is just a smokescreen. I'd like to say other things as a Christian. I mean, my Jesus told us, if you love me, you would obey my father's commandments.
 He called the chief priests and the rabbis a den of thieves and a brood of vipers. He was not a non-judgmental God. He had standards and he wanted us to have standards. And when he gave the Great Commission, he told the disciples to go and make disciples of all nations,
 But he also told them, if you go to a town and the people don't listen to you, leave that place and shake the dust off your feet. Does any of this matter? No, because this city council shouldn't be listening to all our various interpretations of a religious scripture. It's not the purpose of this city council. This city council is here to decide legal matters and laws. Why do I object to this law? Well, I've told you already. For one thing, I don't think it's needed.
 And I gave these documents to the city council months ago. They've never been entered into the record. What these documents would show, and I'd like to get them on the camera, is that federal law already will protect 85% of the jobs available in the United States. That same law applied in...
 if it were applied under the Arkansas Civil Rights Act, would cover 93% of the jobs in this state. A lady's already mentioned this statistic. This was developed last summer and I'm sorry I'm rushing so quickly. I wish that I had the time to do an orderly presentation of my position. The
 It's 1.6%, I believe, is the homosexual population and there's a .7%. It's less than 3% and it's very hard to define the transgenders. And this is from the Centers for Disease Control. This is a government finding from last July. So you have 3% of the population that's already protected for at least 85% of the jobs available.
 And I could even understand if you wanted to say let's make it 93%, let's use the Arkansas Civil Rights Act and make it 93%, but use the whole Arkansas Civil Rights Act, including the protection of faith. And then don't call it... John, you want to ask him a question, you can get him another minute. Would you like to finish your statement?
 Yeah, I'm going to finish it with this, Mr. Mayor. This is for you. Okay. This whole process, like last week at the agenda session when you decided that it shouldn't go to Mr. Tenant's committee, that there was no need for extended debate when 14 amendments get struck down without anyone seconding them, you're all discriminating. Look at yourselves. Every man is dressed with at least a jacket and a tie.
 All the ladies have dresses. None of you is carrying a stuffed bunny rabbit. We had a pilot who used to want the co-pilot to talk to a little stuffed animal, and the company fired that pilot. People have a right to make decisions, and this city council shouldn't make it a crime for businesses or individuals to make those decisions.
 So here's the quote. If you tell a lie big enough, and that's the lie that this ordinance is a different one than the one last year. It is not. Only in two very small respects is it different. Mr. Williams gave an interview in December in which he said he had written the ordinance, and he was going to introduce it, and I have that article. And that's it? That's it. So all this city is interested in the truth. Thank you. Who would be next? Laverne Cooper, lifetime resident of Fayetteville. And...
 We had the ordinance before, and we had an election, and the public spoke, and y'all couldn't wait to get back, at least part of you couldn't wait to get back to see how you could get around that, and so here we are again. Still, this ordinance is not needed, and isn't the state ordinance going into effect the 22nd of July? Yes. And yet you're wanting to spend...
 $37,000 again for an election? That will be the decision of the council. Okay. That's what you're going towards, I assume, and at least most of you are. And I don't think federal is that rich. There was a guy just up here saying that they needed their street fixed and have been needing it fixed for a long time. We don't have money. Just keep on and on with this. The public has spoken with the election.
 And, you know, I really don't want somebody else making decisions about our business. My husband and I are the ones that work for our business, and we want to make our own decisions about our business. And I believe that we spoke to you, Mr. Mayor, about that.
 um we couldn't uh get charges filed against um three thousand dollars in one month that was done damage to our house and you were gonna i believe you were gonna find out why the prosecuting attorney didn't file charges or couldn't file charges there was only one name on that lease we couldn't get charges filed by the prosecuting attorney so much for buying a business license huh thank you who would be next
 Mr. Mayor, my name is Ben Kovach. I live at 2195 Lisa Lane. And a couple of others have already brought up several points I did, but one thing I'd
 i wanted to point out that if i'm not mistaken it uh when they came up with this there wasn't really a public meeting on it there weren't other people really invited when they're actually doing the discussing and writing of it is that correct sir i have no that would be a question for mr de la gray okay yes but that's but we will we will find that out if it was a public meeting is that what you're asking yes sir that's because that was one of the big things i remember you said in the january
 town hall meeting over at the boys and girls club was you were going to allow us to sit down kind of as a group and talk about what i did say i would be willing to meet with the groups if they contacted i've not been meeting with those groups yes sir but i was willing to meet with anybody that wanted to speak to me yes sir okay okay that's just one thing i wanted to clear up and make sure um that's one thing like uh mr campbell or someone you know phil had
 A couple other parties may be involved in the writing of this that would have been good. I think another thing is is brought up here, whereas the General Assembly has determined attributes such as gender identity and sexual orientation require protection in accordance with Arkansas code 6-18-514B1.
 That was taken slightly out of context. From what I read here, sir, it brings up the civility and student dignity. The whole thing was talking about preventing discrimination in schools, and it's really specifically bullying, which is obviously a very important issue to be discussing and clarifying, but it brings up civility and student dignity.
 As that applies in this situation, they have that according to law, federal and state law. Also unconstitutional to restrict, protect rights of freedom of speech and freedom of religious exercise, freedom of assembly. Those are some of the things that it also mentions at the bottom of this Arkansas code. So as you can see, you know, they have the dignity.
 in that, like I said, it's protected by federal and state law. And also this, even as it's written now, it still can infringe on free speech and religion as defined under free speech. Another thing is the bona fide wording is everything, sir. And in my job, I'm an officer in the military, and my whole job is going over documents and writing them, making sure there is no doubt whatsoever in them
 about any of the procedures or policies involved. I'm liaison between two groups that don't understand each other, and we've already had several incidents involving generals, and that's why they brought me up there. So I have to scour these things for wording issues. And if you don't have even just that one little word out of place or that one misused word, it can completely destroy the whole document. And so the bona fide sense
 Sense is in its very definition perceived which is the wording that was used in the first the chapter 119 now in this document It's the word sense, but it's the exact same thing sir. Yeah, that's three minutes But I want to be sure I have your question your question was to originally when the ordinance was drafted by the meetings Was it open to the public? Yes, sir. That's what I was right. We'll be sure I got that Michael Schwartz, I am NOT a Fayetteville resident
 I've been here since 530. I'm sorry. You'll have to wait until the residents all speak. Hi, Mayor Jordan. My name is Laura Hightower. I live at 193 West 29th Court in Ward 1. I'm currently a mom taking care of my twin four-year-olds, but prior I was working as a guidance counselor in a high school, and it's from that perspective that I come forward to speak with you today.
 We've all heard by now, I hope, the horrifying statistics that describe how difficult it can be to be an LGBT teen. One study found that LGBT adolescents and teens were more than twice as likely to have attempted suicide as their heterosexual peers, and another that 55% of transgender youth have attempted suicide. These issues became much more than theoretical when I started working in a high school and witnessed these struggles firsthand.
 Two years ago, I heard from a student who had graduated three years earlier. I met him his senior year when he spent every lunch period in my office chatting. He told me that his entire senior year was spent coming to terms with his sexual orientation, a struggle that resulted in verbal and sometimes physical abuse from his family and community.
 He said that the 50 odd minutes he spent in the counseling office was the only time he felt comfortable and at ease with himself because he felt accepted for who he was, and he thanked me for that. I never knew he was struggling. It was this young man that I thought of, and the others like him in Fayetteville, as the voters were tallied in favor of repealing the non-discrimination ordinance,
 it broke my heart to think that there were young people in the city who might not be supported at home watching as their city declared that because of who they are they were not afforded the same protections afforded me it must be devastating to lack support from your family simply because of who you are but to compound that devastation by repealing our attempt to protect their rights in the community it's wrong we cannot make sure they have support at home but we can make sure they have support in their community
 The last ordinance was repealed by less than 500 votes. I have every confidence that the changes made this time around will satisfy those who had legitimate concerns, and I believe voters who believe in tolerance and equality are in the majority in this town. I encourage the council to vote for this ordinance, and I hope in doing so we show our LGBT adolescents and teens that they live in a community that values them enough to protect them. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 So sorry. Now you did it. All that work. My name is Justin Fletcher. I live at 193 West 29th Court in Ward 1. I just want to thank the council for taking another look at this. A few hundred votes difference is certainly not a mandate so apparently there is a discussion to continue on with this issue.
 So I appreciate the work that's been put in to try and address the concerns in the original ordinance, and I feel certain that this is the best solution for the issue. As for whether it's necessary, I think that the number of people who've spoken tonight telling their personal stories as to why it's necessary proves that point and as far as not extending the same.
 protections to for religious reasons one of the beauties of this country is that We can all have our different faiths and our different beliefs and be accepted But at the core we all share a certain set of values that go beyond all faiths And we have as a society have decided that discrimination is a crime At least when it comes to most people all this does is extend that
 that value to those who don't currently have it. And no religious protection that I know of protects from crimes being committed. So I appreciate the beliefs that people have, but these values are what make us who we are. And it makes Fayetteville what it is, a place that I am very proud to live and raise my family.
 Thank you. Mayor, I have a question. Yes, of course. Mr. Fletcher. Yes, Mr. Latour. I'm a business owner also. Of course. I'd be glad to help you in any way I can. Okay. I don't hate anyone. The question is, I have a job opening. I have three applicants come and apply for that job. I choose one of them. I had to discriminate on some basis. If one of those I didn't choose happened to be LGBTQ, I would have to discriminate.
 Would I be subject? Do you think I should be subject to prosecution? If you discriminated on the basis of them being LGBTQ, then yes. Because selection is not discrimination. But if I selected based on job experience, interview skills, personal attire, those things I look for in a professional office, you see,
 Don't you think I'd be subject to prosecution or at least an accusation of discrimination, even though I wasn't discriminated on the basis of sexual orientation? Well, certainly anyone can be the sufferer of a false claim, but that also seems to—
 assume that the LGBT community is waiting and just waiting to pounce and use these as ways to Abuse the system, which I don't think is true. Okay. I have no idea. Hang on everybody I thought we were gonna ask one question. They had one minute to answer and then we were done. We've done. Thank you, mr Fletcher, thank you. My apologies Good evening. I'm Kyle Smith live at 2801 West Dove Drive and
 And this ordinance does nothing to change the operation of restrooms. Let's just get that out of the way right now. A bad act against another person is a crime, and it will still be a crime with or without this ordinance. Today, no one polices the restrooms. How do you know who's in there now? What this ordinance does do, it ensures equal access to economic opportunities in our city. Economic opportunities, that's work and housing and shopping.
 If someone needs to use the restroom while they're in there, they probably will. They do that now. In Fayetteville in 2015, though, we should not be standing here debating who we still get to leave out in the cold. But that's the debate we're having. Often that debate centers around religion. My religion does not include discrimination. But if yours does, that's OK. The First Amendment protects your belief. It also protects your speech. So you can go ahead and preach discrimination if you want to. You don't have to call it that.
 but you can preach it if you'd like. It does not, however, grant unbridled action based on those beliefs. There are limits. You're free to believe, but when your action inflicts injury on others, that's when we draw a line. Just as yelling fire in a crowded theater is not a protected right, neither should be denying others access to the comfort of our town just because their life offends you. To the cake baker question. A cake baker who's asked to make a cake with offensive hate speech presumably is going to decline that
 for any customer, for all their customers, equally. But when they make wedding cakes for everyone, except for that person, that's when it injures the economic potential of your neighbor. I don't believe Fayetteville wants that. The last campaign, we heard a lot of folks tell us, you know, we want a non-discrimination policy, we just don't like this ordinance. A voter margin of less than 500 is not a decisive defeat on the issue. That indicates that view we heard.
 This is not that ordinance. We've heard how it was developed, but it was asked why a special election, not why now and not November 2016. It's been said that the best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago, and the second best time to ensure fairness for Fayetteville is right now. Thank you. Thank you. My name is John Burnett. I live at 4597 East Davis, Fayetteville.
 I think just sitting downstairs in the old flow room and listening to everybody, people talk about loving your neighbor. I think that God is love, but above all, God is holy. And so personally, my freedom of conscience is a right that's been given to me, not by the city council or not by any state or any government. I believe that our freedom of conscience to live our life
 as our conscience dictates, is a right that transcends any kind of state or government. I would like to see an amendment that deals specifically with the event of homosexual weddings only for members of faith. So specifically if you have a Christian or a Muslim business owner, on a day-to-day business, obviously, you should never discriminate against anyone, but
 The idea of marriage and what some people of faith consider sacred, it's a specific event that's specific, and so that would be...
 an amendment that I would like to see. I believe, I don't think if it's of your faith, you have to do same-sex marriages. Is that? No, no, no. If you're a business and you provide a service to a wedding, say a baker, a florist, that kind of thing. I'm talking about one specific event. I'm not talking about service to the public at large and being able to discriminate in that sense. And then I do have one other question, because I know we're short on time.
 The city council is going to have a civil rights, what they're going to elect. Are you guys going to pick seven people to be on a committee? That's correct, for a civil rights committee. I find it interesting, the law itself is for every member of a minority, correct? Not just the LGBTQ community. I mean, the law pertains to the black community, Hispanics, Asians. Is that correct?
 in general, I find it kind of ironic that the law itself, as far as when you determine who's going to be on this civil rights committee, specifically it says two people from the public at large, one specifically being an LGBT community. Right there, you've elevated them above, for instance, someone from the black community or someone from the Hispanic community or someone from the Asian community. If this law is indeed about the civil rights of those who don't have a voice, then it's
 as far as minority, why does it specifically look at, when you're appointing the members to the community, the LGBT community versus someone just from one of the unrepresented minority groups as a whole, is my question as well. In other words, you'd like to see the committee more diverse? Yes.
 What I'm saying is on the committee, it says two citizens at large. One of them has to be LGBTQ. Okay. Why not have, say, one of those citizens has to be from a minority group? Because then you're elevating the LGBTQ above, for instance, someone from the black community, which actually has a higher percentage in our population than the 3% that the CDC would say in general. Okay. It seems lopsided. I just want to be sure I got your question right. Okay. Thank you. I have a question. Go ahead.
 I'd like to ask. I'm sorry. Excuse me, Mr. Burnett? Mr. Burnett, there's a question from the council member. You mentioned your amendment, which would exempt participation in same-sex marriages. Would you also like to see that amendment that would exclude remarriage of divorced people or a widow marrying someone other than the deceased's brother? Absolutely. If there's a religious objection, for instance, if you're a business owner and your conscience says,
 They're going to serve alcohol at the wedding. For whatever reason, whatever particular face that I'm a part of, I don't agree with that, the alcohol aspect. I don't want to provide services to a wedding where there's going to be alcohol. They should absolutely be able to refuse service to someone. And interracial marriage as well. Hang on, sir. We'll get one question. Just one. Just one. Okay.
 You've got a few more seconds here, Mr. Burnett, if you want to continue on. So my thing is that for the event specific, I'm not talking about saying that someone who's a baker, for instance, if you have a Muslim-owned bakery and a gay couple says we'd like you to do whatever for our wedding, and obviously for whatever reason it's against their faith to do so in that particular event because they believe that that is sacred.
 God I mean like like it depends on that person's view okay thank you yes I'm Bob Winkleman 2216 North Old Wire Road fifth generation Fayetteville citizen they're all buried up at Ember Green Cemetery and when my children and grandchildren are buried there I think we'll have a
 a world record representation. I tried to calculate how much money we paid the city of Fayetteville over the years, true to up for inflation, but I don't think it is. I appreciate that. Thank you. But let me get to the point. I think we should recognize that the people you've listened to this evening aren't truly representative.
 of Fayetteville. You've heard the extremes on both sides. I would encourage you to take a look at the real Fayetteville, the one I live in. And I'll tell you, I can count 10,000 people that worked hard for repeal, 52 Christian organizations that worked for repeal. You talk about the cost of the special election that's coming up, that's nothing. Look at the, even at minimum wage,
 what it's cost this community, because Terrence Bean sat in an air-conditioned conference room in Washington, D.C., and decided he wanted to spend $9 million targeting areas that were strongly religious. Not that they discriminated against gays and lesbians, but he wanted to attack Christianity because we had standards. And I'll tell you frankly, I've got standards.
 I tried to teach my children and grandchildren things that I thought would be good for them. I tried to dissuade them from things that I thought would be bad for them. And I've got some news for a lot of these people that come up here and talk about how terribly mistreated they are. They're not the only ones that didn't get jobs. They weren't the only ones.
 I didn't, I've been discriminated against all my life because I don't have a doctor's degree from MIT. But that's neither here nor there. What I'm telling you is, you're not going to fix this problem with this ordinance. And you're going to spend, out of the private community, huge sums of additional money.
 God, I only could guess what kind of contributions you're going to get from the Beans organization up in Washington. He's already got $9 million set aside, and I think they said that his in-kind contributions to the homosexual side last time were the largest, far more than all the other people. This is, we've decided this issue.
 Please, I'm 83 years old. I'd like to work on something other than opposing this resolution. Please give some thought to... Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and Council. My name is Cindy Nance. I am a resident of Fayetteville. I live at 1653 Appleberry Drive. I first want to speak to you as a person of faith. I'd like to point out that...
 In 1995, one of our largest evangelical denominations denounced slavery. Faith can be used in a lot of ways. June 12th was the anniversary of Loving vs. Virginia. That case said that I could finally marry someone who was not of the same race as me. The gospel is love. People of faith stand together to embrace others.
 The scripture Old Testament tells us to welcome the stranger, to welcome the alien, to welcome the other. The gospel tells us that God is love. So I stand here first as a person of faith. I also stand here as someone with a little bit of knowledge of the law, and I'd like to answer some of the questions that were raised earlier.
 There is no protection under federal or Arkansas state law for the protections that are listed in our, the expanded protections listed in our ordinance.
 I also wanted to address the hiring situation, and it is the reason for these ordinances and our federal civil rights law is that the basis of being hired for a job should be your ability and not your status in terms of your race or gender or who you love.
 So if it is that you have a number of people who are being hired and one is not selected or two are not selected, I have not been selected. And believe me, the older I get, the more categories I fit under. Not only do I have race and gender, but now I have age and my knee doesn't feel good on some days as well.
 But the idea is that you are evaluated based on your ability and not on your immutable characteristics and or who it is you love and how you identify. Thank you. Thank you. Professor Nance, I have a question for you myself. Yeah. Just for, is it true that an LGBT citizen can be gay?
 thrown out of their home for being LGBT? That is not protected under the Federal Housing Act. Then can they be fired from work for being LGBT? Yes, sir, they can. Okay. Thank you. Who will be next? Okay, now it's all the residents spoken that won't speak. Now, if you're a resident and you want to speak, you need to get lined up because there's folks waiting that are not residents who want to speak. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is David Williams. I live at 547 North Gray here in Fayetteville.
 And I want to thank the council for paying attention to the many concerns that were raised in the past effort and listening to citizens and listening to folks from both sides to come up with this offering for our community. Briefly, I want to share that I have some hopes that what we will get out of this will make a big difference. One hope I have is that everyone in Fayetteville, LGBT or otherwise, will be able to get out
 will feel as protected against discrimination as I feel and will be as protected from discrimination as I am protected. I have another hope, which is that we'll reap the economic benefits that so many Fortune 500 companies have reaped by being more inclusive and more considerate and opening the job world and marketplace to increasing diversity. I have a third concern
 which is that we will send a message that reflects the certainty of what I believe Fayetteville is all about, and that is that we are an extremely inclusive and welcoming community. And ultimately, that all the fears about personal losses, religious liberty losses, and victimizations will wind up being unfounded.
 and that this will be a significant step in the direction of making Fayetteville an even more welcoming, more inclusive place and opening the opportunity for life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness even more to all of our people. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any more residents, please, y'all. Mr. Mayor, City Council, Duncan Campbell from Fayetteville. Once upon a time in the city of Seven Hills, freedom reigned.
 Families, businesses, schools, and churches flourished. It became known as a city where the principles of the book were taught and practiced. Free enterprise and religious freedom were understood. It was a diverse city with citizens from many different ethnic backgrounds. It was known far and wide as a fair city, a tolerant city, and a welcoming city. Two centuries passed. The city was still known as a welcoming city, a city of faith and free enterprise, but some rose to power who began to restrict their neighbors, posing as,
 passing ordinance after ordinance after ordinance to control them, and then they went too far. The council decided to polarize the city with an anti-liberty law so toxic it would put every business owner, family, and person of faith at risk. They elevated a certain group of people who identified themselves as practitioners of certain sexual behaviors. This law also took away citizens' freedom of speech, religion, and association. Disapproval of these lifestyles was defined as hate.
 Pointing to the book or the creator as the source of your beliefs was no defense. It was proof of your guilt. City officials would declare you violated another's rights because you simply disagreed with their lifestyle. Your right of conscience was ignored. You would be labeled as a bigot and hater. And part of your punishment was to be taunted by others for your crime of disagreeing with your neighbor's lifestyle, of loving the creator's ways, of loving freedom.
 But the majority of the people woke up and said no. They repealed that poisonous law, that anti-civil rights law, anti-religious, anti-liberty law, and they gave the city officials a clear message. We won't drink the poisonous Kool-Aid you call a law. It has arsenic that kills, it has arsenic that kills free enterprise, cyanide that kills religious freedom, and rat poison that kills common decency and common sense. But the city rulers, drunk with the power of their position, did it again.
 They proposed a new law and they called it a better written law and supposedly took away these poisons, but it wasn't true. They stated that one group and only one group needed extra protection from all the wonderful citizens of this great city, protection from the citizens. They said that the only way to prove that the city of Seven Hills was a tolerant, fair, and welcoming city was to restrict the beliefs, morals, thoughts, and speech of everyone else involved.
 This new law on its face is actually a great insult to the majority of the citizens of Seven Hills because it presumes they are not fair, not tolerant, and not welcoming. Their claim was false. This new law had the same poison in it, just a little less arsenic, new way to label the cyanide, and no change on the rat poison.
 It did have more flavors to mask the poison, but this new brew they called an orniths would still kill. It would still poison the wells of the city. It wouldn't prove that the city of Seven Hills is a fair, tolerant, and welcoming city. No. Instead, it's that it has now become an intolerant, unfair, and unwelcoming city to those who already live here. Yes. Sure. Mr. Campbell, as the leader of the Repeal 119 Coalition, you live in Ward 1, I understand.
 How much input did you have into the rewriting of this law or in other words did miss gray include you or invite you to? Participate in that process no, sir I was not contacted and I it was a surprise to me that this came up It would have seemed you know I have no reason to believe it was accidentally you know people know who I am they know the rest of the leaders of repeal 119 and
 Not a single one was contacted. But if I had been asked, I would have said quite a few things, not enough time in less than one minute. But if she had asked, I would have said that people of faith should have an exemption for the right of conscience, just like the Arkansas Constitution says. Actually, it would have gone back even further. I wish she had instead of an ordinance, how about a resolution we could all put out there that says Fayetteville is a fair place.
 tolerant and welcoming and free city and make that a resolution we all could do that in fact we could take a photo tonight with all of us in this room and that's a good way to promote to the rest of the world that we're a fair tolerant and welcoming city that's also free thank you yes i have a question sure
 I know we talked for quite a while before the last ordinance went to a vote. One thing you said to me was that if the ordinance had been put to a vote, then you would have been completely fine with that because the citizens would get a chance to vote on it. We have to look at this as a different law. Alderman Gray has proposed this. Alderman Petty signed on. And so we're looking at it as we always do. So if it goes to a vote, are you not okay with it again this time? Alan, here's the problem.
 There's no reason to go to a vote again, especially when Travis Story, our attorney, Stephanie Nichols, our attorney, wasn't included. Only people from the other side with a couple of exceptions, but not anybody from repeal 119. So it's improper to actually even go forward with this, especially when I believe that the council knows and city attorney knows this is a direct violation of Act 137 state law. And –
 I just think it's problematic on its face. So against a special election. By the way, a special election, another $40,000 could buy about 40,000 meals for the homeless. Hi, my name is Carol, also known as Chris Christoffel. I live at 1510 East Overcrest. Council didn't consult me either. I'm glad they didn't. I appreciate all your hard work, and I know what it takes to do something like that.
 My big problem with this is C, churches, religious schools, and daycare facilities, and religious organizations of any kind shall be exempt from this article. Now, I know politically, to get this through, I'm going to have to hold my nose and vote for it, but I'm sure against that particular piece. I hope that the business owners that feel so threatened...
 will be so kind as to put little notices in the door so I know not to go in there, because I am a lesbian and I'm also genderqueer, because I know they don't want my business and I don't want to give them my business. I'll find somebody that's more willing to deal with the general public. I would also like to see the religious organization of any kind, for that to be a little bit more clarified, to say that that's one that doesn't provide services to the general public.
 If you're a religious organization of any kind, but you provide services to the general public, we all are general public. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Keith Cooper, Ward 1. I've been in Fayetteville all my life. I'd like to give my three minutes to Mr. Peter Tallent because I'd like to hear some more of his talk. Now, give one turn to the microphone. Do you have your turn to the microphone? He's had his turn at the microphone. I gave...
 Nope, we're not going to do that. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. We're not going to pass it like we're passing a baton. If you do that, everybody else is going to want to do that. We're not going to do that. Keith, you have three minutes at the microphone. It starts right now. Okay. I wasn't expecting to speak myself. But, you know, I don't think I have ever discriminated against anybody. But, you know, this ordinance here also tells me that I can't run my business the way I want to and can't.
 I've got a problem with persons here a while ago was talking about, you know, the restrooms and other places of public in. I wouldn't have as much problem with this ordinance if there was a separate restroom for the, you know, the LBJ community or whatever. But I don't, that's not going to happen because I know it's too much expense to the businesses.
 I don't think the LBG community itself is a problem. I'm like the other person. I think there are organs that will be used for sexual predators and stuff like that that are not, you know, LBJ or gay. So I don't know. And I've got a problem since this has already been defeated once at the vote from the people. But then the next day right after that,
 Councilman is starting up again. Well, we're going to redo it the way we want to. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. As all the residents spoke tonight. Okay. Those that are outside the city limits may speak. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm a little shorter than everybody else, I guess, had to bring it down. Thank you. My name is Olivia DeMille. I am a resident of Springdale, but I'm a business owner of Fayetteville. I'm a student at the University of Arkansas as well as an employee of the University of Arkansas. So I do spend a lot of time here and have a significant investor into the city itself.
 A couple of things that I wanted to get on. First of all, thank you so much for bringing this back up again, and thank you for giving us all of this time so that we could debate this. I know that everybody gets a little bit of time each, but at least we get a lot of time so that everybody can be heard. Thank you for that.
 I wanted to kind of go over first maybe one of the gross misreadings of the ordinance, which was a little bit sad to hear it coming from somebody on the council. It actually says specifically in the ordinance that the federal law, Arkansas and Arkansas law protects for discrimination against race, ethnicity, national origin, age, sex, religion and disability.
 specifically indicates that this would be adding gender identity and sexual orientation. So all of the people who said everything in this law is already covered, that's actually not true as it states in the ordinance. So it's kind of written there in black and white. Additionally, we've heard a number of arguments come up that are talking about this is going to cost a lot of money, this is going to cost a lot of money, it's only going to affect 3% of people.
 I'd like to point out that those are the exact same arguments that were used to try to defeat women's suffrage in 1920. It was additional cost with no added benefit, also used to try to defeat the ADA in 1990. So these are very recent arguments that have been used to try to discriminate against the people, thankfully unsuccessfully, but we're hearing this over and over again in an attempt to remove or prevent laws that have been used quite successfully to help many people in this nation.
 And on top of that, when we start to talk about the mandate of the people, I'd also like to point out that in 1958, the city of Little Rock chose to shut its schools down for an entire year rather than go through with integration.
 Thankfully, that also only lasted for a year and didn't go through with full privatization, which is what Orval Favis was trying to do. So a number of times we've shown over and over again that the will of the people, not always the best, and when it is less than half the city that even votes, then we know it's not really the will of the people. It's the will of a minority. And as was pointed out earlier, we're hearing a lot of the extremes on both sides.
 So thank you for having a level head and I hope that you do vote for this ordinance. It is necessary. I know that in my own business we do post that we are a safe place, that we do not discriminate. We voluntarily post this on our doors so that when people come in they know what we expect and we make sure that we tell people, hey, this is how you're expected if you're going to stay in here, if you're going to utilize this space, which we offer freely to anybody who wants to come in as long as you follow a few simple rules.
 don't discriminate against other people, no vulgarity, you know, these basic, basic tenets. But we do post that. And it's sad that I have people who come up to my counter and thank me for providing them a safe space. That shouldn't be something that as a business owner I'm thanked for doing if we are, in fact, a safe and free environment. And one question. I have a question for him. When was the ADA passed, did you say? 1990? Yeah, I had it listed as 1990. Okay.
 That's what I add to it. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you very much. Good evening. I am a resident of Springdale. My name is Rustin Cunningham. I do, however, pastor a church in Fayetteville. I do appreciate the opportunity to speak this evening. Thank you.
 I'm going to make this brief because we've all been here a long time. And nobody really wants to be here, I don't think. But I wanted to point out, I wanted to take the opportunity here to point out, you know, recently you've seen in the news, Franklin Graham decided to move his ministry's bank accounts in an attempt to avoid promoting behavior that is inconsistent with his preaching and with his beliefs.
 Shortly after that, I read story after story mocking him because he would not be able to find a bank that did not promote the LGBT community. And it turned out that they were correct and he was not able to find a bank that did not promote the LGBT community. Locally, Councilwoman Gray in her last campaign defended Ordinance 119.
 by suggesting that it was business friendly. That the ordinance itself was business friendly, would not cause businesses to leave Fayetteville because it was already consistent with their policies. So it would seem that regardless of your leanings, there isn't any evidence of discrimination or lack of available services in Fayetteville. No study, no statistics that I've seen would suggest that. And so I don't see any need
 for this ordinance. It's a waste of time, it's a waste of money, it serves up problems where there are none and they will infringe on individual liberty. This ordinance would force Christians to participate in activities that are clearly contrary to Scripture despite many Bible verses being taken out of context tonight and Christian faith and Jesus Christ himself being misrepresented here tonight it would force Christians to participate
 contrary to their faith. We've already seen it happen in other places where similar ordinances have been enacted. So I appreciate everybody giving me this opportunity. I don't want to see this happen in Fayetteville. I would love for you to keep Fayetteville free, please. Thank you.
 Thank you for allowing me to come speak with you this evening, Fayetteville Council. My name is Leah Knight, and I'm from Centerton, Arkansas, and I'm especially thankful because you wouldn't necessarily have to have me here since I am not a resident. However, I think it gives you a broader perspective when you are able to get outside comments.
 My husband, we don't live here, but my husband has business here in Fayetteville. And you know the word on the street up north is that the city council here in Fayetteville will stop at nothing to get the agenda through in whatever form it can. When I talk to people in my neck of the woods who know anything about Fayetteville, what they've been through this last year, they just laugh and shake their heads.
 The City Council has the audacity to brazenly repackage Chapter 119, something to which its constituents have voted a resounding no. As a person from outside the city, but one that gives Fayetteville business...
 I'm very disappointed and perplexed as to what possible motive the City Council would have for going above the heads of its citizens and spending taxpayers' money for something the City is clearly against. I urge this Board to represent the voice of Fayetteville that has already spoken loud and clear. I leave you with this. The eyes of Northwest Arkansas are on you.
 I urge you to do what is lawful, moral, and equal for all, not just a small couple of groups. And I do, on a personal note, since I have never been here, know none of you, it was just interesting as I scanned and was able to read the faces and the expressions of most here on the council.
 I do, as a personal note, want to say, Mr. Latour, I admire you. Oh, excuse me. I don't want to single anybody out. Let it happen.
 Just let it flow. I want to tell you that I admire you. You know, anyone who is willing to stand up as a lone voice on either side, to whatever they believe, I admire their courage. And I especially, I want to just tell you, I'm right. I mean, I just want to be, I want to be that lone voice in...
 Standing up for what I believe is right even if I'm the only one and I appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you City Council Thank you. Thank you miss night My name is Ron Branscombe. I'm a resident of little flock. I do have a business that provides services here in the city of Fayetteville mayor, thank you for allowing me to speak and I just I
 I just remind you that, and I remind the citizens, not only of Fayetteville but of Northwest Arkansas that elections have consequences. Elections have consequences. You're not listening to your constituents. They've spoken on this issue. You're being wasteful with your tax dollars. As a citizen, if I was a citizen within this city, I'd be very disturbed that you're utilizing city funds to bring this issue back up and you're going to have a special election for that.
 That's been brought up a couple of times. I find it very interesting that the Civil Rights Commission, if I understand it correctly, has seven members. Is there anybody within the faith community reflected within that committee? Not a single one. That's amazing. Amazing. And this isn't against Christianity? Interesting. There's no appeal process? We couldn't even get a second on the motion for that?
 There's not been any studies to reflect any discrimination within the city. Nothing's been presented. The belief that you can control one's conscience, those especially of faith, you will never be able to do that. You never will. You will not be able to control it. You will not be able to control one's belief. Just as if you cannot control one's belief in LGBT, you cannot control their belief in Christianity.
 Thank you for your time. I appreciate it. Thank you. Do you have a question? Oh, hang on. There's a question for you. You said there was no evidence of discrimination here in our city, and I was wondering if you had ever heard of Alan Walker. I was referencing, has there been any study provided to the citizens?
 Alan Walker might have had an opinion on this. Has there been a study provided to the citizens? Let's just do one question. That's my question. Let him answer the question. Has there been a study provided to the citizens? No, no, no. We're not going to get back and forth on the questions. He asked you a question. You have a minute to answer it. No. I don't know who Alan Walker is. Okay. Yes, John. Ask a question. Yes, sir.
 Do you know of any that you could list for the council, any specific instances of persecution of Christians at the hands of ordinances similar to this one? Maybe business people being put out of business? Well, I think there are substantial ones that have been brought up nationally within our country.
 where Christians have been persecuted, especially think of the one of the pizza company up in Indiana when they made a statement, their conscious statement, and the harassment that they got persecuted on. Had to close their doors for, I remember, over a week, two weeks. Yes, sir, that's my response, Mr. Latour. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello. Thank you for having us tonight and staying extra late to listen to citizens and non-citizens – yeah, citizens alike. Lucky for you, I seem to have lost my reading glasses, so this might be a little shorter
 I was currently, for the last 25 years, I've been a resident of San Francisco, California. So I've been a citizen of two great places, Fayetteville, Arkansas and San Francisco, California. I apologize. Who did you introduce? Oh, I'm sorry. I'm Robert Stafford.
 And I was raised in Arkansas. Where do you live now? I live in, my official residence is in San Francisco. I'll be here for the next eight months and maybe longer, and I might be a citizen again soon. But I moved here just before first grade, graduated high school here, went to the University of Arkansas. I was a proud Fayetteville, Arkansas resident, proud Hog fam. I think that's something we got all agree on there.
 Yeah, when I was a young man, I moved to San Francisco. I've lived there since. I've worked in the fields of design, construction, ran a small art space, performance place. Have a great group of friends, a very diverse, awesome group of friends of every background. Straight, gay, bi, trans, whatever.
 Christian, agnostic, Jewish. If it's a person and a combination of a person and a race and a religion and a sexuality, I know them and they're a friend of mine. And I honor and respect all my friends. It's hard for me sometimes because I'm very proud of Fayetteville. I'm very proud of Arkansas. And lately when these things come up in the news, and they do make national news. This is making national news. And I have to...
 come to the defense, and I do, of Fayetteville and the people of Arkansas. But it's painful and it's hurtful to see this kind of argument. To me, this is a kindergarten argument. It's for children. But it has to be said. Everybody has their own opinion, and I respect that. Speaking about business, that's what I'm here for right now. I'm here to help my family's business, which has been in business for 42 years, and I'm here to help them, hopefully, double that.
 A lot of studies have been done about diversity and jobs and business, and most of them will show you that diversity is good for business. And personally, if you don't want your business to be diverse, great, that's good for me because that gives me a competitive edge. Our religious freedom, I don't believe love thy neighbor has been taken out of context, and I'm personally not aware of any exceptions to that. I didn't see the clause.
 And if you're worried about that, you know, don't because most of the people I know, most of the diverse, smart, intelligent, talented people I know, they don't want to work for you anyways. I'm going to give you about 15 seconds because we interrupted him and I didn't. Okay. You got about 15 seconds. The only thing left is the bathroom argument, and that really disturbs me. To equate transgender people to sexual predators, personally to me, those are frightening words.
 And I think it's just disgusting. And you see the people that were bringing up that argument in the last vote. You see what happened there. Mayor, I have a question. Yes, John. Hang on, sir. You spoke about the Bible verse that says when Jesus said, Admonish us all to love thy neighbor as thyself.
 Would that include the baker who doesn't want to bake a cake for a LGBT couple? Everybody, yes. Equally, yes. Well, it's not just because I don't... Okay, John, John, John. One question. Thank you. Thank you. You haven't made it to answer. Okay. All right. Yes. Excuse me, Mayor. It's okay. Good evening. My name is Madison Beeler. I am a resident of Bentonville, Arkansas. Thank you.
 I am here. I'm actually a cleric of the St. Michael the Archangel Parish here in Fayetteville, Arkansas. They're a member of the Old Catholic Church of Americas and under the Episcopal jurisdiction of the Most Reverend Bishop Raymond Niblock. And at St. Michael's, we believe in the beauty and benefits that come with diversity. This is one of many reasons that St. Michael's is proud to call Fayetteville, Arkansas our home, and the Diocese of the Uniformed Services has made this town the place of our cathedral parish. Thank you.
 It is of utmost concern to the parishioners of St. Michael's and the member of our diocese that all people are treated with respect and dignity as commanded by Jesus Christ. This being said, many of our parishioners and diocesan members wish that our brothers and sisters in Christ who identify as LGBTQ to be secure in their jobs and livelihoods regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity and expression.
 It is written in 1 John 3, 17. But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? As a proud student of the University of Arkansas, cleric of the church, and concerned member of the community, I thank the council for their time. Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and ladies and gentlemen of the council. Thank you for having me here to speak this evening.
 My name is Evelyn Rios. I'm currently a resident of San Francisco, California. I'm a tech entrepreneur, and I'm the CEO of a digital marketing agency. I'm here doing business in Fayetteville as part of a long-term project, and I hope to be here beyond that because I think this is a great city. This evening, I'd like to talk about the business case.
 and Fayetteville's ability to compete at the national level. I am pro-business and anti-discrimination. Most of the nation's Fortune 500 companies have policies in place that are similar to the ordinance that you are now considering. And many municipalities across the nation have long had similar anti-discrimination ordinances in place as well.
 That's because they know that it's something that's necessary to attract the best and brightest workers and entrepreneurs at the national level. Fayetteville is really deciding whether it wants to stay competitive and attract the highly skilled creative workforce of the 21st century. I hope to create jobs here.
 but in order to attract the best talent from across the nation the city needs to send a message that it is welcoming to the best and brightest regardless of how they identify or who they love thank you thank you hello my name is chas allen i live at 3807 southwest town view road in bentonville
 While I don't live in Fayetteville, I did live here for a couple years. I've worked at Walton Arts Center for three years, and I currently serve as the president of the Northwest Arkansas Center for Equality, located just a few blocks away on Church Avenue. I love this city and the values it represents, and on behalf of myself and the Center for Equality, I would like to speak in support of this ordinance. Thank you.
 The NWA Center for Equality is a support and advocacy organization whose mission is to work toward achieving full equality and to serve as a regional voice for the LGBTQ community of Northwest Arkansas. And we are thrilled to see this ordinance come before city council. 119 was a huge loss for our community and the testimonials heard tonight from the LGBTQ community illustrate why the protections are so important. That anyone can listen to those stories and say discrimination is not a problem is beyond me.
 This ordinance addresses concerns of 119 while protecting Fayetteville's LGBT citizens from discrimination. The fact is that too many people still don't enjoy the same equal protections as their neighbors, and they deserve to be treated fairly. But this ordinance is not just the right thing to do, it is also good for business, tourism, and growth. Having the support of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce emphasizes the economic value that this ordinance brings to the city and to the Fayetteville business community, and how it's very different from 119 and an improvement.
 I want to thank Alderman Gray, Petty, Marsh, and Kenyon for their work and their support of this ordinance to make Fayetteville a place of equality and inclusion. And I hope that the rest of the council members will support it as well. Thank you. Thank you. Jordan Garcia, I'm a resident of Bentonville. Mr. Mayor, Council, greetings. You and most of City Council already know me and consider me a friend, and you know where I stand on this. Mayor, in fact, I'd like to consider myself one of your biggest fans. I wish everyone had the opportunity to just sit down with you for five minutes.
 and listen and learn about your ideology on life and your wisdom on community. I want to thank the City Council for taking up this important issue again. I think without a doubt we've addressed the concerns of the opposition with this locally written ordinance. I just want to tell you about my life as a gay man. With a partner, Chaz, who just spoke before me, we're both 27, we're young professionals, we have a dog, we have a home, we have aspirations. We both volunteer, we donate to nonprofits, we live, we work, and we pay our taxes.
 I understand that there is fear in regards to the LGBT population, but there's nothing to be afraid of. Chaz and I are just like everyone else. I hear this will give us special rights. Special? I just want to pause for a second. I didn't choose to be gay. In fact, for many years I fought with myself, years of depression and self-doubt, thinking I was hated by God. Why would I choose this for myself? I'm up here today because I'm a second-class citizen. I'm not allowed to marry the person I love, and I can be fired for being gay. I'm not asking for special rights.
 I'm asking for the same rights that most Americans get to enjoy. I want to make two other points. Council, it's really easy to organize a church. It's easy to send church buses to the polls. If you recall, my side was ahead in early voting, but we fell behind by a very limited amount of votes because of congressional organizing.
 Also, if we were to have churches as polling places this time around, I don't believe they should be allowed to post huge signs for or against the ordinance. This was a huge problem in the last election. Well, it was mainly just the posting signs against the ordinance, but, you know, both ways. This was a huge problem in the last election, and we heard at the Center for Equality about many folks were afraid to enter the polling place because of the signs. I just want to bring this to your attention. And then someone handed me something.
 And I do remember this as well. There were 19 points of discrimination that was brought up at the last meeting. So I just want to reiterate that there is discrimination happening in the city. We hear it at the Center for Equality. We hear it at the Center for Equality and we also hear it at St. Paul's. So thank you for your time and I appreciate everything. Thank you. Thank you, Jordan.
 My name is Bobby Ballinger. I am a resident of Ozark, Arkansas, as of right now, but I go to church here in Fayetteville. I've grown up in the area. I've worked for a couple of elected officials in my lifetime, and I definitely respect each and every one of your positions. I thank you for holding that and listening to the concerns of the citizens.
 With my experience, I know kind of how the system works, and I don't feel like anything that I have to say is gonna change your opinion. So I wanna be brief, but I do wanna,
 on public record as being opposed to this ordinance. Last time, I was very adamantly against it and volunteered many hours and time to help get it repealed. And so I just wanted to voice that. But I also want to say that I'm a volunteer fire
 I'm a Christian. I volunteer at a summer camp every summer and have for the last 11 years. I love people and I don't want anything to be personal, but I do have a conviction and I have to stand by that regardless of who gets in the way. I do pray that you all make the right decision.
 But if this ordinance does pass, I assure you that I will saddle up and get ready to do whatever I can to repeal it again. So, anyways, that's it. Thank you. Caitlin, West Weddington, Ward 2. Transgender, this is a term that's been thrown around a lot lately, and I'll tell you, it's not all fun and games. What is it about me?
 That's so scary. Am I foaming at the mouth? Do I have fangs? Am I really that intimidating? Despite having told our stories and pleaded our rights to you as neighbors, we're still denied as a people. Even our dignity is put into question. We've been slandered, judged, and compared as monsters. It's even been told that we're unworthy of God's love in this very building tonight.
 For the transgender community, discrimination is very real, and we are living proof. Our lives are statistics, our stories are scars, our experiences expose the areas that are lacking, and show how a civil rights ordinance can help Fayetteville be the city it claims to be. Three in four transgender people experience workplace discrimination, including physical or sexual violence.
 None of us are immune. Even one of our most active community organizers has been unemployed for about eight months. One in five transgender people experience homelessness at some point in their lives. In fact, two members of our community lived in a tent throughout the winter for about six months. We were bringing food and blankets, fearing for their health and safety. One in four transgender people are denied equal treatment in public spaces.
 Late last year, while seeking emergency treatment, one of our own was mentally and physically assaulted at a local medical facility. We don't deserve better than this from our city. What happened to our right to privacy, jobs, faith, and freedom? Ordinance 119 exposed the true roots of evil. We can all now say that we've got to see its face, to look into its eyes, and smell its breath.
 There are beasts lurking the streets of Fayetteville, and at every turn, there could be an eviction, unemployment, harassment, or assault. We are here in solidarity to tell you that it's not the transgender community that you should be afraid of. We stand here not as a people to fear, but a people of fear. Fayetteville, we are your people, and we deserve your hospitality. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Is there anybody else?
 All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Does the council want a break before we go into the deliberations? Okay. I mean, I'm sure y'all are going to want to discuss this. Yes, see, John wants to discuss it. No surprise there. And I'm not limited to just one question this time. Thank you. We've been discussing tonight two very personal issues.
 aspects of life for all of us. Human sexuality and theology. My wife and I were on an airplane flying back to Exon A back in December. I had been elected to Ward 4. I hadn't taken office yet. There were 91 people in that airplane. I was thinking about my new job with the city of Fayetteville. I thought, well, of 91 people, there are probably some conservatives or probably some liberals on this plane.
 There are probably some Democrats. There are probably some Republicans. There are probably some homosexuals. There are at least two heterosexuals. I can only speak to my wife and I. I don't have the personology of anybody else. But I thought in this setting on this plane, I bet we all agree on three things. We want to go to X and A. We want to get there safely. We want to get there comfortably, meaning we want our bags to arrive at the same time as we do.
 You see, even with all that diversity and all those differences of opinions and politics and religion and all those other things, in that setting, we all agreed on three things. I applied that to the city of Fayetteville. In Fayetteville, we have liberals, we have conservatives, we have Republicans, we have Democrats, we have homosexuals, heterosexuals, all kinds of diversity. But are there four or five things that we all agree on? And I thought of five. I thought fire protection.
 I would fire a fireman who runs up to a burning building, knocks on the door and says, Lady, you Republican or Democrat? In that setting, it doesn't matter what she believes. It doesn't matter how wrong you think she is. Rescue human life. That's your job in that setting. You see, we all agree on fire protection. We all agree on police protection. We all agree on city streets that shouldn't have potholes in them like was described earlier tonight.
 We all agree on city services, trash collection, water, sewer, sanitation. And I would even throw in the city library. We would agree on that. Why don't we limit our discussions to those things where we all have some modicum of agreement instead of taking up something so personal as human sexuality and theology and trying to get a consensus. If we pass this law, we're going to have half the city is going to love us, half the city is going to hate us.
 It's a very divisive issue. And, well, it should be because we're all very diverse in our views on that.
 Why don't we limit our discussions on the city council to those things we all have some degree of agreement on? I would much rather be talking about the potholes in the streets this man told us about earlier tonight instead of who's going to sleep with who and their right to do so and things like that. Those things should be left for another forum like the federal legislature or the state legislature or civic clubs or families to discuss their views of sexuality and theology.
 I'm not sure that's the preview or the jurisdiction of our city government. I'm sure I may be the only one on this August board that agrees with that point of view, but I would like to see us have more of an us attitude in Fayetteville and less of an us versus them. We are Fayetteville. We are us. We need to build this city stronger and better for all of us,
 I don't hate anyone. I disagree with Democrats, but I don't hate anyone. I love them all. Some of my best friends are Democrats. I have clients that are gay. I serve them. It's not an issue. Those aren't issues that come up in our relationship. I provide a good service. They pay me. We're happy. Why should it even come up, you see?
 So let's, I would encourage our board to let's focus on what we should be doing. Maintain the streets, doing well by our firemen, by our policemen. They lay, they put their lives on the line every day. In my job, if I make a mistake, I flip my pencil over and erase it. Their job, if they make a mistake, the rest of us go to a funeral. That deserves respect. That deserves our full support, our full measure of support.
 Instead of spending money on these things, which we've been throwing out the number 40,000 or 37,000 for a special election. That's just the beginning. I know some of the attorneys that are drafting petitions right now. They're already working on it. We'll spend hundreds of thousands of dollars in legal fees defending against this. This is not a wise choice.
 Let us, just like Little Rock did, let us draft an ordinance that says, if you're going to do business with the city of Fayetteville, if you're going to be an employee of the city of Fayetteville, here's what we're going to demand that you do. So we can lead by example, so we can persuade others. We always want to be persuaded, not coerced. This ordinance coerces some who disagree in dissent.
 Whereas if we, I could vote for an ordinance, I think, I'll have to think about it, but I could vote for an ordinance just like Little Rock did. Whereas if you're going to contract the city of Fayetteville, or you're going to be an employee of the city of Fayetteville, this is going to be our policy of non-discrimination.
 Let's lead by example that way instead of forcing something on half our population that disagrees with it. It's freedom of conscience. Nobody likes to have things forced upon them, imposed on them. None of us like that. No matter what your political persuasion, no matter what your sexual orientation. And we don't want to force things on people. That's my piece. Thank you, Mayor. You're welcome, John. What's the council want to do here?
 Yeah. I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I'll second that. Well, do we have any discussion? Well, I guess we'll. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Okay. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Latour? No. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Okay.
 In order to ensure uniform non-discrimination protections within the city of Fayetteville for groups already protected to varying degrees throughout state law. Before we do much else, we probably ought to answer some of those questions. I wrote down a couple that I need to answer. Yeah, I got a few here. There was a question about...
 Shouldn't the ballot be on the, or the entire ordinance on the ballot? Yes, I sure wish it was. I have been informed by the Washington Election Commission representatives that it cannot be because of, not because of the paper ballot, because of their electronic ballot, which most of the ballots are going to be on. They did assure me that they would have copies of the paper ballot.
 of the ordinance available at every polling place so that if people want to read it, which I would encourage them to do, that it would always be available to them. I do agree with the Speaker's and with Alderman Latour's earlier statement. I'd like to see the whole thing on the ballot. It just is not going to be feasible to do it. Another thing I need to respond to was a remark by Mr. Campbell that said that I had –
 or something that this is supposed to be, this ordinance to be a direct violation of Interstate Commerce Improvement Act, and that's not correct. As you know, I sent you all a memo on June 5th
 where I cited the Little Rock City Attorney's opinion that the proposed ordinance he was talking about, the Little Rock one at this point, which did go beyond what the state laws seem to restrict. He said the proposed ordinance does not create any protected class, nor does it list any prohibited discrimination not already protected by state law.
 Reasonable arguments can be advanced by opponents of such ordinances, but I believe that Little Rock City Attorney Tom Carpenter has the better argument that ordinances such as Little Rock's and now the one offered by Alderman Gray and Petty are legal and not prohibited by the state law, and I would be prepared to defend the legality of that.
 And it's likely to, in fact, gender a suit. And so I expect that we will be sued once the state law goes into effect, which will be late July. I do not believe that this would generate hundreds of thousands of dollars in attorney's fees to defend the ordinance, as mentioned by Mr. Latour. Obviously, I've defended the city many times when we've been challenged. And...
 I don't charge any extra, unfortunately. I just get my one pay. I guess I'm not very smart. I should be charging more, but at this point I have not figured out how to do it. Maybe I should consult Mr. Latour and we'll figure out a way to do that. But anyway, I do obviously I think litigation is very possible here.
 But I think that really the better argument is that these particular protected classes are already protected in certain areas of the state law.
 And originally I thought that there would be a different state law attempting to preempt us, but the law that attempted to preempt something was broad enough that I think that, as Little Rock City Attorney Tom Cochran said, it does not prevent this sort of ordinance from going forward. Only the courts can tell us for sure, and I'm sure that this issue will go to court and will probably then be appealed to the Supreme Court.
 it will require a lot of extra work from me but i'm certainly here to do as the city council wishes me to do and i'm fully prepared to defend this
 I am going to present a legal memo to you all tomorrow that goes in more in depth. I promised that my June 5th one, but there have been many, many other issues besides this that I've been trying to work on for the city. But I'm going to try to present that memo to you tomorrow that will flesh out what I believe are good reasons why the city has the power to, in fact, pass this ordinance
 And I believe there will be upheld in court. It's not a slam dunk, but I think that it's a reasonable argument that we have the right to do that. So those are the questions I wanted to answer. Okay. I've got a few more here. Right. Those are the legal questions. I'll leave the rest for you all. Well, I may not have gotten them all, but there was a citizen that asked for amendments on a –
 Well, Mayor, I think that citizens, if they wish to present amendments, need to talk to their alderman and let the alderman present amendments because citizens can't present amendments. But she asked that we look at that, and I didn't know if a council member wanted to look at that or what. Anybody want to look at that? I didn't understand what it is. Well, it was, and I can't remember verbatim, it was something with LGBT had to file documents.
 you remember that um yes she had requested uh that lgbtq people had uh were to get special papers from the police department in order to display showing which bathroom they were and they were had the right to use so that was one of them and there was a another
 Amendment or two. I don't remember those and a question was asked to Della if the Meetings of the draft of the ordinance had been open to the public and you were out of the room So I couldn't write I had that on my list Hmm. Actually I had the the Kyle Davis with the Center for Equality did a great deal of legwork on this ordinance and Actually
 uh... came i i got involved with it uh... reform months probably after it had already been in the making and uh...
 I was asked about it and of course Kyle is not an elected official so he can talk to me about whatever. I said that I wanted two attorneys that I wanted to be involved in the drafting of the ordinance simply because I wanted a new set of eyes on it.
 I had become very impressed with the Neal Weatherby when I heard her speak at Miss Cindy Nance's forum over at the Lutheran Church after about 119 and
 And also I wanted Mark Martin, whom I've known for many years and who's worked on lots of legislation. And so they began to work with Kyle much more than with me. But, no, that was not open to the public.
 Three or four months down the road from that, when we started looking at what Matthew Petty had worked on with the city attorney, at that point in time, the city attorney took charge of those meetings and making sure that Matt Petty and I were not in any meetings together.
 And so that's how we handled that, and that's exactly how we came to have the document we have today. Thank you, Adele. Okay, now what's the wishes of the council? I'd like to move that we go to the third and final reading. Second. All right. We have a motion to say we go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please? Sure, absolutely. On the subject of open meetings as well, you know,
 I want to make it clear, and maybe he doesn't remember, but within a week after the election last time, I bumped into Duncan Campbell of Repeal 119 at JAMA Java, who's one of the most awkward incidental meetings I've had. I shook his hand and told him I appreciated the respect he had shown him.
 and offered, I asked him if he would be a part of our discussions for a redo, and he said that he wasn't interested unless it was just a resolution like he did tonight. And so for me, that was a non-starter, and that's why they weren't re-invited to be at the table in my discussions. And I think that divide right there goes to the heart of the issue. Either you believe that it should remain legal to fire or evict somebody for being gay or transgendered, or you don't.
 All right, we have a motion to second go. Yes, Adele. I have a question. If we are, are we going to ordinance review? Is that, should that question? Well, Adele, right now, I've got a motion on the table, motion in a second to go to the third reading. To suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. So unless you want to withdraw your motions, I think we're going to have to go ahead and vote. Is that not correct? Yes, there will be a vote.
 But we can discuss why yes, we can after we vote is OK. We have a motion is second to go to the third and final reading. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Low tear no long yes gray yes Marsh yes Kenyon yes petty yes tenant no shop.
 There are five votes yes, three votes no. So, Mayor, you may vote if you please. I'm going to vote to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. All right. That is six votes then, so the motion to suspend the rules. Excuse me, Mayor. Mr. Williams, is that a point of order? I thought he only voted when there was a tie. No. The mayor will vote only if his vote is needed to pass a motion or a resolution or ordinance. Wow. Okay.
 Otherwise, he cannot vote. So his vote has to be the deciding vote if he decides to vote. He can't vote no. Thank you. Okay. An ordinance to ensure uniform non-discrimination protections within the City of Fayetteville for groups already protected to varying degrees throughout state law. Okay. Now let's have that discussion. The reason I went ahead and brought this up is we spent 30 hours on this previously.
 This evening we heard the same arguments, basically, some on human sexuality, some on theology, some on business practices, was the same arguments. What we have before us tonight is the opportunity to take this directly to the people. And to, there has been a concern of utilizing a lot of time here in this chamber on something
 That is most likely going to be discussed many hours and many places across our community on a very important issue. And I think it's okay for the discussion to begin in the community.
 It is a divisive issue. It is a polarizing issue. It's an uncomfortable issue. It's an issue that has to be discussed in the community if we're taking it to the community. So let's start the discussion in the community. If we were to bring this into the chamber, two more readings in the chamber, experience shows us that we're going to hear the same people with the same arguments again.
 and everyone has a valid argument from their point of view. It's based on their beliefs, it's based on their attitudes, it's based on their values, and it's based on how they feel on this specific issue. So I respect all of that, and I think since this is a revised ordinance that suggests we take it to the people, then let's take it to the people.
 This is not the same ordinance in my opinion. This is an ordinance where a lot of the issues that we heard were taken seriously in consideration and they were discussed with local individuals because one of the problems we had is it wasn't local. We had a lot of input in the chamber. We had a lot of input in the community already. And so I think that
 This new ordinance did handle a lot of the issues that were of concern to the business community. The issues that are moral or social are again based on one's values and beliefs, and they're very deep. I don't think that having a divided group of individuals show up two more times is going to change an opinion of an individual
 that has deeply held convictions. So that's why I did encourage this to go to the third and final reading. Let's take it to the public again. Let's see if the revisions answered the concerns of the business community. Let's see if it answered the concerns of some of the individuals that felt like it was bad legislation. Let the community decide. And that's what I hope that we'll do.
 There was some ugliness last time around. Maybe we all learned not to be so ugly this time around. It wasn't really that ugly. Not any, it's political, come on. Politics isn't always pretty. But we all have the right to say what we want to say in our community and to express how we feel about specific legislation and what is most important. In this case, we're all going to have the right
 to vote on a different piece of legislation that was developed with the concerns of the community as it was brought forth in our previous discussions. So that's why I went ahead and took it to the third and final reading. And I have the ultimate respect for individuals that had the capacity and took the time to come out this evening. The brevity, the conviction,
 I so respect on both sides. The engagement that we have here in Fayetteville of our community and the care that everyone has for their part in our community is what makes our community so great. Whether we disagree or we agree, I do think that there's a feeling of love and compassion and caring. And that's, we need, let's go forward with this and then let's, regardless how it turns out,
 again, embrace Fayetteville, the Fayetteville that we know and love. Chairman of the Ordinance Review Committee, I think I need to speak on the Ordinance Review piece to this. I am happy to schedule an Ordinance Review meeting.
 We have three weeks. We have an off week, so we have three weeks from tonight before the next city council meeting, and I as difficult as it is to schedule for people's schedules. I almost guarantee you that for this. I could get it scheduled. I don't know if all four members want an ordinance review committee meeting. I wouldn't schedule it. I'm not scheduling it to delay anything.
 As a matter of fact, most of my objections have been removed from when I voted against this the first time, and I'll support this one from the wording that it is now, as it's written now. I'm not necessarily in support of spending money on a special election, which I'm happy to talk about later. But for right now, I think the important thing is to get a final document together that we can look at and the public can look at and that we can vote on. So I'm not doing it to delay anything.
 But I'm happy to answer Alderman Latour mentioned some things today. Alderman Petty mentioned about procedures and enforcement, that he would be happy to look at that through ordinance review. That's the forum for that. That forum, that meeting is not for people to line up and tell us that we're, you know, the moral standpoint or God's going to get us or what. That's not where that is.
 What that is for is to have conversation about the ordinance itself and what the final draft needs to look like. If I schedule that, I can promise you I would want in writing from people that wanted to submit things ahead of time so that we didn't have a crazy long meeting. It would be efficient. The last few that I've had have been efficient, and this one would be as well. I'm happy to schedule that meeting.
 would do my very best to have it wrapped up and finished before our next meeting which again is three weeks from now um so but i also don't want to schedule a meeting and just have alderman tour show up no offense to alderman tour but we need to have a consensus among the committee members so i'm i'm happy to do that what's everybody well we don't make you don't make a motion to have a committee you're just willing well you'd have to at this point in time the city council should either
 have to vote on the ordinance or have it tabled because it is this real submits and spend is read for the third and final time and so you those are your two options basically is to vote on the ordinance or to table it so that your ordinance review committee could meet and provide further input okay I am willing to have a meeting well I am also in theory
 Willing to have a meeting the parameter for me is is there a reasonable hope? or consensus and So, you know my question would be if we're to adopt the one amendment that it seems like there might be some play on here Is that gonna earn us another vote? Oh, are you asking me off? I am and well, it seems like the majority of the council is ready to vote in support of this except for one of us and so I'm willing to have another meeting and
 If it's we have the reasonable hope for consensus, but if it's political theater, then I don't see why we would waste our time I cannot tell you right now Mayor sure. Okay, then I would vote for it until I see the final ordinance. I'm for freedom. Mr Petty, I'm for freedom of choice I'm for letting people decide for themselves not having with the city council say this has got to be what you're going to vote on
 There's probably not a reasonable expectation of I'm going to agree with the final ordinance. You have to realize that. Chair Greg Musil Thank you, John. Chair Greg Musil Okay. Here we are. We're on the third and final reading. Is there any more discussion on this? Ms. Sadella. Ms. Sadella I think that our attorney needs to clarify
 If we vote to accept this particular ordinance as it is written, then there's no need for an ordinance review committee. No, the ordinance will be passed and the special election will be called. And so at that point, it would be very confusing to go back and try to amend the ordinance. Then what do we do with the special election? It would be I would not recommend that either table it to go to ordinance review or don't table it.
 And don't try to come back and change it in the interim when we're looking at an election. Thank you for that clarification. That's what I was thinking. Yes, Chuck. I've read this ordinance several times. I read the original 119 ordinance several times. I cannot see an ounce worth of difference in these two. There have been cosmetic changes made to it. It's the same ordinance. The people who appoint the commission in this ordinance are our nominating committee.
 When people ask me, Mayor, what committee are you on? I tell them, I give them a Luke Skywalker answer. Whichever committee is furthest from the center of the universe, that's where I am. Okay? Because there's only one person that makes those committee assignments in this town, and he and I disagree on some things. So I'm not going to be on very important committees, probably. That's just my take on it. And I realize there could be difference of opinion on that. But realize it's the same ordinance. It's the same ordinance. Okay. Thank you.
 One of the discussions do we have? I have one comment. Sure. So when I said earlier that I was for the writing of this ordinance, the one thing I'm against is the same thing I was against before, which is spending 37 plus thousand dollars
 on another special election. I was against that before, and I'm against that now. When I first read this ordinance, I said, I don't really have a problem with the wording of the ordinance except for the part that says we're sending it to a special election for many, many reasons, not just the cost. I don't know if there were differences. Out of respect, this is more of a question to the five aldermen, the four to my right, and the one on the end, on this end.
 All of you stated, whenever that was, last year, that you were elected to make these sort of decisions. So what has changed now that we can't make the decision here at this moment? If the public gets petitions together and has a special election, my feeling is they might get the signatures, but enough of the 52% of the people that voted against this will not want to repeal it the second time because many of my constituents...
 told me I wanted to vote for the last one. I was for the LGBT part of it, but there were so many other bad parts to it, I couldn't vote for it. But with many of those items stripped away, I think that makes a special election, frankly, not as important because of the vote turnout and what's gonna end up happening. So I would say let's not spend
 the $37,000-plus on a special election. If we are bound and determined to vote on it tonight, then let's just vote on it tonight. Let's not send it to a special election and vote on it. And if the public brings it back for a special election, then at least I can look the citizens in the eye and say, I didn't spend another $37,000 of your money knowingly. I tried not to do that.
 Now, Alderman LaTour, some of you may say, well, then why didn't I second Alderman LaTour's November 2016 election idea? That's a good question. But when he raised it and there was not another second, I had a feeling there wouldn't be support for it anyway. So I would say that that won't be supported, but it would be better if we just voted on it. I would rather vote on it three weeks from now and have an ordinance review meeting
 and allow some more time to talk about it. But I got outvoted on that move. So if I had a chance to vote on the ordinance itself, I would vote yes. But to vote to send it to another special election is going to be very difficult for me to do, to knowingly spend more taxpayer money on a special election that I think is not necessary.
 Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Justin. I guess the sponsor of the ordinance would need to address why we're doing it to a special election instead of just a straight ordinance. Well, it's just such a very, very important issue that I feel like that we need to put it to a vote of the people, and of course, we all know, just like Justin said, that the
 the people can still get the signatures and it will go to the vote of the people. But the reason we have it in our, the ordinance as it is written now, and of course it'll have to be amended if we choose not to go to special election,
 is that we felt like it was such an important issue, we wanted all the people of Fayetteville to get a chance to vote on this ordinance, which, I'm sorry, folks, but it is very, very different from the other ordinance. And I'm so sorry if it seems the same to you. But it's a very different ordinance.
 And so that's the reason we have it in the ordinance as it is written now that it will go to a vote of the people. Okay. Matthew, I think you had Sarah. Sarah and then Matthew, how do you want to? Well, you know, I think it's unfortunate that we're needing to send it to a special election. But one of the feedbacks that I've heard is,
 was that a lot of people felt misled by the last petitioning process. The ordinance language was very confusing, and people called me in distress that their name was revealed to have been on the petition because they didn't realize what they were signing, and they thought it was, in fact, the opposite of what they were presented with.
 And so I think that one of the advantages of us sending it directly to the people is that we can be clear and transparent in the ballot language and prevent some of the...
 misconceptions or deceptions that happened last time and the other reason that we can't wait until November is that because equality can't wait for the people who are experiencing homelessness or unemployment or who are living in fear of losing their home or their job
 Every moment counts and it's imperative that we do this now and that we do it immediately Because so many people are in urgent situations. We heard from some tonight So I think it's important that we go ahead and get this done and that we do it in a clear and transparent way And I think that this is probably the best way to do that Well, you know early on I'd actually floated the idea of doing this and I
 primary or the general election next year with the city attorney and you know my thinking was if hillary clinton is on the ticket fayetteville's going to go gangbusters and it'd be a shoe in but you know it's not probably not constitutionally allowed by the arkansas constitution because elections have to happen within a certain time frame after an ordinance is passed so it's just not in the window um
 But, you know, frankly, I just don't, I mean, if I had my druthers, we wouldn't send it to a special election because civil rights shouldn't be voted on. They just shouldn't be. But when it comes down to this, it's a practical matter. The opposition was able to collect the signatures before. They'd be able to do it again, so we might as well have it. And it may not be appreciated, but I think, too, it's a matter of respect. This was put to a referendum before, and we should at least respect that that happened.
 and allow it to be voted on again, even though in an ideal world, I don't think rights should be. Anybody else? Everybody good? Okay. No other final comments. Sarah has a comment. Yes, Sarah. One thing that I learned while working with the Citizens First Congress is that only two states in the U.S. do not have a civil rights commission, and Arkansas is one of them.
 And so for people who are already in a protected class,
 We actually have nowhere to go and seek recourse against discrimination against us. And one of the things that I really like about this ordinance is that it establishes the Civil Rights Commission for the city of Fayetteville. So whether you've been discriminated on the basis of gender or race or family status or any of the other protected classes, you will have access to this body to help you mediate.
 through the situation.
 So I think that it's just very important that we do this, not just to extend the same rights that I have to the LGBTQ community, but also so that people have an advocate, they have a place to go to seek recourse. And we keep hearing that there's not been any studies. We don't have any of these official reports of discrimination. And it's because there is actually nowhere to go to report discrimination. And there is nobody tasked with studying it. OK.
 Any other final comments? I didn't know when I went through this, the changes that I saw was, one, is that there is a Civil Rights Commission now, and there wasn't one before. I also noticed that in C section on page 3, it says, churches, religious schools, and daycare facilities, and religious organizations of any kind is exempt from this article. And there is, so what I understood that the religious issue had been dealt with through this ordinance.
 was the changes, the difference I saw. So it did look different to me. I also, and I'm about to vote on this, I did prepare a few things. I didn't prepare a lot of things because I did not really know if we were exactly going to get here tonight, but we're here. And the research that I did, and I want to confirm it with Dr. Nance, when she was up here, was the LGBT Citizens Act.
 can be thrown out of their home for being LGBT. They can lose their job because they're LGBT. They have a 20% chance of... There's a 20% chance of hate crimes in this country against the LGBT community. I think that's wrong, and I think that needs to be addressed. The 14th Amendment of the Constitution does say, no state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States.
 I think that's pretty clear. I don't believe the LGBT community is asking for special rights. I think they're asking for equal rights under the Constitution of the United States. You know, when I was a boy, I know a lot of these politicians tell you they were raised in a log cabin. Let me tell you about my home. I was raised in a four-room house with two doors front and back, no one running water. And I understand the class struggle. Understand it. That's why I've always fought for the ERA and the LGBT.
 That's why I fought for the ADA, was on all those campaigns. But you know, my mama had a sugar cookie that she made. She made it with a little bit of flour and a little bit of milk and an egg, and she mixed it all together. We didn't have the money to have any kind of special jar, so she put it in a coffee can. Remember it well. It's a three-pound coffee can. You remember those, John, those Folgers cans? Plastic lids, you put them in there, and they were great.
 But I could go to my grandmother's house, and she had the exact same cookie because that's where she got that recipe. But she had a really nice glass cookie jar. But you know what? The cookies were just the same. You see, it didn't make any difference what container they were in. It was what was inside of the containers. And I think we have long since spent too much time on looking at the containers and not what's on the inside of people. I believe that...
 We have two forces at work here. One is love and one is fear. And I believe that we need to quit looking at what people are, and really who they are, and what's on the inside of them. And I think that's why this ordinance is important. It's important to me. Now I want you to know that I'm not one that is a mean-spirited individual. I believe in treating everybody the same. I do the best I know how to do.
 And I don't try to make it hard on anybody or difficult, but I will not sacrifice my stand on equality for anybody or anyone. I know I live in a political world. You know what? May catch you in the next election, I'm willing to pay that price because I'm going to fight for equality. As I said, there's two forces, and fear always says I'm afraid of what will happen or how things are going to change. But I believe love says I'm not afraid of the future.
 Because I walk in an attitude of love toward everyone and everything. And you know something, folks, at the end of the day, no matter what kind of storm is going around you, if you will stay calm and look for a pathway out of that storm, you'll find it. And it will be a pathway of love. And not only will you walk through it, everybody else will too. That's why I'm going to support this ordinance. And I'm going to support it here tonight. And I am going to support it during the election. Thank you. Now, Sondra, would you please call the roll? Well, Chair. No. No.
 Yes. Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Schottmeyer? Okay. Thank you all. Now, I believe that concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Announcements?
 We have no announcement. Are we through? Are we through? We do have an answer. I guess we have no answer. I'm adjourned. We adjourn, Mayor? Oh, I'm sorry. We're adjourned.