Good evening, everyone. I'm going to call our meeting to order. This is the City Council meeting, Tuesday, June 21st, 2020. And, Kara, would you please call the roll? Bench. Here. Turd. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Harvey. Here. Jones. Here. Kenyon. Here. Whitaker. Here. Scroggins. Everyone.
 Would you please mute your phones and join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. Pledge of Allegiance. In the name of the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. I don't believe we have any presentations tonight, do we? No.
 Okay, I didn't think so. So the first order of business is we will cover our nominating committee report, and this is for the nominating committee meetings of June 15th and 16th, 2022. Present were myself, Sarah Bunch, Mark Kenyon, Sonia Harvey, and Teresa Turk.
 The mayor recommends the following candidates for appointment. Fayetteville Public Library Board of Trustees, Brett Park, one term ending 4-1-23, and the nominating committee supports that recommendation. The nominating committee recommends the following candidates for appointment. Animal Services Advisory Board, we have one vacant business representative term ending 6-31,
 25, one vacant licensed veterinarian term ending 6-30-25, and the nominating committee recommends Jennifer Cole as one citizen at large term ending 6-30-25. Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, we also have one vacant term ending 3-31-27 on that board, and the nominating committee recommends Richard Roberts for one unexpired term ending 3-31-27.
 Environmental Action Committee, Sarah Grace, one resident at large term ending 63025. Fayetteville Arts Council, Chloe Bell, one arts and culture citizen at large term ending 63025. Laura Hightower, one arts and culture citizen at large term ending 63025. Robert Stafford, one working artist term ending 63025. Abby Hollis, one working artist term ending 63025.
 term ending 630.25. Emily Miller, one unexpired working artist, term ending 630.24. Fayetteville Housing Authority Board of Commissioners, Jonathan Wood, one unexpired term ending 1228.22. Christina Cole, one unexpired term ending 1228.26. Historic District Commission, we have two vacant terms ending 630.25.
 PEG Advisory Board, we have one vacant term ending 6-30-26, and we, as the nominating committee, recommend Gildner for one unexpired term ending 6-30-23.
 Public Facilities Board, we still have one vacancy there, ending 12-30-22. The Walton Arts Center Council, Incorporated, we recommend Shabana Couser, one term ending 6-30-25. Justin Tennant, one term ending 6-30-25. And I'll entertain a motion to accept the nominating. Vice Mayor, I have one comment. Yes.
 I thought that we recommended Gil Gildner for the one term ending 63026. I think we did, actually. Do you remember that? I think we recommended him for the longer term. We did. That's probably my error. I probably wrote it down wrong. Can we just make a correction here? You could just correct your motion. Thank you, Teresa. I want to correct my motion and...
 I recommend Gil Gilner for the vacant term in on the PEG Advisory Board ending 6-30-26. I move we accept the slate as published. Second. Second. Kara, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin?
 motion passes thank you so I believe the next item we have is the monthly financial report from Paul Becker
 Good evening. This will be the financial report in the month of April. So this is month four in the fiscal year. I wasn't at the last meeting, and I normally give it the first of the month. So I'll give it to you now. Sales tax, you know, our city one penny was just a little soft. However, we're doing very well so far for the month. Month budget, we're up 17% for the county. We're up 6% in total for the city one penny.
 We're on an average of roughly 12% in sales tax loans. So sales tax is doing pretty well. Franchise fees, franchise fees were up about 8%, so that's doing well. Beverage taxes, beverage license, they're up compared to budget, as our building permits. State turn back is also up so far this year. Fees, especially for parks, are up compared to last year.
 Soft parts are courts courts fees and fines are down Interest on investments is still down. Remember we're looking at April and there were some certainly decline early this year in Investments, but all in all we're up roughly 10% Compared to the revenue budget for this point in time for the general fund. So we're doing very well thus far Look at the street fund
 Revenue is up 18%. It's doing very well. Again, that's primarily because of the sales tax associated and allocated percent for roads.
 Also doing very well for the wholesale sales tax of gasoline and the motor fuel tax turn back for the state. So we're up about 18%, which is very, very good at this point in time. And street funds, parking funds, parking funds, we're up roughly 30%.
 over what I had anticipated with this year substantially we're doing much better than compared to last year's remember last year at this point in time we had issues with coronavirus and And parking especially at the entertainment system was now but that's starting to pick up pretty well so far this year Hopefully it will continue park developments were up 13% again. That's a a
 HMR taxes hotel motel restaurant taxes and that's doing pretty well so far compared to last year Warren sewer fund were up
 In water, our revenue billings are up 1%, and in sewer, they are up 6%, which normally the allocation is pretty close, but this year, the sewer billings are up over what I estimated more than water. Water is up about 1%, which I normally anticipate being up around 2% or so at this point in time.
 Trash and recycling, these are down a little bit. They're down 4%. Again, we're a little soft on some of the commercial aspects. And remember, for a while, our transfer station was closed. So that affected part of it. But some of the commercial still isn't back to where it was at one point in time for pool charges or things of that nature. But they appear to be picking up as we go forward. So I don't have a major concern there. Airport.
 Fuel is up 50% so far compared to what I had anticipated. Remember last year, it was soft, picked up later in the year. So far it's doing well this year. So all in all, on a revenue basis, we're doing very well. We need to keep in mind that a lot of that's inflationary driven, we'll see how we go, but I'm very happy with where we are at this point in time. And I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 Does any member of the council have any questions for Paul? Thank you, Vice Mayor. Paul, I know that when we've talked about this in the past, there were some delinquent water bills and sewer bills due to COVID. Have those been reclaimed or paid off? Or how is that coming along? Well, we're working with the customers as much as possible.
 We have gotten some money from the state help. State are helping some of the water and sewer customers. We're working very hard with them. I think we've recovered about $30,000 in past due bills for those who are really behind.
 We're working with our customers to work out the payment programs, working payments with them. So we're coming along on that. We still have outstanding VAT debt higher than we normally do, but we're working that down, and we're working with the customers to work out payment plans. Thank you. Do we have any other questions? Thank you, Paul. Thank you.
 Okay, our next items are the consent agenda. We have the approval of the June 7, 2022 City Council Minutes. Number two is a resolution to amend the Master Street Plan by adopting residential-linked trailhead parking as a street section and by designating the portion of South Smokehouse Trail between West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and South Hoodow Lane as a residential-linked trailhead parking.
 Three, a resolution to approve an amendment to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineering Inc. in the amount of $151,500 for the full design of Phase 1 of the North Street Corridor project and to approve a budget adjustment 2019 Transportation Bond project.
 Four, a resolution to authorize a contract with Planet Geo Incorporated pursuant to RFP 22-01, excuse me, Selection No. 1, for the development of a 10-year urban forestry plan in the amount of $73,550 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $4,000. Five, a resolution to amend Resolution 96-10.
 a resolution to amend resolution 96-22 and authorized the purchase of a freightliner recycling truck through dogged freightliner of springdale for the total for a new total amount of 206 825 dollars six a resolution to approve policies aop dash 121 daily staffing aop 127 special operations section
 and AOP 403 fire education dogs as part of the Fayetteville Fire Department administrative operating procedures seven a resolution to increase the airport services staffing account by point zero excuse me by point four zero FTE for flight line operations technicians technician and to approve a budget adjustment
 8. A resolution to approve a conduit occupancy and fiber swap agreement with Ozarks Go LLC to allow Ozarks Go to utilize the city's fiber optic optive
 fiber conduit to install fiber optic cable in exchange for providing 10 dedicated fiber optic strands for city use. 9. A resolution pursuant to section 166.04B3 of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to approve the request
 to not dedicate additional right-of-way along North Street for a lot split associated with the Fire Station Number 10 project. And I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second. Kara, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Herb? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Harvey? Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Scroggins. It passes. Now, on unfinished business, before reading this, I would like to recognize Kit to address our first item of unfinished business.
 Thank you, Madam Vice Mayor. At this point, I think that you remember last meeting you asked me to have an ordinance that would allow the city council more discretion, more authority to handle a damage claim where it had been capped at 40,000 to make it capped at 50,000.
 And so I drafted that ordinance for you and it's now on new business. But since the next item would be the claim of Patricia Knapp that would need this higher cap, I would ask that you suspend the rules and place that ordinance to increase your authority to be heard right now on the agenda. I would move to do that. Thank you. Right now, yeah.
 Okay, so we have, Kara, did you get the second on that? Okay, so we have a motion and a second to add this. Kara, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Now, Kit, do I read this part or do you read it? You should probably read the title and I'll read the body. Okay. All right. Thank you. A resolution pursuant... No, this is the ordinance. Where is it? It's the last item on new business. Let me get back over here. Sorry. Okay. An ordinance to amend Section 39.10 Water...
 water and wastewater damage claims and 39.11 damage claims other than water and wastewater damage claims of the Fayetteville code to increase the allowed compensation amount by 25% because of a decade of inflation and to approve an emergency clause kit.
 Whereas on June 5th, 2012, City Council passed Ordinance Number 5938 to enact Sections 39.10 and 39.11 of the Fayetteville Code to authorize limited payments of eligible compensation by City staff for smaller claims and only with mayoral and City Council approval for larger claims,
 but no higher than the designated maximum amounts, and whereas there has been a substantial increase in the cost to our citizens of these largely property damage losses during the last decade, such that it is appropriate to increase all previous levels of allowed compensation by 25%. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Fayetteville Code Section 39.10 and Section 39.11 to increase all compensation authorized limits by 25% by repealing the former subsections and enacting the amended Section 39.10 and Section 39.11 as follows.
 Section 39.10 C for the utilities direct department director may not authorize any payment greater than ten thousand dollars for any claim Pursuant to this section the mayor may request the City Council to authorize an amount greater than ten percent by resolution But in no case shall the city pay more than $25,000 pursuant to these claims procedure for a damage claim related to water or wastewater utility infrastructure occurrence and
 unless in an extraordinary case the mayor recommends and the city council by two-thirds majority approves an exemption from the $25,000 damage cap and approves a payment of up to $50,000. Quote 39.11 , the chief of staff may not authorize any payment greater than $10,000 for any claim pursuant to this section.
 the mayor may request and the city council to authorize an amount greater than 10 000 by resolution but in no case shall the city pay more than 25 000 dollars pursuant to the claims procedure for a damage claim unless in an extraordinary case the mayor recommends and the city council by two-thirds majority approves an exemption from this 25 000 damage cap
 and approves a payment of up to $50,000. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are hereby amend Section 39.11 by repealing and deleting the second sentence of that subsection. In Section 3, the City Council of the City of Fayetteville hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay.
 Because of the City Council's need to address significant pending and potential claims related to the September 20th, 2021 water main rupture that caused unprecedented and substantial damage to the foundations and structures of nearby residents' homes, so that this change is necessary for the public peace, health, and safety of Fayetteville residents. Therefore, the City Council hereby declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval.
 And of course, I did draft this because you asked me to do that. And I think it's also the right thing to do. And you heard the claim that we'd had before. So I think there's a need for that. And I'll answer any questions you might have. Do we have any questions for Kit on this item? Okay. So what? We have public comment. Public comment. Okay. So do we have any members of the public that would like to address this item? Okay.
 Do we have anyone on Zoom that would like to discuss this? Is the applicant here? No one on Zoom. Okay. All right. I'll close the floor to public comment and bring it back to the council. Any members of the council have anything they'd like to add to this? I would just like to say thank you, Kit, so much for working on this for our citizens. This means a lot to the family and to Fayetteville as well. So thank you. You're quite welcome.
 And this is an ordinance, and so it has to be read three times. Okay. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay. Carol, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Canyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Okay, it does pass and order to amend section 39.1 Oh water and wastewater damage claims in section 39.1 one damage claims other than water and wastewater damage claims of the Fayetteville code To increase the allowed compensation amounts by 25% Because of a decade of inflation and to approve an emergency clause I'm open to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading a second. Thank you. Okay Carol. We have a motion a second a second
 To go to the third and final reading. Would you please call the roll bench? Yes, sir Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, Harvey. Yes Jones Yes, Indian. Yes Whitaker yes Scroggins
 That passes. An ordinance to amend section 39.10 water and wastewater damage claims and section 39.11 damage claims other than water and wastewater damage claims of the FAIL code to increase the allowed compensation amounts by 25 percent because of a decade of inflation and to approve an emergency cause. Okay, I'm sorry, I lost count of which how many readings we've had here. So we have one more, right? No, that's the third and final reading. So we're done with that. Okay, good.
 All righty. Now, Kit, so I read now. This is the, pardon me? Did you all vote on that last part? No, no, we just eventually have to call the roll once there's no more comments from the council. Sorry about that. I was like, is that the last one? So, Carol, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Heard? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? And we need a vote on the emergency clause also. So I need a motion to pass the emergency clause. I move we pass the emergency clause.
 Kara, would you, we take one vote on this, right? Okay, so would you please call the roll, Kara? Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Erzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Scroggins. Yes.
 Okay, thank you. All right, so that passed too. Thank you very much. Okay, so now on to When we go back to unfinished business, I read this. Yes, we go back to the first item of new business. New business is the updated version. Okay. Okay, so our first item of unfinished business. I'm, you're right, unfinished. I'm sorry. Okay. Is a resolution
 to pursuant to 39.10 C4 of the Fayetteville City Code to authorize the mayor to pay up to the total amount of $48,707.67 to Patricia Neff for water damage overflow damage remediation at 3252 North McKee Court.
 Okay, now that is actually the proposed amended resolution I gave you, so we need to amend, motion to amend to that ordinance, that resolution. Do I need to read the first one and then we amend it or to this one? You can, if you want to, just go straight to making a motion to amend to the resolution that I passed out to you all tonight that was read by the Vice Mayor. Okay, sorry.
 Move we amend to this new resolution second, okay So we have a motion to amend to the resolution to the one that I just read Motion a second care would you please call the roll bench? Yes, sir. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes RV Harvey Jones yes. Yes, Kenyon. Yes, Whitaker. Yes Scroggins
 So at this point you have the amended resolution before the council. Okay, so
 I guess that's you. Thank you, Vice-Mayor and Council. As you recall, this is about the large 36-inch diameter water main break on North McKee Court on September 20th of last year. Patricia Neff owns the home located 3252 North McKee Court. This large water main break caused substantial amounts of flooding and damage to the residents.
 from this point forward to patricia neff is requesting forty thousand seven hundred and seven dollars and sixty seven cents as you recall uh she's already been reimbursed eight thousand dollars um this item was held in order for the council to consider an inflation adjustment increase of twenty five percent to city code thirty nine just dash
 which you just passed and set those requests approval to reimburse Christian for the remaining amount. Do we have any questions? Does anyone have any questions for Tim? Okay so now I would comment yeah okay are there any members of the public that would like to address this item either on zoom or in the council chambers? No one on zoom? Okay anyone in the council? Applicant present?
 Seeing none, I'll close the floor to public comment and bring it back to the council members. What would you like to do with this? I move we pass the resolution. Do we want to hear from the applicant first? Is the applicant here? Yes. Okay.
 Hi, I'm Cindy Cottle, 3421 North Buckingham Drive in Fayetteville. I'm here representing my parents, the homeowners at 3252 McKegg Court. That's Jim and Pat Knapp. I think last council session, we kind of hashed through all of this. I do appreciate you taking the time to consider their position and Attorney Williams for redrafting that code. And again, I'll answer any questions if anybody has anything, but I hope that I did a good
 an adequate job in sharing with you their position at this point. Okay, thank you. Thank you. We'll call you back if we have any questions. Do we have any questions for the applicant or any member of staff on this item? Okay, any other public comment? Seeing none, I close the floor to public comment. So... I move we pass the resolution. Okay, we have a motion to pass the resolution. Second. Motion and a second to pass the resolution.
 Does this get three readings, too? It does not. It requires a two-thirds majority, which means it requires six votes in favor. Okay. All right. Kara, would you please call the roll? Fence? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. So that passed. Okay. Thank you. All right. Boy, that was...
 convoluted there sorry about that okay so the next item is of unfinished business next item of unfinished business is an ordinance to amend section 159.01 fees schedule of the Unified Development Code to adopt increased variance request fees eliminate an obsolete
 accessory dwelling unit fee and create fees for services that are currently provided without any cost recovery Jonathan Kurth you have that item I do I Samara think well before that why don't we spend the rules to get to the second Reading maybe we suspend the rules and go to the second reading Second all these technicalities. I'm sorry, okay That's why
 Alright, we'll go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Spence? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Canyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes.
 Okay, in order to amend Section 129.01 Fees Schedule of Unified Development Code to adopt increased variance request fees, eliminate an obsolete accessory dwelling unit fee, and create fees for services that are currently provided without any cost recovery.
 And I'll jump in here, Vice Mayor. Jonathan Kurth of the Development Services Department. I know I covered this at length at the agenda session, and then I glossed over the proposal at the last council meeting given the late hour, so I wanted to give a little bit more fleshed out version of a presentation tonight. Given this is the public hearing for the item, it felt appropriate. I'm here representing both the Public Works Department and the Development Services Department with basically a five-part proposal to amend our development fees.
 The main purpose of it, as Mr. Williams outlined, is to update some existing fees, including eliminating one and establish new fees for some services that are currently done for free effectively.
 As far as the services go that are currently offered without a fee, there's three that are being proposed to have a fee included. One is a zoning verification letter. This is a common document with real estate transactions, but it can take up to a couple hours of staff time, and we get dozens of these requests every year, so we wanted to make sure to account for that time.
 The second and perhaps more substantial fee proposal is regarding grading permits. Currently there's a single grading permit fee after which a grading or further review of the permit after which a permit is issued. If changes are made to that plan afterwards, there's no fee charge for the staff time required to review it and make sure everything still meets code. So staff proposes a tiered fee ranging from $75 to $200 based on the size of the project and
 The second element of the new fees in the grading permit bucket are regarding re-inspections. Currently there are no re-inspections when our public works inspectors go to properties
 Uh, and or there are no inspection fees when our public works inspectors go to properties and the, um, the, the item they're being asked to inspect is not ready. Um, we would like to incorporate a fee that varies based on how many times they have to go out there for the same inspection. Uh, this would mirror what our building safety department does now.
 It helps account for those times when an inspector's inspection is requested, but they may not be prepared for it. There's no disincentive now to actually call and cancel that inspection. That tends to stretch our inspectors' time very thin and can reduce their availability to respond to concerns from residents about drainage concerns and things of that nature. Thank you.
 The last piece of the proposed fee with regards to grading permits is a doubling of fees whenever work has begun without a grading permit. So it's a punitive fee, if you will. The last set of fees that do not exist today are in relation to street closures.
 Uh, intro closures and downtown sidewalk closures. Currently there's no fee whatsoever. You can request to close any city street for any amount of time and there's no fee associated with that. Whether it's a fee for staff review or whether it's the fee for the impact of actually closing that street that has the result of.
 Some projects will estimate an amount of time and then they'll just keep rolling closures and there's no nothing to discourage them from doing that. Nothing to encourage them from working more quickly. And what that looks like is a 50 dollar review because there are multiple staff involved and non municipal staff involved in reviewing those requests, whether it's or T, Razorback transit.
 externally in groups like planning and engineering internally. As far as the use fee goes, that's also tiered similar to some other fees we're proposing. Now at the low end, on like a residential street or a sidewalk or downtown sidewalk, it'd be $25 per day or $25 per lane, up to $150 a day per lane if you're wanting to close a much more substantial street in the city, like College Avenue, for example.
 As far as the other 2 changes being proposed, the updates, these are not new fees. These are existing fees. We have an accessory dwelling unit zoning review fee. We're proposing to remove that with recent changes to our ordinance. There's no longer a filtering review that the planning group does. They can do all their reviews as a part of their building permit.
 And the other proposed fee changes for variance requests, it's currently $25 to request to not meet or comply with our unified development code. That's a very paltry sum compared to the amount of work that often goes into variance requests. A variance request can take anywhere from our research from two hours of staff time to 12 hours of staff time. It varies very widely depending on whether it touches on multiple divisions and departments, and just based on the
 The degree to which the, the item touches on different groups, and that would be increased from 25 dollars to 100 and it would also have a, a, a, a, a further fee. If you. We're requesting the variance in response to a violation. So it's 100 dollars. If you ask for it up front, it'd be 200 dollars. If you commit the violation and you're filing a variance request in response to that.
 There were two changes that staff made following the Planning Commission meeting that we evaluating these proposals That's what I just described to you But I wanted to make sure you knew what the Planning Commission saw first one was to add the word impacted to when lanes are being closed there was concern that a future engineer or planner could look at it and interpret the
 the fee be for if you're closing one lane, you got to pay for all the lanes, if that makes sense. So we wanted to say the fee is applied based on the number of impacted lanes being closed.
 The 2nd piece was the grading permit re, inspection fees, having the proposal to have a double each time from 25 to 50 to 100 to 200 as opposed to what the planning commission initially saw, which was a 200 dollar fee right off the bat. We wanted to accommodate instances where there wasn't any sort of malevolence and asking for our inspection without being prepared. And that would also mirror what our building safety.
 Uh, ordinances and fees require, uh, we did sell the planning commission, what changes we had made that was brought before them 2 meetings ago and shared with them. They had no concerns with this. Uh, they had originally forwarded this to, uh, the city council in February, and we're just deliberating internally in the meantime to make sure, uh, we were, uh, uh, cognizant of all these changes and also sharing it with the development community.
 and as I shared with you last meeting and it's the same today we've only received one piece of comment from the developers that we share this with them that they felt this was reasonable and these fees were just very nominal in nature so this would be the third hearing that this item has had and also was advertised in public newspapers and I'm happy to take any questions you all have thank you do any members of the council have any questions for Jonathan
 So I need to do public comment now. Is that correct? Okay. There's no one on zoom. Okay. Is there any member of the public? Present that would like to address this item. Okay Seeing none. I'll bring it back to the council. This would be the third reading Yeah, if you go if you suspend the rules it should be the third reading I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second. I
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Erzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Yes.
 And your order is to amend section 159.01, fees schedule of Unified Development Code to adopt increased variance request fees, eliminate an obsolete accessory dwelling unit fee, and create fees for services that are currently provided without any cost recovery. Okay. All right, then.
 Madam Vice Mayor, I would just want to comment my support for this and my appreciation to staff for doing the work and recommendations to bring before us. I've got long-standing concerns about any service for which fees don't cover the cost of delivering that service. It means that that customer is being subsidized by other individuals, and so I view it as immeasurably fair
 that if I'm the one receiving or requiring the services that I would pay for those services. So I commend staff for bringing this forward and I personally look forward to other opportunities for additional fees where inadvertently someone is being subsidized by others that we would review those and perhaps be able to address those later this year. So thank you very much.
 Okay, thank you. I'd also like to make one comment. Sorry. Okay, Jonathan Thank you for bringing this back and for giving us a very nice presentation for the second time And I hope that everyone who may have missed the last meeting because it was late was able to make this one So, thank you so much
 Sarah, could I add one small comment? Yes. Jonathan, you did miss, Jesse was here last time and Councilmember Scroggen wanted the public to be clear that these fees for temporary road closures had nothing to do with event permitting.
 Yes, that's correct. Ms. Masters did share that with me. I can touch on that if you didn't. We're unable to attend agenda session. There was a question, I think, specifically about parades, which was, of course, time appropriate given the large parade fay they'll have this last weekend. These are considered for developments. These fees are meant for projects. It's not meant for Federal Express and UPS to have to pay for road closure when they make the delivery, things of those nature. Parades have a separate permitting process.
 This is when a project has an associated development or building permit or things of that nature. Okay, thank you. And that's the last. We're done with this item now, I think. Now we've got one more, right? One more vote. Okay, sorry. Sorry about that. Okay, so we have our final vote on this. Carol? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 We do, Karen. Yes. Okay. Thank you, everyone. All right. Our next item is a public hearing, but we're going to read the item correctly. Well, basically, the public comment that would normally go in just a public hearing will be following the reading of the ordinance in new business, but there'll still be public comment just as it was a public hearing because we always allow public comment for every ordinance in new business.
 It just makes it more, we don't need to have the official legal public hearing until you all schedule that and it will have to be scheduled for another meeting. Okay. So our first item of new business, you want me to read it and then you would like to have it possibly tabled to let more. But after public comment. After public comment.
 This is our first item of new business. It is an ordinance to amend section 51-136, monthly water rates, and section 51.137, monthly sewer rates to change water and sewer rates as recommended by the cost of service study conducted by Black and Veatch.
 Whereas the City of Fayetteville's current water and sewer rates were adopted in 2008 based on a cost of service study conducted by HDR Engineering, and whereas on August 18, 2020, the City Council approved Resolution 212-20 authorizing a contract with Black & Beach for an updated cost of service study.
 And whereas the Black & Veatch cost of service study recommends initial changes in both the water and sewer rates that reflect the true cost of service by customer class and a 3% annual increase in rates each year thereafter until a new study is conducted,
 And whereas the City Council has determined after public hearing required by Arkansas Code Annotated 14-23-223 that the proposed rate change reflecting the true cost of service should be adopted and that the new rates shall take effect on January 1st of 2023. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal section 51.136, monthly water rates, and enact a new subsection 51.136, as shown in exhibit A attached to this ordinance. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal section 51.137, monthly sewer rates, and enact a new section 51.137, as shown in exhibit B attached to this ordinance.
 Good evening. I'll speak to this. One of the questions you may ask is why are we coming forward with a rights study at this point in time? First off,
 It's been 14 years since the last rate study. We held off on a rate study because we were having permitting issues, and we weren't sure what permitting issues were going to be with EPA. So we held off on that because it could have required substantial capital improvements, both to the east side sewer plant and the west side sewer plant. So we haven't conducted a study in 14 years, so it's,
 has an age issue too. The statutes have changed 2021 in chapter 14 234. It requires for all
 municipalities to have a rate study within five years or they are judged in financial distress. So there was statutory study which helped promote this. Three is CIP has we have many issues in CIP the current rates just can't support what we need to do for capital improvements at this point in time.
 So we brought the study forward. The other thing is it's a cost of services study. A cost of services looks at customer class. Customer class changes by the volume used by that customer class over points in time. Therefore, you need to adjust the study for customer classes to make sure you're allocating those costs to the correct customer class. I'm going to introduce.
 Anna White from Black & Veatch, who conducted the rate study, asked her to discuss the rate study with the Council. And then if I may, I'll come back and make a couple final comments on what this would look like for the customer. And then again, we'll set a time for an actual public hearing and to take this up again at this point in time. So Anna, would you care to address the Council on your study?
 All right. Thank you, Paul. Can everyone hear me and see the PowerPoint on the screen? Yes, we can. Okay. All right. Well, good evening. It's my pleasure to join you tonight to talk about the results of the water and sewer rate study that we conducted for the City. Okay, there we go. So this was a comprehensive cost of service study and it accomplished these four objectives.
 So first we projected the operating and the capital needs for both utilities for water and sewer.
 We identified the revenue from rates necessary to recover those costs over the five-year study period. As has been mentioned, the study indicated that a 3% rate increase is necessary for both utilities in order to maintain the minimum fund balances, the fund requirements, and all of the funds for both utilities fully fund the operating and capital costs.
 So we then performed the cost of service analysis. And this is where we allocate those operating and capital costs to the various customer classes in order to determine their share of the costs. We then designed the proposed rate schedules to generate the appropriate amount of revenue necessary, again, to fund all of the costs. As we went through this process,
 We engaged and educated the city and utility staff. We met with the Water and Sewer Committee several times, and now we're engaging with the city council. So there are two guidance manuals that provide the industry accepted rate setting approaches.
 The study methodology that was used for this study reflected the approaches, those approaches provided in those two manuals, as well as these rate setting best practices.
 So again, we define the performance standards in terms of the required fund balances and metrics that each utility needs to meet. We developed a financial plan that would ensure that each utility would meet those metrics. We performed a cost of service study in order to determine how much revenue should be recovered from each customer class. And then we established the rate schedule so that each utility is self-sufficient.
 and we'll recover and we'll meet the indicated financial metrics. So we share the results of the financial analysis and the cost of service analysis with the city team and with the Water and Sewer Committee. And the details to both of those steps are included in the rate report that the city has. So we're going to move straight to discussing the rate structure. Okay.
 So these are some practical considerations that we take into account when we design the proposed rate schedule and the rate structure. So in addition to reflecting just the costs of the cost of service analysis, we also want to consider some of the items that are listed here. And we're going to touch on several of these items as we walk through the proposed rate schedules.
 So when we reviewed the existing water and sewer rate structure, there were three components that we evaluated.
 The first was the existing rate structure assumes a minimum usage of 1,000 gallons. So we recommended that this component be eliminated so that the minimum water unit is 100 gallons. So this addresses equitable cost recovery. If a customer is using 500 gallons, they're going to be charged for 500 gallons and not 1,000 gallons.
 It also sends appropriate price signals. The customer will see on the bill that what they're being charged reflects the amount of water actually used. And then finally, it's easy to understand, again, because the customer bill reflects the amount of water used.
 The second component is the fixed monthly service charges. So these have been aligned to, adjusted to align with cost of service. So meaning that the cost required to read a meter, to issue the bill, to collect that payment, to maintain and service the meter are recovered through the fixed service charge. This addresses, again, at real cost recovery. Customers are paying for the service that they receive each month associated with their meter and their service.
 service line. It also helps promote revenue stability. The service charge, it's a fixed amount. It can be predicted from month to month. So regardless of how much water customers are using, the utilities know that they can at least rely on the revenue from that monthly fixed service charge.
 We also then reviewed the volume rate structure and we made changes to this and we're going to address those in the next slide. What you'll see when we talk through these is that the changes that we made are also related to promoting equitable cost recovery, sending the right appropriate price signal, and making the rates more easy to understand. So we evaluated three different rate structures with slightly different changes to each of the rate components.
 So for each of the rate components, the minimum charge, the fixed charge, and the volume charge, these were the options that we evaluated and then recommended for consideration. So the first was removing that minimum requirement. We talked about why we recommend that that be removed. And you'll see that in all three of the options that we look at.
 The second one with regards to the fixed service charges, we looked at adjusting the existing rates to either the maximum of the 2022 existing rates or cost of service. So essentially, if cost of service is indicating that there's a decrease in the rates, we held those rates at the existing charge.
 The other option that we considered with regard to the fixed service charges was moving to the midpoint or the average between existing and cost of service. So the increases in the service charge are not as significant under this second option here as they are under the first option.
 And then the third, with regards to the volume rate structure, any rate structure that had a declining block, meaning that, for example, the first 300,000 gallons of water is $5 for 1,000 gallons, and anything over 300,000 is $2 a 1,000 gallons, that's a declining block.
 So we moved that to one unit rate per 1,000 gallons. And you'll see that when we look at the rate schedules. So this is a summary of those three options. So option one, as I mentioned, so with regard to the service charge, we looked at the max of the existing rates and cost of service. This applies to all customer classes. For the usage rate, the volume charge, we eliminated the minimum volume.
 We maintained the existing volume tiers for all customer classes except for irrigation. For irrigation, we changed it from a declining block to a uniform. The second option then, we still have the same service charge and usage rate in terms of eliminating the minimum as option one. But we went ahead and also changed the non-residential declining block to a uniform rate.
 So at this point, there's no declining blocks. The third option then, the only change from option two was to move the service charge to the average of the 2022 existing rates and cost of service.
 On the sewer side, it's very similar. The service charge in option one was the max usage charge, usage rate, there was no change. For option two, the only change there was moving all of the rates that had a declining block and changing them to a uniform rate. Then for option three, the only change there from option two was making that slight adjustment in the service charge to be midway between existing and cost of service.
 So the rate structure that we are showing, the proposed rate structure that we're showing, is option two for both water and sewer.
 So this reflects the maximum of the existing and cost of service fixed charge. And if you can see here, it results in some increases for outside city customers between about the one inch and the three inch meter size. For all other customer classes, there's no change in the fixed fee. You'll also see here for the volume charge, non-residential,
 irrigation and wholesale have been moved from a declining block, as you can see here, to a uniform rate. So for example, for the non-residential, instead of the rates going from 379 and down to 339 based on the water usage, it's a uniform rate of 393. And so these changes that we made here for inside city also apply as well to outside city and the wholesale customers.
 Okay, then we have the same thing for sewer again. This is option two. As you can see here, the max of the existing and the cost of service fixed charge results in some increases again for outside city customers around the one and a half inch to the three inch range, as well as for the city of Farmington.
 And again, you can see for the residential customers and the wholesale customers under these proposed rates, we have eliminated... I'm sorry.
 I'm sorry. I need to double check this. I believe for the inside city, this moved to a uniform rate. I'll double check that. But you can see that we did the same for outside city, Farmington, as well as the wholesale. I think this might just be a typo on this slide. I apologize for that.
 So included in the rate report are typical bill tables for water and sewer individually and then for combined. So it compares typical bills under various meter sizes and water usage and wastewater volume under both the existing and the proposed rates. You can get an idea of the impact that these proposed rate structures would have on your customers. All right. That concludes my presentation.
 Thank you. Do we have any questions? Do council members have any questions for Ann or Paul about this item? I'd like to make a few closing comments if I may. All right. Thank you, Paul. Do you have anything you want to put up? I just have a couple slides. I'll be very brief. Want to talk about a little bit what does it impact mean to the customer?
 First off, our recommendations are to implement the cost of service rates for water and sewer based on the study for 2023. And we're recommending that they be implemented in 2023 to allow the customers a chance to get ready for the impact of these because some of the changes are significant.
 We also have we also are requesting that a three percent annual increase in the fees be implemented through 2026 and that's because if we keep the rates separate we would have to have a larger cost implemented in the first year, so this is allowing it to to more or less increase over time so the impact isn't as large and
 in a first increment. For charging, we're talking about implementing the base charges, the base charges derived on the cost of service, if the cost of service is greater than the existing base charge. So we've kept the base charge the same for the customers and for the meter sizes that did not change, and that's to help the impact in total.
 We eliminated the 1,000-gallon charge. The minimum charge was 1,000 gallons. The committee was very, very set on this. They felt that it was appropriate for the customer to pay what, in fact, they used. We also continued the existing tier block.
 For customer classes that have an inclining block, what is an inclining block? That means if you use so much, so many gallon and you go over that into a very large amount, you can increase the cost per gallon for that amount over the certain rate.
 or you could have a decline back reducing that. We felt that over a certain amount used, we should increase that particular block, therefore encouraging water conservation wherever possible. We continued with the existing block structure for customer classes that have an inclining block. So residential, if you overuse a certain amount, then your cost per gallon over that amount is going to increase, and that is staying the same.
 Change of uniform block customers for customers that had a declining block. That meant if you used over a certain amount, the cost per gallon would decrease. We felt that that cost should stay the same for irrigation and non-residential. And you should not, if you use more water, should not decrease the rate over a certain amount. So those are basically the recommendations coming forward.
 Again, as we talked about, some of these changes are significant. Kevin, you want to hit the next slide? First off, we look at the water changes, and we can see that the water changes, we changed many of them, and affects most of the outside the city customers. One of the things that happens when you don't have a rate study for a long time and you have a cost service study for customer classes.
 The amount of water used by each customer class goes back to configure what their cost of service should be. Since we hadn't had a study in 14 years, that changed drastically. That's why you're seeing certain classes change much larger than others. And you'll see in the wholesale water especially, it has increased.
 The place we're going to see the major change, and if you go up to the sewer rate structure, it's in the sewer water rate structure. This is from a number of reasons. Number one, the west side plant had not been fully placed in service when we did the last cost study. So the full cost had not been incorporated in the study at that time.
 Also, all of the operating costs were estimates at that point of time and that changes over time. Major impacts, so you're going to see a bigger impact on sewer than you are on water because of the coming on board of the Westside plants. You're going to see, for example, Farmington changes more than the other ones, that's because
 The Farmington contract, over 8% of that plant contractually is absorbed by Farmington when we built the Westside plant. So those are some of the major changes we've seen. I wanted you to see the impact of this. And with that, we'll be happy to take any questions or public comment. I have a question for Paul. Do we have an estimated increase for an average residential customer?
 I'm sorry, which one? Do we have an estimated increase for just a residential customer? Any ballpark quotes? For the average, I do not have one at this point in time. I will have one at the next meeting. Okay, thank you.
 Paul, do we usually have, since, well I don't think anybody on the council was here 14 years ago, so do we usually have some of our city partners, like other cities, come in and address us during this time? Well, they have the opportunity to do that. That's why we have a public comment, and that's also why we have a public hearing.
 Kit has suggested that we delay that public hearing. We re-advertise it to make sure that we properly follow the statutory code.
 And we will have a public hearing on the 19th, if you agree with that. I think that's your recommendation at this point in time. Right. And our second address is right now, too. Yeah. Yeah. But so what is our procedure to notify some of these other cities that use our services just to advertise in the paper? Is that what you said? That is what is statutorily required for the public hearing. Of course, our ordinances are also in the,
 in here out in the public also so they can just watch it or hear about it read about it in the paper but there is a specific requirement that we put an ad in the paper 10 days at least 10 days before the actual public hearing and as i have said in my memo to you i think that should be on july
 19th but we're not there yet when you need to first get public comment well do I not have the right to ask a question though so oh you can ask any question you want absolutely Sarah we had published these as a paper originally so they have been published in the paper once we're going to do that again on the advice kit
 Tim Nylander also contacted the mayors of the cities and advised them of what the right structure would be. We've heard some comments from them and we'll be happy to answer those questions at the time we have the public here. That answers my question. That's what I wanted to know if we just advertised in the paper and they had to catch it or what we did with that. Okay. Do we have any other questions for staff on this? Okay. Seeing none.
 I'll open the floor to public comment. Susan, do we have anyone on Zoom? No, ma'am. Okay. Is there anyone in the public here with the would-like addresses? Okay. Mayor, council.
 Thank you for allowing us to address you. So you will need to address us only. Don't talk to any staff members, just address us. Sure. And you'll need to state your name and tell us your name, and then you have five minutes to speak. I'm Heath Cottle. I'm the mayor of West Fork. This did come as a surprise to us. So Tim reached out to me last week, so I've had about a week notice before this hit.
 which wasn't a lot for the proposed rates that the increases that are coming to Westport. We are a wholesale client to the City of Fayetteville. We signed a lease with the City of Fayetteville less than two years ago that stipulated rates and stipulated a 3% yearly increase. Okay, so
 Before I get too deep into it, I want to give a little explanation. West Fork had its own sewer system that was obsolete. We needed to do something to treat our sewage. Mayor, could you talk more into the microphone so people can hear you besides just people in this room? Sure. So we worked with the state. The state helped us get funding for it. We've spent $10 million to bring our sewer line into the city of Fayetteville.
 With that, we have a healthy bond payment that we have to pay, and we're also paying healthy rates to the City of Fayetteville for that sewer line. So just to give you an idea, the minimum sewer bill in the City of West Fork currently is $47.74 a month. That's before any usage. That's before you turn on the dishwasher, the washing machine, $47. That's just for the sewer.
 Under the proposed rate increase, the minimum West Fork bill will be $68.22 a month. West Fork is made up predominantly of fixed income families. We are struggling right now to pay the bills. The city of West Fork has dipped into our savings three times this year just to pay the Fayetteville bill. We have also moved almost half a million dollars out of sales tax
 Into our water and sewer fund just to pay these bills now half a million dollars Westfork is a two million dollar budget city. We have two million dollars in revenue a year a quarter of our revenue is Going into our water and sewer department just to stay afloat and we've dipped into savings three times so I say all that to say the Fayetteville sewer bill the minimums will go up to $18 a month
 West Fork residents will be paying $68 a month, and we're two years into the contract. Now, you ready for this? I was coming here to plead with you to not raise those sewer rates, to reconsider what is proposed for the city of West Fork. After looking at the Black and Beach report, I'm here to ask for a decrease in rates.
 So when we signed our contract, and we are essentially looking to nullify that contract with the changes that are proposed. But with that contract, I was under the understanding we were getting wholesale rates. And wholesale, that has a meaning. There's wholesale and there's retail. We are a pass-through customer. Fayetteville doesn't come into West Fork to service our sewer lines. They don't come into West Fork to add taps to our sewer. You're simply treating customers.
 Treating the the effluent we're not getting any rate decreases for that. We're currently paying more than than retail customers Whether it be Farmington Fayetteville Greenland And I say all this I'm here for Westport. The city of Elkins is in the exact same situation we are
 But you guys aren't doing meter readings in West Fort. It's simply a pass-through. We are sending the sewer up here. We made the investment to get the lines here. We even cost-shared with the city of Fayetteville on an upsize of the line that the city needed to serve us as well as Greenland. So for those reasons, I'm asking for a rate decrease. On our water service, you guys provide us water service as a wholesale customer.
 We have a 32% discount on our water service compared to the retail rates that the city of Fayetteville charges. I'm asking for that same 32% rate discount under what your retail clients are paying. I disagree with Black and Beach on their cost of service. I feel like they've assigned way too much to the city of West Fork in the fact that
 So to give you an idea, we are sending 92 million gallons of effluent to the city of Fayetteville. The city of Fayetteville is treating 5 billion gallons. That's less than 2%. That's what our volume is to the city of Fayetteville, less than 2%. Now, with that, if you look at the sewer system as a whole, Black and Beach estimates that you have a 40% I&I
 uh problem with the city of fayetteville i and i is is water coming in from the ground into the system you're treating water that you're not getting paid for at 40 percent i and i how much is that that's 2.2 billion gallons being treated that's not being billed for now that's none of my concern that's your concern i say that only to say that the budget shortfalls that you're asking for they're regained in in i and i but i also say that to say that
 This cost of service study looked at your revenue needs. It didn't look at any efficiency needs It didn't look at any existing problems that need to be Addressed it simply looked at revenue needs and assign that revenue to your various clients And I feel that's very that's very unfortunate for the city of West Fork the citizens of West Fork It it is honestly crippling to our citizens right now just to make their monthly water and sewer bills the the
 The water rates, I don't have an issue with. The city hasn't raised those rates in 14 years. The city of West Fork hasn't raised those rates in over a decade. We're right there with you. Water rates are cheap, and we are getting a wholesale discount on those water rates. I have no issue with that whatsoever. It is simply the sewer, and I just...
 We cannot, we will default on the city of Fayetteville or the state or somebody if this rate structure goes into place. Are there any questions for me concerning that? I have a question. Yes, ma'am.
 So the contract that you signed with the city of Fayetteville, what did you say, three years ago? Under two years ago. Under two years ago, okay. What did it say about any rate studies or changes to the charges that would belie West Fork? So it does mention rate studies. As you can imagine, and I'm not taking shots,
 It was written by an attorney. And so the rate study portion of our contract and the rate portion of our contract are not very clear, and I'll give you an example of that. Fayetteville is entitled to a reasonable rate of return on its investment on assets employed to provide wastewater service to West Fork in the approximate amount of 2% above the average bond coupon outstanding debt at the time of the most recent comprehensive cost-of-service study.
 i'm an accountant i have no idea what that means so i'm not a lawyer but that sounds like it didn't lock you into a specific rate that it allowed the the study to prevail it certainly does uh provide mention that that the city of fayetteville would do rate studies when we signed into this we had no idea that it would be less than two years into the project and i would also mention that black and v
 They point out that sewer growth in the city of Westport is flat. They're not expecting any growth in the city of Westport throughout this term through 2026, while they are projecting 40,000 new accounts in the city of Fayetteville. The growth and the need for excess revenues is at home.
 right the city of phelpsville is not adding any additional needs or or requests uh or demand on the system thank you i don't have any additional questions um kit and paul i think one of the things that since since mayor coddle has brought up this issue i think
 I'm not sure how big that contract is, how many pages it is, but I think it might be advantageous for us as a council to have a look at that since he's addressed specific items in the West Fork. Yeah, I'll be happy to provide that a copy to the city council. It is fairly long, just like most of these contracts, and it's a contract that we've had very similar to this with Elkins for decades.
 And so we basically were trying to treat both of our outside cities that were on a wholesale, as you would say, rate
 We try to treat them similarly and so that's and that was really the basis for a lot of the contract as was drafted for West Fork. And of course they had their attorneys too just like us and and so it was agreed to and adopted by both cities. Okay, I understand that. But I'd still like to take a look at that since we have questions. Could I ask the attorney a question? Yes, you may.
 Would you agree that this is voiding this current contract, this rate proposal change? Would you agree that it's voiding the current contract? That it's void? Yeah, that it's essentially nullifying this contract. Oh, no, I would not agree with that. Okay. All right. Okay, then. Well, thank you very much for your comments. Thank you for your time. I appreciate that. Do we have any other public comment?
 I have another request. What I know about this from whenever we connected to West Fork is really the total impact of West Fork on the operations in Fayetteville is a drop in the bucket, in my opinion. And so even if what is a strain on them
 not the equal amount of strain on the operations of our sewer plants as a whole and so I think that that I would like to kind of see that ratio to see what is the true amount of West Fork's impact on our system compared to the system as a whole and I ask that because I think that it does seem like that they're getting a tough
 situation for a small town in a stagnant population growth. And when we did agree to hook up with West Fork, I think that there was an understanding that it was going to be to a benefit of the citizens of West Fork to move forward. And I think we need to evaluate the benefit that they expected less than two years ago. It was hard for the West Fork
 citizens and the city council to get together the support to go ahead and do the right thing because they did have the failing sewer plant. And I think that Fayetteville can look at this as the total impact on our system. Are they getting a relative fairness or is it a worse, a harder situation for them than it would be on us?
 on our municipality. Now, at the same time, it was our citizens that built the plan. It's the bonds. It's the vote. It's the responsibility of our city to serve our citizens the best we can. And when we have someone outside the city, then we do have to look at it. This is an enterprise fund.
 And so we have to operate our water and sewer and solid waste as a good company, as a good corporation, as an enterprise. It has to support itself. So I think that we look at the operations and the operational costs and what we need, and we try to be fair, especially with our smaller cities. And I guess I have a lot of compassion for West Fork, knowing the struggle it was just to get them there.
 to be able to do the infrastructure to participate and move into Fayetteville. And it was the right thing to protect the West Fork of the White River. There's more here than just the cost of the consumable. There's also the cost of what we're doing to protect impaired water in our river.
 you know, our water that runs through our city, and into our drinking water in the Tobe River Lake. So there's some other impacts that I think that we can also consider. At the same time, they do need to pay, you know, whatever the enterprise impact is to run a good business and make a good business decision. And I don't have all those numbers. I've got to, you know, we had a lot of information whenever we looked at the...
 impact of hooking them up and it was really not a big burden on our system we had plenty of capacity we are not having to service their lines it is a pass-through so I don't know I think that there's a lot to look at here as the total impact on a municipality that has been
 customer of ours in an enterprise way for less than two years and I understand the impact that this is going to have on a modest community that did the right thing to hook into a sewer plant that had the capacity to protect the West Fork of the White River as well as offer the city an opportunity for
 a good wastewater system to protect the safety and health of their own citizens. So I hear you is what I'm saying.
 i i have a bit of a comment oh sorry guys are you ready to i'm just going to say you know thank you for that mark i really um i believe i might have been on water and sewer committee when we when we first did this and i'm remembering this and i think it's it's uh you know i think it's good that we we look into this because it does seem you know
 You know, we may not agree with the mayor, but we need to look into it. I do know, like, for instance, because I'm from Elkins, I know what the fees are in Elkins. But there's a lot of growth in Elkins. There's a whole bunch of new houses being built out there. There's...
 I think there's supposed to be 200 or 300 new houses being built in Elkins alone in the next couple of years. So it may be a different situation for that city than Westport. Sorry, Theresa. You go ahead. Thank you for bringing this to our attention, Mayor. I do think that we need to really kind of look into why you were not categorized as a wholesale sewer customer.
 So that would be something that maybe we need to look into and figure out. Maybe we made a mistake. Maybe we have a different definition that needs to be modified and just look into that a little bit deeper. So believe me, we'll go forward with that. And I do want to commend the citizens of Westport for hooking up to Fayetteville's
 wastewater treatment system that has cleaned up the West Fork of the White River quite substantially and will continue to do that for a long time. And so I really appreciate that and we will take a look at that. Thank you. Okay, do we have any other comments? Any member of the public please come up to the microphone, state your name, and you have five minutes.
 My name is Jim Renfrow. I'm from the City of Greenland. I'm a City Councilman down there.
 We're a little different, smaller than Westport, but we also have sewer upgrades we've been working on. We've spent quite a bit of our budget in maintaining and working with the same engineers you guys have to upgrade our lift stations and a lot of overlooked and outdated sewer. And so I guess the timing of this is probably the issue biggest for me because we just passed several rate increases for it to fund.
 the sewer rates and the increases on the residents that are fixed income primarily in Greenland. We haven't had any new businesses or new developments because of our sewage issues because we were operating at basically our maximum that the EPA recommended that we operate at. We had to really save up and come up with the funds that we could and appropriate it towards increasing our, you know, updating our sewer system.
 And looked at what we could afford at the time based on the rates we thought we would have going forward and the increases on our public. And here we are just less than a year after the first one and a few months after our second increase and looking at more increases. And so I'm concerned. A lot of people have reached out to me.
 Um, on the ones we've already implemented. I know it's gonna be a lot more because we were a little bit like the mayor Westport caught off guard, you know, with this. And so one, I would like better communication with those city leaders and the other cities that are gonna have to manage.
 the calls and the complaints and things like that because I know you understand that 100%. You guys get that just as we do. While we're a smaller community, smaller city, it's the same issues. And so we wanna be good partners. We do have some services that Westport doesn't have. You guys come down and read our meters. You help maintain the system and we see your trucks down there and we appreciate the people. I'll go down and talk to them, tell them thank you for participating as a partner and keeping us going.
 i'm really concerned i am a full disclosure i'm a mayoral candidate i'm running for mayor later this year um so i think our current mayor said he probably wouldn't run that's fine we're working together with everyone just figure out what the vision looks like for greenland and our partners in westport and and hopefully everybody
 can get through this and stay whole, and we're very much a smaller impact on the larger city of Fayetteville, just like West Fork is, because we have a smaller population, but we wanna grow. We want to eventually have businesses. We've had people come say, I wanna build a hotel off the interstate, or I wanna build houses, and we can't do that until we fix our sewers. And we're there, we're getting there, we're more than halfway there. But I'm afraid just as we're coming on with these other sewer updates, we have this additional cost, and,
 However we can partner with you guys, we'll do it. But just consider the smaller towns that are impacted. I think, sir, you were right on point. We're probably a smaller impact than what this study is looking at overall. But whatever we can do, we wanna pay our fair share, but we want it to be fair, right? And we wanna do whatever we can to, for those citizens like my mom that live in town and they're on Social Security and they're watching every dollar. But the inflation and the cost increases, it's really difficult right now. So thank you, I don't wanna take up any more of your time.
 Okay. Thank you very much. Do we have any other members of the public that would like to address the council on this item? No one on Zoom? No, ma'am. Could I say one quick thing about procedure for us for the next time? Yes. So we did have a staff presentation that ran over what Mayor Jordan would typically allow, and we kind of anticipated this, but
 but felt like there was so much information to share, we ran over by about six minutes, and so if you all would like us to try to trim back to 10 for the next presentation, we can work on that, but as you heard the information that was presented, that's about as much as we could cram into that period of time. So I just wanted to ask ahead of time so we don't have the issue about letting our staff go over.
 I have no problem with letting them go over. I was kind of watching the time, and I thought, well, I've made so many mistakes tonight. Maybe I'm not right on this one either. I have no problem. I mean, I think it's kind of necessary. It's a big change. We haven't had this and haven't had a rate study in 14 years. So I think it stands to reason it should go over a little bit more. Thank you.
 And you certainly have within your rules of order procedure the right for the city council to grant additional minutes. And you could do that really at the start, not even wait for them to run out. Because this is a very important issue and it's complex and complicated and cannot just be done with slogans. So they've got to explain it. And so I think I agree that we probably need additional time to help answer some of these questions that have been raised by everybody.
 I don't think any, I see the council members here kind of nodding their heads. I don't think anyone will have a problem with that. If we could maybe do 15, 16 minutes, that'd be fine. So thank you. Okay. Yes. If I may, Madam Vice Mayor, it appears to me, though, that there would be a benefit to this council if there was opportunity for a meeting today
 prior to July the 19th so that additional questions could be asked without our elected body being present, so that it could be a business discussion with business partners that participate in both our sewer treatment facilities as well as our water facilities,
 that we don't need to necessarily be participants in so that they have the benefit perhaps of an additional presentation or question asking and answering on the rate study because I'm not interested in Fayetteville
 subsidizing other customers but I do want to ensure that the perception of fairness and having the opportunity to clearly understand what the study revealed I think would benefit us and so while I don't have the authority to ask for it I would certainly encourage us whether it's with a mayor an elected representative their business operations managers someone who represents
 Elkins or Greenland or West Fork, it would behoove us, I think, to give them that opportunity outside of this meeting to be able to have dialogue. There's a lot of numbers. I actually read the Dadgum report and I may have needed to refresh myself along the way. And so there could be some inadvertent errors
 And I thought I caught several and each time I was wrong. But I think others, because of the impact, deserve the right to satisfy themselves that there are no calculation errors or misunderstandings on the premises of the study. So I would want to encourage that kind of meeting. Then if someone doesn't avail themselves of that meeting, it's on them.
 It's probably true that we could have sent a flare up and said we're starting this study, the study's been going on a year and a half, you know, hey we're six months away from the study being delivered, let's go ahead and have a preliminary kind of review. We want to be a good neighbor. And so if that meeting can take place, I would certainly be appreciative. Thank you. All right then. Any other comments?
 Anything else? Okay, so this is an item that we've been requested to possibly table it. Yes, we can't make any decision, and you can't make any decision until after the official public hearing
 which really shouldn't be scheduled before July 19th because it'd have to get it into the paper and more than 10 days before the notice. So tonight I would like the city council to first say July 19th at the city council meeting is the right date and time for the public hearing. And secondly, that you would table this item until then.
 I do agree with Councilman Whitaker, it's up to the staff, but I think probably staff ought to get with representatives from at least West Fork and Elkins that are two wholesale customers to try to answer their questions. I know they've, I think, talked to the Water and Sewer Committee already, but I think that staff can do that in the interim.
 And then we are going to have, of course, a public hearing. And then we'll have the ordinance even after that on the 17th. So it will be a lot of times for more public hearing. But I do agree that probably staff ought to do some work with their representatives in the interim to see if some of these issues can be better explained and better understood.
 But I would like a motion to table. Okay, so Kit, did I hear you say that we need to, do we also need to vote that 7-19 is the right time for the hearing, or do we just need to table it and say that we will take it over? I think you can do it in one motion. You can move to schedule the hearing at July 19th, the next city council meeting, and table this item until then. Okay, so I'll...
 entertain I would like to move that we place this on the table until July 19th and July 19th would be the date of the public hearing second okay we have a motion and second to table this to July 19th and that will be the day of the public hearing here would you please call the roll thanks yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes
 Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Okay then, so July 19th. All right, our next item, our next item of new business is an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZM. I'm gonna wait just a minute here. Get out of here. Okay.
 Okay, our next item of new business is an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-021 located at 248 South Happy Hollow Road in Ward 1 for approximately 3.1 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. Do you have that, Jonathan? Yes.
 I do, Vice Mayor. Mr. Williams will need to read the ordinance first. Oh, sorry. Okay, I'm ready to read. Here we go. I'm not. No problem. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF-4, Residential Single Family, four units per acre to NC, Neighborhood Conservation.
 and section two that the city council the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one okay jonathan you're on now thank you vice mayor this property is in east fayetteville it's within ward one on the eastern slope of mount sequoia that's about halfway between sequoia woods uh the parkland for sequoia woods the north and then the huntsville road to the south on the east side of happy hollow as you can see in the aerial image here
 The property is largely undeveloped. There is a single family house near Happy Hollow Road, and the property as a whole is a mix of open areas with tree canopy, with the majority of that tree canopy being on the eastern quarter or third of the property, which also is incidentally the more sloped piece of the site, although no part of the property is designated as our hillside hilltop overlay district.
 The request before council tonight is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single-family four units breaker, to NC, neighborhood conservation.
 From a land use standpoint, staff finds the request to be compatible with the surrounding area. It's not a wide mixture of uses. It's a pretty narrow mixture, but it is almost all single-family homes and two-family homes. There is a bit more of a mix of zoning districts, as you can see in the zoning map here, to the southeast.
 in Southwest is also an RSF4, similar to the property today. To the Northwest is the treetop subdivision, which is a mixture of RSF8 and NC. And to the Northeast is a residential plan zoning district, which includes a mixture of two family and single family homes.
 All told the zoning allowances for all those properties is a mixture of single family and 2 family homes. Which staff finds to align with the single family allowance within the neighborhood conservation zoning district.
 In looking at it through a long range planning lens, staff similarly finds the request to be consistent with with our future land use map, which calls out the area as a residential neighborhood area. This is meant to encourage a mixture of residential uses and while neighborhood services are.
 It does only allow for single-family zoning. Like much of the wider area, the limited infill score suggests to staff that only an incremental change is appropriate here, whereas something more intense or dense may not be appropriate on the property.
 When looking at the other issues that relate to the site, I did mention topography because it bears noting, and given it is on the east slope of Sequoia. Again, it's not in the HHOD, but it is kind of a bifurcated site. It's got a cross slope that runs from northeast, or excuse me, northwest to southeast of about 5% fairly nominal near Happy Hollow, before dropping off a little bit more steeply to the east, running about 11 or 12% for the back, again, third or so of the property.
 Uh, in terms of future connectivity, this was a, an item that staff considered significantly and was a point of discussion at the planning commission, uh, initially, or as it immediately appears the property only does have access to happy hollow road, which is only a partially improved road. Um.
 Um, the, uh, which is a was a source of concern for for some planning commissioners to to increase the potential density on this property or the number of houses allowed on this property from about 10 to about 30. theoretically. Uh, they felt it would be some felt it'd be more appropriate to have access for more streets, especially with development already to the north and east that limited potential opportunities.
 Staff did consider that, but ultimately fell on feeling it was appropriate from a connectivity standpoint since happy hollow immediately connects to the wider street network, including through the cliffs apartments out the crossover and further south to Huntsville road.
 Feeding into that consideration of infrastructure is that the property does not have immediate access to sanitary sewer while it is nearby and could readily be extended. It's not right there right now. So it is certainly a consideration. It is within 200 feet though, which is generally considered an acceptable or reasonable distance for a developer to extend. And given it does kind of
 Work into the conversation we had at the last council meeting about cost shares. This generally falls outside the typical policy area for cost shares to initially be supported by staff. That usually falls within the city's original plot, which doesn't quite extend over Sequoia. Doesn't mean it wouldn't be eligible for a cost share, but it wouldn't be a priority cost share compared to those areas that are closer to the urban core. Just to kind of put it in that perspective in that conversation, since it's fresh on a lot of people's minds.
 Lastly, we did receive some public comment at the planning commission meeting. There is a neighbor who was opposed to the request. They had concerns in particular about traffic and congestion as well as drainage in the area.
 Um, they, they also took issue with the name of the request for neighborhood conservation. They felt that allowing this increased density, which is 10 units per acre, whereas only allows 4 units breaker is not inherently conserving the neighborhood in their eyes.
 Conversely, we did receive some public comment more recently this morning specifically from another resident who was in support of the request. I believe the council was blind copied on it, but because of the nature of blind copying, I'm not certain. So to summarize their feedback about the request, it was supportive with comments about the proximity of Happy Hollow School to the east. There's a transit stop about 500 feet to the south for ORT.
 They also noted that there is future sidewalk construction intended along Happy Hollow Road. Some on council may recall there was a somewhat contentious rezoning further to the southwest, and a happy conclusion of that rezoning's approval was that a sidewalk connection is now intended to be made from Huntsville to the south all the way up to Sequoia Woods to the north. Otherwise, in addition, there's also a conversation about traffic calming alongside those sidewalk improvements.
 uh all that said this is not the first time this item has been requested albeit it is the first one that has made it to council uh original request on the property was to rezone into riu residential intermediate urban staff felt like that was not an incremental increase with riu's unlimited density allowance and permission for single two three and four family dwellings we felt as though it was too much for happy hollow road in the location and recommended denial
 The commission felt similarly and denied the request. It was not appealed to council again. What is before you all tonight is our request to rezone to and see neighborhood conservation staff did feel again that this was compatible and consistent with our plans and existing land uses. And so we recommend approval.
 The Commission had a split opinion on it. There was one recusal, and of the remaining six commissioners, it was a vote of four to two. Those in favor felt similarly to the staff that the overall area connectivity was adequate. The two dissenting votes felt that it was not adequate. The dissenting voters also felt that that lack of connectivity conflicted with the city goal to create compact, complete, and connected neighborhoods, given it would have access only to Happy Hollow Road.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And I believe Robert Rhodes is here in person as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Do any council members have any questions for Jonathan before we go to the applicant?
 I have a quick question. I think this might be a mistake, or maybe it's a mistake in my understanding. So when you've got the infill, you have city plan 2040 infill matrix, and the score ranges from 4 to 6, but then you also say there's a weighted score of 7. It's on page 2 of 14. I just wanted to clarify if you meant 5 or...
 Why it would be seven? Um, I believe are you referring to the council's report or the planning commission's report? It? It's an interesting distinction when the planning when city plan 2040 was adopted, the planning commission had recommended that there be a weighted infill matrix score as a part of that. They felt something's.
 Justified more consideration, like a good street grid as opposed to water and sewer, which it's easy to find water and sewer in a city of our size. It may not be as easy to find a good grid. So we do include that weighted score that the planning commission had drafted for themselves in the planning commissioner report, but that. We typically remove that from the city council report.
 given that it was not formally adopted as a part of city plan 2040. And I'm not seeing it in my copy, but I apologize if it did get into the council. It's in the planning commission report. So that's helpful. Thank you, Jonathan. Sure. Thank you, Teresa. Any other questions for Jonathan? Okay. Is applicant present? Good evening. My name is Robert Rhodes, and I'm with the law firm of Paul Estill, and I am representing the applicant.
 This is another situation of a property owner, petitioner here, listening to the city and to the Planning Commission for that matter, making appropriate changes. As you heard earlier, almost a year ago this matter was brought forth, requesting it to be rezoned R.I.U. After it was denied, turned down, the petitioner listened and now comes before you with a compatible request, that is neighborhood conservation.
 And we would ask you to approve this and if possible approve it on three readings tonight based on the fact that our first go at this after we purchased the property was 11 months ago. And I think we all would agree that the need for housing in this community is a pretty strong need. The density of RSF4 for this property, as you know, would be about 12 lots.
 As Mr. Kerr said, with this, with the NC, it would be about 30. However, I think you all realize that you cannot get 31 lots on a 3.1-acre plat, especially where there's tree preservation, the contour of the gully, on the east side, the infrastructure. Although we do not have any plans yet, we believe this will probably end up to be about 16 to 20 lots per,
 regarding the gully, it will be part of the tree preservation area.
 which under RSF4 would be 25. Under NC, it would be 20. I understand that's a bit of a difference. However, with that gully there and with the positive impact on the environment of leaving that gully and that area in a nice, pristine manner, we're hopeful that we could exceed 20% when it comes all said and done. Now, obviously, we haven't given you a plan.
 We are just hopeful that that will be the case. The future land use plan for 2040, as you know, as Jonathan said, is residential neighborhood for this area or a mix of housing, which is what the current surrounding neighborhoods are, a mixing of housing. So I hope you'll agree with your planning commission as well as your staff report and find that this zoning request is compatible for the future.
 Now in regard to the current compatibility, again it's got that mixed density around the site with higher density to the northwest, duplexes to the northeast. Yes, there's some undeveloped lands around there, however staff and the majority of the planning commission still found this incremental increase in density under the NC designation.
 Again, that is what you all are tasked with looking at a rezoning request. So it's compatible now and it will be compatible in the future. This as we just discussed, as Ms. Turk brought up, this has a medium infill score. But to highlight the positives on this site, it's directly served by Ozark Regional Transportation. The trailhead is within 800 feet.
 Water and sewer connections will be at the developer's expense. And I think if you'll read that email that Jonathan discussed, you'll see that it is very supportive. And this is from a neighbor that lives a half mile away. It's one of the quorum court members. I think she made some good points. One of them was in regard to the fact that it's close to Happy Hollow School.
 close to the bus line, and so with the housing shortage that all of northwest Arkansas and Fayetteville is facing, there's a potential, this is potential housing that is accessible to public transportation and schools, allowing one to cut down on car trips, plus as she mentioned in her email, there is going to be connectivity with the sidewalks and with the plans for the streets.
 With all that said, on behalf of the petitioner, I humbly request that you pass this rezoning into the neighborhood conservation and in light of the public comment and the responses and answers that we've given as far as some of the comment, I would hope that you would be able to accelerate this to a third reading and pass it tonight and help us get some homes built sooner rather than later. I stand ready to answer any questions. Okay. Do we have any questions for Mr. Rhodes?
 I have one, Vice Mayor. The city attorney will remind me I'm not allowed to ask you about uses, but two of the emails in support of your rezoning request were enthusiastic about the potential for the addition of some commercial or service uses beyond simply residential. So my question to you is only...
 Is their enthusiasm anticipatory and yet misguided? Or would you envision there being some potential for your client to want other than simple homes?
 I think the direct answer is that the plans have not been made. They truly have not been made. And the client, the developer knows he has the option to put something there, but has not decided that yet. Thank you. Any other questions? Okay. Thank you, Robert. So is there any member of the public that would like to address this item? Anybody on Zoom? No, ma'am.
 Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. What are your wishes on this? I had planned to get out there this week to go take a look at Happy Hollow Road, and I did not get there to just take a look at that road. I have some concerns about that, about the volume of traffic that potentially could be increased from this change in zoning.
 So, I mean, I'm just, we could have a tour or I could just try and go next week. But it's certainly, I would like to not pass the final vote tonight if possible. Jonathan, can you put up on the screen the map of the street and possibly...
 you know kind of just show us what uh you can refer to that teresa and show us what your concerns are and also where that new sidewalk is going um that would be very helpful is this image you're looking for vice mayor yes and the sidewalk as it's intended would run along the west side of the road you can see where the treetop subdivision to the northwest has completed a portion of it
 broken segments or disconnected segments further to the south that are intended to make that connection so that you could get from Huntsville all the way north to Sequoia woods and also further to the south which is off this map is I believe it's 4th Street which is an east to west street which does have sidewalk at the back of curb which if connected would create a theoretical network that could get people from this property to the school
 So that would, so just to clarify, that would be connected and so that would be a way that children could go to school, connect up? Okay. And when do we anticipate the sidewalk being completed? I do not have that answer, but I can get it for you. Okay. Thank you. So, Jonathan, I have a question. Happy Hollow, is it due for some traffic calming measures? Yes.
 I believe there are some traffic calming measures installed further to the south. It's been a minute since I drove on it, so I'm trying to remember. I thought there was a speed table further south. I remember it was recently overlaid, and as a part of the sidewalk conversation and that rezoning conversation that occurred several months ago, there are discussions about incorporating traffic calming with the city's new traffic calming policies. One of the biggest components of that is making sure that there's consensus among the neighbors
 We found, and you all have likely heard, that some traffic calming gets installed at the wishes of maybe one or two people when the larger neighborhood did not want it. So I'm not sure where that is in the process as well, but that's another item I can check up on and follow up with you all. Yeah, I can't really remember. Holly, you're on Transportation Committee also. I know we talked about this. I don't remember where it was in the presentation.
 procedure though and I know that the existing speed tables are not effective and and we talked about how they they've been ground down I guess or something over time I don't know where we are I was think in the process I think I was thinking it was scheduled for traffic calming though
 But that might be something we need to check into, Theresa. It's been a while since I can check into that. Okay, thank you. If I recall correctly, some of that was the discussion about the rezoning, I think at Fifth Street, maybe it was at Fifth, four, five, six months ago. This has been more recent than that, but...
 You know, I can't remember exactly if we were starting that process or it was already in the works to add. But what I believe we were discussing was adding more tables, more speed calming along the street that would kind of work in with the existing speed tables that were there. But anyway, we might check into that.
 I believe possibly there might be somebody from engineering that could address it, but I do believe it's for modular temporary speed cushions that are being installed to kind of test and they can be moved around.
 But maybe if Chris is here, he might be able to answer. I didn't know if Chris was available or not. He's not. He's not. He's out of town. We did just receive a note from one resident who was pleased with recent traffic calming measures that were installed on Happy Hollow, but then asked for continued consideration of some other items. But it was around Ray, but I'm not sure if this is...
 Directly related to I'm sorry Chris is not here. So I'm okay. That's fine. That's fine so What do what does the council wish to do with this? I feel like we have some outstanding issues that if we could hold this here Until two for two weeks and come back and have some of these items resolved or
 have a little bit more information that it would give us more insight and direction on where this project stands or this rezoning stands excuse me so yeah i'm okay to hold it as well okay so anyone else have anything to add to that
 Vice Mayor, I can confirm it looks like it was on the May 4th Transportation Committee that it was discussed. There are two traffic tables 650 feet apart, but I will follow up with engineering and have more of an update beyond that. I think agenda session may be the appropriate place for that next week. Okay. All right. So we want to hold it right here or just table it or what do you want?
 I think just hold it until next week. I don't think we need to table it. Okay. Yeah, I agree. I think just hold it until the next meeting. So just leave it on the first reading? Just leave it on the first reading then. Okay. All right. Yes. Thank you, everyone. All righty. So...
 sure okay our next item is an ordinance to amend section 159.01 fees of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to clarify that homeless shelters are exempt from building permits
 Whereas on November 5th, 2019, the City Council passed Ordinance 6255 to amend Section 159.01 of the Unified Development Code to clarify that homeless shelters are exempt from building permit fees.
 And whereas on June 15, 2021, the City Council passed Ordinance 6446, which amended various chapters in the Unified Development Code related to stormwater regulations, but the exhibit containing revisions to Section 159.01 inadvertently excluded the exemption for homeless shelters that had been approved in 2019. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby repeal Section 159-01B-10-FII and enact a new Section 159-01B-10-FII for the purpose of exempting homeless shelters from paying building permit fees as follows. Quote, Double I, Affordable Housing and Homeless Shelters.
 construction of single-family, non-profit, multi-family supportive housing and homeless shelters funded wholly or primarily by the Federal Community Development Block Grants, non-profit service organizations such as Habitat for Humanity, housing and urban development housing loans, and similar programs designed to provide affordable, owner-occupied single-family residences to low-income individuals,
 Nonprofit multifamily supportive housing and homeless shelters shall be exempted from the payment of building permit fees. And I brought this forward just because it's a housekeeping measure, as you know. Just inadvertently, it was the homeless shelter part of this was repealed.
 because I guess they didn't have the latest version of this particular code section when they decided to make changes in another part of the section. And so this is just to put the homeless shelters exemption back in place as the City Council put in in 2019. So this is just to correct that mistake. Okay, thank you. Do we have any questions for Kit? Okay.
 Anybody on Zoom that would like to address this? Anybody in the council chambers that would like to address this item? Okay. Seeing none, I bring it back to our council. What would you like to do on this? I move we suspend the rules and go to this next second reading. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second.
 This is an ordinance. Does it get three readings also? It will need three. Okay, all right. Okay, so we have motion and second to go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Turr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Wiederker?
 In order to amend section 159.01, fees of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to clarify that homeless shelters are exempt from building permit fees. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Yes.
 And your an ordinance to amend section 159 over one fees of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to clarify that Homeless shelters are exempt from building permit fees Any questions or answers before we go into this last vote? Okay, Kara, please call the roll bench. Yes Yes, yes Harvey yes, yes Yes, yes
 okay thank you everyone okay our next item is an ordinance to amend section 177.05 street tree planting standards of the unified development code to require the planting of a street tree on every street frontage in residential subdivisions and is it melissa that has
 Oh, Kit has this. Okay. Whereas Section 17705 Street Tree Planning Standards of the Unified Development Code requires the planning of one street tree per lot, which has led to gaps in subdivisions with corner lots and lots with multiple frontages. And whereas the proposed code amendment to require one street tree to be planted per street frontage will benefit new neighborhoods and create a balanced tree-lined streets to make a better streetscape,
 and is recommended for approval by the City's Urban Foresters, Urban Forestry Advisory Board, and the Planning Commission. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas Section 1
 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 17705 B1A by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a replacement A as follows, quote, A, street trees shall be planted one tree per lot with lots with multiple street frontages shall be planted at one tree per street frontage. Okay, now it's Melissa. Okay.
 Yes, thank you. Good evening. I'm Melissa Evans, one of the city urban foresters in the planning division, and we are recommending a change for our street tree planting standards. This would be a code amendment to address the gap in our street tree ordinance that allows lots with multiple street frontages to only plant one street tree overall. Next slide, please.
 You can see an example of Sloanbrook subdivision here, and we've seen this as time goes on with more subdivisions being built. The streets that are highlighted in purple do not have street trees, and that is because a lot of them have corner lots. You can see in that blown-up diagram, the yellow highlighted dots are the street trees.
 They're often planted in front of the house along with the driveway. So if there is a side street for the corner lot, there's not an additional tree planted along that side street. And so for this example, 16 additional trees would have had to be planted for this subdivision. Next slide, please. So we propose to amend our street planning standard to require one street tree per street frontage. Next slide.
 and the recommendation as staff and planning commission recommend approval of the amendment. As far as public comment goes, our urban forestry advisory board heard and discussed this item and that is a public meeting. We have also reached out to different engineers and developers
 who work in our city often. We received one comment from those folks just saying probably developers won't be real happy about it, but overall they thought it was a good change. And I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. So Melissa, how many exactly, if developers are unhappy about this, how many trees would they be required to plant on a corner lot?
 Well, and that was one comment from one person. Again, we didn't get many comments from those that we sent this information to. But they would be, so for corner lots, and this is for new proposed subdivisions only, they would be required to plant, you know, two trees. So one tree for each street frontage on those corner lots. If you have a lot that's just has one street frontage, you still just plant one tree per lot. Mm-hmm.
 So Sloanbrook's a pretty large subdivision, and that would have required 16 extra trees. It's not as many trees as our, or it's not like double the amount of trees that they would have to plant. It's just for those corner lots. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. So do any members of the council have any questions for staff on this? I personally don't know anybody I've ever shown a house to that did not want a tree.
 at least two trees in their yard if they were on a corner lot. I mean, I think that's something that's pretty standard that people, when they move to Fayetteville, they do like trees, and they want to know that there's, you know, like to see them planted in the new subdivision. So I have no issues with this. So no questions? Okay, do we have anybody on Zoom that would like to discuss this?
 Okay, anybody in the in the council chambers that would like to address this item? Okay, seeing none. I'll bring it back to the council members. What what would you like to do with this? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second Okay, we have a motion a second to go to the second reading here. Would you please call the roll bench? Yes, sir Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Harvey yes Jones
 yes yes yes in order to amend section 177 05 street tree planning standards of the Unified Development Code require the planning of a street tree on every street frontage and residential subdivisions I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second thank you okay so we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading care please call the roll but yes
 Turf? Yes. Erzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In Ordinance Amendment Section 17705, Street Tree Planning Standards of the Unified Development Code to require the planting of a street tree on every street frontage in residential subdivisions. Okay, do we have any other questions before we go on?
 I just have a comment. I did say this during the agenda session, but I want to go ahead and say it now. I just want to commend the staff and everyone who worked on this that we're adding this and taking care of this gap. It's very incredibly important for our air quality, stormwater management.
 And just the price of utilities, when we have a tree in the front, you know, that can help with bills. So I just want to thank everybody who worked on this and always want to support four trees. Thank you. They're the ones of our city. Okay. Thank you, Sonia. Anything else? Okay. Carol, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Okay, thank you. Looks like that may be our last item of business. Do we have any announcements before we close? Okay.
 I have just one final comment. I just want to commend everybody that put together the Pride Parade and the Trans Parade and all the city staff and everybody else that went into making that such a successful and joyful event last Saturday. So thank you all. It was one of the best things about Fayetteville. There's many things about Fayetteville, but it was a great, outstanding event. Thanks. Okay. Thank you very much. We're adjourned.