Okay, let's go ahead. I'm going to call the meeting to order for June the 20th, 2023. Karen, would you please call the roll? Fudge? Here. Kerr? Here. Ertsberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Whitaker? Here. Berna? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Mayor, would you join me in a pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Now I do want to announce tonight that we have no Zoom tonight. Is that correct, Susan? So we are Zoom-less tonight, so...
 We will be taking comments tonight. I understand that the council members mics are working Sir, that's right. Okay All right, let's go on the consent agenda
 Number one, a resolution to authorize an application for a federal aviation administration grant in the amount of $475,738 to fund 90% of the cost for the design and construction of the wildlife fence rehabilitation project at Drake Field Airport.
 to approve amendment number one to the task order number five with garver llc in the amount of thousand dollars to provide environmental coordination services associated with project and to approve the budget adjustment number two a resolution authorized the acceptance of a federal aviation administration grant in the amount of 274 thousand seven hundred twenty nine dollars to fund ninety percent
 The project calls for a proposed airport master plan updated Drake Field Airport to approve task order number six in the amount of four hundred thirteen thousand three hundred sixty six dollars With Garver LLC for planning services and to prove a budget adjustment I'll entertain a motion except consent agenda as great so moved second We have a motion in the second to accept consent agenda is ready here. Would you please call the roll bench? Yes, I
 kirk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes bernard yes all right thank you all now let's go on to unfinished business number one a resolution over the raising and removal of the black date and unsafe structure on property owned by heroy h shop and burden
 located at 2860 East Wyman Road in the city of Federal Arkansas, and to approve the budget adjustment in the amount of $17,800. This was tabled until the June 20, 2023 meeting. So, Billy. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. Billy Bryant, Senior Code Compliance Officer. There are no new updates from the agenda session last week.
 For a quick recap, all three structures have been raised and are in the process of being removed. Ms. Scharfenberg does have a dumpster on site for debris. The property is not yet back to a buildable lot per the requirements of the demo permit and the raise and removal case. The inoperable vehicles do remain on the property. I have taken pictures today just to kind of update you on the so you can see it visually. And that's I'm passing around the iPad there.
 Staff recommends a date-specific tabling based on the property owner's update and I can answer any questions. Well let me ask you this, would the applicant like to speak for the council? Okay and then we'll get questions from both of y'all. Good evening mayor and city council members. I'll try not to take too much time. Would you introduce yourself? Oh I'm sorry, I'm Maya Sharpenberg. I'm the property owner's daughter.
 ANYWAY, SORRY. THIS HAS BEEN AN ARDUOUS ADVENTURE AND THOUGH IT'S NOT THROUGH QUITE YET THERE ARE A FEW PEOPLE I'D LIKE TO THANK PUBLICLY FOR GETTING ME THIS FAR. COUNCILMAN SCOTT BURNA AND HIS EMPLOYEES JOHN HARVEY AND AUSTIN WITHOUT WHOM I WOULD NEVER HAVE BEEN ABLE TO DO THIS. MY REPRESENTATIVE COUNCILMAN MIKE WHEATAKER WHO ALONG WITH SCOTT BURNA PAID FOR THE FIRST HEAVY DUMPSTER AND HAS GIVEN ME NOTHING BUT SUPPORT. MY REPRESENTATIVE COUNCILWOMAN SARAH
 who has also been so incredibly supportive and was quick to answer my panicked messages two weeks ago when I had gotten the date of the city council meeting wrong.
 Every person on the council has been exceptionally kind in helping me navigate this novel experience. I have been moved by the help of the Fayetteville community, people like Casey Wood and other strangers who have donated money and equipment. And thank you to my friends, family, and neighbors who have helped me more than they will ever know, especially my partner, Andrew Newman, who has dealt with this crazy stressful endeavor with me like a champ.
 I have been asked quite a bit how it feels to see the house I grew up in gone. The truth is my parents divorced when I was four because of that house. Since childhood, my brother and I have watched that house deteriorate and die. And we have had conversation after conversation about what to do about that house. So it is fitting to me that it was two grave diggers who put it to rest. Thank you.
 And the truth is that it feels like the completion to that house's story, and now a new story can begin. There is more work that needs to be done. If you took pictures today, there's still some big debris that I'm not able to move on my own, that some friends are going to help me with, and then the concrete, which some friends are going to help me with as well. But besides that, the heavy work is done.
 And my best judgment as determined by the time that previous tasks have taken me is that it will take me about six weeks to complete all cleanup. And that's allowing for things to go wrong. The small debris left is tedious but not impossible. So I think that six weeks would be enough time. Thank you all. Thank you. Now, is there any questions from the council, for the staff, or the applicants?
 I might ask you all to silence your phone if that's the phone. Maya, go ahead Scott. She didn't hear me. I just wanted to make sure what what's left to be removed? You need to come up to the mic. It's some small debris. There's some like drywall pieces left over from the house and the concrete foundation needs to be jackhammered up and removed.
 Any other questions you said six weeks? Did you have maybe a date in mind that you'd want to do an update potentially before we kind of set one? I am not sure I I think that was I can't remember the date that it was six weeks from now Okay
 Yeah, Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. So I have a question for Billy. Is the removal of the concrete pad a requirement, or could that stay if the landowner chose to leave it there? It is a requirement. We just have to have the lot brought back to a buildable state. And then if...
 reseeded as well. Okay, so basically grass and everything is okay. Yes. There's no material left on the on the property. Yes. Okay, thank you so much. Billy, is it your, you've seen the foundation, I've been out there but I did not look strictly at the foundation. Is it your idea that a track hoe could break that up to remove
 It appears so, yes. Okay. Might I ask that we table this for four months? And the reason I ask for that length of time is my crew is busy with mowing my cemetery, quite honestly, and I can't release them around because of that, but as the season, as the summer moves along and
 And it's grass starts dying off then I can I've got matter access to move them to there and I can help her out again To break that up. So if you're comfortable with that, I'll assure you Second okay. Well, we got to take some public comment before we get to carry away. Oh
 all right now we'll move into some public comment anybody that's in the chamber you have one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address and those that are in the chamber we will allow to speak and who would like to be first anyone
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Scott, that was for four months, tabling for four months and a second. So we have a table for four months and a second. Any discussion on that? For the clerk's records, do we need to set an actual date or is four months okay? I don't know. Blake, what do we got here? The meeting date would be October 17th. It would be best to have a set date. Okay, what are we close to on four months?
 that's october 17th okay so it'll be october the second everybody good with that all right oh i see the lights are on to be ready to vote or what we got i wanted to make a comment um i just wanted to say um this is probably what the best of fable does and thank you so much for your efforts in coordinating with the community and thank you
 council member berna and others for for this um this is what our community is all about so thanks guys okay any other final comments all right care which please call the roll bunch yes her yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes or no yes okay thank you all now let's move along to new business
 number one resolution to honor the life and legacy of hank comanski sony i believe you have this one yes mayor um if you don't mind i'd like to step down on the floor and invite the family to come while i read it read the resolution is that okay okay
 Thanks everybody. I'm joined by Joanne and Jesse Kaminski. And I'm just going to read this with you all here.
 As we all know, Hank was an incredible part of this community in every which way to create the fabric of Fayetteville. We always talk about placemaking and arts, and it's something that a lot of people don't, they think, oh, I love Fayetteville, but I don't know why, and I do believe that the energy that Hank Kaminsky poured into this city and into this community is why, is
 It's why people love it. And that's, there's no words really for that. So I'm just going to read this because I think that's where we're here, standing here for. And I just want to thank Blake Pennington for helping me put this together. A resolution to honor the life and legacy of Hank Kaminsky.
 Whereas the city of Fayetteville and the art world lost a valued resident and sculptor on March 13th, 2023, with the death of Hank Kaminsky. And whereas in a career spanning more than 60 years, Hank created works of art ranging from sandcast jewelry to portrait busts and large sculptures. And whereas among the myriad artworks crafted by Hank using clay, bronze, and other exquisite metals, at least two notable creations have found their home and city property. Thank you.
 And whereas the World Peace Prayer Fountain, a globe-shaped bronze sculpture that is 10 feet in diameter inscribed with the words, May Peace Prevail on Earth, in over 100 languages, was commissioned by Ed and Carly Bradbury and the visitors, and that visitors from all over the world still enjoy the peace that can be found off the Fayetteville Square at the entrance to the town center.
 Whereas Senator J. William Fulbright sat for Hank to create the bronze Cast Memorial Portrait Bus that is installed among the beautiful gardens of the Fayetteville Square. And whereas Hank proudly served six years as a dedicated inaugural member of the Fayetteville Arts Council. And whereas throughout his career, Hank served our community as a teacher and mentor to countless students and apprentices.
 and whereas among his many honors, he was selected as the 2018 Arkansas Living Treasurer by the Arkansas Arts Council, and whereas Hank was a ten-year member of the Fayetteville Farmers Market, including serving as a market board member
 And whereas Hank was an artist, teacher, mentor, public servant, husband, and father, whose contributions have made an indelible mark on the city of Fayetteville. And now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby recognizes and honors the significant contributions of Hank Kaminsky to the Fayetteville community over the course of his life.
 Thank you all. Okay, well, here's where the mayor asks, following the procedure, is there any questions from the council on this? Okay, let's take some public comment. There might be somebody else who would like to address us on this.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member please stay on topic give us your name and address who would like to speak on the uh resolution honor of the life of hank kaminsky anyone okay so we need a motion in a second i'll make a motion to accept this i'll second it have a motion second to accept the resolution
 i'm sure you'd like to vote on this would you like yes no that's all right i'm ready you can stand right there any final comments from the council thanks everybody for your support absolutely thank you sonya and everyone else that was involved in this yes thank you very much absolutely
 Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Okay, now. Thank you.
 All right. All right. All right, let's go on to number two. A resolution to express the City Council's support for the RFP 23-12 Innovative Concepts for Housing
 solutions, and case management. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. As the Council will remember, at our last ARPA work session, we talked about and came to the conclusion that the best use of the remaining ARPA funds would be to look at housing and an opportunity to resolve problems
 some of the housing issues with homeless and those who were on the borderline or had the, or who could become homeless in a short period of time. So we were, we discussed it at the time and the administration has drafted a request for innovative concepts for housing solutions and case management. I'm going to read you just the pertinent part which will be the guts of what we're looking for.
 City Fayetteville is looking for creative solutions for concepts to execute and address homeless instability.
 Applicants are asked to submit projects with a holistic and scalable amount approach to the addressing of permanent housing solutions and case management for the homeless and those facing instability related to the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. Proposals should maximize the number of individuals involved
 to provide housing to use American Rescue Plan Act funds. Proposed projects must comply with the American Rescue Plan Act and its final rules. Proposal should clearly indicate how the applicant will implement the project and how the project will provide a benefit to the homeless population in Fayetteville. Preference will be given to permanent
 housing solutions, and projects that are sustainable beyond this particular funding opportunity. Proposal for each project should provide a budget, discuss how many people will be assisted in the project, and a detailed timeline for the applicant to administer the project.
 Funding will be provided for this project under the City American Rescue Plan Act award total amount of 1.63 million dollars all aspects of the project will need to be in compliance with The American Rescue Plan Act final rule now. This is very broad and a very broad conceptual approach We feel we've discussed this before by allowing a large company
 concept, this would encourage the maximum number of vendors to apply to this particular program. So, I'm asking for the council to approve this. I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 From here, once this will be issued, it will be issued and advertised. We'll give a period of time to come back for applications. At that point, I intend to bring it back to the Council to look at those applications, make a decision. Either we want to call in and talk to some of the people and ask them different questions, or at that point in time, if we're ready to decide on a particular application, we can do so. It doesn't bind us to any of the proposals.
 it will look at the best proposal and if we wish to accept that if council wish except that go forward we will but we're not bound to accept any of them and with that I'll be happy to take any questions thank you mayor and thank you Paul I think you drafted the statement of work description that we discussed here I think that was done very very well thank you for doing that I kind of I looked at the draft and it seemed like
 the time allowed to submit an application is really short, is really tight. So I wondered if there was a reason why that was so compressed, because I do think we want as many vendors to apply and as many creative ideas that could come forward. Well, we have for a short period of time because even though we look at it and the use of the ARPA funds and getting started on the program,
 we must, in cover to funds, accept the contract. It must be completed. It must be completed by 2026, if I recall. And so it must be started by,
 by the end of 2024. So we accelerated that program for the maximum applications. That's why we chose that particular time period. I also felt there was a interest amongst the council to get moving on this as fast as possible. So that's my explanation for that.
 I'm just wondering if we couldn't, you know, make it like the vendors be able to submit an application for like a month. Because if I recall correctly, it was only two weeks. Maybe I have those dates wrong, but that's what kind of struck me as it being very short. And I would hope, you know, because we've had some of our clients, you know, who have
 um internet and other and other outreach efforts down lately that we would really need to get the word out and make sure that we want vendors to apply and and because i personally hope that there are a lot of ideas and innovative um things so that's just my suggestion okay i believe we can do this without uh without amending i believe we can uh extend the time period
 Blake I hate to put you on the spot but but I don't see a problem with that unless we think we need an amendment to it no if the administration is amenable to extending that then that's not a problem yeah I believe what this is is this requests the mayor to put it out so we can put it out for that period of time that would be fine
 I just wanted to say thank you for that suggestion. I agree, just because casting the net as wide as we can, that timing. I appreciate, though, the expediency that you were putting it, because we did stress the urgency, and you heard that, and you reflected it in your timeline. But knowing the realistic expectation that folks are going to have to run the financials and then maybe go back to the drawing board, wanting to make sure we give enough time. Four weeks is still probably tight with vacations and such, but that gets us moving towards our goal as well. Yeah.
 Okay, that's no problem. We can, whatever time y'all would like to. So you want me to, you want us to extend it a month? Does that sound right? Oh, okay. We'll put it out. We'll want it to be a minimum of a month. We'll look at that and get that out for advertising. Yeah.
 I do want to add, once we do that and I bring it back, I'm going to caution the council members, because you'll all be part of a selection group, not to entertain any questions from any prospective people or vendors. We need to cut off all contact, and any contact needs to go through the purchasing department. That's to make sure that we treat everyone equally, and that's in line with the purchasing laws.
 in the city of Arkansas and in the federal funds. And that's how we advertise federal funds. Thank you very much. Okay. All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. Is there any other questions? I'm sorry, from the council on anything. Okay.
 Moving along here tonight on it. All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turns time to speak You have five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on I mean, please give us your name and address who would like to address this first. It's in the chain Okay, I'll bring it back to the council I mean we proved the resolution second. We have a motion to second to approve the resolution. I
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Bernhardt? Yes. Thank you.
 i'm sorry is there any final comments from the council go ahead i don't i'd love to make a comment mayor um yeah this is a really um an awesome uh resolution i really appreciate everyone's coming together to figure out how we were going to use this little bit last batch of funds and um it's it's very incredibly impactful for ward one so we
 on behalf of deandre and i we're really grateful for your support on this anybody else thank you mayor jordan and administration and i echo everything council member harvey says uh i'm excited for ward one okay all right let's go on to number three if there's no other comments
 Number three, a resolution to encourage the city of federal department with the Arkansas rural health partners and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Arkansas to offer free mental health certification for mental health first ally to all city employees.
 yondra i believe this is yours yes mayor jordan and i'm privileged to have uh council member harvey and council member morris co-sponsors but i would like to table this because a representative from arkansas rural health partners could not be here tonight because of he was actually going to be
 was hoping to present via zoom so he can't be here and i would like for him to be able to address any questions and concerns uh he's better able to do that than myself so if we could table this probably until the the probably next month
 Or when do you think? So you want to table this one? Yes. Yes. I would like to table this to give him time to address and answer any questions and thoughts that the council may have. Okay. Where does that put us in the mind? What's the date? So the first meeting in July is July 6th. And then the second meeting is July 18th. So you want to.
 Table it to the fifth or you want to table it to the 18th. I'm thinking probably the 18th Okay, now you have two co-sponsors of the agreeable to that. Yes, and I wanted to second the tabling. Okay, sir Are you I'm in full agreement? Yeah, okay You want me to take some public comment tonight in case somebody's here to speak on this? Do you go I think I would prefer to absolutely mr. Mayor
 I have a question before we go to public comment. So thank you for tabling it. I do have some questions. So hopefully when the representative is here in a month, he or she will be able to answer that. But I guess my question would be the cost. I didn't really see any information on the estimated cost and the
 time that would be required to go through the training. And then actually if it's all employees or just a subsection of employees. So those kinds of details would be incredibly helpful next month. Well, I can answer some of, I can provide some context concerning costs, it's free.
 They received a grant from Blue Cross, and it's free to employees, and they're very flexible as it relates to the delivery. You can take it online. It's really up to the city. The city can work with Arkansas Rural Partners as it relates to how they want to do it. So this will just give the city basically this resolution. It's just to provide...
 provide some guidance and provide some awareness and some education and when the city each department can do it differently i mean um
 At the hospital we've done it. We had a set of employees to come in maybe one day and then it's just different It's very the the delivery is very diverse and it is grant funded It is free and it's not only offered to employees, but it's also offered to citizens So if there's a citizen in Fayetteville who would like to take advantage of the mental health certification he or she can do that and this evening we provided a
 an impact report and a little information regarding Arkansas Rural Partners. And they have collaborated with the Attorney General's Office
 the Criminal Justice Institute, Arkansas Public Health Association, and they have a continued partnership with the Municipal League. And so they are offering services, trainings throughout the state. And the training, it's actually through Mental Health First Aid, and it's a three-year certification, and it has literally been a lifesaver.
 So, thank you for answering so many of those questions, Councilmember Jones. How much time, I guess, is the training two hours or four hours or how much? Do you know the answer to that? That's a great question. And it's eight hours. However, those hours can be divided. Some of that time can be done online. They tailor it to the organization. And so let's say CARE's office.
 let's say the chief saying, okay, well, I want my employees to all do it the same day, but then someone else could say, well, let's have our employees do it online. So the delivery is very flexible, but to your point about the time constraint, it's eight hours.
 total and it's three years and again citizens of Fayetteville can sign up and take the course and Fayetteville will be the first city in the state of Arkansas to address the mental health challenge in this manner. Okay thank you so much.
 Scott and mine is more of a procedural question with the unfortunate departure of Councilmember Harvey do we need them in the resolution to? remove her name from the
 co-sign you don't have to she can she can stay on as an original co-sponsor and and as long as there are two Members active members of the council who are continuing to sponsor it then it's fine Don't kick me out. Yeah. Well, I Was gonna say I'm here to 30th. I was gonna say I stressed word the unfortunate Thank you Okay anybody else
 All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first? Come on up if you want to speak. Now, you need to come to the mic, please.
 No, they're on the wrong one. Hang on, we'll get to that one just in a moment. All right. Well, then I'm going to bring it back to the council and we're going to table this for a month. Is that correct? So July 18th, whatever that comes to. Do we have a motion to table? I move we table this resolution until July 18th. Second. We have a motion and a second to table.
 till July the 18th. Care which police call the roll? Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. All right, let's move on to number four.
 an ordinance to amend 120.02 landlord's representative registry of the federal code a modifying d to include whether the landlord would accept voucher-based assistance for the properties the andre i believe this one yes this is me as well mayor i need to read the oh the body i'm sorry that is an ordinance isn't it
 Go ahead. Whereas Fayetteville rental housing has become substantially more expensive in recent years with attainable rentals becoming more difficult to find, and whereas the City of Fayetteville's Community Resources Department has long worked with the Federal Housing and Urban Development Department to provide housing vouchers to needy Fayetteville persons to help them rent modest housing.
 And whereas with the high demand for rental housing, some landlords are no longer accepting such housing vouchers, which creates a need for prospective tenants with housing assistance vouchers to locate landlords who will accept such vouchers. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section one, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 120.02 D of the Fayetteville Code by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a replacement D as follows.
 D, these landlords slash owners shall designate on the registry whether or not the landlord slash owner will accept housing assistance vouchers from prospective tenants. Okay. Now, Neon. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm going to, I made some comments. I wrote some comments concerning why this is important and also adding to the ordinance
 asking the working with the Federal Housing Authority to provide information on landlords that accept vouchers. I think that this is a opportunity to educate landlords because from what I understand, I had a conversation with Council Member Turk and she really encouraged me to possibly include this because there are
 landlords who may not quite understand how HUD works. And so I would like to include that language as well. Well, not necessarily the language, but I would like for the city staff to work with the housing authority as it relates to coming up with a way to educate landlords as it relates to the HUD policy. How does it work?
 um because there are some questions and uh we certainly um want those questions to be addressed and so i would like to uh include that as well and we want this information on the registry to be to be very accurate for the benefit of the tenants so you i just want to get this straight what we are supposed to do so do you want to put an amendment on this or do you want to just
 Leave it on the first reading and give us a couple of weeks to work with the housing authority? I don't really know what they ask. That's a great question. I'm thinking perhaps we can just include that language tonight, if that's possible. That would have to come in the form of an amendment then. Is that correct, Blake? That is correct, Mayor. All right. And I would also ask Council Member Moore to chime in because she's co-sponsoring as well.
 Okay, now let's stay with the amendment that you want me to add to it. Yes, and that information is to work with the housing authority to provide information to give the landlords information regarding the HUD policy.
 So I don't know if maybe Blake has a recommendation on how that would be worded. I think it's trying to get the city community services department to work in conjunction with the housing authority on communication with landlords to understand what HUD has
 requires and whether or not they might be able to come on as voucher participants and keeping the registry updated and why that's so important for our community. Unfortunately, you know, what's really kind of brought this to the forefront is that, you know, as many rentals that we have in the City of Fayetteville and landlords, you know, there are very few that participate in the voucher program. So few that, you know, we've had to turn off the waiting list.
 at Fayetteville Housing Authority. And so making some meaningful progress, hopefully, to encourage landlords to be participatory in taking vouchers by an education process just of what the requirements are, the simplicity potentially or answering questions if there's fear in participation with a federal program to encourage the use of vouchers on their site.
 And Mayor Jordan, I would also like to ask Council Member Tark if she would provide some context as well. Okay. Okay.
 So, when I, you know, I was the original sponsor of the landlord proposal that you all passed three years ago, I believe, two or three years ago. And the original intent was a way of notifying, finding out who the landlord was, if there were problems, if there were neighborly disputes or issues like that. So, I read your proposal, Council Member Jones, and I am...
 I thought the intention was really, really good, but I think what is missing that I relayed to you was the educational component. Because, you know, I have a couple of rentals, but I don't understand Section 8, and I think I'm probably just like a lot of other landlords, small mom and pop operations. And so I think that educational component is really missing here.
 And I would, my suggestion would be that the educational part is created and made available and then possibly amending the ordinance. Because I think people would be much more open to that if they had the educational materials. But asking them to designate whether they take Section 8 or not before the materials are created or made available.
 I'm just letting you know personally how it presents itself to me. Absolutely. And I appreciate that because we do want to work with the landlord. So that makes perfect sense. I think we tend to...
 forget or sometimes may not even, I'm not sure if we are taking that into consideration. I didn't because I'm not a landlord, but I do know that education is very important. And so I'm,
 I'm certainly open to that. However, I do not want to, I want to make sure that we are intentional with my initial ask, and that is having land boards, having that information concerning accepting HUD on the registry. Sarah.
 Well, I guess in response, Teresa, kind of as you shared that information, I'm curious about whether or not we couldn't add the yes or no, because, you know, it's pretty black and white whether or not you're taking them or not, which is the original intent, and maybe a secondary, knowing that we're going to do some work of talking about the education, maybe bring an amended version of this in the future, like you said, to work on what that communication piece looks like or education to then go forward. It kind of...
 gives us something to work on, but we'd at least give something to the community going forward, landlords as well, because I'm sure they feel calls, do you take a voucher? It's like, well, this would be something that we can say, hey, you can go to our landlord registry and you can actually pull up every one that actually takes it. And so might actually help with efficiencies now for some of those properties.
 And that is especially true now with a lot of individuals and families facing eviction. And so them having this information now, I think it's very necessary. So I would like to see us move on this as quickly as we can because families are being impacted even as we speak. Let me get some more input here. I'm a little confused on what we're going to do. Scott, I'm going to ask you to talk about the impact of the pandemic on the community. I think it's a very important issue. I think it's a very important issue. I think it's a very important issue. I think it's a very important issue.
 If I may ask, Jonathan, on the surface, this looks like an easy yes, but in the agenda session the other day, you had some concerns. Could you address those again for us and clarify exactly what they were so that we can maybe talk to them?
 Certainly. Thank you for the question. And I hope, looking back on my comments at the agenda session, I hope those weren't misconstrued as any staff opposition to this proposal. I agree comprehensively that it's important to make sure voucher information is widely
 I think the main ones that I had outlined were one that the city attorney's office had expressed early on in the conversation, which is the ability to distinguish between what units may be available and concern that there may be some confusion as people review a particular landlord or landlady's properties, what is actually available, not necessarily just that they're accepting vouchers.
 A second one was just a reminder more than anything that our landlord landlady registry does not capture renters that operate fewer than three units. That's kind of in line with our business licensing requirement, which requires a business license if you operate more than two units. So it was meant to link up in that regard. So there's some consistency there.
 And then the last one, and you can see there's a theme here because these are all about how we're actually able to enforce or roll this out to the public, is a question of enforcement. My concern is planning, the planning division, the development review division currently is the custodian of the landlord-landlady registry, and for people who are not on it,
 our current enforcement tool is to send a violation letter to prompt them to enroll. And if they continue to not do so, those violations would be forwarded onto the prosecuting attorney's office. I wanted to make sure that was understood with our limited basket of enforcement tools that that would be the route landlords and land ladies would be put down if they didn't want to include this information in our registry, thank you.
 we're back to some sort of amendment here i see um mayor jordan is it possible for us to just um it it sounds like that um the amendment i'm thinking in terms of maybe we can uh possibly pass it like it is tonight and then work with your administration on how to include the collaboration part who who
 I'm sure it'll be a matter of Yolanda trying to do translation on HUD regulations and boiling that information down to sort of an FAQ, a more meaningful way of interacting with the public than going to the federal government website for the HUD regs. And that's at least my initial, I haven't talked to Yolanda about that piece because it was new tonight, but that's what I would assume would happen. This was a little new.
 You want the staff to work with the housing authority to? To craft language, to provide education to the landlords concerning HUD. You get all that, Blake? It's not, he, Council Member Jones said he didn't need to amend. He just said that's what we would do. Blake, you said we needed an amendment here. If you.
 I want to express the intent of the city council to support such a program. You can do that in the form of an amendment tonight or you can do it in separate legislation. I do have language if you want to consider that tonight. Amending on the fly is always a bit dangerous, but a resolution of intent is a little less than amending the code. Did you want to hear? Yes.
 uh it would be section two that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby requests that the community resources department worked with the fable housing authority to provide information on housing vouchers and other public assistance programs to landlords slash owners it's perfect thank you okay now sarah i believe you had your light on through all of this too yes um so
 I just want to make sure we're making an amendment. I always like to vote on things that are kind of formed up and not try to hash it out at the table here if we can. So we're going to make an amendment to this. Council Member Jones has asked for an amendment. Okay, and this is going to rely on the city. You know, we'll take all that Jonathan mentioned into consideration when this is put together and,
 um it'll include yolanda in the process basically okay if i understand everything we're going to work with the housing authority that would be done through yolanda correct susan yes sir okay okay now i got that much so but we make amendments to legislation when sometimes when they come we do we do sometimes but you know i just kind of like to know what we're i agree with you i wouldn't want somebody to get like
 that didn't want to answer something get sent to this, you know, like maybe they don't know that they're going to, if they're accepting the vouchers now or they might in the future, that if they didn't answer, then they get sent to the prosecutor. I wouldn't want that to happen to anybody. So anyway, just want to clarify that. Okay, Scott. Yeah.
 i would just like to say i think it's very clear we all support the idea but i'm not sure that it's ready to to move it forward yet and i would i'm strongly you know i think it's a good idea i just want to make sure we do it right the first time and and i think it would be wise to step back work with blake work with yolanda and get it right the first time versus trying to
 to come back and fix it. And that's my recommendation. What is getting you right the first time? Because Blake just provided, I think language that was very clear. I mean, what else do we need to try to figure out? I'm confused. I would like to see some clarification. We'll get, they don't pay us by the hour. Anyway, we'll get it figured out.
 um thank you mayor i wasn't able to be here at agenda session last week i was out of town and the zoom was down so i i missed all of your concerns jonathan but thank you for um providing them tonight so in terms of our software and the ability to manage this amendment you talked about units that i and i can't remember i mean i've registered my
 properties on there, but how would you be able to technologically, I guess, on the web address this? Would this be a lot of work if, you know, if there are large realtors that have, you know, hundreds or many units? Yes.
 That's a good question. Unfortunately, given the timing, not because of when it was brought forward, but because of the city's current cybersecurity condition, I've not had an opportunity to evaluate what that would look like with our IT staff. I know that the creation of the landlord landlady registry was ultimately fairly straightforward. It's a form you fill out. I think it sounds like you're familiar with it. If it's a matter of adding a new
 A yes, no to Section 2 accepting vouchers, I think that's also pretty clear cut. What we do not have currently on the register though is that ability to distinguish between units and I can't say in an informed way whether that would be an easy addition or not.
 that thank you for for that perspective um councilmember jones could could we table this for just until until our next council meeting so that maybe we could get the amendment included in uh in your presentation and then also maybe um some questions answered from it about how they would go about that and see if that would be difficult or not um until the next meeting okay um
 I am concerned about, my biggest concern is of course those individuals who are experiencing
 have been challenged as it relates to finding a place because of HUD. So that is why I brought this forward. I mean, it's that's the reason, and especially with some of them being in my ward. So I want to make sure that we're really intentional about making sure that we have this as a resource.
 Before we move forward, can we get some public comment? I believe there's quite a bit of public. We will, but right now we're discussing the amendment, and usually the amendment does not take public comment. Okay. I thought we'd benefit maybe from hearing from the community about who are being impacted. I'll get to that. Whoever's out there, they'll get a chance to speak. Okay. Thank you. I'm sorry. I would like to hear from the public regarding the urgency of this. If we are able to hear from individuals who feel as though maybe they can't wait to
 Because again, this is for them and it's not about us, it's about them because they're
 they're facing this challenge so um hearing from them as it relates to the urgency i really think that that should be our consideration all right well keep in mind we don't have to table it for two weeks because if you just leave it on the first reading it'll be two weeks for it and gets here in the line of the three readings now if you want to hurry up the process
 that's another thing entirely i'm just trying to get that in my head here mike your life is on it thank you mr mayor a question for staff i believe for jonathan how often is the landlord registry updated is it annually or you register once and unless you change something you don't register again
 We don't proactively go out and audit all the thousands of properties in Fayetteville that are rented. It was done initially when the registry was first adopted. There was a second one.
 a sunrise period or whatever you want to call it a startup period where all landlords and land ladies were notified there was public media releases that they needed to register there's also a requirement in the ordinance as well that as you change your contact or other information it is the property owner's obligation to come back and update that information otherwise staff's role in it is
 as it is with most complaints or violations. If we hear from a resident that the information is inaccurate or not available, we contact the property owner and solicit that they get registered.
 So this would be kind of a rolling update, even if this field was added. It sounds like you're not going to survey all the landlords. It's just as contact has happened, someone will submit a new form or request this additional information. Or at least that's what it sounds like. From what I'm hearing with the proposal, yes. Okay. Thank you. And I know we were going to get into this. I would have had Yolanda here.
 I don't think Yolanda can address the technology issues. That's what Jonathan's talking about with respect to, well, the technology issues and also the process issues. All that happens in his office and with IT. Yolanda can help translation services on HUD regulations. Okay. But that would require working with housing authority. No, it would be required working with HUD regulations and then translating them so that with communication,
 services we might actually make them a little more meaningful for everyone to understand so the amendment would not be to work with the Housing Authority then it's the way it's drafted is a resolution requesting that the Community Resources Division work with them and then that would express the City Council's intent and then asking you as the mayor to figure that part out yes
 I just had a point of order. I wasn't sure what was on the floor right now. I don't know that the amendment was motioned. I believe it's the original. Is that correct? Sorry. No, it's okay. It was just Council Member Jones talking about the amendment, but there's no second with that amendment either. I know that Blake read what he thought we could do, correct? Read it again, Blake, to make sure we're all on the same page here.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby request that the Community Resources Department work with the Fayetteville Housing Authority to provide information on housing vouchers and other public assistance programs to landlords slash owners. That's what I thought. Is that the gist of it? Yes. Okay. Sarah, do you have anything? Okay. All right.
 So now we're working on the amendment. Yes, Sonya. So I would like to move that we amend the ordinance to what Blake has read. Is that what we need to do in order to bring it? Yeah, if you want it to be an amendment. Yes. So I would like to move that we amend the ordinance to include that language. Okay. Sarah. My point of order was that the amendment had not been put on the floor, and so I wanted the public to be able to comment on the original ordinance.
 Well, according to the rules of order and procedure, we used to do not have public comment on amendments. Right. Right? Correct. Thank you. I'm going to second Sonia's motion. On the amendment. Now, everybody can speak on the amended ordinance after we're done. All right. Any other discussion on that? All right. Caravage, please call the roll. Thanks. Thank you.
 Yes. Sir? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Curnow? Yes. Okay, now we've got the amendment out of the way. We have the amended ordinance. What discussion would we like to have on that? Okay. Well, then we'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration.
 Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Who would like to address us first? Good evening, Mayor and honorable council members. I'm so happy to see the intent that you all carry with this. It really makes me happy. My name is Darlene Club, and I live at 401 West 24th Street, apartment 56 in Fayetteville. It is Grandview.
 I'm here, I am a member of Arkansas Renters United, and I am here to ask for your support by passing this amendment, this proposed legislation. I'm not exactly sure what to call it now. After hearing the discussion, I'm wondering why could we not make this registry voluntary for the...
 landlords because right now I believe what happens when someone carries a voucher. I personally carry a voucher. It's a choice voucher, so I should be able to get any landlord here that would be willing to take it. But I believe it's incumbent on, it would be incumbent on me to educate the landlord what
 what the rules are and I would of course work with the Fayetteville Housing Authority. So that is something that is an educational process which I'm really happy to hear that you want to do that would assist the people who are getting subsidized housing.
 I want to thank all of you for having the wisdom to recognize the importance of affordable housing. I also want to thank Council Members Jones and Moore for their insight and intelligent care for the community, which put this before your Council. I truly believe everyone deserves to have a place to live, and that the whole of Fayetteville is benefited by circumstances that support affordable housing.
 As good-hearted people, I believe all of us support making affordable housing accessible to those who need it. I really see that here tonight. It warms my heart. Accessibility is what this amendment is about. It will increase that. Affordable housing in Fayetteville is disappearing. I don't know if you know how serious this is. Lindsay Properties
 have recently altered their policies concerning vouchers, and both Grandview and High Point, two long-time properties providing affordable, subsidized housing, are facing issues that will reduce the amount of affordable housing. Grandview, where I live, has new landlords who are terminating their contract with HUD next year. Supposedly, those affected by this
 will be given vouchers, but there is a problem with vouchers. Vouchers are often, people can't find a place to live even though they have a voucher. There's lots of people waiting for places. They've got vouchers, they can't find a place. If the many residents, about 40% of Grandview is subsidized housing, and if all of those people were not able to find even
 Like sort of classically, it's less than, way less than 75% that are able to find a housing, even if they have a voucher. So if those people were not given the ability to find places, you would have here in this city a homelessness crisis.
 I know I personally have a voucher and it's overwhelming to find landlords that will accept even this voucher. It's also very disorienting to know, to find out where, you know, who am I to talk to? And so this would definitely make it easier. I think it would increase the amount of people who are able to get vouchers once they have a place to live, once they have a voucher.
 I tend to believe that people have good hearts, and I know Fayetteville prides itself in its community spirit. In light of that, I think community-minded landlords would welcome this change, and it would be easy to implement. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. I think this is ready tonight. I know ordinances usually go three readings, and you can do that without having to table anything, but this is pretty straightforward, and I hope that you will go ahead and get its 30-day implementation period started the sooner the better.
 We have vouchers issued to residents of this city that are going unused because they can't find landlords that will take them. We hear that story over and over. This is one thing that will make voucher eligible units easier to find.
 And it's true, not everybody knows how those work. The registry doesn't apply to fewer than three, an owner with fewer than three properties. Those are probably the folks least likely to know how the vouchers work. And so education is good. I'm glad you added that.
 But this ordinance, this change to the registry will act as natural education. When people go to fill out form and see that there, it may be the first time they've ever thought about a voucher and they may click no. And that's okay. Now they've been educated. They may go and think, what is that thing? And look it up on their own. Soon, hopefully, we'll have some information from you all about how they can do that. And I'm glad that you included that.
 Mayor, there are a couple of things that I would like to see done administratively that don't require any sort of change to the text. But when setting up that form, it would probably be helpful to list out different types of vouchers.
 There are tenant-based vouchers. There are project-based vouchers. There are vouchers from Section 8. There are vouchers from the city's HEARTH program. There are VASH vouchers from the VA that have different eligibility requirements, and it might be useful for someone who's holding a very specific type of voucher to be able to look and see what's eligible for their particular situation. This happened to me last time where my phone locked and I lost my notes. There we go.
 SECOND, I HOPE THAT YOU'LL MAKE IT SEARCHABLE AND SORTABLE BY THOSE VOUCHER STATUSES. IF IT'S IN THERE AND YOU JUST HAVE TO GO LOOK UP THE PROPERTY AND YOU CAN SEE THE STATUS, THAT'S HELPFUL. BUT IF YOU CAN SAY SHOW ME ALL THE PROPERTIES IN TOWN THAT WILL ACCEPT A VASH VOUCHER BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT I HAVE, THAT WILL BE FAR MORE USEFUL TO THE PUBLIC.
 You might also include an annual email update to the list or a one-year update reminder or some timeframe to increase that frequency that people come back to update their registry. I suspect if somebody has changed their registered owner after not touching it for three or four years they might forget that they're registered at all and so having that come back to them would be great.
 I think this is a fantastic measure to improve voucher accessibility. I hope you'll take action on it and I hope you'll take action on it tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello. It's my first time being here. My name is Shalitha Parks and I live at 1101 South Curtis Avenue, apartment C-23, South
 I am a renter for United and I am a leader in the community at High Point Apartments. I'm here to talk about the voucher as well and to support the amendment as well and I
 I just want to say there's a rent increase as well, and it's hard for me to relocate for the circumstances at High Point Apartments that we are facing due to the tenants that I represent as the City, as the Residence Council President.
 I advocate for the tenants out there. There has been issues with tenants facing eviction due to rent or just the circumstances of living there as well. I just want to say that it's hard for me as the rent has skyrocketed and affordable housing
 is a crisis and I'm facing that barrier as well to relocate, to find myself a safe place to live. So I just want to say that I hope that you guys will see this going forward and understand there is a crisis for affordable and low income families to relocate and to move. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, who else would like to address us?
 Hi, my name is Rogelio Cano. I live at Varsity House, which is now called I am a grad student at the U of A. So I am here to claim that rent prices have gone up to the point where a lot of people are being pushed out of their homes because they can no longer afford them. Well, renters I'm talking about. And I'm here to just also add emphasis that it creates a ripple effect. It doesn't only affect homeless people or income people, but also the people that this city mostly or
 at least sizably profits off of, which is college students, people from other states coming over here. It is also a danger to us whenever people don't have homes because that can lead to crime. So right outside of Varsity House, or I guess All Light Fayetteville, there is a criminal activity going on. There's homeless people there.
 And one time whenever I, it was 3 a.m., I was in my bedroom, I had like a 19 year old kid coming inside my apartment and knocking on my door, saying that a man outside my building was like chasing him and stabbed him in the toe. And he was just trying to find
 any door to open to just go inside because he's just that desperate to get away from the violence so this can so this disparity causes violence and people can turn to crime so it just doesn't affect them but it also affects you know college students so like that crime can also be very dangerous for us so high rent prices lead to those crimes and potentially like it but it hurts more people but also these uh the voucher transparency can also help renters
 find affordable housing so this can be a solution for that and it can also help make upward socioeconomic mobility uh easier to achieve it'll be easier for them to you know do better we want them to do better so make it a little easier for them to do better so that way they can fill themselves back up and it can serve as a foundation for them to feel like a citizen and participate in the economy and whatnot so it's a it's a huge ripple effect that we also need to see it as too thank you thank you thank you who else would like to address this
 Good evening. My name is Billy Cook and I am a member of Arkansas Renters United. What compels me to come speak tonight is the deteriorating state of affordable housing in the city of Fayetteville. I support this amendment because the shrinking availability of properties that accept vouchers is alarming as someone who works with low to middle income tenants, but devastating for the individuals and families that often wait years for assistance only to wind up empty-handed.
 With such a situation facing our community, any step taken to address it is a step in the right direction. It is my opinion that if this policy change aids even one individual family to secure housing, it has been a success. A simple yes or no question added to this registry may seem like a small change, but increasing public transparency, especially for an issue such as housing availability, is invaluable.
 I urge you to support this amendment for the sake of Fayetteville residents, current and future. While the actions of local governments are often limited in their scope, their impacts are felt across the community. Lack of affordable housing is being felt across our city, but it is low and middle income people, many of them persons of color, who bear the brunt of this burden. I encourage this body to take yet another step to resolving our housing crisis, and I thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Hi, my name is Al Allen. I'm a resident of Fayetteville at 950 North Lundell, apartment three. And I'm just gonna go through a little bit of my prepared remarks and then respond to a little bit of the community concerns as a community organizer, I feel a bit equipped.
 So as I noticed, one of the statements behind all of you all is that we will create opportunities for attainable housing. We all recognize the reality that affordable housing is crucial. And my work as a community organizer for Arkansas Community Organizations, Arkansas Owners United, across the state,
 The number one issue that I'm hearing from voucher recipients is inability to access a place where they can actually use the voucher. I recognize that none of us want this housing crisis. We don't want this worry on our hands and it's preventable through the right policy decisions.
 that we're considering something like this tonight. I make $10,000 more than the average Arkansan. And I have a wonderful little one-bedroom apartment. It's $6.50 a month. It's reasonable. It's digestible. It allows me to break out of the poverty that I was raised in. And to be a full-time worker and a college student, something that I really couldn't afford
 even with a decent rent price and a decent wage without a decent rent price. We need to allow for that affordability that Rahilia was speaking about. But I think that we can all agree that reasonable landlords want reliable rental payment. With vouchers, this is more of a guarantee. We don't wanna be evicting people
 We don't want to be wasting our city's resources sending police officers out to harass families and take them out on the streets. We don't want that. We want these voucher programs that we're all paying for to be working for the citizens that we aim to protect. I think we're all on the same page here. And this allows landlords the opportunity for greater visibility.
 free advertising for their operation and for the rental properties. If we were to have this list of properties that accept it, we would inherently be giving them free advertising. And if that makes housing more accessible for people and prevents people from being driven out of their communities on the basis of price, then I think that that's something that we can all get behind. Okay, so we talked about how, or like y'all talked about how
 how we have this problem of how are we going to list the right number of units. Literally free advertising. They're just going to field a little bit more calls or we can make statements on the website or we can direct to the websites that they already have. I mean, it's 2023. We can solve some technical problems if it's going to change the lives of families in our community. I believe that we can do better, you know? As for like the landlord lawsuits, I want to let you know that our organizing led to the city of Little Rock, uh, you know,
 enforcing its own code for the first time in 2022, whenever they find Apex $30,000. I don't think that you're gonna be seeing frivolous suits about this not being listed. And as has been said here tonight, we have a period of time to address this and we can create accompanying amendments
 and pieces of legislation that can solve for this. We don't have to stop here, and we really shouldn't whenever our community's in need. We have direct public comment here, and I really do implore all the members here tonight to form a deeper relationship with our organization, Arkansas Runners United, because we are working directly with the city of Little Rock and their directors, and we can make a better change for people, but we have to know what changes they need first. And so what I like about our organization is that we are organically grassroots, we are member-led,
 and we do not make decisions without our members. And so if you wanna talk to your community and you're afraid to get out there, you don't know where to start, get in touch with us and we'll get you in touch with your community. And I think, you know, we just all do better whenever we all do better. And so thank you for your time and thanks for considering. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Kara Paxton. I live at 1166 South General Valley Drive, Fayetteville, Arkansas. I just want to say thank you, Council, for taking the time to hear this item. This is such an important issue in our community. I worked for needs and income-based programs for 10 years. Being a voucher program specialist was one of those.
 I can't even explain to you what an individual has to go through in order to get that voucher to begin with. They have a two-year wait period. Upon being issued a voucher, they have to go through about an hour meeting where they sign 25 to 35 pages just loaded with information. They've never seen the program before. They have to go out and get their income verified. When they get out there and start looking for a landlord,
 there's not one available. We lose those individuals because they move out of our area because they can't find the landlord that will accept the voucher. As you heard, many people spoke tonight and talked about a little bit about different apartment complexes. The voucher world is very complicated and that's why I'm so thankful that we have individuals like Yolanda Fields that work here at the city because I can't even begin to explain to you how complicated the program can be.
 Issuing vouchers to individuals, even someone that understands the program, still puts them at a disadvantage because that individual has to go find that landlord themselves. The list that an entity may have is out of date. Something may have happened and maybe that apartment complex got sold to someone else. There's no information that gets updated.
 I'm not saying that the right thing to do is to change anything that we currently have, but maybe it's more about how can we get the information to people and how can we do it in a way with the list that we already have? How can we talk to those individuals and get that information out there?
 The Housing Choice Voucher, Section 8, was created for individuals to be able to move out into the community and live in any part of the community and to get away from public housing because in that circumstance when you talk about public housing, the individuals are all put into one place.
 And that is simply not right. An individual has the right to be able to live in any community that they want to. I understand housing prices are getting more and more expensive. Rent is getting more and more expensive. However, if we can find those landlords that are willing to accept that housing choice voucher section eight program, maybe it's just a matter of providing information to them. Knowledge is power. Education is power.
 We have so much information on our website here at the city. We work so hard to make it ADA compliant. Why not assist another organization in our area to get that information out there in order to make sure that individuals, that that weight is not just put on their shoulders, that we assist them? Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay.
 i'll bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading and what discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take i move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second maybe we have a motion to second go to the second reading care would you please call the row bunch yes kirk yes hertzberg yes rv yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Quedeker? Yes. Turner? Yes. An ordinance to amend section 120.02, landlord's representative registry of the Fable Code by modifying subsection D to include whether the landlord would accept voucher-based assistance for their properties. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Bunch?
 Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. An ordinance to amend section 120.02, landlord's representative registry of the Fayetteville code by modifying subsection D to include whether the landlord would accept voucher based assistance for their properties. Okay. One final comment we have in council.
 Mayor Jordan, I want Faygold to know that when our citizens are experiencing challenges, I want them to know that I and that we, whatever we can do to lighten the load, to make life easier, that we're doing that. And I feel that tonight's request is reasonable.
 just shared with us basically how simple it can be. And we also heard from our most vulnerable. And so I'm just hoping that we find it within ourselves to support this and then do what's necessary to do later. But I do want Fagel to know that I'm here to support what
 Especially now with the housing issue, everything that we can do is a step in the right direction, and that's what I'm here to support. Thank you, Mayor. I do want the public to know that we are really concerned about affordable housing. We spent a good five or six hours discussing affordable housing this weekend, and
 However, tonight I'm going to reluctantly support this. I think that the implementation piece is not well-defined because you're going to have to have all these landlords go in and actually identify whether they're going to take Section 8 or other kinds of vouchers.
 I appreciate Kyle Smith's recommendations on making it searchable and all those other technical portions, but I am very concerned that the usefulness of this ordinance that we're gonna pass tonight is gonna be marginal.
 because we're going to have to get the entire group of landlords to go back and update their registry. And that's a voluntary, it's not a voluntary registry, it's a requirement. But it's only identifying the largest landlords. So, again, I'm going to reluctantly support this, but I don't think it's completely...
 thought out and to where it's going to have the effect that we all really want and desire. Thanks. And I'll do the same thing. And just because we ask questions doesn't mean we have reluctance to pass this, but when we have unclear situations, no one saw our technology issues that were coming before. So we have no clear definition on what technology limitations we have.
 now we're involving Yolanda and we've got Yolanda not here to answer any questions that we have. So it makes sense to me to, to table it and give us two weeks to clarify all those issues. But if, if, you know, I'll go ahead and support it, but I just think it's, I think two weeks is not too much to ask to get it right the first time.
 Anything else? Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I would just add it's a voluntary registry. I want to be clear this doesn't add a single person.
 unit accepting vouchers, it simply, hopefully, enables us to detect a landlord who mistakenly had not indicated previously that they were willing to accept vouchers to either the Fayetteville Housing Authority or to Yolanda. And for that reason only, I will support it. But I just want to be clear that it doesn't create additional vouchers.
 voucher supported housing. Thank you. Anybody else? I got one. Yes. I think this is a, in theory, this is a really good idea, and I'm going to support it because I think we can probably get any questions resolved, but I still kind of like, I mean, maybe I'm old school, but I like to know what I'm voting on when I'm voting on it.
 And, you know, Blake was gracious enough to kind of give us the amendment and everything. And I think it'll all work out. But, you know, I do, when we vote on something, I want to make sure
 that we had all the people that spoke out about the challenges of finding housing and then Mike pointed out this doesn't create new voucher-based housing. I just want to make sure when we vote on things that it's not just lip service, that it's not just, okay, this sounds great and we can pat ourselves on the back, but it actually has a real good effect in the community.
 And I do think that if it had been put together a little bit better, maybe it would have been received a little bit better, but I'm going to vote in favor of it, and I think it's a good idea. Okay. Sarah?
 I appreciate our colleagues identifying that there's additional work to be done. I think that's the case even with something that feels really buttoned up. There's unexpected things that come up and I feel really compelled that we have a very dedicated and intelligent staff and a community that really wants to see us tackle some of these really hard areas. So I appreciate the support tonight to put this forward.
 Who I really want to talk to tonight, though, are to landlords. It was mentioned that additional voucher units aren't going to come on the market with this move. But I'll caution that we don't know. We don't know all the potential positive consequences that can happen because of this.
 I'd like to really encourage landlords to proactively go back up and update your registry. I'd like to really encourage you to take a hard look in our community about how we're struggling to really consider and look into the education pieces that are coming out and reach out to your council member. I'd be happy to find resources and answer questions.
 But let's help to house more of our community. And so I hope that through to making this small change, I do hope that we'll bring on additional landlords. At the very least, we're going to make it less cumbersome for navigating that. Anything else? All right. Let's vote. Please call the roll. Funch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay.
 Moore? Yes. Wieger? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go on to number five.
 An ordinance rezoning that property described rezoning petition RZN 23-003, located at 1275 North Gregg Avenue in Ward 2, for approximately 2.23 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre. Blake. Thank you.
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAVORLARK, SECTION 1, THAT THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAVORLARK HEREBY CHANGES THE ZONE CLASSIFICATION OF THE PROPERTY SHOWN ON THE MAP, EXHIBIT A, AND THE LEGAL DESCRIPTION, EXHIBIT B, BOTH ATTACHED TO THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT'S AGENDA MEMO FROM RMF 24 RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY 24 UNITS PER ACRE TO RMF 40 RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY 40 UNITS PER ACRE.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, John. I mean, I'm sorry. Anything?
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kerr, Development Services Department. This particular property is located in North Central Fayetteville. It's a little ways north of the intersection of North Street and Gregg Avenue. As you can see on the aerial image here, it's the site on the west side of Gregg Avenue specifically and it's the location of the Pathway Baptist Church and some associated parking.
 The site does slope a ways from the street and then levels out for the preponderance of the property where the church itself sits before sloping downward again once you get to the tree line on the western portion of the property.
 The request before the council tonight is to rezone it from its existing RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre designation, to RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre. The council may recall that this property that you see here with the arrow indicating it was recently rezoned by council, also previously owned by the church as well. They're moving forward now with this specific piece that you see listed as the subject property in the request.
 When reviewing the proposal, staff does find it to be compatible. This area includes a wide mixture of housing types ranging from largely single family and two family dwellings to the east, segueing to multifamily dwellings as you get closer to the Skull Creek Trail and some services further to the west.
 When looking at it from a land use consistency standpoint, staff also found it to be complementary of our long range adopted documents. The future land use map calls it out as a city neighborhood area, which is intended to be developed at higher densities and higher intensities. The RMF 40 zoning district complements this with its allowance of all different housing types, single two, three, four family and multifamily dwellings up to a fairly high density of 40 units per acre.
 Similarly, staff finds the request to be consistent with our adopted goals of City Plan 2040, most predominantly the prioritization of appropriate infill, which you can see indicated by the many elements or factors that are attributed in that matrix, ranging from fire response to access to basic infrastructure like water, sewer, parks, and trails, in addition to being located near transit and grocery services.
 Some other issues worth considering. I did note in the lead up background of the property that it is somewhat steep in portions of it. There is about a 1600 square foot corner of the property in the Northeast of about 1600 square feet that is located in the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District. As a reminder that overlay is not necessarily intended to prevent development, but to make it appropriate in areas of greater slopes and soils that are generally more abusive to building foundations.
 Also of note is that the tree preservation requirement for the property under its existing zoning or proposed rezoning would remain the same at 20%.
 All told, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly, forwarding it to City Council by a vote of 9-0. The Commission commented that they felt this is an appropriate location for housing, and we received no public comment either before the meeting or at the Planning Commission meeting itself. I'm available for any comments or questions the Council has, and Mayor Nathan Crouch is here in person as the applicant for the item. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the Council? Yes.
 Nope. All right. Does the council have any questions for the applicant or staff? Thank you, Mayor. So, Jonathan, you mentioned that one section has the hillside hilltop ordinance over it or the overlay over it.
 Isn't it true or how does that work where you add an additional 5% for tree preservation? Is it just in that little tiny corner? It is, but our foresters tend to take, or not tend to, they take a weighted average, especially that's regardless of whether it's because of property split zone with different zoning districts with different canopy requirements or whether a portion of it's within the HHOD. As Council Member Turk referenced, the Hillside Hilltop Overlay District does have a heightened
 5% additional tree preservation requirements. So that portion of the site would be required to have a 25%, the remainder 20%, and the foresters take a weighted average of those two when working out the overall property. Because it could be that the portion in the HHOD has no canopy within it, but there may be value in preserving canopy elsewhere on the property. Thank you for that explanation. I just didn't know how exactly that works. So thanks so much. Good question. Okay, any other questions from council?
 I have a question. Jonathan, remind me again, I've got this packet I can look at or you can put that diagram back up. It was the hilltop overlay was 1,600 square feet. Was that roughly in that northeast corner? Approximately. Let me see if I can get that pulled back up for you.
 When I'm talking about a place that I drive by all the time, I try to visualize it. So where's the northeast corner? So it's just this little. You can see it right there. Okay. I would have thought the backside was more steep, but it's on the street side, right? All right. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. That's all right.
 any other questions council all right let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member please stay on topic please give us your name and address who would like to address this first on this topic okay i'll bring back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading
 What discussion would you like to have or what action would you like to take? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Funch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Bitteker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Warren?
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 23-003 located at 1275 North Gregg Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately 2.23 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Fudge? Yes. Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 Yes. Fair enough. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 23-003 located at 1275 North Gregg Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately 2.23 acres from RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RMF 40, residential multifamily 40 units per acre. Any final comments from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Thanks.
 yes her yes hertsburg yes harvey yes jones yes moore yes we decker yes vernon yes okay thank you paul number six an ordinance for his own that property described with his own petition rzn 2023-014 located southeast of dead horse road and golf
 Farm Road and Ward 1 for approximately 112.98 acres from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF 4 Residential Single Family 4 units per acre, subject to a bill of assurance to NC Neighborhood Conservation, CS Community Services, and RA Residential Agricultural.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF 4 Residential Single Family 4 Units Per Acre subject to a bill of assurance to NC Neighborhood Conservation, CS Community Services, and RA Residential Agricultural.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. John. Thank you, Mayor. I did substitute some of the typical slides the Council sees for items to reflect the exhibits that you all had requested at agenda sessions, so hopefully they look more familiar to what went out with the final packet later last week.
 That said, and jumping right in, this property is in southeast Fayetteville. It's located in Ward 1. Getting more specific, as you head south from Huntsville Road and cross the west fork of the White River and the road turns into Dead Horse Mountain, the properties in question don't include the immediate corner of Goff Farm or Dead Horse Mountain, but about 200 acres of land immediately south and west of that.
 that. Although largely undeveloped, the portion that you see here in purple includes elements of the Stonebridge Golf Course, including their clubhouse, a parking lot, and I believe it's a maintenance building for some of their golf carts and other items.
 At the agenda session, there were questions asked about topography. I apologize, I don't have a higher level of detail. These are maps from the United States Geological Service. They don't always have the highest level of contours. But generally, you can see the theme here, which is that this property is a fairly level one, low-lying between higher points of topography to the west and to the southeast.
 The unusual shapes that you see here, specifically the green one where you can see my cursor, is actually wrapped around by several holes of the golf course itself.
 Another question was asked about the presence or proximity of FEMA floodplains in the area. While there are not any immediately on the property itself, there is of course the West Fork of the White River to the north, as you get north of the Goff Farm Road. There's also a tributary to the West Fork that passes through the neighborhood to the east, but there is not any existing FEMA-identified floodplains on this property specifically.
 As I offer an agenda session, I'll go into a little bit more detail and history on this property, specifically the property in the lower left-hand corner, the southwest corner of the proposed site. It does have quite a legacy of zoning actions with the City of Fayetteville. This began back in 1997 when it was annexed and received its default zoning designation that all properties do when annexed, the RA, residential agricultural.
 Almost 20 years later, or just over, excuse me, 10 years later, the property was rezoned as a planned zoning district. This included a mix of housing types and also an element of non-residential uses.
 After the PZD remained dormant for about seven years, the city, as an effort to return PZDs, planned zoning districts, back to their existing zonings when they've not been developed, went through the city and this property was identified and rezoned back to the, was proposed to be rezoned back to RA, residential agricultural. The property owner successfully advocated that it be rezoned to RSF4 residential city
 single family four units per acre subject to the bill of assurance that you heard Mayor reference earlier. The main piece of that bill of assurance is just that it limits the density on the property to two and a half units per acre.
 Subsequently, a preliminary plat for single-family development was approved, but ultimately did not come to fruition. A PZD more recently was brought through to city council and ultimately denied, which included largely single-family and non-residential uses. And most recently, last year, a request was brought through to eliminate the bill of assurance on the property, effectively removing that cap of two and a half units per acre.
 A QUESTION OF ENTITLEMENTS WAS BROUGHT UP AT AGENDA SESSION AND WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE THROUGH THE YEARS. THE ORIGINAL PZD ENTITLED THIS PORTION OF THE PROPERTY TO ABOUT 6.6 UNITS PER ACRE. THE PRELIMINARY PLOT THAT CAME THROUGH SUBSEQUENTLY OBSERVED THE BILL OF ASSURANCE AND LIMITED IT TO 2.5 AND THE PZD THAT WAS CONSIDERED IN 2021 WOULD HAVE ALLOWED 3.5 UNITS PER ACRE.
 That brings us to the request tonight before council, which again includes about 200 acres of overall land, which you see here in black outlines is the portion under consideration. Nearest to Goffarm Road, but also touching Deadhorse, is proposed to rezone from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. The remainder of the property, which is a currently split zone to RA and RSF4, is proposed to be rezoned to NC Neighborhood Conservation.
 When reviewing the request for compatibility, land use compatibility specifically, staff's findings were mixed. We do recognize that this area is largely single family and much of the proposal is exactly for single family housing, albeit at a higher density. And in that sense, we have found that the uses are compatible. However, the concern that staff primarily has is with the potential intensity that could come up as a result of this.
 The NC zoning district allows a fairly high density for single family districts, 10 units per acre. And at the periphery of the city where this property is, that poses several concerns for city staff as far as infrastructure goes. In evaluating the request, one of the most predominant concerns are street improvements to Dead Horse Mountain Road and Goff Farm, neither of which are fully improved.
 and also potential upgrades that would be necessary to our sanitary sewer network here. If you've not had an opportunity to look at that, those maps before, there's a series of daisy chain lift stations that carry a lot of the sanitary sewer from this portion of the city across the West Fork of the Wright River and then back up to our west side or east side treatment plant.
 All told, and on the balance of issues, staff does not find the request to be compatible, again recognizing that a single family is generally consistent with being near other single family.
 Community services side of the request, staff's opinion was also mixed. While there is the potential for neighborhood services, which this area is completely lacking, there's also the potential for very high intensity residential, which could have the potential to aggravate the infrastructure issues that I've described.
 From a long-range planning standpoint, this property is designated as a rural residential and residential neighborhood area. As their name suggests, these are intended to be residential from medium to low levels of intensity. Our concern is that this request may not be fully consistent with those designations given the high potential amounts of development that can occur between the two proposed zoning
 Additionally, we have concerns that the request does not fully agree with our adopted land use goals, most specifically the prioritization of appropriate infill, which we feel is indicated by a low infill score of between one and three, depending where you are on the property, suggesting potentially that this would be more appropriately classified as sprawl, which our comprehensive plan intends to discourage.
 Other issues to consider, I touched on the sanitary sewer item. Also, access is a consistent theme, whether from staff or residents. The main access to this property is across the West Fork of the White River immediately to the north. While it is possible to access Highway 16 to the northeast, it's not direct.
 And also there's a more circuitous route. If you go down south, cross the West Fork there and come back around to the west of Black Oak, which brings you back through the Commerce Park in the city. Not a direct route and concerning given some of the flooding events that have been recognized in that area.
 Another item that was brought up at agenda session was a question of development scenarios and existing versus potential entitlement. Based on what you saw earlier in the slides, there is very limited potential for housing right now. It'd be about 200 units if you consider the site as a whole with the existing agricultural and RSF4 zonings limited by bill of assurance.
 The potential development would be about 900 units under what's proposed. I think that is highly unlikely, and I think you can see staff's comments to that effect in our staff report, given the odd shapes of the property and some other constraints. It is unlikely that these properties can remotely attain their potential development if rezoned as requested.
 As for drainage concerns, there was a request that the agenda session to know exactly where those were. The one resident that gave a specific address that I can identify is just east of South Cherry Hills Drive. If you're familiar with the golf course, as I became in looking at this, it's near the tee box for hole number 14, which is off site.
 site from this area and initial review of the topography of the site suggested these properties proposed for rezoning would not necessarily drain to this location suggesting that it may not adversely affect the issue.
 Lastly, there has been a bit of public comment on this item, both in favor and opposed to. Those opposed do have most predominantly concerns about infrastructure and the ability of the area to handle additional drainage or runoff. Those opposed have focused on the need for housing and that this may be an appropriate location given its relative proximity to the rest of Fayetteville.
 ALL TOLD, STAFF IS RECOMMENDING AND DENIAL OF THE PROPOSAL. THE PLANNING COMMISSION'S RECOMMENDATION CAME TO YOU ALL BY A SPLIT VOTE OF FIVE TO FOUR. THOSE IN FAVOR FOUND IT TO BE COMPATIBLE AND FELT THAT THE INFRASTRUCTURE ISSUES COULD BE ADDRESSED WITH THE DEVELOPMENT AS THOSE DETAILS COME FORWARD.
 The dissenting votes had concerns about the inconsistency of the proposal with our long-range planning goals and that it may be more appropriate, given the size of the site and the proposal, that it come through with a greater level of detail, whether that be as a PZD or something similar. With that, I'm happy to take any questions, Mayor, and Robert Rhodes is here as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Mayor Redekopal Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Good evening. My name is Robert Rhodes and I'm with the law firm of Hall-Lestal. And I am joined here today with the two applicants, the representatives from the applicants. Mark and Taylor Marquez are here on behalf of Riverwood Homes. And Taylor Johnson sitting right behind him is here on behalf of the golf course.
 I hope you all had a chance to read the letter that I sent you with the attachments, and I realize it got to you late. I normally try to send those out via email so you can read them during the day, and unfortunately I wasn't able to do that because I don't know all your personal email addresses. But I'll cover a little bit in there, but at some point I think it will make good reading.
 Okay, so from reading the staff's report, one of the primary concerns is the density that could lend itself up to 800 lots in the neighborhood conservation portion. However, I would ask you to look at the letter that I sent along with the attachments. Note that the preliminary plat and the drawing show that the applicant's plan is to lay this out in such a way as there's no more than 350 lots.
 It is noted in two or three places in staff's report that if there was, quote, a guarantee of less density, perhaps support could be forthcoming. As I stated in my letter, the applicant absolutely promises to submit before the next council meeting a bill of assurance that will limit the density to 350 single-family lots in the NC portion.
 Knowing that now, look at the other concerns staff had. Water supply, overtaxing the infrastructure, and traffic congestion. Well, those were concerns at 800 plus units. Now that you don't have to worry about that with only 350. Further, if you note in my letter, there's approximately 100 of those lots that will be for 55 plus years old, low maintenance, lock and leave,
 single-family homes. I think we call it courtyard in the information. Studies show that this type of housing, compared to traditional housing, has a 50% less impact on traffic. Those folks tend not to have kids with cars. Maybe they only have one car. They don't take as many trips, so forth.
 Switching over to the portion that we've asked to be rezoned to neighborhood services. Staff once again raises its desire to see some sort of, in this time they use the word assurance, that indeed there will be retail in those 18 acres.
 and not just DENZ housing. Again, before the next meeting, we will present a bill of insurance that will commit us to no apartment buildings, no gas station, but instead retail mixed uses such as sidewalk cafes, offices, coffee shops, on the bottom with living quarters above, and no more than 50 residential lots.
 All of this will complement the golf course and the surrounding areas. I won't go into great detail tonight, but again, you can look at my letter, which has some much more specific about what we believe, how both pieces of this development fit into the future land plans.
 With all of the green surrounding the lots, we are leaving half of this 200 acres as RA. And further, with the retail sprinkled in, again, we think the way we've designed it, it will fit with future.
 regarding compatibility. Again, I refer you to my letter. There are two separate dense subdivisions surrounding us. The golf course is also a neighbor and of course it's also one of the applicants. So compatibility is a given with them. Plus our development has more ingress and egress than those other neighborhoods around us. We have
 three manners of ingress and egress. Two on Deadhorse Mountain Road and one on Gough Farm Road. Let's talk about affordable housing. We've heard a lot about that today. I think you guys probably talked about it quite a bit at your retreat. Currently, 53 acres are entitled to two and a half lots. That's the bill of assurance that Jonathan Kirk was describing.
 If we had never asked for this rezoning, those 53 acres could have been developed into estate lots to the tune of about 134 lots. The type of homes that would have to be built there in order for the economics to work out would be in the tune of half million plus range.
 If you look at my letter and the attachments, you can see we truly are bringing to the table a good many $275,000 to $300,000 homes. Again, the incremental number of lots that the NC area, over which it's already entitled to, which I think was asked at the agenda session, is only 216 more.
 And as I said before, 100 of those are designated for the 55 plus, which again, lower traffic impact. In regard to drainage issues, and I realize that we're talking about rezoning here. Nonetheless, it's been brought up. We firmly believe...
 that if we get the zoning and we go through the development stages, working with the city, of course, the drainage issues will be improved as we plan on draining into the golf course. The gentleman who sent the picture that lives on Cherry Street will not be impacted. His issues were pre-existing, plus his home was built after the golf course. The golf course's previous owners built a berm to try to help that neighbor, and the current owners of the golf course have met with this gentleman more than once.
 Another gentleman has written in indicating that he was concerned about trees. However, that point is moot as we're not taking any of those trees down. Our design is different than a previous developer that had come forward. In general, regarding public comments, there's been more comments in favor of this development than against, not just from realtors and bankers, but people who might be in the industry, but also live in the vicinity.
 Here's one from a neighbor to the south that I don't think made it into the packet, although I think it was sent to Planning the morning of the Planning Commission. Again, this is a neighbor to the south, Seven Springs Holding. I am a neighbor to the south. I am in support of this development. This will help support commercial space and affordable housing in the area.
 Also, it will support the golf course, which is a great amenity to the City of Fayetteville. When the area is connected to the bike path via the White River Bridge, there will be tremendous opportunities for recreation for residents. This is a more comprehensive package to previous requests.
 And it's a solution using a larger track of land to ensure a cohesive development as opposed to the postage stamp approach.
 With all that said, I would ask you to leave this on the first reading to allow us to build to prepare our bills of assurance and then at the next meeting I would ask you to vote in favor of this and we stand ready willing and able to answer any questions and aside from the applicants we also have our engineer Mr. Jorgensen here as well. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have in the council for the applicant or staff?
 Mr. Rhodes, I have a question for you. So you said 100 of the homes were going to be approximately under $300,000, is that correct? Yes. Okay, so of the remainder, the 250, what is the cost estimate for those? Do you have that? I do not have that. Okay. May I bring up Mr. Marquez? Please. Good evening. I'm Mark Marquez with Riverwood Homes.
 Right now, if you look at the preliminary plat, and that's all it really is, is very preliminary until we get a lot more study done. We do have about 100 homes that are designated for what we call our cottage homes, which are similar to our Sloan Brook project, a number of other homes that we've done in the area. They're going to be from somewhere between 1,300 and 1,700 square feet.
 So those hundred lots are going to be designated for what we call our attainable homes. From right now, I believe they're starting around 270 and go to 350, depending on sizes. Then we have 100 homes that are going to be designated approximately for the 55 plus community. The remaining 100...
 I don't want to get caught up on 350 because I don't think we're going to get quite that many, but we just wanted to put something out there. Approximately 100 will be our traditional manor homes. They'll be 1,800 to 2,000, 2,100 square feet. And then we still will have maybe 40-ish lots that will be the larger lots. So what we're bringing to the table on this project is not just
 an exclusive community for the golf course. We're blending this in with affordable, middle-priced, retirement, and estates. So it's not exclusive, it's inclusive. And giving people the opportunity to live out there
 be able to use one of the only public golf courses in Northwest Arkansas and not have to pay membership fees and exclusivity and not be able to afford it. By giving these 100 homes, which we've done very successfully in Fayetteville since 1989, I'm old as a rock, but it's been a long time. We've provided affordable housing for Fayetteville.
 All along the way, I think most of you are very familiar with what we do on the affordable housing. So this gives us an opportunity to work in conjunction with Stonebridge, the golf course community, by doing this and partnering on some of the land. The rezone that you see is going to let them have the ability to build a new clubhouse, new pool, offer a lot of amenities and things that just really aren't there right now.
 So while they've been approached by a number of other developers, we have been able to join forces and really bring something that's going to be unique to Fayetteville.
 I don't know of another golf course community that you will find an affordable housing subdivision that's offering homes from 13, 14, 1500 square feet. So it embraces almost everything that we've heard tonight. We're bringing some attainable housing. We're bringing a mixed use blended community. We're adding to the
 amenities that are already out there and giving everybody an opportunity to enjoy it. And we are bringing three entrances or three exits to this property instead of two. So I think that when you look at the whole package, there's a lot more information and a lot of other things we need to do to get this ran through all the infrastructure requirements.
 requirements. But when you look at the 55 plus that I can send all kinds of information showing that it reduces traffic and a lot of the other impacts by 50% or more. You look at the affordable side of it. It too isn't going to be as impacted as
 larger subdivision that's going to have many more many cars and more children in it I think that the infrastructure impact is going to be less than a traditional neighborhood
 I have a follow-up question for you. Those approximately 100 manor style homes, do you have a rough cost estimate for those? On the what? On those manor homes that you were describing. The manor homes right now that we have in our Sloanbrook subdivision go from about 350 to I think 450 if they get up to that 2,000, 2200 square foot. Okay, thank you.
 Okay, any other questions? I know but making sure they're all done with questions. Okay. Sarah. I have a city staff question about water. I know that was something that was brought up in previous sessions and then the agenda. And I'm just talking about water capacity with the revision to the plan originally it was with the zoning. I don't know if we have anybody from Public Works tonight that can talk to that but
 Had her talks and we've had you know concerns about in East Fayetteville You know issues with water pressure and talks about the possibility of whether or not some improvements need to happen regardless of this Particular subdivision. I don't or this development. I don't want to
 maybe beat them over the head with maybe an infrastructure issue we have in East Fayetteville that exists today with some of the developments that have occurred out to East Fayetteville with the water capacity. But I don't know with the revision what that looks like versus when they were looking at it originally.
 I did take the chance to talk to the utility department since agenda session and they did note that there are some overall area concerns whether it's towards sanitary sewer or water. They did not immediately feel as though any of those were ones that cannot be overcome by required improvements with the development.
 With a specific number to look at, as Mr. Rhodes shared, that 350, I think we may be able to better evaluate between now and the next meeting what kind of impacts that may or may not have. I can speak directly to you. I believe I'm understanding your question. And I spoke to Tim about this because of the.
 issues with getting water to the Goshen area and there's pinch point there. It does not affect, Tim said it does not affect this area. The area of concern is down 45 highway.
 Tracey it really would be helpful for next meeting to have you know Tim here somebody from water and sewer because if I recall correctly and maybe my memory is bad but I thought it was a sewer issue I thought the sewer was really the pitch point that it needed to be updated considerably and so but I'm kind of sketchy on those details it's been a couple of years
 sure american respond to that one as well but i agree we'll work to have uh tim nyander here the two main issues with the previous proposals both development and zoning there was a question of capacity but there was also a more nuanced one of land ownership and the ability for a development to get to the lift station chain that i was describing that come through this part of the city
 The capacity issue, again, is more on the development side, but I think having numbers, either me or Tim will be able to speak to that at the next meeting. And the change in the scope of this proposal inherently takes into the land ownership question that had previously had come up. There was a concern about,
 the portion of the property that I gave you all more in-depth history about whether they had access to the lift stations because a weird nuance of this is that they would have to actually
 gravity flow, meaning slope downward to one of the lift stations before it would pump back the same direction, and whether there was adequate easement width to do both things. I think in discussing the proposal of Mr. Rhodes previously, the golf course's participation in this request addresses that issue, but the capacity issue will need to be answered still, yes. Okay. Ready for some public comment? Okay.
 now keep in mind everybody this obviously i think is going to be held on the first reading for two weeks so but we will give you the opportunity to go ahead and speak anyway everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member please stay on topic and give us your name and address who would like to address us first
 Good evening, I live at 1612 South Spring Lake in the stone or Crescent Lake neighborhood. My name is Michelle Abernathy. I've listened to all the pie in the sky that we get from the developer and that but the biggest concern is that if you travel Dead Horse Mountain Road and make the turn to get onto Stonebridge there are no shoulders.
 If you have to give way to a school bus or to a construction vehicle, you're going in the ditch. And I hate to have a school bus have to go into a ditch to get around the construction. This has been an issue, apparently, for a long time. The whole thing has been tabled or has been denied twice. The...
 Similar things, you can say all day that every house is going to have one car, but we don't live in a government that restricts us to one car per house. It will definitely impact the amount of traffic on it and definitely endanger our children. And this is the biggest concern here. I've lived in multiple metropolitan communities and rural communities. And in both of those, when we allow our development to outpace our infrastructure, we're going
 people pay the price. So I think I would encourage everyone to vote no on this because to allow private development to outpace public service and safety violates the very basis of our government. Thank you. Okay. Everybody keep in mind this will probably be held for two weeks. So who else would like to address this?
 Good evening. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Council Members. Weston Wilkerson, I live at 3225 East Gulf Farm Road. If you recall the map, there's a kind of an odd rectangle that's chewed out of the northwest corner. That's where I live. I have the same infrastructure concerns that have been expressed, and I have great sympathy for the developer and the golf course.
 Unfortunately, the traffic concerns are present now. The water concerns are present now. And statements such as 55 plus does not, 55 plus does not reduce traffic, it just adds less than typical.
 So any development in this area is going to exacerbate the current traffic problems and in particular there's the issue of when Dead Horse Mountain Road floods, which it does once a year typically if not more and often Black Oaks to the south floods as well, all of these homes that are there currently plus all of this development has to funnel through existing neighborhoods onto Huntsville Highway.
 Additionally, because of my location, I share approximately a quarter mile frontage with the golf course, who has been a great neighbor. And I hope to be half as good of a neighbor to them as they have been to me. What's frustrating about this proposal, although somewhat encouraging today with statements about BLA, that was not something I was familiar with.
 The community services area is vague and the proposal does not contain specifics. Just this evening we've heard about potential uses for that area, including a pool, which would be wonderful. My family would love that, but yet that's not in the proposal. And if that's the intention, let's please see it. Additionally, my greatest concern.
 As with all real estate, it is a business. And while I have trust in the current ownership and the people that spoke before us today, without specificity in the proposal, this property could be sold and all of those commitments changed. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? My name is Kurt Schumacher and I live at 1803 South Cherry Hills Road.
 I had the luxury of moving up into this beautiful city about two years ago and moved beside a beautiful golf course originally set up for 15,000 people, which last year had over 35,000 participants on it. No doubt Stonebridge Meadows needs some help on the golf course.
 But we have a major problem in that area with the flooding and with the sewer problems. I myself had personally had flooding issues. The city is aware of it. They have come out and taken pictures. And the sewer problem with the lift stations and the system being over 20 years old. Before we get into development, it would certainly ease my attentions if I knew what the city had planned to do to accommodate this.
 You've already installed us, what, a four or six inch water main, so we know the development's coming. We'd just like to know what is going to be done to address issues like the Gulf Farm Road Bridge, which is just a one lane bridge that you can't even put a pedestrian or car on right now. We know there's a problem. This is a growing city. I just think we need to look at it before we jump in feet first on something like this. That's all I've got to say. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 I'm Gail Hancock and I live at 1735 South River Meadow and believe me I love living on the golf course I've been there 10 years I've seen it change hands it's great for the city it's great for everyone but our flooding and sewer and infrastructure
 It's terrible to, I'm at the school, at Happy Hollow, it's going to bust kids across town because the school's too crowded. Now you're going to build a bigger subdivision and no place to put them. The flooding on Dead Horse Mountain, come through a one lane bridge on Gulf Road to get through the neighborhood on top of everything else. And it still happens. We have flooding today.
 If it rains really hard, I live on the 15th hole, it floods all the way to my patio and stays there sometime for days. It hasn't flooded my house, so I don't say a whole lot. It makes my yard real pretty in the back, just saying. And it's not about the housing or the extra housing. I know that we've got to do it.
 but the infrastructure is not there last year y'all were talking about rolling blackouts for our area you also talked about us conserving water and not doing our yards watering our yards because we had a drought okay what's going to happen with all these new houses i'm sorry i just don't i think like you said we need to slow down
 and stop and get, don't do like Rogers and the rest of them did and put in the 49 and everything's going to be wonderful. Now then they're trying to fix it and Walnut Street and all that crap. I mean, we're going to be in the same boat. What happened to Fayetteville when you couldn't cut a tree if you wanted to build a house? We've lost that.
 The flooding and everything, it's just, I can't believe we're doing this again. It's really sad, and it's not against the golf course, although I will say that they started the bathroom on the 14th hole last October. It's still not finished, so I don't have much faith in the golf course. I'm sorry, it's not. It's not finished, and I'm disappointed with that. We all are, but unfortunately, the golfers used the bathroom in my backyard, so I really am disappointed in it, so I'm just saying it.
 we have our problems but this is more about infrastructure and stuff that we don't have to support and i know that we got to go somewhere but we have to have all that in place first you can't just jump out and build a bunch of houses and happy hollow is going to bust our kids 40 minutes away already everyone's upset over that we got to fix those problems first i'm sorry thank you for listening it's okay
 Hello again, Mayor Kyle Smith. I live about as far from this as you can on the opposite corner of town, so I've got a slightly different perspective. I don't love this proposal. It's kind of a mediocre plan, and it's in a bad location. It does not fit the city plan, and it is absolutely sprawled, but so is Stonebridge, and it's been there for years. We've made that mistake before. The city plan has not produced enough housing, so maybe it's time that we
 Start looking at other strategies. If you got the choice between following the city plan and building houses for people who need a place to live, I'd take the houses. If you can hold your nose and support the rental registry, maybe do what's right for the bigger housing issue in town also. Housing is infrastructure. We talk a lot about missing infrastructure in this pocket of town. Housing is a major piece of infrastructure missing over the whole city.
 And on that note, I would say take the 800. I know they're going to bring you a bill of assurance that says 350. That is the same number as the PZD that was approved back in the 90s, but on twice the land. So what density does, by decreasing the density with that bill of assurance, you're making the houses more expensive. If you have asked about affordable housing in this plan, think about what that's going to do to the affordable housing aspect of it.
 you take the same amount of land, you divide it by fewer buyers, each one's going to pay a bigger chunk of the price. $800 as a bonus might be enough to support the commercial stuff they're talking about out there that way. $350, I'm not sure, and at a mile and a half to into town to the next closest anything, they're going to need a market out there to to support the commercial that they're promising. Don't rezone it for sprawl.
 I mean if you don't rezone for sprawl, it's not going to make me sad, right? But if you do at least make it count, so I hope you'll turn down the BOA, the bill of assurance. Don't make the plan worse than it is, than the city goals and the city plan could allow it to be. Thanks. Thank you. Who else?
 Good evening everyone. My name is Sean Morsey. I live at 1758 South River Meadows Drive. Mayor Jordan, you and I have been on an email chain regarding my property. I would just like to echo. I would like to see something done with the infrastructure before we start bringing more
 properties out there. I've become a celebrity of the neighborhood of the swamp guy. Just to the north of my house has become progressively worse. We bought our house in 2017. Over the last three years, it has become an absolute lake.
 It's Lake Sequoia Part 2. I've been to Home Depot and purchased about a $500 pump. It's a sewage pump. It's a two-inch line. It can move about 14,000 gallons an hour. I have refilled that gas tank. It can do about 14,000 gallons of water within one gas tank. There are days I've done four, five, six tanks of gas.
 WHICH EQUATES TO QUITE A BIT OF WATER THAT I'M MOVING OFF OF MY PROPERTY AND ONTO THE STREET. I WILL SAY TAKE THE OPPORTUNITY TO SAY THANK YOU FOR THE RECENT CURB CAPS THAT HAVE BEEN PUT ON BY THE TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT. THE PROBLEM WITH THAT, AND I DON'T WANT TO SAY THANK YOU AND THEN SAY BUT, HOWEVER, I
 they are above where the water sits. So we have a PVC pipe that leads to the street, so I don't have to put a hose over the top of the sidewalk now. I can filter it underneath, but I still have 40, 50, 60,000 gallons of water to move when it rains really hard. I also would echo the transportation issues that we have when it does rain hard. The bridge that goes over Dead Horse Mountain Road gets flooded, and that forces all of the traffic back into the neighborhoods.
 So thank you for your time. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. I assume we're going to leave this for two weeks. Is that the game plan I heard? So we'll just let it... What did you all want to have any discussion on it or anything else you want us to bring you or...
 Mayor, I would like to make sure that some of the residents who spoke tonight about flooding issues that we get those addressed in two weeks so that we can find out where the location is and why they're having flooding issues. Was it built before 2014 where we had the new drainage requirements? What remedy do we have, if any? And is this new development going to impact them in any way?
 I'd really also like to hear about the flooding issue on Dead Horse Mountain Road and that bridge. Because if that's a choke point, we really need to have that discussed and analyzed irrespective of the number of dwellings that are proposed to be built. So if we could have some of that information from staff, that would be extremely helpful. Thank you. And I would also ask that we,
 have a revised opinion from staff concerning the bill of assurance, how would that positively or negatively affect your original decision? Yeah, I'm curious to see what that is too. Okay. Anything else? Yes, Mike. For staff, my request is going to be for Tim to be able to provide some additional information about lift station,
 those that are needed or anticipated in the coordination. For me, that's gonna be my issue in particular. Mayor May, I just got a follow up question. Sorry, I didn't hear the last bit. Council Member Whitaker said, he said the list station, like their status, age, and maintenance programs for them generally. And additional requirements for? Like capacity, like improvements and- Or whether-
 we anticipate an additional lift station being required. Thank you for the clarification. Could I follow up on that too? If additional lift stations or capacities required, is this property eligible for cost sharing or not? Because it's outside of the core area. So I like just to make sure and clarify that from Tim as well.
 anything else yes sonya yeah um just wondering about um kind of what the latest plan is for addressing the narrowness of the road like is the road going to expand anytime soon um and what might be done regarding the flooding of the road is that an is that in the future plan i'm not familiar with anything on the immediate work plans but i'll double check that okay thanks
 We'll have Chris Brown here, and we'll thrash around on this a couple of weeks. How's that sound? All right. Okay. I don't have any announcements. No announcements? Okay. Yeah, I tell you what, I wish somebody would bring my gavel back. Maybe I was wrapping it too hard or something. But anyway, we are adjourned.