Yes. Marsh?
 No. Yes. Eddie? Yes. Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes. The ordinance passed. Ah, ah, ah, ah. None of that. Okay. Let's be orderly. Okay. Moving along to new business. Oh. I thought it was Christmas time. I'll talk with him. I've done this. Okay. I don't just go in to sit and listen. So here's my list of all the things I've heard. Say what now? Well, we don't want to make any decisions. Increase the number of police cars for now so that we can start to have enough police cars that our police can take them home because that will last longer. Okay, okay. Let's move along to new business. Number one, under new business resolution, clarify and extend the time frame to solicit proposals for development of the West Avenue parking lot and to consider parking neutral proposals for sale of smaller parcels on southern on the southern end. Matt, I believe this is yours. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I appreciate the council considering this item tonight and for the community taking the time to hear it and weigh in on it. This is a two part resolution. The resolution itself is pretty simple. The first part is to formally delay a request for proposals process until we've completed the entire parking study. And the reason for that is even if we were to move forward with this proposal tonight and sell the small portion of land on the southern lot, there would still be two acres. that remain on the site, which is the size of a normal city block. So there would still be quite the opportunity left. And I think that over the next year, when the full results of the parking and transportation plan come in, we'd have a lot of information to consider whenever we look at the full development of the lot, whether or not we keep apart as open space or do other things with it. The second part... is to formally offer a small portion of the southern end for sale. It's a little bit more than a third of an acre. The idea is that we would list the property for sale following the directions of our land sale ordinance and we'd follow that to the letter. And then whenever we got responses back, we'd judge them according to the offer value, how they met the master plan, whether or not they were parking neutral, and whether or not they had an enforceable timeline and architectural standards. I'm bringing this. Hang on. Y'all, let's shut the phones off, all right? Put them on silent. Put them in your pocket. Put them in your car. We don't need to have cell phones on, all right? Go ahead, Matthew. Thank you. The proposal, which I'll call, I guess, the Rheindel-Sharp proposal, the owner is Brian Rheindel and the architect is Robert Sharp. For me, whenever I saw it, and I've seen most of the concepts for this lot over the past six months or so, was just too compelling to leave on the table. And I thought it was of a small enough size that it was safe for us to consider. It leaves, as I said earlier, the equivalent of an entire city block available for consideration in the future. So it's kind of a slow walk consideration of the site. It's combined, and I think this is a very key piece, it's combined with... property abutting the spring street extension which is owned privately so what's being proposed could not be accomplished by a different owner which is one of the reasons i think it's again again worth considering in advance. And also I think it's clear that it advances a specific recommendation of our downtown master plan which was adopted 12 years ago in 2004. And I don't mean to say that this is a part, this is a building that was sketched in and water colored on a map. I mean this is a specific recommendation called for in the plan to complete both sides of the Spring Street extension. Going back to that master plan, that was back in 2004. Since then, there have been a couple of relevant actions that the council has taken or the city has taken in that 12-year period. Notably, this went out for RFP for the entire lot, I think in 2007 or 2008. And a selection was actually made The development agreement didn't pass our legal review and also the recession kicked in and so the negotiations were never completed. More recently, the council has voted to open up RFPs on this land. I think there's some confusion about that issue, which I'd like to clear up later. And we also voted, of course, to fund a parking study out of our reserves at about $94,000 at the request of the Walton Arts Center and the Dixon Street Merchants Association. And we developed that scope according to their request line by line. That brings me to maybe the history of this, the more recent history. Back about four or five months ago, Rob Sharp asked me to facilitate some meetings with downtown stakeholders. So we met with representatives of the Dixon Street Merchants Association. We met with the executive leadership. at the Walton Arts Center. We showed them this proposal. We had a series of meetings. they also had a proposal because they were worried about uh some of the full development concepts that they had seen coming from others in the community i think they had some very legitimate concerns and their their concept was actually a great um a great uh argument for slow walking this i just want to pass this out to the council i'm sorry you have to share copies or two in that direction and two in this direction And what you'll see here is, you know, on the front page, this is kind of the memo. And this outlines some very good things. Preserve space to meet programmatic needs for festivals, add some more green spaces. They highlight that there's a safety issue for the trail, which I think is very important for us to consider. They also... Whenever they draw this out, you'll see on the second page is the existing lot there, 287 spaces. And you'll see the concept on the third page. Now when I say this was a good start and is a good concept for kind of delaying the conversation, I want to emphasize that that is really what it was, is a good start with good concepts. And Rob actually took some of these ideas as a base and has incorporated into the proposal that you're going to see today. And I think next might be a good idea for us to get to that, but first I want to highlight that For the first time in this conversation, everybody is in the same room. We had those meetings four or five months ago. But since this proposal has come about, it's been very difficult to have a conversation about the facts of this matter because I think that this lot is so important to the community. And that makes a lot of sense. It's a vital part of what we do. And it's rational for us to be cautious about it. And I want to be cautious about it too. But I don't want to delay unnecessarily. And so I think it's timely for us to consider this. for the reasons I've already outlined. I'm worried that there's a politics of allegiance at play. And what I want to do tonight is just get all the facts on the table. And at the end of the day, no matter how this goes, life is going to go on. And it's not really a cataclysmic decision one way or the other. But instead of a politics of allegiance, maybe we can approach this with a politics of the facts. With that introduction, Mayor, what I'd like to do is invite Rob Sharp to present the proposal, and then maybe after he's done, I could talk about some of the recent decisions and why, in more detail, I'm bringing this forward now. Okay. Thank you. I don't know how to advance the slides on the PowerPoint. Is there a controller? Are you the tech booth? Okay. Great. Thank you. My name is Rob Sharp. I'm... architect in Fayetteville, Arkansas. I'm here on behalf of Brian Rindle who's the landowner that owns the land that's adjacent to the West Avenue parking lot as Alderman Petty mentioned the There's a piece of land that's adjacent there that that interface between my clients land and the West Avenue lot has always been a little messy It's a zigzag lot. There's a significant retaining wall. That is also where the multi-use trail is becomes instead of a trail becomes something that's sharing a driving lane with parking lots and when we first started working on this proposal the first city staff member we met with was Matt Mihaljevic the trails coordinator and he agreed this is probably the worst section of trail and what could be the most important part of the city where the Razorback Greenway interfaces with Dixon Street, which is, we all agree, the most exciting street in Arkansas. And so this is a chance to really fix up this area, fix up that property line. And then if the city council decides to proceed with future projects, we have a cleaned up square block to work with. Or if they decide to proceed with a festival space or green space or a park or decide that they want things just the way they are, it's a place that we can create a full stop and we have a finished product. So if you go to the next slide. I want to present just very briefly what I think are the compelling reasons to consider this proposal. First of all, it is a way to fulfill the dream of the master plan. This is a seed that was planted 12 years ago, and enough time has gone by that I think it's time that Fayetteville make every effort to achieve this vision. As I mentioned before, it's a significant improvement in the experience of the multi-use trail. It squares up the property line where the parcels interface. It's a significant financial return on the city's investment from the initial investment in the land. Not only will they get the purchase price, they'll also get all the normal development fees plus ongoing tax revenue. So it takes something that was basically off the tax rolls and puts it back on the tax rolls. It also adds a significant landmark building to the downtown area. The Walton Arts Center has just done a magnificent job renovating their facility. Theater Squared is working on their plans. This is a chance for the private sector to come in with a companion project that's of equal value and quality. My client, in this case, Brian Rindle, he's got an excellent record. He's a local developer. His office is in the Metro District Building as it's been for the last 12 years. He's someone that has the good of downtown Fayetteville in his heart and has a track record of excellent projects. So it's someone you can feel safe about in this instance. And the final thing is this is something that's parking neutral. I know a lot of discussion on this lot has been that no one wants to run the experiment of losing parking spaces in our entertainment district until we know more from the parking study. So I want to stress that this is a project that we can do that redistributes parking, but we don't lose any parking. So it's something that we should feel good about in that case. So this slide, this is the proposed site plan, and it's south is down the Nadine Baum Center in the Metro District buildings at the bottom of the page. You see how the trail will cut through the building, and then there will be a row of trees protecting it from the current parking lot and then get back on the trail. The next slide... This shows the parcel diagram that we're piecing together in order to take these remnant parcels and make a development proposal. As was mentioned previously, it's about a third of an acre in size. If you're going to see what it's like in real life, go down to Grubbs and stand about halfway in the middle of Grubbs and look due west, and everything on the left will be the development proposal, everything on the right will remain as it is. That gives you a real sense of the size of the parcel that we're talking about. In the next slide, this is just a diagram that we show how the parking that would be displaced by fixing the trail and selling off this piece could be redistributed along West Avenue. So in two and a half blocks, we can create all the parking that was there with no additional property by just moving a few curb lines and painting some stripes and pouring some sidewalks. This is the final site plan that we're looking at. This is with north to the right of the page, Dixon Street's on the right. And you can see how this fits in and really completes Spring Street and also creates that opportunity for the theater squared parcel. These are our designs for the building. As we mentioned earlier, this is not just a quick sketch. This is something we worked on all the floor plans and the elevator shafts and the structural system. And so this is a proposal that's as far along as we could take it at this point in time. But it's not just a rough sketch. It's a fully developed proposal. And we feel it's a scale that's appropriate for downtown at this time. This is another view of it. If you were hovering over Nadine Baum Center, that's what it would look like. We've been very specific in the proposal about the materials that we use. We'll be using brick and stone and pressed metal and sash windows and decorative ironwork. So this is something that you can feel confident about, that this is the type of building we'll bring forward. And our proposal is that the sale not happen until we have submitted a building permit, which means that all these issues will be down in black and white and reviewed by all the city entities. And so this is something that you have a chance to make sure you get what was promised to you. This is a vision of what could this is a Larimer Street in Denver and it's something that this is what Spring Street could be like once they're significant buildings on both sides of the street we could since it's the street is private at that section we can have festivals there we can string lights over it and have receptions or art shows or many activities so the space between the buildings is as important as the buildings themselves. And then the final slide. This shows what the north side of the building would look like if you're standing on Dixon Street and looking at it, and this shows, you know, if Blacks, Blues, and Barbecue is going on or another event is going on, this would provide the backdrop for that festival. I'd just like to conclude by saying it is a substantial project but it is the best way the city can test out the waters for development see how the process works we'll have the next 12 to 14 months to work all these details out and then you'll have a lot better information going forward with RFP you'll know what issues can come up and it'll be a an excellent chance to get a building going now rather than waiting for you know 15 months until the till the process starts And I'll be happy to answer any questions now or just go sit down and answer questions later. Do we have any questions after I wrap up? Yes, thank you. Thank you. So I wanted to address a couple of the recent votes and how there may be some confusion about that. But first, just to summarize, if we were to do something like this, we'd fix the trail. Before we were even negotiating, just the offer letter would pay back the reserves we used for the parking study more than three times, Property taxes from this project when completed would put more than $80,000 into our school district budget every year There would be more than a hundred and ten thousand dollars to the city and parks development and impact fees It's parking neutral and the parking is redistributed to West Avenue where we have lanes that are the size of interstate lanes and Speeding is excessive. So there would be a traffic traffic calming effect and and more than that. I think that I The proposal is really the kind of thing that ends up on a postcard in the future, and the impact of that is hard to quantify, but I think it's something we need to be aware of. With regards to the prior vote, there has been what is in my opinion some misinformation about the meaning of the resolution that we passed back on March 1. That was a resolution to open RFP process for the site. I wanted to clear this up because I hear from so many people, and this is something I'm working on every day. every day in the meetings I have in my role as an alderman and in my role as a commissioner of the Advertising and Promotion Commission. I hear this all the time. all the time that Fayetteville changes its mind too much to do business here. I hear it from bank presidents, I hear it from developers, I hear it from people that are the same ideology as me. And I think that it's a perception issue. I don't think it's actually true, but I think that I should clear up this misinformation because I think that if as a council we move forward with offering this small piece of a fraction of the lot for sale that were actually being very consistent with what we did on March 1st. So I actually went back and I watched the tapes. It was not a deja vu experience I would recommend for most people. So on March 1st, let's see, not many of us spoke on March 1st when we were considering this item. Jeremy did a fantastic introduction of the history, and then the council talked about things for, I don't know, 10 or 20 minutes in total, not very long at all. Alderman Matur, you asked about the stream on the site, and Alderman Kenyon, you spoke about that as well. Mayor Jordan, you clarified that you just wanted our input, and you also underscored the fact that you didn't want to lose parking spaces. Alderman Marsh, then you talked. You said a few things. You characterized a lot. You also said, and this is what I'm getting at, you said that you were willing to break it into smaller parcels and considering doing this in an incremental fashion today. uh then i spoke i said that we should look at the parking district as a whole before we consider the whole lot i said that if we were to develop the lot it would give us a means to do other improvements in the district that may make some of the existing assets we have like the parking deck at the library more useful I also said that maintaining a portion of the site as open space for festivals is absolutely critical and I want to reiterate that today. When I wrote a grant three years ago in the University of Arkansas Community Design Center study this site, we came to the same conclusion and when we worked with the director at Bicoluzan Barbecue they told us that they needed about 50,000 square feet of space and that's what we baked into the plans and I'm still committed to that. i also said that i favored an incremental approach like alderman alderman marsh had mentioned and i said that while we needed to wait for a parking study uh before we considered the entire site that i knew that we would have interim results in the meantime that might let us take on something that was smaller in nature something that was uh more of a test of what what we might want to happen uh down there and you know we are going to have those interim results at the beginning of july we're going to have those before we vote on this project which is one of the reasons i think introducing it now and giving people a time the community time to consider it while those results come in is a timely way uh to to go about it Alderman Long was the first person to speak after public comment. We had two members of the public do public comment, and then Alderman Long said that he wanted to get the RFPs out so that we knew what our options are and could consider those things even in advance of the parking study. So I think we're being consistent with what we've done. Whenever we met on – At the next meeting on March 15th, it was to actually fund the parking study, and there was no mention of this. We talked mostly about the transportation master plan. So I think that the record shows there's been council support for an incremental approach, and we've been clear that we were going to rely on interim results, which we want to do. So about that parking study, I have another handout. This is the piece. This is a description. This is from the – Transportation scope, here's three that way, the rest this way. This is a description of what we'll have in hand in June. This is an analysis of existing and future demand. Basically what this says is it looks at the amount of parking we need now, the amount of parking that we have available across the whole district, and the amount of parking we expect to need in the future depending on how downtown develops. It's the piece we need to consider anything happening on the West Avenue lot at all, and we're about to have it. What we won't have are the pieces that come next summer, the comprehensive pieces that are like, change these six words in the code to make your parking policies better. And I don't think we need that to consider something like this that is so relatively incremental. That full scope is so expansive, it really gets to everything. But we're going to have the critical pieces here in just a few weeks. So in terms of the land sale procedure, i've seen online and a few people have called me asking if it's my intent that we just approve this today without considering anything else and that's absolutely not the intent I don't think that would be responsible. We have a land sale ordinance, first off, that we have to follow. So there's just a matter of the law. But second off, if somebody comes in with a better offer at a higher price that makes more sense and advances the downtown master plan for us, then the city's better off to take that offer than the one we've been shown tonight. So I just think that's the best thing to do as a representative of the public. The other thing I want to talk about is the appraisal. So we did have this land appraised. i read every page of the appraisal here it is it's been distributed in our packet there's one thing i noticed whenever i read this and it seems like the directive given to the appraiser which he followed absolutely was to uh appraise this in a way that would that would bring back the highest possible sale price for the land regardless of our intention and And, you know, some people think that an appraisal is an appraisal and that's just a number and that's what it's worth. But the appraiser and every appraisal I've ever read, they're very careful to explain, to condition their valuation based on the intentions to develop. And so there's a key piece on page 43 that I think captures this. And what you'll see as you look at this is the blue dots on this graph are all of the data points. The ones that are circled are the ones used to develop the evaluation. And what happened was the appraiser took every land sale that had gone to rent by the bedroom student housing in downtown and used that valuation and applied it to this lot. That's only accurate if this council wants to put rent by the bedroom student housing on it. And those valuations outpace the comparables of other types of development downtown by a factor of 2.5%. by a factor of two and a half. So any statistician who looked at that analysis would say those are outliers, you need to get rid of them, they're not relevant to the study. And if we do that, what we see is that the offer price that's come in is actually much higher than the average of all the other comparables. And that's before we enter negotiations. That's just the initial offer we have. In regards to the incremental approach, there are a couple of reasons to do this. One, it increases the value of the rest of the site if we are to develop the remaining two acres. There's a tendency in government to do things in one transaction because it minimizes your transaction costs. It's the easiest way politically to get something done. But in terms of absolute value capture from the sale, it's much better to do something that will appreciate the value of the remainder of the site. And developing a small portion of the property with something that is of very high quality will do exactly that. Number two, it preserves two acres of open space. It gives us time to consider it, so there's no threat whatsoever to the ability to run festivals or other programming. And finally, and this is the most important part, is it tests a new development concept. And it tests it in a parking neutral way. And it allows us to say after this is done, you know what, that was enough. Or maybe we'd want more. But we still have that option to decide. So we don't have to program the entire lot in one go. Now in terms of why we might do this now, You know, if we didn't do it now, let's say we just decide that we are going to wait to do anything at all until we have the full results of the entire parking city and transportation master plan in hand, all of it. Well, in terms of lost time, it's going to be 12 months till we have that in hand. Then it's going to be another six months. roundabout until an RFP process is concluded. We're at 18 months now. Then once we select something, it's going to be at least another 12 months until they can get through schematic design and design details and construction documents and building permits. And there's probably a fudge factor in there that I'm just going to assume everything works out perfectly and not really count. So we're at a... 30 months before something would be in the ground, before we'd be adding anything to the tax base, before the school district would be getting $80,000 a year. And so there's a real opportunity cost to not doing something sooner. If we do this very modest proposal sooner, we capture all that now. I think it's just very simple, it's the bird in the hand principle. You know, we were told at one of our meetings by a commercial broker that we should hold off because the land's always gonna appreciate in value and it's gonna be more valuable five years down the line. And that's true, but unless the land appreciates faster than our costs of doing things is increasing, across the city, then we aren't really gaining anything. It's a wash. So to be clear, this is about opening up the thing, the procedure for these small parcels. This isn't about just signing off on what we've seen tonight. And it's about adding $80,000 in tax revenue annually to the school district. It's about repaying the cost of the parking study more than three times over. It's about being able to make some of these public improvements to the district that may make existing assets useful. And I think anywhere else in any other sector, we would call doing those things good business. And what I am fearful of is that a politics of allegiance that has preceded the facts being presented is going to argue to us that we should be paralyzed with further analysis. And like I said, that's okay if we make that decision as a council, but we should make that decision as a council in full light of the facts and with full community input. I I think it's good business. And I think we're going to be told tonight, it's going to be presented to us as though there's a unified front in opposition. but i don't think that's true based on the phone calls i've had based on the recessions i've had to the media coverage which only started yesterday and so i'd urge the council just to proceed with caution i don't want to vote on this tonight i don't want to vote on it until we have those parking results in hand but after that you know maybe at july the july 5th meeting or maybe at the meeting the third week of july maybe it's time to make a decision and vote uh voted up or down whether or not we're gonna consider something smaller on the southern end of the lot So with that, you know, I'm anxious to hear what the thoughts of the council are. I know Rob will answer any questions. I'll answer any questions to the best I can. I know we've got a lot of members of the public that are passionate and have opinions about this, and I think we should be anxious to hear them. What questions do we have in the council? Okay. Well, let's open it up for public comment. Now everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Keep your remarks addressed to me. Don't engage a council member or anybody in the public, okay? You get one turn for the microphone unless the council member brings you up to ask you questions. Fair enough? Okay, good. Yes. Mayor Jordan, thank you for having us tonight. I'm Sarah Sparks-Stebold. I'm an investor both locally and statewide. I also consult businesses for growth and merger and acquisition potential. And I'm a resident of Fayetteville at 1662 East Amber Drive. I have a couple of questions to address to you, Mayor, before I make my comments, just for clarification purposes. The actual dates that the physical parking study was conducted, do we know those dates? Peter? Yes, we do. I would like the dates, please. So there were no physical parking dates? No on look prior to that. Those were the only two dates that they visually, okay, perfect, thank you. My second question is in regards to the appraisal, and I read through the appraisal and did not see this, hence the term for the question, is was there analysis made to different values per space, i.e., are the spaces... the Dixon Street frontage valued at a higher price per square foot than those say in the back corner or on the West Street lot where that was the appraisal I couldn't tell that the appraisal was broken out that way so No, it wasn't broken out that way. The appraiser looked at the land as though it was raw land and that it was developable for any uses allowed in the zoning code. I suspect that there's actually a gradient of value from one side to the other, but the appraisal didn't get to that. My contention would be that the spaces closest to Dixon are probably the most valuable. And my third question prior to my comments, was there any consideration on financial analysis in reference to the city's financial well-being about the lost tax revenue from area businesses? There was a lot of commentary about gained tax revenue from property taxes and such, but the potential of lost revenue from businesses relocating due to lack of parking or lost business revenue. I do not know. I don't know the answer to that question. I don't believe so. I would not think so, but we can look into it, sir. And to your comment on the parking, all we've done on the parking is calculate a per space revenue generated for the full year divided by the number of spaces, $400 per space in event parking, $900 per space on the meter revenue for a total of $1,300 per space for that lot. Thank you. And the numbers, a lot of this stuff will come a little clearer. We're supposed to get some preliminary numbers by the end of the month, isn't that right, Chris? We were talking about some of this stuff today, and I don't have an answer because I haven't seen the preliminary study. It's supposed to be coming down in a couple of weeks. And on behalf of the Dixon Street Merchants Association, I would ask that we delay – making any decisions about this in any capacity whether it be all the lot partial lots what have we not until we do get the comprehensive parking study back and we can see from top to bottom do we have currently or do we have adequate parking or do we have an immense shortage of parking Until we can clearly lay out and view the study that we've paid the $96,000 for, the Dixon Street Merchants Association would request that the council hold off on taking any action on hearing RFPs or issuing RFPs until that study is complete. Now, the transportation study as a whole will not be ready until next year. But I think the – yes. Mayor, if I could ask – if I could just ask Chris Bounds, so that everyone's clear what the city will receive at the end of this month versus what we contracted as a part of the contract. So, Chris, could you describe that just so we're all on the same page? Yeah. Okay, one of the first deliverables from the Transportation Master Plan is a parking demand analysis. So it's basically taking the studies that we've done, the information that they pulled, that Peter's group pulled together with counting all of the cars in each parking lot. They will provide us with essentially a technical memo that describes the – the availability of parking versus demand. They'll also be looking at future land use, future development, so they'll be giving us future demand analysis as well. So essentially we'll kind of give you a snapshot of what's out there now, how much that's being utilized, and then going forward what the demand will look like. So this is just the initial review of that analysis. the parking demand. Okay, Chris, on that, then there's like the overall transportation plan, but then there's the parking and the Is that going to come in any quicker than the master transportation plan? There are obviously a lot of other parts to the plan. It'll be the fall. We'll start seeing some of the initial concepts. But this initial memo, the initial demand analysis, they have told us by the end of June. So coming up, and it may be delayed a little bit just based on some discussions that we've had, but But that part is coming, so we will know really what the current and future demand is on a preliminary basis. Obviously, there's more work to be done. Those are not the finalized numbers, though, exactly. That's right. They're not the final numbers. And the other big part of the parking that we've talked about is the entertainment district versus the downtown and the management of that. And there's still a lot of work to be done around that. you know, potential changes in fees. There are a lot of different things that they'll be looking at. But this initial existing and future demand is what we're expecting at the end of this month. Any questions for Chris? Okay. Thank you, Chris. I think somebody said earlier we're not a 36,000-person sleepy little college town, and clearly we're not. I'm an advocate of growth and development and investment in this area. I'd love to go visit with the mayor and his office about igniting economic development in our area and creating things like attainable housing and green businesses and enduring jobs. postcard towns I think someone used that phrase earlier also an adjunct faculty at the University of Arkansas and I know where the parking problem is up there and so frequently during the day I see lots of my students walking up the hill on Dixon Street so I think there's just a comprehensive view that we have to have before we start one-off and picking off parking spaces from key lots especially in light of the white the 23 million dollar WAC renovation not being complete yet. So they have yet to realize the full potential of what that expansion will do. Lastly, the last point I'll make is that a few years ago when we voted on this bond initiative to raise the money for the WAC project and the regional sports park, I was very involved with getting that bond initiative passed because I felt like it was the right thing to do for growth and development, especially in our downtown area. I supported that as did many of my friends on the premise that we would have access to get to the Walton Art Center And by that, I mean not parking four to five blocks away. My grandmother is 90 years old. She loves to come three or four times a year to the art center, and it's not feasible for her to walk four or five blocks away. So I think, in essence, for those of us that did support the bond initiative to revamp that, it was on the premise that we would have the public convenience of having parking next to this expansion facility. So I would just ask that the council take a step back, take a deep breath. I don't believe we're in analysis paralysis, as we call it in our business, when investors can't make decisions. I think we just step back a little bit and wait until we get all of the clear facts before we move forward with the RFP process to avoid any potential legal situations, which we heard an example of earlier. Thank you. Thanks. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Good evening, Council. Good evening, Mayor. Hunter Haynes, 4796 Prestwick. Thank you. I want to try, there's several things I'd like to get into. I kind of want to clear up, I struggle with why this is even being presented, and I appreciate what was said about the opportunities that are here and opportunity costs that are lost, but the offer that's been made is essentially 45 cents on a dollar for a piece of property. I understand it's going through a negotiating process and going through a contract, The timeline that's laid out is two months to negotiate a contract, 12 months before submitting a building permit, and not closing until after a building permit is secured. So I'm sorry, I really struggle to understand how we're getting a windfall of anything here and any cash in any reasonable amount of time. And then we're talking about this money going towards doing this off-site parking. That's great. I think that's wonderful. But we're paying essentially what one year's revenue is off each one of those spaces is contribute to do that off-site parking. It's $87,000. That's building 1,000 lineal feet approximately of eight feet of sidewalk and curb. That's doing, this is a part that I like a lot. It's taking 550 feet of property that's currently used as a parking lot and adjusting that property line over so the city is essentially losing that property. And if we're going to use the appraised value of $44.27, that's $194,000 that we've lost. thrown away. Then we're going to go up the way to Nadine and Baum's studio. And then we're going to take property from the university. That's what the proposal is in order to accomplish this off-site parking, this net neutral parking. That's $270,000 just in property right acquisition. If I run conservatively, I'm sorry to understand how this is, from a fiscal sense, net neutral in any way, let alone how if I'm taking my property line eight feet along the 550 feet that the is long west of this parking lot. I'm moving my property line eight feet to the west. What am I gonna do with the 29 parking spaces that I'm impacting there? Do all those now become compact cars? Do all those go away? I don't understand that. And then who's responsible for restructuring all the parking inside of the existing surface lot along with the downtime and lots of questions there. The way this was presented, well, the way I understood it, and I'm obviously one of the individuals that would love to participate in the RFP process. I think this is a wonderful piece of property, as a lot of people do. But going through the traffic study process in order to get clear understandings of what the real situations were so that everything could be done in an open, equitable, in the light of day environment, DISCUSSION ANALYSIS IS WHAT I FULLY ANTICIPATED AND WHAT I THOUGHT WAS FAIR AND WILLING TO TOTALLY ABIDE BY. THIS IS NOT THAT WAY. THIS IS TAKING CONSIDERATION OF ONE PIECE OF PROPERTY THAT FOR WHATEVER REASON SEES IT'S BEEN SEEN FIT TO BRING IT FORWARD NOW. THE DATES ON THE PROPOSAL ARE MARCH 9, 2016. WHY ALMOST FOUR MONTHS LATER IS TODAY THE DAY WE GOT TO DO THIS? WE HAVE TO LOOK AT THIS THING. And then there's been discussion of opportunity cost. Based on the timelines we're talking about, I can't understand an opportunity cost in any way, shape, or form. So another thing that was said was the full light of the facts, having all those, and wanting to make sure that was done. That is in no way, shape, or form what I feel is being done or asked of the rest of the council by this agenda. And I would ask that everybody take a step back and reflect. really ponder that question. Is this the intent of what we intended to do through our process, and how do we want to move forward? And if we're all throwing offers out there, I would buy the property tomorrow. I'll close on it in 30 days for the price per square foot that they're offering and maintain it as a surface parking lot. You can manage it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mr. Mayor, members of the council, my name is Steve Clark. I'm a Fayetteville resident, 438 East Fairway Lane, president of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. This proposed development came to our attention months ago. At the time it was presented to us, we thought it had lots of potential, lots of promise. Our concerns were about parking for two reasons. One, as your economic development advisor, We tell you we need parking and you heard that mayor when you came into office and there is a Spring Street parking deck there and there was one promise for 20 years that never got there. It's there, but we still claim we need more parking. So please understand and I'd like all the council to make note of from the chamber's perspective, both as advice to you and as advocate for businesses, we need more parking. Now, how that takes shape and what form, I don't know. It might be a deck. It might be surface parking. It might be something else. There are new ideas out there. There are new ways to use parking spaces for multi-purposes, not just to address a vehicle at different parts of the day and time. But we believe in parking. We now are the landlord's ten tenants on the square. Believe me, we believe in parking. If they can't park, they can't eat Tim's pizza. If they can't eat Tim's pizza, he can't pay my rent. I want parking. Real simple, real simple. But all that being said, the world has changed on us in terms of economic development. We at the chamber sometimes try to tell our new prospective members that this isn't your father's chamber and this isn't your grandfather's chamber. We're more into innovation and making and other sorts of things that were not what the 20th century was in economic development. In the 20th century, economic development was green fields and empty buildings. If you got a place to build a building, it's available today, and you give it to me for a dollar and a handshake and a hug, we're there. We're there. If you've got a building and it's empty and you'll rent it to us for 65 cents a square foot and handshake and a hug, we're there. That doesn't work anymore. Really, economic development in the 21st century is about talent and a sense of place. And one of the things that we saw about this project that we thought made it attractive was the sense of place that it helps create. So we started with the proposition anything that diminishes the number of parking space is bad, even by the number one. It diminishes by one. If it's not neutral, it's bad. I've heard the mayor say that. I've heard some of the city council say that. So this met that challenge. We then looked at it as a sense of place. We are number 10 of about 350 MSAs around the country in percentage of millennials. We want to be number one. Millennials are not unlike boomers. They are affected by the sense of place. They are drawn to the sense of place. We have some things that give us a great sense of place, but we're adding to those, and we need to continue to add to those to be competitive not only as a community and a community in a region, but as a region and a community in a nation and in a world. So our trails make a sense of place. Councilman Marsh has quoted me a time or two where I've said that the trails are ribbons of commerce. They clearly are. That's irrefutable. You just cannot challenge that. That's the truth. And that's the sense of place. We see this project as one which is about sense of place. We don't see it about taking away parking spaces. We don't see it about making a premature decision about how to use a small parcel of land that's adjacent to a larger parcel of land. We tell you that whatever it says at the end of June or the end of July about parking needs and demands, we want to multiply that times three. We're going to say, we think we're going to grow that fast. We're going to need those spaces. And if they're not for automobiles, they're for scooters. If they're not for scooters, they're for bicycles. If they're not for bicycles, they're for people using public transportation. I was just in one of our businesses in downtown this morning exercising, wearing my Jeremy Pate glasses now. And the owner said to me, this is the best summer I've ever had in my business. And he said, the only thing I can attribute to is how many people live downtown. And they just walk over. That's the changing nature of our community. We see this project. We're not critical of you get to make decisions on timelines. That's your decision. But we're telling you that we don't see that this project does anything to hinder the advancement of what we're trying to do to address the parking issue and what we're trying to do to advance that sense of place that is Fayetteville. And there is a new Fayetteville. And it is emerging. And it is developing a real strong sense of place. I spoke in Little Rock today to a group of people from across the nation who are in the rural electric business. And three of them said, you know, I've never been there, but I've heard a lot about your place. We were striving five years ago to be that kind of community. We said we'd like to be like Austin. People say, Austin's a great place. Never been there, but I want to go. Boulder's a great place. Never been there, but I want to go. I want to go. You know, how people say that, well, we're getting some of that achievement now. And I think that is directly tied to that sense of place. So we see this project as adding to that identity. Now, I professed this to a member of the city council last week. And that person expressed shock and dismay. I said that my spouse, many of you know my spouse... And I have taken up bicycle riding. And the councilman said, that's dangerous. And that probably is a correct assessment. But we're riding those trails every weekend now, 10, 12, and 15 miles. And we're like teenagers. We're so giddy about how much fun we're having doing that. Well, we ride right through that space right there. And that small portion where we ride through the parking lot is not the best experience. Now, we have not... been threatened by or exposed to a risk personally, but we actually had our grandchildren once, and our youngest grandchild was eight, and that was one of our fears, and that didn't happen to you anywhere else on the trail. So we liked the idea that part of this is about adopting all of those assets that we have in Fayetteville to help define this sense of place. The time is up to you guys, but we're telling you we don't think it's necessary to hold adopting an effort that are at least examining effort. And I heard other speakers and I heard Councilman Petty, if you can get a better offer, you can get a better project, that's great. But this third of a land or two-thirds of an acre of a land to us gives a potential for the opportunity for our city to take a step forward and advance that sense of place that is tied to the Walton Arts Center and that is tied to hopefully what will be the development of Theater Squared and that is tied to the entertainment district directly on Dixon and then those subsequent businesses off Dixon and to the square and the connection by rock and to the Rock Street Festival and to the library and to the other developments that we hope will be a part of downtown. And so we tell you that we think this is a good project. Whatever you decide, it will be right. You don't make wrong decisions, but we think this is a good project. And it isn't a time as of the essence, but it certainly isn't a, oh, my gosh, we have to wait frozen in our shoes until we get some other information. Because if you're advancing economic development, we think this is a step in the right direction. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? I'm Barbara Taylor, and I'm a resident of Fayetteville, and I'm speaking to you tonight as a city appointee on the Walton Arts Center Council and representing the Arts Center Council today. I would like to preface my remarks by saying that I've long admired the work that Rob Sharp has done, and I think that his buildings are... enhancement to our community and that there is a great deal of work and integrity in what he's done. So this is not a statement in opposition to his building, but rather a plea that we consider all alternatives. I would strongly encourage the City of Fayetteville to complete its comprehensive parking study for the Arts and Entertainment District before any development of the West Avenue parking lot is considered. The city's year-long parking study is designed to identify needs and demands of parking downtown and to give a better understanding of the complex and important parking challenges facing the Arts and Entertainment District. The findings are intended to update the original downtown master plan for the entertainment district and guide future development of the entertainment district, including the West Avenue parking lot, also known as the Walton Arts Center parking lot. Parking is a key issue for everyone who comes to Dixon Street. the Dixon Street Merchants Association, the Dixon Street Improvement District, and the Walton Arts Center, expect the city's study to identify the quantity of parking spaces needed today, and more importantly, to determine how many parking spaces will be needed in the years to come. The plan will also help the City develop criteria for the West Avenue parking lot and understand the immediate steps that can be taken to make parking a better experience for patrons, customers, and visitors. We see the parking study as a critical first step, which needs to be completed before any further development plans are considered for downtown. A detailed assessment of current parking needs and the steps that are needed to meet the projected growth of the district are essential to understanding how best to address economic growth and parking requirements that will keep the Arts and Entertainment District vibrant and growing. We believe it would be best to suspend the consideration of any further development of the West Street parking lot until the parking study is completed, and criteria for future development, such as festival space, retail, mixed-use parking, and many more, can be determined by the City. In addition, we fully support an open and transparent process where the citizens of Fayetteville can have an opportunity to weigh in on any future development of the last open space in the downtown entertainment district. And through which all future development proposals can be reviewed fully rather than considering just one. Thank you. Thank you, Barbara. Can I ask a question? Sure. Barbara, we have a question for you. Ma'am, can I just ask you a quick question? I'm sorry, and I don't know if you can answer this or not, but do you have a timeline of when the Walton Arts Center will be completed and fully operational? Yes. In early November of this year, of 2016, yes. In fact, we've already determined some opening celebration dates. for the Walton Arts Center. So it will be about the middle of November when all will be open. And as we did last summer, we've just closed for the summer to facilitate the building process to make it go faster so the workers don't have to work around events that are going on. So... last week actually closed and will reopen in November and all of the work at that time will be complete and the whole of Fayetteville we hope will come and celebrate the reopening with us. Thanks for your question. Sure, thank you. Any other questions I could address? Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Yes, come up. Mr. Mayor, Council, I'm Carl Collier, 2165 Mander Drive. I wanted to address you. You've heard about the Arts Center. You've heard from Sarah with the Dixon Street Merchants Association. I want to speak to you in regards to the Dixon Street Improvement District, which represents the property owners in the district. We were formed in 1987 to facilitate the... building of both the Arts Center parking lot and the Arts Center. And the question comes to me is, what's the hurry? I'm not sure what, Matthew, what your goals are long term, but I don't see any big rush. The value of that land is going to be nothing but up, and I think it'll far outweigh the opportunity cost that you're going to lose. School district is not counting on that 80,000 every year. They haven't planned on it. At some point in time, the value will generate more revenue for them. One thing that we fear as a property owners association is that if you build this project and you take .39 acres off the south end of that lot, What's going to keep the next developer for coming to you and saying, well, you'd let them have it. I need 100 feet on the end of that lot. And what you're going to see and you're going to be under pressure to do is going to be like a domino effect. And we've talked about that in our meetings. The Arts Center fears that you're going to lose 290 spaces real quickly. We're going to lose all event space. And as the Improvement District, we have offered to make the modifications to that lot, and we have shown you what we would like in the way of beautification of that lot. We've submitted several plans to that. And speaking on behalf of the Dixon Street Improvement District, we would do that with no loss of parking space to make it an attractive space and still make it a venue for us. Right now the parking survey was done April 28th and 30th. School was already mostly out at the university. A lot of the kids had already gone home. Art Center was closed. There was no event, so you're going to see numbers that are minimalistic on demand on that. I want you all to wait and Until the full study is done, the Arts Center will have been in full gear beginning in November. We'll have the winter to look and see whether that study really represents what we're going to be looking at demand-wise. I just think there's no hurry, and I think you're opening up a can of worms by even asking for proposals. You've seen Hunter Haynes, Hunter... I made a proposal adding 1,000 parking spaces and a deck and a huge development for the whole lot. What we don't need is an over project that has a chance of failure. Right now, you're going to see a project, Rob's project. It looks fine, and yet you're not considering the staging that's going to be required to build that project. You're not going to consider the staging that's going to be required by Theater Squared building. You saw the amount of staging that are required to build the deck, and it took that 54 space lot on Spring Street, filled it up with staging material. I just urge you all, let's use care. Let's be prudent. Take your time. There's no hurry. We can wait a year. We're not going to slow anything down that isn't worth the wait. Thank you. Thank you, Carl. Carl, hang on. Mr. Collier, can I ask you a quick question? I'm sorry. How long have you been a part of the Dixon Street community? How long has Collier's been open? 1950, May 26th. In general, we've been in Fayetteville since 1917, and so this is our 99th year. And that's with experience on the square, coming all the way down block to Dixon Street. I think the merchants associations of those three areas all have good experience. In talking to them, none of them are in a big rush whatsoever. for you all to do anything on that area, but wait and let's see what's required after that parking study. That's what we want you to do. Wait for the full study and also see if you think that it's accurate. Steve Clark has already said we're probably looking to triple the demand if the projected growth is what we think it's going to be. and that projected growth is going to be parking. Theater Square is going to help fill up that deck that we just built by the Arts Center. So don't let the small numbers fool you right now. It's going to be needed, and that 290 spaces on the WAC lot are going to be needed also. Thank you. Thank you, Carl. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Well, who would like to be first? Thank you. All right, Sarah. SARAH HOLLANDER- I think that this is an excellent proposal. There was a study done a few years ago in Seattle that showed that for every professional living and working in downtown, they were able to support five additional service industry positions. And what this project allows us to do is put more residents and businesses downtown. I'm less concerned with providing parking spaces than I am in providing reasons for people to live and work downtown and shop. spend money and people will find ways to get to desirable locations this land is too valuable to be leaving vacant having a hole in our downtown is not good for our community vitality and as far as setting a precedent for small lot development I think that's an excellent precedent if you look at how Dixon Street was traditionally developed those storefronts are what 50 to 100 feet wide and so I think it fits with the character of the community and the traditional town form that we've decided to make standard in our community so I think this is an excellent proposal and I look forward to moving ahead with it Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. Well, I want to underscore what I said at the very beginning. Alderman Petty, could you turn your mic on, please? Thank you. I want to underscore what I said at the very beginning, which I think it would be wrong to vote tonight. I do think we need to have the existing and future demand analysis in hand before we vote, and we're going to have that soon. So I hope the council will agree with me on at least that point. I also want to thank... Everybody who spoke, in particular Mr. Collier, who I think outlined what the real concerns are whenever he told us that there have been conversations about a domino effect and what might happen if we were to allow development even on the small portion of the property to proceed. And this concern that maybe that means that we're going to automatically or at least be enthusiastic about developing the rest of the lot in a hasty manner. And that is precisely the reason that this is a two-part resolution. And there's one part that we're talking about, part two. And part one is about formally committing us to not doing anything else with the other two acres until we have the full study in hand. Because a decision of that magnitude, of a two-acre magnitude, does require a systems-wide analysis. But I maintain that a parking neutral decision that is only about a third of an acre we can do with the interim analysis. and that's really it i don't have a whole lot more to say um i know we had there was some criticism at the beginning about the math um i don't even think that's worth addressing uh at this time until we get into detailed construction plans um i think it works out there i've looked at the right-of-ways uh and i want to close just maybe my comments by underscoring what uh steve clark said which is that um talent is the name of the economic development game today We hear that all the time. I hear it from the leaders of the Northwest Arkansas Council. I hear it from the speakers we bring in to talk about regional economic development. I mean, it is just the economic development industry is afire with this realization. You had mostly academics 20 years ago telling us that in the future, kids were going to choose where they wanted to live and then get a job. which was so antithetical to the conventional way of doing economic development and choosing a job and a place to live and raise a family. But that's exactly what has happened today, and everybody is in recognition of that fact because it is so important ubiquitous across the country that that's what people are doing and the way you get talent the way you convince people to choose your community even before they choose a job is through placemaking is through creating that sense of place and so placemaking really does anchor talent and all of our economic development in the future at least 80 or 90% of it is going to be derived from that and so that's that's my goal you know i'm going to sleep fine at night no matter what the council decides on this i don't think this is the kind of i i called it earlier it's not i said it earlier it's not a cataclysmic vote um maybe like some of the other votes we've had that have been uh so controversial i don't think this rises uh to the level of of that i think this is just a a cogent proposal and we should give it its due consideration gentlemen Well, I like the idea of development in general. I like the idea of moving forward. I like innovation. I like invention. I like all of those things. And I like this development. I like what I've seen about it. Now, we can debate the time frame. Should we wait a year? Should we move forward in the next few weeks? I like caution. I like wisdom. I like prudence. And we don't want to do something we'll regret later. I agree. None of us want to do that. But, you know, for someone, for a real estate developer to say, you don't want to develop it this year because three years from now it'll be worth more. Well, if you take that tack, you'll never develop it because it might be worth more later. You have to move on some of these things. We have to be like the frog on the lily pad. Eventually we have to jump. We're going to do something instead of just sit around thinking, oh, it's going to go up in value. We'll be better off economically next year or two years down the road. So I don't think that's really going to play well here. Whether we need the full comprehensive one-year-long study or we will have enough data to make a good choice in a few weeks, I don't know the answer until I see what that data is. Hopefully we can move more quickly than a year. I'm sure the private property owner is thinking more short-term than long-term. And let me say this about private property owner. I'm excited to see a public-private partnership here doing something good for the city. This is what we want. We want private investors to come into our city and pump money into it. That's good for all of us. That makes jobs. That builds all kinds of housing, affordable and medium range and expensive housing. That makes for all kinds of jobs, low paying, mid paying, and high paying jobs. And that's what I'm about, is that economic development. You know, I criticized our decision to pay this Florida firm some tens of thousands of dollars to do an economic development study. I still kind of hold that position, and maybe that was premature criticism, but I still think the best way for us to develop our economy is to get out of the way and let entrepreneurs chase their dreams within a framework of regulation of zoning and things of that nature. I think that's the best way to develop our economy and make jobs and grow our city. within our existing framework. I'm not for laissez-faire in a classic sense. I would want some degree of regulation. But anyway, I like this idea. I like the project. I've seen it. Rob Sharp, who we all say we like his work and we trust his confidence, has told us we don't lose any parking places with this project. And then all of a sudden, we come back and say, well, we're afraid we might lose some parking places. Well, I trust Rob Sharp's evaluation. He gets paid to figure these things out. I don't. So I rely on him for that. So I think parking, losing parking places, at least with this initial project, is not an issue. You know, will we experience a domino effect? I guess that's always a risk. But as Alderman Petty has said, this will be a two-part process, and if we can guarantee that the rest of the parking lot is not developed in any hasty manner, then I think that problem is solved. Yeah, Justin. Thank you, Mayor. First and foremost, I want to tell Alderman Petty I don't know that I've ever seen him so passionate or bullish on one particular project, and I do appreciate him... I do believe he's always thinking of what he thinks is the best for his award that he represents. I do appreciate that passion. I will say I don't appreciate, though, the insinuation, Matthew, when you mentioned politics of allegiance that indicates to me that you think our votes up here are somehow geared because we're friends with people or relatives of people or whatever it may be, and I don't That comment was necessary and I resent it and I don't intend to be talked to by you or anybody else at this table like that. But I will say that I do too agree with just about everybody I think so far that spoke. I like this particular project and the way it looks. I think it's fantastic looking. I think it may be exactly what we need in that spot at some point. I'm not convinced that we are in a hurry. I agree with Mr. Coyier. I don't think that he's seen a lot of years on Dixon Street and waiting a little bit longer I don't think is going to destroy any sort of project. But who I think I do have an allegiance to, and I think I should up here, is the Dixon Street Merchants Association and the Dixon Street Improvement District and the Walton Arts Center themselves, who as far as i know have resoundingly said we need to slow down take a breath and wait on this there was something that troubled me with this proposal where i saw that some alternative parking was going to be parallel parking along west avenue i don't know if the walton arts center thinks that's a good idea for their patrons or not i don't know that that's necessarily a yes or no for us because they're not the only tenant down there but they are a very important one And they're going through a huge expansion that will be finished in November, and we'll finally be able to see exactly what they have to offer, which will be game-changing for the entire part of the country that we live in. And so I want to be real careful on what we do with West Avenue in particular because as they develop that small theater there's ideas for festivals that spill out into the streets and all these different things and And look I'm all for closing streets and having festivals I really really am but I think we need to be real careful on where we start massaging the parking and changing the parking and finally I just have to say this from as a business person standpoint, $337,000, Mr. Henry, I think, said, I'll buy it. You'll have to stand in line with me because if I thought I could spend $337,000 and in three and a half years have that huge debt paid off, I could have investors by noon tomorrow that would go in on that one with me. So I'm not saying that that's the right price or the wrong price, but it seems extremely cheap, even for somebody that owns property next door. As a matter of fact, it should be worth more to them because of that fact. So I am thankful that this sort of idea keeps being brought forward. Thank you. and certainly respectful and supportive of the idea of some sort of development there but i most certainly want to wait for this initial this initial study and i also and i mean right now if i had to to say i would want to wait until the walton arts center opens before we do anything just to make sure that we have a good idea of what the art center is going to really need at that point in that particular area of town because Once we start changing it, it's tough to maneuver. Apparently somebody really didn't like what I was saying, which is not the first time. I would have thought a few months ago that would have happened, but actually it didn't. So anyway, I'm appreciative of the project. Would like to see more like it, but not right now, later. Later when we get a sense of what we really need down there. We're not in a huge hurry. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Justin. It was exciting. Yeah, it was. Looks like we'll be here tomorrow. Any other comments? Yes. Thank you.
 Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Town, I just wanted to sincerely apologize if I miscommunicated what I meant by that term. There's no accusation on this on any of my colleagues up here at all, and I sincerely mean that. I want to impress that upon you. I'm very confident that all of us make decisions that we feel are the best and they aren't bound by allegiance. And it may be a poor choice of words, and I use those words because – Since this has been presented, I haven't been able to get a phone call even with some people, and they've organized without even talking or considering all the facts that have been presented tonight. And so really, truly, this has just been a – my intention has just been an honest presentation of the facts and to call us all to a higher order of consideration and consideration. For all of us, I think it's useful for us to be reminded that we might always learn something new that might change our minds. And that was all I meant by that. And so I sincerely apologize if it was taken in any other way, and that's my fault. Okay. Anybody else? Well, I take it we'll leave it. Do we need to table this? Yep. You have to either table it or vote on it. Yeah. And so, Matthew. Mayor, I move we table this until the next meeting, please. Justin? Second. We have a motion to second the table until the next meeting, which is July the 5th, correct? Yes. July the 5th, it is. And maybe Wednesday we'll meet then. All right. Sondra, would you please call the roll? Don't forget to turn on your mics. Thanks. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. to become a member of the Energy Improvement District Number 1 and to amend 33.381 Board of Directors' Membership Terms of Office of Article 26, Energy Improvement District 1, to provide for the City of Springdale's representation on the Board of Directors. Kit. Whereas on October 15, 2013, pursuant to authority granted by the ACA 8-15-101, the Property Assessed Clean Energy Act, The City of Fayetteville created Energy Improvement District Number 1, and whereas on December 16, 2015, pursuant to the requirements of that act, the Springdale City Council passed Ordinance Number 5001 authorizing the City of Springdale to join the district, and whereas the approval of Fayetteville City Council is required in order for the City of Springdale to join the district. and the Fayetteville City Code must be updated to provide for Springdale's representation on the Board of Directors. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign a membership agreement allowing the City of Springdale to become a member of the Energy Improvement District, Number 1, Section 2. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 33.381, Board of Directors' Membership Terms of Office. of the Code of Fayetteville in an Act of Replacement Section 33.381 as follows. Section 33.381, Board of Directors, Membership, Terms of Office. Subsection A. Until December 31, 2016, Energy Improvement District No. 1 shall be governed by a Board of Directors consisting of nine members. All seven City of Fayetteville appointees shall remain on the Board of Directors. The City of Springdale shall appoint two members. One City of Springdale member shall be the Mayor of Springdale or the Mayor's Designee. Should the mayor's designee designate a member, said member shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor. The remaining city council members shall be a qualified elector of the district chosen by the Springdale City Council. The terms of these members shall expire on December 31, 2016. Subsection B, after December 31, 2016, membership shall be allocated as follows. One member shall be the mayor of Fayetteville or the mayor's designee should the mayor designate a member of such member shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor. One member shall be the mayor of Springdale or the mayor's designee should the mayor designate a member said mayor shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor. Four members, four of the remaining members shall be qualified electors of the district chosen by Fayetteville City Council each to serve a term of two years. Three other remaining members shall be qualified electors of the district chosen by the Springdale City Council, each to serve a term of two years. Subsection C, in making its board appointments, the City Council shall give due consideration to candidates with connections to or relations to the local utility companies, lending or bonding institutions, and the advanced energy industry. City Council appointed members shall be subject to term limitations provided in Section B above. subsection d should additional governmental entities enter into an agreement with the city of fable for participation in addition to energy improvement district number one the competent composition and terms of members of the board of directors shall be as agreed between the city of fayetteville the city of springdale and other participating or agreeing governmental entities okay peter mayor council good evening um The city's energy improvement district number one. I'm the staff liaison to the energy improvement district, and Alderman Marsh is the mayor's designee on that district. Energy improvement district number one manages PACE. PACE stands for Property Assessed Clean Energy District. which is a creative financing mechanism that allows property owners to borrow money for weatherization, energy efficiency, and renewable energy and water conservation improvements to properties within the city of Fayetteville. The security of tying... The repayment of loans for those improvements to property taxes allows for borrowers to borrow money at a lower rate for a longer term, which makes those projects cash flow more effectively. PACE is a completely voluntary program, and it provides for the private investment for the purposes of of energy savings. PACE enabling legislation was passed by the Arkansas legislature in 2013. And that legislation allowed for cities, counties, or multiple cities and counties to work together to create energy improvement districts. On October 15, 2013, the city council, you all passed a resolution creating the state's first energy improvement district pursuant to state law. And that board was seated at the beginning of 2014. In December of 2014, the city's Energy Improvement District successfully launched Arkansas Advanced Equity Energy, A2E2. It was the program to administer PACE, Property Assessed Clean Energy, for the city of Fayetteville. In August of 2015, A2E2 and the Energy Improvement District successfully completed the state's first PACE project on a small commercial property in Colt Square here in Fayetteville. For approximately the past six months, the administration from the City of Fayetteville and the City's Attorney's Office have been in conversations with the City of Springdale about the potential for merging the City of Springdale with the existing Energy Improvement District. And on December 15th, the City Council of the City of Springdale passed an ordinance authorizing Springdale to join the City of Fayetteville's Energy Improvement District. The proposed board composition would go from the current seven member board to a nine member board for the remainder of this year. Fayetteville would continue to have seven members on that board and at the beginning of 2017 Fayetteville would have five members and Springdale would have four members. The expansion of the Energy Improvement District to include the City of Springdale was discussed and received unanimous support at the February 8th Energy Improvement District board meeting. the there is no budget impact to this effort because the energy improvement district continues to be legally and financially independent of the city of Fayetteville and the city of Springdale and so there's no no financial or monetary support from the city to the energy improvement district without be glad to answer any questions about this okay any public comment on this Sarah? This is a welcome development for our energy improvement district. We're seeing some initial success with several projects working with local businesses in our community on energy improvement issues. And this will help... facilitate a regional cooperation on energy issues between our two cities so i think that's a good step in the right direction and as well as this will be help us attract more contractors to join our program because they'll have a larger service base and give our customers more choices as to who they would like to contract with so we said this is a win-win for our energy improvement district very good that it is Okay. Did I take public comment? I did, didn't I? Okay. Any final comments from the council? Do I hear a motion to suspend the rules? Sorry, sorry, sorry. Got carried away there, did not I? Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. John? I second that motion. Okay. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Right. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a membership agreement allowing the city of Springdale to become a member of the Energy Improvement District number one and to amend section 33.381 boards of directors membership terms of office to provide for the city of Springdale's representation on the board of directors. Sir. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. John. Yes. I second the motion. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Any final comments? Okay. Shall the ordinance pass? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Number three, an ordinance waive requirements form competitive bidding and authorize purchase of wayfinding signs, poles, and appurtenances from Agricultural Graphics Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $122,930.98 and to approve a budget adjustment kit. Whereas on December 4th, 2012, the City Council passed Resolution No. 231-12 and Resolution No. 232-12, approving the City's participation in a cooperative wayfinding program in northwest Arkansas. And whereas the original phases of the wayfinding sign program were competitively bid through the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission, an architectural graphics ink was awarded the contract for fabrication and installation of signs throughout the region. And whereas, in order to remain consistent with the existing previously installed signs across northwest Arkansas, including Fayetteville, the purchase of additional wayfinding signs, poles, and appartenances from Architectural Graphics Incorporated for the next phase of the wayfinding sign program is necessary. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds that such circumstances constitute an exceptional situation where competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorizes the purchase of wayfinding signs, poles, and appartenances from Architectural Graphics Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $122,930.98. section two the city council the city of fayetteville archer hereby approves a budget adjustment a copy of which is attached to the agenda packet okay thank you mayor members of council alan p with the engineering staff i think kit covered it fairly well the only things i will add are this is a previously approved cip project council began setting aside money in the 2015-2016 budgets to pay for the wayfinding expansion um We are doing a couple of things with that expansion as proposed. There are several locations that are already signed that we're going to continue signage, expand that out to the other reaches of the city. We are covering some new locations, which I'll cover. First and foremost, I guess City Hall is going to get included. The Regional Park, Kessler Mountain, and the Commerce Districts are just some of the new locations that we will sign with this program. I'll be happy to answer any questions that you guys have. John? I would like for you to describe for us those extraordinary circumstances that require us to waive the requirement for competitive bidding. Sure. Please. As the city attorney indicated, we have an existing program wherein signs were installed and produced by Architectural Graphics Incorporated. We have had other... Municipalities in the region that have gone forward with competitive bidding to, for other manufacturers to produce that signage for them, unfortunately it did not match the existing signage that they had. Ultimately those communities made the decision to kind of scrap that signage and go back and waive competitive bidding and go back to architectural graphics. So we are trying to kind of avoid that issue with the limited funding that we have. Go ahead and waive competitive bidding so that we'll be ensured that it does match. So the issue is uniformity. It is, yes. We want signs all along the trail, whichever municipality they're going, To be the same. That is the main reason, yes. And this was, as the city attorney alluded to, a regional program when it first started. It still is. These signs have to be approved by the region as well, which we will go before that committee tomorrow and present similar information. I see one of our primary roles in the city council is guarding the public purse, and when we waive competitive bidding, it makes me feel a little uneasy. I'd like to know your rationale. Thank you. Absolutely, and we understand that. Mayor, if I could add on that, saying Audubon's order has your question that many people want to know, is we also paid setup fees for the original wayfinding signage and the first that are avoided by our repetitive orders that would be required if we change vendors as well. So there is a cost-saving mechanism on top of consistency. I like cost-saving. Thank you. I would add as well, just briefly, this is kind of the first piece of that puzzle. We are competitively leading the installation of those signs. This is for materials only. Any other questions? Okay. Anybody from public have any comments on this? Okay. Seeing none, bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Fidella? Second reading. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Shall the motion pass? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of wayfinding signs, poles, and appartenances from Architectural Graphics Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $122,930.98 and to approve a budget adjustment. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Just. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Shall the motion pass? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Simmons? Yes. Shopmar? Yes. Latour? Yes. An ordinance to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of wayfinding signs, poles, and appartenances from Architectural Graphics Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $122,930.98 and to approve a budget adjustment. any final comments from the council okay shall the ordinance pass right yes march yes yes yes yes okay number four An ordinance to rezone that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 16-5386 for approximately 6.40 acres located north of 1110 North Frontage Road from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to CS Community Services. Kip. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C1, Neighborhood Commercial, to CS, Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan, do you have that? Yes, sir. Thank you. The property is located on the east side of North Frontage Road and between Shepherd Lane to the south and Zion Road to the north. Excuse me. More specifically, and perhaps a better landmark, is it lies just east of the Barnes & Noble, Toys R Us, and Petco businesses on North College. All right. The subject property contains approximately 6.4 acres and is currently undeveloped. The surrounding area is a mix of commercial uses to the west and multifamily to the east and south. The request is to rezone the property from the current zoning of C1 Neighborhood Commercial to Community Services. Staff feels that the proposed zoning is compatible with both the aforementioned surrounding land uses and the future land use map designation of an urban center area. The choice by the applicant of the form-based CS zoning supports many uses which complement the existing adjacent developments. That said, staff is recommending approval. In planning commission, this rezoning also receives support with the unanimous vote to forward the proposal to the city council with a recommendation of approval. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for Jonathan on this? Okay. What comments do we have in the public on this? Good evening. My name's Hugh Jarrett. I'm here on behalf of the applicant. I didn't know that all the other issues were in front of us tonight, so I've taken my comments to about 20 minutes regarding this item. We can see what kind of pull you have being located now. In all honesty, Mr. Lindsay has owned this piece of property for some time. The The visibility from Toys R Us and Barnes & Noble really hurts the commercial aspect of this parcel. We have a multifamily on the east and the south, which does very well. It's full and has been since we've opened it up. There's traffic outlets all over the place that can disperse the traffic, and I can answer any questions that you have for us. Do you have any questions? Okay. Okay. what comments do we have from the public on this okay see none right back to the council sarah i would just like to say that i appreciate the applicant requesting a form-based zone and i think that it will be good to have more residents as well as a variety of other mixed uses in this area and i hope we can work towards making it more pedestrian friendly okay you want to make a motion i move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading John? I second that motion. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Teddy? Oh, yeah. Sean Marsh? Yes. Let's hear it. Yes. Yes. We made it. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5386 for approximately 6.4 acres located north of 1110 North Frontage Road from C1 Neighborhood Commercial to CS Community Services. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Do I have a second? Second. So the clerk is aware the voting screen is still showing. That's why they can't make a motion. Okay. we have a motion by council member marsh and second by council member littura correct to go to the third and final reading okay marsh and who because i don't have a john i just think one more okay thank you grace yes Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Gannon. Yes. Eddie. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Schottmeyer. Yes. Latere. Yes. Okay, number five. Well, there... Number five, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the resumption petition RZN 16-5425 for approximately 1.84 acres located along the northwest corner of Mill Avenue and South Street from RO Residential Office and RMF 24 Residential Multifamily, 24 units per acre to DG Downtown General. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from Residential Office and Residential Multifamily 24 units per acre to Downtown General. section two that the city council the city of favela are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of fables reflect the zoning change provided in section one and for orientation's sake the next two items on the agenda are directly in the same adjacency to each other just to simplify that and both are located on the northwest corner of mill avenue and south street about a block south of the yvonne richardson community center uh just across the street from the happy trails motorcycle connection Although the property has seen a number of uses over the decades, including residential, commercial, office, there is now a triplex structure and a single family dwelling as well. The property is currently split zone between residential office and residential multi-family 24 units per acre and the applicant is requesting to rezone the property to downtown general. Although this property may be considered geographically disparate from the Fayetteville downtown core, it is immediately adjacent to properties that are zoned DG. Additionally, downtown general zoning can be found in the Walker Park neighborhood just to the south. staff feels that the proposal is consistent with much of the area around south and mill as downtown general zoning allows residential dwellings of various densities as well as lower intensity commercial and office developments that can facilitate future development that is compatible with the adjacent land uses Considering this, staff feels comfortable recommending approval. When presented before the Planning Commission, the zoning proposal was forwarded to the City Council with a 6-0 unanimous recommendation of approval, with Commissioner Quindler accusing herself due to her association with the project. Thank you. Mayor Redekop. i do want to mention i think this is excellent the the rezoning it's right in line of what we need to do in the walker street area but i also know from the water sewer point of view there's not any current main line down south street And so as we move forward, we are going to have to seriously consider how we're going to manage that. And I don't know if anyone has thought about that currently. And this is also an area where we're talking about the importance of upgrading our infrastructure. So this is going to give us the opportunity to work on the infrastructure as this property is developed. So I was very pleased to see it go up. be brought forward someone's interesting in developing this regardless of the challenges that they may be facing with the topography as well as the sewer infrastructure water and sewer infrastructure there but I'm certainly in favor of this and I would move that we would go to the second reading Sarah. I'll second Mark's motion. Can I get some public comment? Okay. And then we'll move right along with that. Who would like to address this from the public? All right, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Ray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Sheehan. Yes. Petty. Yes. Sinnick. Yes. Stoutmire. Yes. Otero. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5425 for approximately 1.84 acres, located along the northwest corner of Mill Avenue and South Street, from residential office, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, to downtown general. I think we have the applicant here. Oh, Steve would like to say something to us? Thanks, Mayor. Thanks, City Council. I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design. I'd be happy to answer any questions that you have about our request, and we'd really appreciate it if you guys would approve this this evening. Thanks. If we have any questions, we'll take them. Okay. Sarah? I just want to say that I'm really happy to see another proposal for appropriate infill coming toward one. We definitely need some redevelopment in this area, and all citizen and resident input that I've received about this project has been positive. So with that, I would like to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. And Dylan? I will second that motion. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. sonny would you please call the road right yes march yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 16-5425 approximately 1.84 acres located along the northwest corner of mill avenue and south street from residential office residential multi-family 24 units per acre to downtown general okay any final comments from the council I've received some good calls on this, too, and that's kind of my neck of the woods down in there, so they're pleased with that. So, okay, if there's no final comments, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Or no more final comments? Right, yes. March, yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, number six, an ordinance to approve vacation 16-5424 submitted by Allison, Herman, and Quinlan for property located at the northwest corner of Mill Avenue and South Street to Vacate Street right of way. Kip. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes, and therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1. that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates portions of the street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3. This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, any costs associated with relocation of or damage to utilities and new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, a utility easement shall remain where the existing gas line is the center line of the utility easement. Okay. This vacation proposal includes just over 2,000 square feet right away at the southeastern corner of the previously discussed rezoning at the intersection of South Street and Mill Avenue. The property was originally acquired by the city in 1946 following the demolition of the existing grocery store on the site with the intent of using it. the layer the property to for a street widening project that never came to fruition uh staff recommends approval of the vacation and it was forwarded to the city council with the unanimous recommendation of approval from the planning commission and once again commissioner quinlan accused herself from the decision okay any questions from the council comments or anything all right anybody from the public want to address his own names Okay, seeing none, bring it back to the council. Sarah? Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Adela? I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. right yes marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes and ordinance approved vac 16-54-24 submitted by allison thurman quinlan were properly located at the northwest corner of mill avenue and south street to vacate street right-of-way any final comments from the council shall the ordinance pass Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number seven. An order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 16-408 for approximately 24.60 acres at Weddington Drive and Maranoni Drive from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and UT Urban Thoroughfare to CPZD Commercial Plan Zoning District. Okay. When this item was placed on the agenda, that was the request of the applicant. We heard, I think it was Friday, from the applicant that they have changed their request significantly. All of the commercial development that was being proposed for the commercially planned zoning district is now going to be withdrawn from the request because they're all going to develop under the urban thoroughfare requirements. The remaining lots, which are lots 7, 8, 9, and 10, which are owned by the church, the church has now changed their request to P1 Institutional, which is the zone that's designed for churches. And therefore, rather than reading the initial ordinance that was presented, I would suggest or ask that you amend that to what the church has requested. I sent that out to you yesterday. And so if someone would amend to what the church is requesting, we can get this item before you. Okay. I'm having a little malfunction with my screen here. Well, it's not on the screen. No, I'm talking about my screen is what... What's staff got? I could present to you the summary of the previous proposal, but that doesn't seem necessary at the time. I think we need to get a motion to amend to what was asked for by the applicant and then Staff can respond and give their statement. Sorry. I wasn't paying attention. Would you run that by me again? Okay, it's I did send out to to everyone here Proposed ordinance that reflects what the church would now request which is limiting their request now to four lots all the other Lots are taken out of their request and and they are changing it from a PZD into just a standard zoning district, P1 institutional. So if someone would make a motion to go to that, I would be happy to read it. I move so, Mayor. Okay. Do we have a second? I'll second that. Okay. We have a motion and a second. Shall the motion pass? Right. Yes. March. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you. That amendment passed, so I'll read it now. An ordinance to rezone lots 7, 8, 9, and 10 of the McMillan Estate subdivision of the City of Fayetteville, encompassing approximately 16.2 acres, located at McMillan Drive from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and UT Urban Thoroughfare to P1 Institutional, subject to the attached bill of assurances. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of Lots 7, 8, 9, and 10 of McMillan Estate Subdivision, encompassing about 16.2 acres, as shown on the map, Exhibit A, attached to the applicant's letter from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and UT Urban Thoroughfare to P1 Institutional, subject to the attached Bill of Assurance. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 above. Section Staff only recently became aware of many of the more details of this change and accordingly we recommend that the alderman review the packet that was provided by the applicant and they'll be presenting on that. Staff will currently withhold any recommendation due to our lack of time to review the proposal but we encourage you to listen to what the applicant has to offer. And I think it's appropriate to eventually leave this on the first reading after you hear from the public. Yeah, I did. Does the applicant like to speak before the council? Good evening, my name is Ken Hall. I'm an attorney. I represent Cross Church. I think it would be helpful to provide you with some context as to why the church is relocating and some background information on the property itself. To do that, Jonathan, do you have the access to the... Yes. Okay. So I'm going to show a few pictures and slides. This, as many of you likely know, Cross Church has two existing locations, one of which is in West Fayetteville. At this location, which is essentially a retail strip center facility, approximate square footage of this property is about 16,000 feet, and Cross Church has outgrown the space. Jonathan, if you could show The next, yeah, Cross Church also has 4,500 square feet of administrative and office space, generally across the street in the Arvest building. And so the goal is to combine the church and the administrative offices and to have one campus. One of the things that we are trying to solve in relocating is the existing traffic and parking issues associated with the existing building on West Weddington. As you can see on this slide, the church has leased or has arrangements for about six different parking locations, which it uses on Sunday, and shuttles its parishioners back and forth. And you can see a picture here of one of the shuttles, actually. So there have been some... I don't want to call them complaints, but comments to the church about we'd like for you to sort of solve that problem because it apparently does create some traffic issues for others. So a couple of years ago, the church decided that it was going to attempt to locate some additional property on which to build or perhaps an existing building. Ultimately, the church was fortunate enough to procure the lots 7, 8, 9, and 10 of the McMillan subdivision. This is the sort of snake-looking lot up there is lot 10, and it is part of the request, but that is an area that is unbuildable due to I'm not sure, frankly, what that is. The... One of the things that has caused us to make the application that we have and show the next one, which is, well, this is the actual property that is being asked to be rezoned. This next drawing is a description of the proposed interchange modification of I-49 and Weddington. As you can see, the highway department will push into this interchange modification, will push pretty good ways to the east into the development. And so the design of our building, and I will talk about that a little bit, is intended to contemplate those potential changes. One of the issues that we have had, is that this plan is not complete. There have been a couple of different variations of the plan and each time it has moved a little further to the east and so it's possible that it could be moved further to the east, possibly could go back towards the west. But we think it's generally in about the location that it's going to be and so the The plan for where we'd like to build the building contemplates those changes. Go ahead to the next slide. So the overall campus, I think Kit mentioned in the ordinance is about 16 acres. This is one of the things that you'll see on this particular drawing is that McMillan Drive has been moved. So earlier, Jonathan, if you could show sort of maybe where it had been previously. So that's where McMillan Drive, where he's showing the cursor, is where McMillan Drive is now. After the interchange is completed, the Highway Department will move McMillan Drive to the location shown on here. We have met with the Highway Department and they have told us it may move even a little further up towards the north before it curves back down across lot seven. One of the reasons we have, are trying to build the building and the location as in that picture is it takes into account that change to McMillan Drive. There should be a picture, Jonathan, towards the, that shows, and it may not be a color one, that shows the existing McMillan Drive with that, I think it'd be 16. So before the interchange, is modified, if the building is placed where we want it to be, you'll see that there's an additional access on the west When the interchange comes through, we're going to lose that access pretty much no matter how the building is built along there, we're going to lose that access. So it was important to us to design the parking and access so that after the modification was made, there would be two accesses into the campus. There should be a right in, right out down in the southwest corner. as well that the highway department has said that that can be can be maintained there if you go back to now to ten so the additional highlighted areas that you see in this drawing are the anticipated expansion of the building as drawn by the architect Again, the location of the building was designed to take into account the expansion on the west side of the building so that there would still be room for traffic to come around along the front of the building and circle around to the back. The next three exhibits are drawings from our architect showing what the building will You can just flip through those a couple of times. We have, as part of the plan to develop the property, the interchange modification will take up a good part of the trail that's in existence on the property. The church will donate an additional trail property and has incorporated the trail into its development plans. I think that's it. We just wanted to share with you how we got to this point of needing a new facility. I wanted to share with you what the building is going to look like and where we'd like to place it. And if you have questions of me, also ESI, a representative of ESI is here to answer questions. Representatives of the church are here. We're happy to answer any questions that you have. What questions do we have in the council? Oh, Sarah. Sorry, I forgot to cancel out. Don. Mayor, Alderman Long sent an email to the clerk's office today asking it be forwarded to the council members requesting that this be left on the first reading. And then tonight also sent a message asking, asking that he had been involved in, as one of the two aldermen of this ward, been involved in following this property for the last 10 years and has questions he believes are pertinent and need to be asked and he would like for it to be left on the reading. Another city attorney talked about that, but he asked that I actually read his request. So I'm doing so. Okay. John. Mr. Hall, can you tell us, Is there some urgency? You said that the church is using six or seven places for parking. Families are having to walk through parking lots. When I'm getting my children out in a parking lot, I tell them, this is probably the most dangerous place you'll walk. On the streets, we're accustomed to looking for cars. In parking lots, we many times don't look for cars. Yeah, I know it's not only an issue that the parishioners of the church recognize, but the city itself. There have been discussions about the hazards that are created. The traffic is an issue. We have had a traffic study completed, which shows that the – that the entire subdivision as developed as we, which includes the church, the traffic, it does not create traffic problems. In fact, it is a lower traffic than if it were developed commercially. So yeah, the, you can show, we're just outgrowing the facility. Look on number five, if you could switch to number five. We literally are outgrowing the sanctuary. This is a spillover room where if you don't have a seat in the sanctuary, you can watch it by video. The church needs a larger location, needs a better location to get its folks in and out. So, yeah, it's an issue. Thank you. Okay. Sarah. I'm just curious, since we're making a land use decision here and not a PZD, why are we reviewing the specific details of this proposal? Sure. My understanding is that the bill of assurance was actually included in one of those diagrams that you had. Is that correct or not? I did not include that as a diagram up here. Okay. Well, I'd assume that they were showing something that was on their bill of assurance, and that's why, normally because we don't allow the development to be shown in a pure zoning decision. So, yeah, and I apologize for that. That is the intention, is to, along with the proposed rezoning, is to provide a bill of to identify the location of the building and the expansion of the building and identify the intended uses of the property. There, frankly, the reasons for that had been that there had been, the Planning Commission obviously rejected our rezoning request and there was a significant discussion about the location of the building. And so what we feel we've done is to, the Planning Commission would have liked for the building to have been pushed up further. What we did in this drawing is to push it up as far as we can while still contemplating the expansion and the ability to have the access that is needed and frankly probably required as far as access. So the reason it's, and I apologize, I should have been more clear about the concept that will be identified in the bill of assurance. Okay, well, because if you're going to show us the plan that I see all that impervious surface area and I'm going to have to ask what is your stormwater plan? And what low-impact development techniques will you be employing to manage the stormwater? I don't know. I'll ask Jason Apple from ESI to answer those types of questions. Thank you, Jason Apple with Engineering Services. This was a part of an approved development plan in 2006 when this development came through. And so the drainage issues were addressed at that point in time and there's an approved drainage plan in place for this area. We haven't started design, but at this time we're not showing any of those improvements. because of that in place drainage plan. Well, we have updated our stormwater standards since 2006, so I'll be curious to see what you do. But since this proposal has changed dramatically since it went through Planning Commission and through Staff's review, I would really like to have their review of the revised proposal before we move forward. All right. So you want to send it? in fact i'd like to send it well you might see if there's any more public comment before you okay okay in fact we haven't had any public comment i know we're still i'm still with the questions from the council anybody got anything else okay now we'll take public comment what public comment do we have on rezoning anybody all right i'll bring it back to the council john well let's not but Maybe we should hold it on first reading so Alan Long can come back and give us his input. But as far as sending it back to some other staff department for further study, that sounds like a long delay. Surely we don't want to do that, do we? I believe that would be up to you all, John. I agree. Well, I mean, two weeks to the next city council meeting. I think staff will have half the time to review things. That should be sufficient time to review the proposal. Thank you. That should be sufficient time to review the proposal. Okay. Sarah? That's what I was asking about. Okay. All right. So we figure the two weeks will suffice for your review and everything's everything, right? Okay. Well, we'll just leave it on the first. Well, does anybody got anything else they want to add to this? Okay. We'll leave it on the first reading. We'll see you in two weeks. You're very welcome. All right. All right, moving along to number eight. An ordinance to amend the definition of setback in 151.01 of the Unified Development Code to allow architectural projections of a building such as its eaves to slightly protrude into a setback under certain conditions. Kip. Whereas building setbacks are designed and required to protect adjoining neighbors from someone building too close to their property line, and whereas a building's architectural projections, such as eaves, roof overhangs, chimneys, utility chases, or bay windows, should be allowed to intrude slightly into a setback area, but never across a property line. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fevella, Arkansas, Section 1... that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, are hereby enacts the following sentence to the end of the existing definition of setback in Section 151.01 of the Unified Development Code. Quote, An architectural projection such as an eave, utility chase, chimney, or bay window shall not be considered to be in violation of a setback requirement as long as the projection does not intrude into a public right-of-way or extend more than three feet into a setback. A projection which encroaches into a setback shall not come closer than three feet to a property line. Okay. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I'm thinking of this proposal as a very minor code hack or code patch proposal. to what we already have on the books. The proposal is consistent with the regulations that many of our cities in Northwest Arkansas have and also across the country. It's a very common way to enforce the code. Now, of course, the way we do the code now is also a very common way to do the code. Anybody get the impression that we have an unusual code? But this is just as common when I'm proposing it. And what it would do is it would allow eaves or utility chasers or bay windows to project into the setbacks in a limited manner. And it would always maintain a minimum separation from a property line if they were to encroach in the setbacks. And the intent behind this ordinance really, whenever I proposed it, was about roof forms. So if you have a small lot and you want to build a cubist building, a box building, you can do that and you can put the walls right on the edge. and you can have your modern roof. And this isn't a value judgment of that architectural style, rather what I'm proposing is that we make this code flexible enough that other styles are not discouraged. So in particular, if you wanted to build a more traditional looking cottage, you would not be able to place the wall on the setback line because your roof e would produce the setback and that's illegal with the way the code is currently written. So this proposes to add that new flexibility. What it doesn't do, it doesn't absolve anybody from having to meet the existing fire code or the existing building code. A builder still has to be cognizant of that and they still have to pass the building permit review. But at the site plan development stage, this would allow them to use the setback for these purposes. I hope you'll support it. Okay, what questions do we have in the council? Anything? Any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Matthew? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sarah? Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? It's okay. We've been here most of the evening. What's a few more minutes one way or the other? all right right yes march yes yes yes yes yes yes in order to amend the definition of setback in section 151.01 of the unified development code to allow architectural projections of a building such as its eaves to slightly protrude into a setback under certain conditions okay any final comments from the council okay shall the ordinance pass Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Mayor, it's not even 10 o'clock yet. I took it. Well, I got carried away, didn't I? All right. What final? That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor. Yes, Don. We have a Ward 4 meeting coming up on the 27th. That's next Monday. And this meeting will begin at 6, and it will end at 7, if not before. And I'm going to run that meeting just like we run the City Council meeting. If you have an issue about streets, about trash collection... Fine. If you want to criticize someone, that meeting will end immediately, etc. It's not a meeting to criticize, it's a meeting to build up board four. Thank you. Mayor, several announcements. This Thursday, June 23, from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., we're having our second open house of a fire station, Fire Station Number 5. That's the fire station located at Old Wire Road and Highway 265 intersection. For those citizens in that area of town or for any citizen interested in how our power stations operate, we have an open house for you on that day. Again, June 23rd, 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Our new city newsletter is out. You can find that on Fayetteville-AR.gov to keep up to date with those happenings of the city and items that are taking place throughout our community. Fayetteville Animal Services urges caution with pets in this extreme heat with people leaving pets in vehicles. So remember, we have a new ordinance that prohibits that activity, and we encourage citizens to become aware of that requirement to take care of your pets. Friday, June the 24th, we have our next dive-in movie. It's... The movie is called Max. Gates open at 7.15 p.m. and the movie will begin at sunset. And then the last item is this Thursday, June the 23rd at 7 p.m., we have our next Gully Park concert series. It's a band called Blue Heeler. They're self-described as, quote, pop music with teeth, and it's appropriate because it's Bark in the Park night. So bring your dog, your lawn chair, and come to the concert this Thursday. I'll be there. Anything else? Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.