I'd like to call the City Council meeting of June 20th, 2017 to order. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Mayor Jordan. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Good day, sir.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. First story business we have tonight is a walk-on.
 And the resolution says, resolution expressed the willingness of the city of Feville to apply for and utilize Federal Aid Transportation Alternatives Program 8020 grant funds in the amount of up to $280,000 available through the Northwest Arkansas Regional Planning Commission and to approve a local match up to $70,000 for the installation of lighting along the Cato Springs Trail. I will entertain a motion to put this on the agenda.
 Yes, right. Suspend the rules and place this on the agenda. Do we have a motion? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Sarah? I move that we suspend the rules and place this resolution on the agenda as first under new business. Adela? I second that motion. Okay. We have a motion and a second to place this on the agenda. I know that, Sarah, you want to put it on the first order of new business. Normally, it goes actually before the consent. Is that okay? Yes. Okay. That's what it will be then. All right.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Bunch. Yes. And Mayor Jordan, you would need to vote on this in order to suspend the rules. I'll vote yes. All right. Matt, I believe you have this. Yes.
 Okay, thank you, Mayor, Council. This grant is due on June 30th, so that was the reason we needed to get it in so quickly. I apologize for that. This is a TAP Grant, Transportation Alternatives Program grant, that's available for our region metropolitan area, which is basically the two-county area.
 and we thought a good project would be the lighting along Cato Springs Trail. Due to budget constraints with that project, we are having to cut the actual light poles and the wiring out of the project. The conduit and everything is going to be installed with construction, and so this grant, if we're successful, will allow us to be able to go ahead and install the lighting and the wiring. Okay. What questions do we have from the council on this? Anybody? Okay.
 What public comment do we have on this? Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah? I move we pass the resolution. Justin? Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments? OK. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marge? Yes. Katie? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Yes. OK, the next order of business is consent agenda. Number one, approval of June 6, 2017 city council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of $7,700 recognized in donation revenue to the Federal Police Department. Number three, a resolution to approve a grant agreement with the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program for a credited local government grant in the amount of $14,291 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 we'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read sarah so moved justin second we have a motion in a second to pass the consent agenda as read lisa would you please call the role yes mark yes yes yes yes okay thank you all next order business we have tonight is public hearing
 B1, a resolution to order the raising and removal of dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Harold and Rosetta Harmon located at 265 West Nondemaker Drive in the City of Federal Arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment. All right. Thank you, Mayor, Council, David Carver with Code Compliance. I believe we're all aware of this resolution matter at hand.
 It's been tabled once at the owner's request on May 16th and then again at the June 6th meeting at the request of the council. Since that time, code compliance nor building safety has had any communications or interactions with the property owner. No building permits have been applied for or issued to date. Code compliance is asking for the approval of resolution to raise and remove the structure and a budget adjustment of $1,251. Okay. Is the applicant here?
 Okay, the applicant is not here. What questions do we have from the council on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we pass the resolution. Adela. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council on this? All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Petty. Yes. Ennis. Yes.
 Yes. OK, thank you all. Under unfinished business number one, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5772 for approximately 0.53 acres located at A10 South Cherry Lane from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RMF24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Justin?
 So moved. Adela? Second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Petty? Yes. Yes. Yes. Again, Mayor, it requires six affirmative votes to pass the motion to suspend the rules. I will vote yes.
 Okay it passes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5772 for approximately 0.53 acres located at 810 South Cherry Lane from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RMF24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre. Andrew you got anything? I have no no additional information mayor. Is the would the applicant like to say anything? We're back.
 Why don't you pull that microphone down a little bit? Pardon? Oh, okay. Dave Jorgensen, representing the applicant on this project. And I did talk to the applicant about the possibility of doing some kind of light commercial neighborhood services or something like this, and they considered this, but they got to talking about
 the fact that the property across the street is residential, the property to the north is residential, property to the east is residential, when they thought it would be better to keep it residential rather than some kind of neighborhood services. And if the property was one block further to the west, they would possibly consider that more strongly.
 However, they would prefer to keep it the present requested zoning of RSF 24. And it kind of squares it off because property to the north is that. And a slight sliver to the east is also that. So that's the purpose of the rezoning request is to square it off. And they want to put a townhome on that property. So we'll be glad to answer any questions. What questions do we have in the council on this?
 Okay, so any public comment on this? All right, so now I'll bring it back to the council. Any final comments from the council on this or any other discussion you want to do? Okay. All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Sinnott? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, number two. Okay.
 An ordinance to rezone that property to describe and rezone the petition RZN 17-5776 for approximately .31 acres located at 1320 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Matthew. I can't make that motion. I'm going to recuse from it. And so since we can't suspend the rules, I can just go ahead and read the ordinance without that? Sure.
 So I'm going to read the body of the ordinance. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RI-U Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Andrew, anything? Would you like a full staff memo report on this? I know it was heard at the previous meeting. I don't have any new information on it though. Okay, what about the applicant? Is the applicant here?
 Hi everyone, my name is Keaton Smith and I'm here to speak on behalf of the applicant in support of the request. I live in the neighborhood at 8080 4th Street.
 I'm a property owner in the neighborhood, and I am affiliated with two different organizations that I want to disclose and then clarify that I'm speaking on behalf of myself and not those organizations. I'm the board chair of Partners for Better Housing, the nonprofit developer of Willow Bend, and then my day job is with Iberia Bank, but those organizations don't have any affiliation with this property.
 I'm in support of the rezone primarily due to the fact that this would allow the property owner to build four smaller homes on the property instead of two larger homes. And so I believe that, you know, that would meet city plan 2030 goals and also increase the it would make the housing more affordable, right?
 The economics are such that the borrower can make, the borrower, sorry, that's my banker language. That the applicant could build two larger homes or four smaller homes. Obviously the four smaller homes would be more affordable. The...
 The, in reviewing the Walker Park neighborhood plan, it does call for a variety of housing types and housing options, so I feel like that's consistent with the neighborhood plan. And so that's about it. I just wanted to express my support as a neighborhood resident and property owner in the neighborhood. Okay, all right. Is there any questions from the council on this? I know we're gonna be holding on the second reading. We're gonna take some public comment, everybody hang on, all right?
 Yeah, thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to formally recuse myself because I was associated with this project as it went
 It's prior reviews. I don't have any continuing interest in the project, but I still feel like I need to recuse myself from it. In light of that, before I leave the room, I was wondering with my recusal, does that mean that we don't have a quorum for this vote? Are there parliamentary implications for it? Well, we can't move it to another reading. No, you will not destroy the quorum because you will still have five members of the council here, including the mayor who counts as a member of the council.
 technically an ordinance can be passed but with your recusal no or you can't suspend the rules so it's certainly going to be left on the second reading okay thank you okay now we will take public comment everybody gets one turn to microphone everybody keep your remarks to me don't engage councilmember anybody from a public you do have a five minute time limit so gather your thoughts and
 Give us your name and your address. So who would like to be first? Mr. Mayor, my name is Jesse Millwee. My family, as recent as last week, entered into a contract to purchase the property directly to the south of that adjoining property. And in my opinion, I think what he's trying to do with this rezoning will be beneficial both to the neighborhood and the community as a whole
 I think one thing it'll do is it'll give more people an opportunity to live on parkfront property and enjoy the beautiful park we have in that part of our town. And I just think it'll have a positive effect. I think in the short term, change is difficult for some people. It stresses them out, but I think long term it'll have a positive effect on the entire community and it'll allow more people to have the opportunity to live down there.
 And me and my family as a soon-to-be neighbors do support the project and the change in zoning. Okay. Thank you Who else would like to address us? All right, I'll bring it back. Oh My name is Robert sharp I currently live on Church Street, but for a long time lived at the corner of 4th and East so I'm very familiar with the neighborhood and I
 I'm in favor of the rezone because the what I saw in when I was living in South Fable over the last few years is we had a lot of new investment but often it came in the form of like really large very expensive houses and it didn't really fit the pattern that was that South Fable had and we were certainly see happy to see the investment and the people live in those large houses and that was that was all great for the neighborhood it's it's reached a point now where we need better small houses and I have some pictures here of some
 a project in downtown Bentonville, Arkansas. And I know that Fabled never follows Bentonville in anything, but I want to show what it looks like to do 14-foot-wide houses that are two-story and fit the pattern of the neighborhood. So I'll just pass a couple of these out. Just give them to the clerk, and she'll hand them around. I want to go to the public. Do you want to?
 Rob, you're running. You've got about three minutes here. I'm going to be very brief. Okay. I mean, I'm just saying. I'll have time left over. But the basic point is that I really feel that small, narrow houses can be very good neighbors and that that's the reason I support the zoning request.
 and that small, narrow houses can be more in keeping with the neighborhood pattern. As people have already mentioned before, they can be more affordable. And so I just ask you to consider that it actually may, in this case, may be better for the neighborhood to have this zoning change. Thank you. Thank you, Rob. All right, who else would like to address this on this? Okay, and we'll bring it back to, okay, we'll hold it right here.
 All right, number three, an ordinance to amend the Unified Development Code to create a new zoning district urban thoroughfare like UTL and to change or amend definitions of building height and stories. I'd entertain a motion to go to the second reading, and then I believe there will be a table or something. Justin.
 I move to go to the second reading. That's you. I'll second that. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Yes. Marsh. Yes. Yes. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Latour. No. Mayor, again, you will need to vote to pass that. I'll vote yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to amend the Unified Development Code to create a new zoning district, Urban Thoroughfare Light, UT-L, and to change or amend definitions of building height and stories. Justin, I believe you was at an ordinance review last night. Yes, Mayor. We had an ordinance review meeting on this yesterday after much discussion as well as discussion with some of the planning commission that was there. We made a decision to –
 take some more time to look at the definitions and the wording a little bit better, just to not get really in a hurry on this. The minutes have been passed out for those that didn't want to see it. There was also the press there who wrote an article on it and for that summary as well. And the next action will, as we keep moving for those is a,
 meeting that we decided for June, I'm sorry, July 13th at 4 p.m. in room 326. So what I would like to do is to table this item until the August 1st, it is the first city council meeting, and then,
 just so that gives us time to have another ordinance review and also more importantly I think be able to get some public input on any changes that we do just to make sure that we're in line with with all the same people that put this together in the first place so if I could I would go ahead and make that motion to table this until the August 1st City Council meeting. Matthew? Thank you.
 Yeah, I'll second that. I think with the first meeting, we made some good progress in the framework. And I'm excited to see what happens next. And I appreciate everyone's active participation in the meeting. Look forward to the next one. OK, we have a motion and a second to table to the August 1st. Is there any public comment on this issue before we probably will table this? OK, bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second to table to the August 1st. Any comments from the council?
 Yes, sir. I just wanted to clarify. You said the next ordinance review meeting is July 14th. Is that a Friday? 13th. It's the 13th. If I said 14th, my apologies. Thursday, July 13th at 4 p.m. in room 326. Okay. Thank you. No, thank you. Everybody good? All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Yes. Okay. Under new business.
 an ordinance to amend 161.28 district high one heavy commercial and line industrial and 161.29 district i2 general industrial and to add huge units 16 shopping goods as a permitted use kit be it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends sections 161 28
 District I-1, heavy commercial and light industrial, and 161.29, District I-2, general industrial, to add use unit 16, shopping goods, as a permitted use. Okay. Andrew.
 In 2016 the Arkansas medical marijuana amendment was passed and it included requirements for local zoning regulations in the amendment. One of those sections, section 14, discusses that zoning for medical marijuana dispensaries and cultivation facilities should be the same as those for licensed retail pharmacies and our current zoning code limits retail pharmacies to commercial zoning districts and
 When we're looking at these types of facilities, medical marijuana facilities, we may want to encourage some of the dispensaries to be in industrial zoning districts,
 But lots of times they may be included in large warehouse types of buildings and things like that. So in order to address that change and also to just update our zoning code and allow for more mix of uses in our industrial districts, we're proposing to allow use unit 16 shopping goods in our I1 and I2 industrial zoning districts.
 We feel like it will address the change with this particular type of uses, but also just update our zoning code. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions from the council on this matter? Mr. Mayor, if I could add, one reason that we wanted to also open up the industrial district, especially the South Industrial Park or Commerce District of this, is that there are other limitations where they have to be away from certain things like schools and stuff, and so
 Even though there might be commercial districts around that are available This will ensure that there will certainly at least be something available in the industrial park. Okay, Matthew You know
 Yeah, I would even go farther. I know that this has been generated, this has actually been generated by the state amendment that was passed for medical marijuana. But I would say for industrial districts, if a diner or something like that thinks that they can survive the lunch traffic of our commerce district or another industrial area, I would be in favor of adding that as a using it by right to those industrial districts. And if we don't have enough appetite to do that right now while we've got to put up, I would hope that,
 that we might use such a request favorably and be willing to do a little bit more to get to a yes on that kind of a request. As a minimum, and if we were willing to do something like that while we had the hood up now, I'd certainly support it. Alright. Sarah? I would also be in support of that, especially if food trucks could operate there. So I think that adding that use unit
 is a good idea. So, Petty, was that a formal motion? And if so, I'll second it. I don't even know what the use unit is. I don't know if I can draft a motion. I'm also three council members short tonight. Andrew? That is already allowed in the I-1 and I-2 zoning, use unit 13. That's been there for a while, so that's, yeah. Like I said. I appreciate that. I'm demonstrating my naivety there.
 All right, well there we go. That was a great exercise. Nothing like being wrong in public. Well, we were just right earlier. And sorry for the length of this ordinance. It was very difficult to read. All right. All right. Do we have any public comment on this? So now I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I mean, if we suspend the rules and go to this, are we in the second or the third reading? We're in the first. Second reading.
 Adela. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Bunch. Yes. And Mayor Jordan. Yes.
 An ordinance amends sections 161.28, District I-1, Heavy Commercial Light Industrial, and 161.29, District I-2, General Industrial, to add use unit 16, shopping goods, as a permitted use. Sarah. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Medela. I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Mayor Jordan? Yes. And ordinance to amend sections 161.28, District I-1, Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial, and 161.29, District I-2, General Industrial, to add use unit 16, Shopping Goods, as a permitted use. All right. What final comments do we have in the council? Thank you.
 Mayor, I have one more correction on that. I apologize. The I-1 zoning district does allow U-Shield Unit 13 eating places by right, but it does not allow in I-2. I-2 does not allow eating places. So if that was something the council would like to add, they would need to add that in. And we could make the amendment now if you wanted to. What's that U-Shield Unit number? It's U-Shield Unit 13. Okay, so what's it going to do?
 Sarah. I move we amend the ordinance to allow use unit 13 by right to I-2 zoning district. Okay. I'll second that. Okay, any discussion on it? Okay, what public comment do we have on the amendment? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Munch? Yes. So it passes. All right. So now we're down to the amended ordinance, correct? That's correct. Any final comments on that? Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? And this is a motion to approve. No, it's a resolution. I mean, it's an ordinance. We went past the third reading. Yeah. We're ready to vote. Right. All right.
 Gray? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. All right. That concludes our business. Do we have any announcements? Mayor, I noticed that the raise and removal that we previously approved, the owner was not here, and Mr. Herman walked in after that, and so I didn't know if you all wanted to do anything at that point, but I did notice that he did come in, even though his...
 Item was already finished. It would be possible if you wanted to hear anything from Mr. Harmon to Do a motion to reconsider at this point in time. It would also be in order even the next meeting But I just want to call that to your attention. I don't know what y'all want to do if anything I Agree, I really didn't know since we had the new time limits and all I did not I
 feel comfortable doing that unless I got a motion to second from the council to do that. It would have to be a motion to reconsider and be passed by the council before you could hear from him and you could also do that at the next meeting if you wanted to. After that it's too late for a motion to reconsider. All right. Does anyone wish to make a motion? No? I'll say something. Okay. I don't want to make a motion to reconsider,
 I did learn, we all learned at the last agenda session that there's a 30 day period to respond to these requests. And I'll say personally that if there's meaningful progress with respect to some of the requests, and this is just a function of needing a little bit more time for circumstances, but there's true meaningful progress, you know, I'd be the first to reconsider the motion. And I'm sure that staff would, at least my impression of staff is that they would be accommodating to regional progress as well.
 Can I ask a question? Yes. And a clarification question. You said the next meeting there could be action. Yes, but up until the end of the next meeting a motion to reconsideration is allowed. That's what I was saying, beginning or end of the meeting. Okay, that's fine. All right, everybody good? I think we would all encourage you, Mr. Harmon, to try to speak with the building safety or code compliance people and see if we can get some progress going. Okay. What announcements do we have?
 Mayor, a couple of announcements. The city recently updated our utility billing software to lay a foundation for improved customer service and efficiency of processing payments related to the water, trash, and recycling services. There is one change that customers will notice, and that's a new sequence number to replace their customer number on their bill. So for customers who have set up reoccurring payments or automatic payments,
 We will need you to go into your account. You're the only one with the password and your account number to update to your sequence number, which will be on your next bill. We've sent out a notice to all citizens to do so, but that's just a friendly reminder. Information is also on our city website on the main page and the news items if you would need more detail or feel free to contact our utilities division and they'll be happy to assist you.
 And then just to make the council aware, we've done a press release on this, but we are having to do some tree removal to take place at the Lake Fayetteville Dam to ensure the integrity of our dam is maintained. It's critical. There are significant sycamore trees that have to be removed whose roots are intact.
 our dam and create risk and wet soils particularly so that people understand our dam management plan which is approved by the state if our dam were to break it basically puts the city of Johnson under water and so it's a very important item for us to maintain and monitor and so while we all love trees in Fayetteville this is for the integrity of the dam so just to make the council aware in case you get any questions from citizens
 anything else all right thank you all good work we're adjourned