Kenyon here Petty here Scroggins Bunch here Turk here Hertzberg here Gutierrez here Jones here Mayor Jordan here would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is a proclamation. Proclamation.
 Tonight that I would like to give to Dr. Jeffrey Murdoch. Dr. Murdoch is professor of music education and choral activities at the University of Arkansas. He received the 2021 Grammy Music Educator Award. Now I would like to read the following proclamation, and after I read this, Dr. Murdoch, if you would meet me up front, I will present you with this proclamation. And the proclamation reads,
 Whereas Dr. Jeffrey Allen Murdock, Associate Professor of Music Education and Associate Director of Choral Activities at the University of Arkansas, has been named the recipient of the 2021 Grammy Music Educator Award. Whereas Dr. Murdock was selected as this year's recipient from among 10 award finalists who were selected from among thousands of nominations earlier this year.
 And whereas the prestigious Grammy Music Educator Award presented by the Recording Academy and Grammy Museum recognizes current educators who have made a significant and lasting contribution to the field of music education and who demonstrate a commitment to the broader cause of maintaining music education in the schools.
 Dr. Murdock currently serves as Associate Professor of Music Education, Associate Director of Choral Activities and Vocal Area Coordinator, conducts the inspirational choral and Razorback Men's Chorus, and teaches courses within the choral music education,
 curriculum and whereas Dr. Murdock is a 2016 Connor Endowed Faculty Fellow in the Fulbright College of Arts and Sciences, a 2018 Golden Tusk awardee, and the 2019 most outstanding faculty member. And whereas Dr. Murdock, Dr. Murdock's ultimate goal as an educator is to level the field in music education so that all students have access to highly
 high quality music education no matter who they are or where they're from or their age.
 Now, therefore, I, Lionel Jordan, mayor of the great city of Arkansas, do hereby proclaim July the 6th, 2021, as Dr. Jeffrey Allen Murdoch Day in Federal Arkansas. And I invite all residents to join us in congratulating Dr. Murdoch on receiving the 2021 Grammy Music Educator Award. Dr. Murdoch, this is for you. Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo!
 Oh yes, congratulations Dr. Murdoch. That was fun. Yes, yay. Wonderful. Fun little award.
 All right, the next order of business we have tonight under presentations is the monthly financial report. Probably not as exciting, but nonetheless, Paul has that for us. Paul? Well, after hearing all those words, this is more good news for the city of Fayetteville. I'm here to give the monthly report for the month of May, period number 5, for 2021.
 We're rapidly approaching mid-year, and this report, it will be very positive. As we talked last time, sales tax was up 40% for the month. So far, sales tax is up 19% over the budget. That's roughly $2.3 million. Again, I want to call the attention to the council that we added $2.5 million on the expenditure side.
 for salary increases brought forward by Mayor Jordan and approved by the council. So this puts us in good position going forward, moving into the year. I know sometimes I seem like the boy crying wolf, but we're going to have
 higher numbers to compete with in the last six months this year. Next month was rather flat, so we should do pretty well for June. But after that, we're going to be looking at numbers that were up over 8% prior year. As Councilmember Gutierrez asked at the agenda session, and I said I would mention this at the council meeting, and I have already sent these numbers to the council, but
 sub 22 percent compared to 2019 i do want to uh bring one thing to your attention now 2019 at this point in time we weren't receiving internet sales yet so this is showing you part of the power of the internet sales and the effect i think it's had for us uh last year and this year when we analyze sales tax and we look carefully at it
 This month we saw some real growth back into areas or were more in the big box store areas department stores were up things such as such as furniture
 especially in hotels that was up for the period. Restaurants seem to be coming back. So everything is telling us that there's some pent up demand, and it's rather coming back. So that's very encouraging for us at this point in time. When I look at the other revenue for the general fund, franchise fees.
 They're up a little bit. They're up about $100,000, which is positive. Building permits are down. They're a little on the soft side as of May. They're bouncing around a little bit. But they were down roughly 10%, which is in the $80,000 area.
 Charges for services were up. That's because some of our programs again are coming back for the parks places like that. So They were up a little bit court fees again are down They were down roughly 15 percent in the $80,000 range But all in all we're up in the general fund roughly to two point two million dollars for the period of time so we're looking very well going in at that almost mid year and
 Street funds, street funds, revenues, again, that's basically turn back. The biggest portion of this turn back is coming from the motor fuel taxes, MFT charges, and also coming from the turn back for the sales tax for roads.
 they were up 17 percent through may so that is again showing a lot of people getting out a lot more transportation a lot more use of vehicles going places people expanding out into the into the economy so that was up for the month so a street fund is doing very strong this year parking parking was down 10 percent still still on the weak side uh fines were down 15 percent
 Again, that's on the weak side, but nobody likes to pay fines anyway, so that's not all bad news. When we look at the entire financial picture of the street fund, or excuse me, the parking fund, however, the good news is we've cut expenditures back to where we're breaking even. Actually, we're doing a little better than breaking even. So we do have some positive activity on the parking fund since we haven't instituted
 instituted all of the open positions and we haven't come back with event parking yet so we are showing positive results for the parking fund so that's good news when we look at the parks development fund again as HMR taxes that was very strong that was up 26% so far for the year 20% 26% over the budget
 We're looking at the roughly $300,000 over budget at this point in time in the Park Development Fund. Water and sewer, we were up so far eight percent compared to budget. A lot of that is driven by new customers. However, when we look at usage, the usage is up roughly six percent over last year. I do
 I do want to point out that this is billings. That's the billings so far. We also have quite a bit of delinquency out there to catch up on. And we are starting to apply penalties, as we had discussed, for customers and working on payment plans for those customers to start cutting in and collecting those past due revenues.
 Recycling and trash collection. Recycling and trash collection were almost even with budget. They were actually 99% of the budget at this point in time. We remember those had been lagging behind budget. But again, the story's the same. Commercial hasn't come back all the way yet.
 residential collection is up recycling is up a bit also so the trash and recycling fund is sound at this point in time the airport we have some very good news at the airport revenue sales are up 30% so
 So far this year, flights are up, travel is up. So if I'll give you an overall scenario, if I would summarize, I said things look like they're starting to come back pretty well. Looks like the economy is doing good at this point in time. Looks like there's some pent up demand over here. And I'm looking for some good results moving forward. We are going to be facing some difficult numbers in the general fund, especially with sales tax.
 when we hit the last six months of this year, but things are looking very positive at this point in time. And I'll be more than happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the finance support? Anything? Am I good? All right, thank you, Paul. The next order of business we have tonight is consent agenda. Number one, approval of the June 15th, 2021 city council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to award bid number 21-39 and authorize the purchase of harmonic filters and variable frequency drives from Mayer Electric Supply Company, Inc., DBA, Upchurch Electric Supply, in the amount of $48,985.88 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. Number three, a resolution...
 to authorize the purchase of a carbon steel ribbon blender from AIT Services Corporation for $19,625 plus any applicable tax and freight charges for the thermal drying unit at the biosolids management side into
 And to approve a project in the amount of $3,925. Number four, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 1 to the Engineering Services Agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $261,000 for easement acquisition support for the Westwater
 transmission line project and to approve a budget adjustment number five a Resolution to approve the five-year consolidated 2021 community development block grant CDBG action plan to authorize mayor Jordan to execute the CDBG agreement for 2021 in the in the amount of seven hundred seven hundred forty eight thousand seven hundred eighty five dollars when received and to approve the budget adjustment number six
 Resolution to authorize the purchase of a Kenworth T880 tri-axle heavy haul truck tractor from MHC Kenworth for the amount of $147,220.25.
 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source will cooperative purchasing contract for use by the transportation division number seven a resolution authorized the purchase of a caterpillar skid steer from riggs tractor company in the amount of eighty three thousand three hundred forty four dollars ninety two cents plus any applicable tax and freight charges pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract for use by the by fleet operations
 Number eight, a resolution to approve Amendment number two to the contract with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $70,090 to provide additional services associated with the West Center Street and North Harmon Avenue intersection project. This is a 2019 Street Improvements Bond project.
 number nine a resolution authorized the purchase of a street sweeper from environmental products group in the amount of two hundred thirty eight thousand seven hundred sixty eight dollars and thirty one cents Pursuant to a source will co-opted purchasing contract into brief budget adjustment number ten a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of ten thousand dollars recognizing contract and
 production revenue from the community access television dba your media and to increase related promotional activities budget and number 11 a resolution to authorize the application for a federal aviation administration grant in the amount of six million 635 thousand 840 dollars to fund
 design and construction of the runway pavement and lighting rehabilitation project at Drakefield Airport I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda is read I make a motion that we accept the consent agenda as read second I have a motion the second to accept the consent agenda is read care what you please call the opinion yes Eddie yes but yes sir yes
 earthsburg yes yes jones yes thank you all moving on to unfinished business an ordinance for his own that property described rezoning petition rzn 21-028 for approximately 51 point i mean 5.1 acres located
 West Weddington Drive east of Michael Cole Drive from RA residential agricultural to RIU residential intermediate urban and NSL neighborhood services limited this was left on the first reading at the last council meeting I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading so moved Second we have a motion in the second to go to the second read care which police call roll Kenyon. Yes, Eddie Yes, Scroggins
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-028 for approximately 5.1 acres located on West Weddington Drive east of Michael Cole Drive from RA Residential Agricultural to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban and NSL Neighborhood Services Limited. Johnson?
 thank you mayor good evening council jonathan kerth with the development services department i don't have any new updates or information on this item but the applicant's representative robert rhodes is here in person tonight and i'm happy to take any questions you all may have thank you does that one speak to the council right in 10 minutes
 Good evening, Council, Mayor. My name is Robert Rhodes and I'm with the law firm of Hall-Estill and I'm representing the applicant in this matter. This project has been in the works and before the city since 2020. And over the course of those many months, the applicants have listened to the city staff, they've listened to the Planning Commission, the neighbors, and now they're listening and have been listening to the City Council.
 As evidence of that statement, the project originally was for RMF 18. After heeding the comments of staff who originally didn't support it and the Planning Commission, it now brings before you RIU and Neighborhood Services, which now the staff fully supports and also supported before the second go-around before the Planning Commission.
 which again, the Planning Commission, after suggesting these changes, nonetheless narrowly failed to send this to the Council, to you all, with a thumbs up. There are many reasons why the staff and some members of the Planning Commission, why they firmly support what is before you.
 Such as this amended rezoning now clearly fits the city plan 2040 as to infill and it has adequate fire Adequate sewer adequate water a nearby park a nearby paved trail Further the future land use of this area is residential neighborhood by definition these beautiful town homes which we have submitted in the form of pictures and a plat in your packet and
 Well, those townhomes in rowhouse fashion fit the definition of residential neighborhood to a T. The portion of this project that is designated neighborhood services is also right in tune with where the city is going, connecting neighborhoods.
 the intended uses for this commercial piece would be, oh, your on-the-corner cleaners or your classic right down the block coffee shop where you could your favorite latte and strudel await. From a pure compatibility standpoint, this rezoning request certainly fits what is going on in the area which is where you have already approved duplexes to the west and 12 units per acre to the northeast.
 So this rezoning is certainly appropriate, especially when you link the RAU with the walkability of neighborhood services. The RAU, as defined by your code, should remove the neighbor's concerns over large out-of-scale apartment buildings, which would not be permitted under this zoning. Now in regard to the comments made by one city council member,
 That it is a well-known in the developer community that you can trick the City Council with form-based design and Mixed uses but then you don't get mixed uses You just get residential and the developer doesn't have to build neighborhood services Well in response to that this developer in the next in I'm sorry this developer has plans that in regard to a
 Well, by the time your next meeting, two weeks from now, it will have, if you'll leave this on a second reading, it will have submitted a bill of assurance to address that issue.
 that the commercial cannot be developed as only residential. Further in that bill of assurance, because of other people expressing concerns about will there really be townhomes there, further in that bill of assurance we will commit to build townhomes very much like what we have depicted. Also let it be noted that the developer and although this project has been before the city for many many months, this developer has not tried to rush it through.
 Again, hearing what council members had to say about their concerns that under the current law, the appeal of a planning commission decision doesn't have to be re-notified by putting signs out and so forth. So, again, we have not rushed this. And...
 At my recollection, when I was on council, we believed that you could cure this issue by making sure you left it on three readings and it was heard at three different meetings, thereby ensuring that the public and the neighbors have an opportunity to see what is going on via newspaper, TV, ward meetings, and so forth.
 Speaking of ward meetings, at the last ward four meeting, one neighbor spoke up and she indicated that in looking at this project, she thought parking would be a problem. Let me tell you that the way the plat is laid out that you have in your packet, there is one garage parking spot per bedroom. Plus there's additional driveway parking. There will not be a parking issue. But again, that's a neighbor that had an issue. That was the one issue or the two issues that she had.
 one of the two issues that she had at the ward floor meeting, and we've addressed that. Her second concern was in regard to traffic. And as far as that concern, this property could be developed with 20 plus single family homes, all with their own separate curb cuts. What is laid out before the council is a good plan that will achieve many of the city's goals. And I would further point out that regarding traffic,
 Regarding traffic, the city's report, the city staff's report believes that this project with frontage to both a regional link and a residential link fits because of the plentiful capacity for additional cars. And the staff further goes on to state this project does not create any sort of dangerous traffic condition.
 To finish up, let me reiterate that this project has been going on a good long while. While my clients have been spending money on interest costs, engineers, so forth, but yet they still remain cooperative to this day as evidenced by the forthcoming bill of assurance and I assure you they will remain cooperative no matter what happens.
 These developers are the type of people who want to work with the city and be responsible because between me, the engineer, and the developer of this property, we all live in Fayetteville and we all love Fayetteville. I thank you in advance and if you have any questions between myself and our engineer Justin Jorgensen, we'd be glad to help you or try to answer those questions. But please hold this on this reading, but please pass this rezoning request two weeks from tonight.
 Thank you. Is there any questions from the council for the staff or the applicant? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. We will hear from the Zoom people first.
 Okay, and then in-person folks after that. So who would like to address us from Zoom? Kyle Smith. Okay, go ahead, Kyle. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I don't remember if I spoke about this here at Council or at Planning Commission. I could nitpick it all day long with minor concerns, but I will say I'm very thankful for their offer of a bill of assurance, and if that comes through,
 fourth in two weeks as stated then um there's a lot worse we could do out here and and this would i think uh would make make it more palatable um well not perfect nothing ever is uh if you got the bill of assurance that ensures that the neighborhood services is is developed in a diverse manner than that i'd say go for this one thank you very much thank you pal anyone else
 Okay, who would like to address this it's here in person on this issue? Okay, bring back to the council What's sort of the wishes of the ward for? Representatives here. Would you like to leave it here? And thank you mayor. I would like to leave it here so we give the applicant the opportunity to bring forward a bill of assurance and And perhaps hear from other neighbors and support or or against this measure. So, okay, I
 i would be okay with leaving this on the second reading um however i don't believe i'll be supporting this um i've received i've personally spoken to three of the residents all of whom have concerns with this and then i received two pieces of public comment um issues let's see
 they revealed the following concerns leapfrogging and re-zones current runoff issues to the south which would only be increased with this development increase in cars turning on weddington without a light and another comment was commercial property neighborhood services is only blocks away that is mostly vacant and then another paving increasing runoff concern so that's where i'm at with that okay thank you so y'all are good with leaving it on the second rate
 What other questions or comments or discussions does council want to make? I agree we should leave it here as uh member Teresa Turk said because um we I want to see the bill of assurance to be sure what we're up to. Everybody good? I have a question uh for Robert and and I don't have I can't I can't get my connection to pull it up so uh but the neighborhood what's the zoning at the end is it neighborhood services?
 Is that bill of assurance going to cover that as well? Yes, it's going to be twofold. One will deal with the neighborhood services, that commercial will be built there. It won't be just pure residential, that track. And then in regard to the other track, we will commit to building townhomes. Okay, thank you. Everybody good? Okay, let's go on to the next one.
 all right we come to new business um number one is a resolution to review the continuation or repurposing of the city board of health now that the governor's decree of a pandemic emergency has lapsed that is something that i know that myself and council member petty sponsored this last summer it was passed on june 24th and there was a section in there that i did take the city attorney's office that i wanted was uh
 City Council the city of Feb. Ornish I'll hereby determine that this resolution should be reviewed within four weeks at the end of any relevant state of emergency to determine whether The City Board of Health should be dissolved reconstituted or repurposed when such a statement of emergency ends the City Board of Health should provide a summary list with the nations of pressing public health issues I'm now I'm
 This is something that we brought forward. I took it to the city attorney's office and he thought we needed to bring it So I know that kit drew and blank may want to weigh in on this I certainly think we need to continue the City Board of Health, but This is what the resolution said. So that's why I'm bringing it back tonight So what I didn't have anything to add mayor I think the resolution speaks for itself and that was that was your resolution. So I
 Yeah, I would hope that the council would not put a time limit on it. And so, Matthew, what do you think? I'll be happy to vote for the resolution. Yes, I thought you would. I would, too. So, any comments or questions? Yes, DeAndre. Yes, today I sent an amendment to KIT and...
 I would like to amend the resolution to recognize the council's unanimous declaration that racism is a public health crisis and to direct the Board of Health to take up equity issues in public health and other public health issues as they, in their professional capacity, sees fit.
 Whereas August 18, 2020, the City Council voted unanimously to recognize racism as a public health crisis, tasking the City Board of Health and the City Health Officer to identify health disparities and ways to positively affect health outcomes and the adoption of large-scale solutions to this public health crisis.
 Evidence-based health information should be clearly and proactively communicated to the public to combat this
 This constant assault on health care access for transgender, Arkansans, Washington County women and Americans who qualify for public assistance. In section three, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville thereby request that the city board of health and city health officer apply their attention and expertise as the
 pandemic allowed to the goals of improving equitable public health outcomes for underprivileged populations and to adopt or recognize such rules, regulations, and recommend as appropriate to advancing that goal. Okay. Well, Blake, do you have all that? Did you all receive that today? Yes. DeAndre forwarded it to me just a few minutes ago, so I've got the text. If it's adopted as an amendment, we can insert that in the resolution before you sign it. Okay. So the first thing we have to discuss tonight is the amendment.
 So what's the thoughts of the council? I'll second the motion. Any discussion or questions or anything? Mayor, I have one clarification. So because I don't have it in hand, so I'm just listening. So, DeAndre, is your amendment to just only focus with the COVID-19 or is it broader than that? It's broader than that, but at the –
 based on any population that has historically dealt with health disparities. Okay, thank you for clarifying. Mayor? Yes. Sure. I'll just add a little bit of context back from the formation of the Board of Health. I doubt this will come as any kind of a surprise to any of the current members of the Board of Health.
 adopting a broader mission was something that was discussed with the members before the board was pulled together Whenever the emergency declarations and so I think it's really timely one thing councilmember Jones for doing it Yeah, me too. And I did take something similar to this to the Board of Health for discussion back I don't know several months ago. They were on board with it then so I don't have any issue with the amendment Yes
 I certainly support this and I want to commend Councilmember Jones. He's new, I'm kidding him, I'm sorry. It's very comprehensive and it does include a broad number of elements of our society that may have disparities in healthcare. So I was pleased that it did it. It was very inclusive. Thank you so much.
 And last year, the Board of Health partnered with the Black Action Collective, and they hosted a series of health clinics, get faded, get screened, at the local barbershop. And one of them, I believe over 35 Latino and African American men were screened. Yes, that is right. Okay, so...
 i guess there's not any other discussion yes yeah i just i want to thank council member jones for bringing this definitely supported and um i like the continuing the broadening so that you know once we kind of transition to do a little less about covid um although there's still a lot of um
 health issues that we need to deal with covid and um you know but probably it's weaning now so gives us some some other uh missions to work on that absolutely need need work so i appreciate you bringing this forward and i'll definitely be supporting it any other discussions or anything um well let's take some public comment then now this is on the amendment um
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council member say on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address zoom folks that are zooming will be allowed to speak first and then those in person will speak after that who do we have on so nobody do we have anybody here in person wants to speak on this topic the amendment seeing none i will bring it back to the council so
 Any other discussions, final comments? Okay, we have a motion and a second. Caravans, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, now we have the amended resolution before you. Any comments on that or discussion? Yes.
 I just want to say that the resurgence that we're seeing right now in Arkansas really needs to be addressed, so we need to continue this Board of Health. I thank you and Councilmember Petty for drafting this originally last year and Councilmember Jones for the just passed amendment.
 I think the Board of Health has served us very well and will continue to address some of these really serious issues and hope that we can get past where we are and also address the underprivileged inequities in health care. So thank you all. Any other discussion? Blake, do we need an amendment to do away? We had a, after the emergency declaration, we don't have to do anything with that, do we? We don't have to?
 Change the wording. I mean we we are not setting a time now, correct? I will be sure that we're clear this time on that Catch that last time Yes, ma'am. I'm moving past resolution Second have a motion second to pass resolution any final comments from council seeing none care. Would you please call? Kenyon yes, Eddie. Yes But yes sir
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. All right, number two, an Ordinance Rezoning that property describing zoning petition RZN 21-044 located 716 South College Avenue for approximately .30 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in South Fayetteville, just across the street from Walker Park, east of it specifically and northeast of the Fayetteville Senior Center.
 While it was previously developed with a single family home, which you can see in the aerial image here, that was recently demolished and the site is currently ready to be developed in that regard. The property's current NC neighborhood conservation zoning district originated with the Walker Park neighborhood master plan. You can see the specific location of the property here on the illustrative plan that came out of that master planning process as it relates to Walker Park immediately to the west and the senior center to the southwest.
 regarding surrounding zoning and surrounding land uses this area has seen a fair amount of development in recent years and even before then it did have a fairly diverse mix of housing types and uses or at least types of buildings that were previously used for non-residential purposes over the years and which have been converted back and forth immediately to the north is property that was rezoned to residential intermediate urban
 In recent years, similarly, there's other properties in the area that have seen other zoning changes. The applicant's request tonight is to rezone from NC to RIE, residential intermediate urban. The applicant has indicated that their interest in doing this is to provide more opportunities for smaller, more and smaller houses rather than one large house on the property.
 In vetting the request in terms of the city's long-range plans, we of course looked at the Walker Park master plan, which you saw in the illustrative plan a moment ago. The plan does call for preserving single-family homes, but at the same time that also recognizes that there is a need for a more diverse mixture of housing throughout the neighborhood to complement the services in that part of the city.
 Similarly, if you look at the Future Land Use Map, it calls for a wide spectrum of residential uses to be allowed or to be encouraged in this part of the city.
 When looking at the request in terms of city plan 2040, staff feels that this is very complementary to many of the goals the city has adopted. Perhaps most prominent of those is to encourage appropriate infill. This site has access to a lot of amenities in the area, which not to sound like a broken record but again Walker Park is immediately to the west across the street. The school district's adult education center is immediately to the north and the former Jefferson Elementary School building.
 I feel like this is reflected in the elements that contribute to its infill ratings, such as fire department response times, access to infrastructure and transit. Other issues we considered in looking at the requests were the public comment we received.
 On this item, we did receive some inquiries, but other than that, it was uniformly in support of the request. You probably saw in your packet that this property had quite a bit of a record with our code enforcement division for a lot of trash and debris being left outside. So I think there was some enthusiasm perhaps among some of the residents in the neighborhood to see it redeveloped in a different way.
 With that said, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission agreed and forwarded the item to you unanimously. Among the comments made by the commissioners was they felt this was an opportunity for appropriate infill and additional housing. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions and I believe Asha Nederman is available online to take any questions as the applicant on this one. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? Asha, please go ahead.
 Asha, you'll need to unmute your mic. There you go. Can you hear me now?
 Yes. Thank you so much, everyone. Yeah, I guess I just wanted to say, so the lot is 75 feet wide and the current zoning requires 40 feet wide lots, which wouldn't allow me to split it. So by rezoning to RAU, I could build several smaller houses and one large house. And my hope would be to build two small houses and potentially two ADUs. And so that's about it.
 Thank you. Okay, what questions does the council have for the staff of the app? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Folks that are Zooming will be allowed to speak first and then in person folks after that. Who do we have on Zoom?
 Nobody. Okay, who would like to address this? It's here in person on this. Okay. I'm gonna bring it back to the council What's what action would the council like to take discussion on what? I'm gonna be suspended rolls and go to the second reading unless there's questions. I Second have a motion to second to go to the second reading Yes
 Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-044 located at 716 South College Avenue for approximately 0.3 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Yes.
 ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-0 4 4 located at 716 South College Avenue for approximately 0.3 acres from NC neighborhood conservation to RIU residential intermediate urban in file college and council care would you please call the row Kenyon yes Eddie yes
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hurtsberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number three. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 21-045 located southeast of South Ray Avenue for approximately seven acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre. I1 heavy commercial and line industrial and RA residential agricultural to RA residential agricultural. Blake.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 4, residential single-family, four units per acre, I-1, heavy commercial and light industrial, and RA, residential agricultural, to RA, residential agricultural, Section 2.
 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one jonathan thank you mayor get this pulled up there we go this property is in southeast fayetteville a little ways north and east of the city's fleet and parks and recycling and trash facilities on happy hollow road it is currently fully undeveloped
 and there is zoned, excuse me, and zoned RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre. The request is unusual for a number of reasons, most prominently of which is the request itself to rezone into RA residential agriculture, which is a down zoning in most senses of the word. We don't often see requests to reduce some of the more typical entitlements you see in the city, which is single family zoning.
 Also, as you can see here on the zoning map, this area is a broad mix of zoning districts and allowed uses ranging from low density residential up to our most intense industrial zoning districts.
 So going into that is perhaps unsurprising, hopefully, that it was something of a mixed bag of findings from staff on this request. As if it wasn't complicated enough, our future land use map bisects the property, calling out the southeastern area you can see here in green as a natural area, which largely aligns with the floodplain that exists on the property associated with both an unnamed creek and the west fork of the, excuse me, the,
 west port of the White River. But then that is, of course, balanced or counterbalanced by the area to the north that our future land use map calls out a city neighborhood area, which are areas we tend to see or anticipate seeing more heavily developed. Similarly, this addresses, this speaks differently to different goals of City Plan 2040. Most of the property is within the Enduring Green Network, which again, perhaps unsurprising, given its proximity to the west port.
 At the same time, it is near a lot of amenities that you find in the city. There are a number of retail services all along Huntsville Road. There's a lot of employment opportunities in the Commerce Park. There's quite a bit of infrastructure in the area that would ultimately suggest that it would be, at least portions of the property would be appropriate for development.
 And to add to the layer cake of compounding issues on this one, there are some very major water and sewer easements that bisect the property from southwest to northeast, which you may have seen on the aerial exhibit. Those are some of the largest lines the city has carrying sanitary waste to the west side treatment plant, which limits the developability of the property. Of course, there's also stream side protection requirements associated with both the West Fork and the unnamed stream on the property.
 And as I noted, there's floodplain, which for portions of the site has some associated hydric soils, which is suggestive or one of the indicators of potential wetlands on the property. All told, staff does recommend in favor of the request. When evaluating, we did find that the RA Residential Agriculture Zoning District can act as something of a holding district in the meantime for the property.
 We feel that although it may be appropriate in the future to develop the property for higher intensity if it were to be tied into the existing street grid or if developments in the area were to change, that at this time it is more appropriate perhaps to move further down in the zoning entitlement categories and further up it.
 The Planning Commission agreed with us by a vote of 8-0 and their major comments involved acknowledging that the request recognizes their Enduring Green Network and the Future Land Use Map. And to date we've not received any public comments on the request and I'm happy to take any questions and I believe John Cloyd is available here as the applicant but I'm not sure if he's in, yep he's here in person.
 Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? No, you got to come to the microphone. I think what he laid out was basically my thoughts. If you have specific questions for me, I'm happy to answer them, but I don't feel like I need to make a speech. Okay. So. Okay, thank you. What questions does the council have for the applicant or the staff?
 We're familiar with speeches, by the way. Do we have any questions? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Folks that are attending by Zoom will be allowed to speak first. Who do we have on Zoom? Okay. Okay.
 Then those of you that are here in person, this is your turn to speak for the council. Seeing one from the public. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion do we have from the council or questions or action or what you all want to do? Yes, please.
 It seems like the applicant's making a good choice. This will protect, further protect the White River, the west fork of the White River. And so I'd like to move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty?
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-045 located southeast of South Ray Avenue for approximately seven acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre I1 heavy commercial and light industrial and RA residential agricultural to RA residential agricultural.
 i'd like to move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading care which please call the row kenyon yes eddie yes
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-045, located southeast of South Ray Avenue, for approximately seven acres from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre, I1 heavy commercial and light industrial, and RA residential agricultural to RA residential agricultural.
 Any final comments from the council? I just want to also commend the applicant for downzoning and bringing some relief for places for water to collect and to the protection of the streams. I appreciate that, the creek. Anything else? Caravans Police, Colorado. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Thur? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Thank you all. Number four.
 an ordinance rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 21-046 located southwest of south school avenue and west martin luther king jr boulevard for approximately two acres from dg downtown general and i-1 heavy commercial and line industrial to msc main street center
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from DG, Downtown General, and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to MSC Main Street Center.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is immediately south of downtown or perhaps part of downtown depending on your perspective. It abuts the Frisco Trail to the south, the Tanglewood Branch to the west, School Avenue to the east and the former Farmers Co-op property to the north.
 The property recently came under new ownership and development in the last year or two. If you have had an opportunity to drive on South School, you've probably seen the new construction on the overall property and these specific parcels.
 The request today is to rezone the property in question from its current majority zoning district of DG, downtown general, with a sliver of I-1, heavy commercial, light industrial, to MSC, main street center. The applicant has requested this primarily to have a consistent zoning district and zoning standards across the entirety of the property as they move through the project.
 Whether you consider the property downtown or not, it is formally part of the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan. You can see here it's in the northwest corner of it, and it butts the downtown master plan area immediately to the north.
 It also has the recognition of being part of the 71B corridor plan. Both plans did anticipate seeing some advanced or increased development and intensity on the property, which is exactly what we are seeing today with apartment construction and adaptive reuse of the farmers' co-op buildings on the site. Thank you.
 uh in terms of those plans and the existing city neighborhood area future land use map designation we feel that our staff feels that the uh the request aligns with all of those msc main street center is certainly a much a somewhat more incremental increase in intensity it does allow somewhat taller buildings it allows some additional uses but we feel that its location on south school avenue particularly this close to the urban core are entirely appropriate
 Similarly, we feel it aligns with the city plan 2040 goals as a project itself. I know we try to avoid conflating rezoning requests with developments, but the fact that a development is currently underway, it's hard to not pay attention to. It is creating opportunities for attainable housing and also as a part of the project, they've worked to dedicate parkland to the city for the Tanglewood branch along with a dollar amount to improve that part of the property.
 As you might expect from a property that is effectively in the downtown area, it does have many of the attributes of infill development that we like to see. It's very close to Fire Station 1, has all the typical infrastructure you'd expect, access to both the main transit services of the city, and is again immediately adjacent to a trail and just a short jump from Walker Park.
 That said, staff has found no issues with the request. We've not received any public comment for or against, or I apologize, we did receive one public comment in favor of it after the item I believe was submitted to council. I think I mentioned that at agenda session, apologies. It was stated in favor of the request.
 That said staff does recommend in favor this Planning Commission agreed unanimously There were not a lot of conversations just general agreement with staffs finding that it was a compatible request with both both existing land uses And master plans. I'm happy to take any questions the council has. Thank you. Yeah, I can hear yes Thank you. I believe I set the members here in person to speak to the council you have ten minutes and
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. My name is Seth Mims. I work at Specialized Real Estate Group. My address is 204 Allstrand.
 and I also want to help limit your time commitment here tonight so I'll skip the speech too. Basically what Jonathan said is really a lot easier for a lot of reasons especially financing to have a uniform zoning across the entire project. I'll be here if anybody has any questions and I would humbly request if nobody has any heartburn in light of no opposition if we could have all three readings tonight that would be awesome. Thank you. Okay what questions do we have from the council for the applicant or staff?
 I have a question, Mayor. Sure. This is to Jonathan. Jonathan, you mentioned that there was, I guess, that there was some preservation next to the Tanglewood Creek. Is that correct? As a part of the project's large-scale development, they're required to dedicate or deed parkland to the city along the creek, yes.
 So at this point if we approve that they can't go back and change it to a fee in lieu Is that all part of the package that we're looking at tonight or is that a completely separate issue? Mr. Mims may be able to speak to that better than I believe the property was deeded as a part of the easement plat that was required before They could move into the current phase, but I could be mistaken I'd ask mr. Mims to speak to that I can dig into it a little bit while he does so yeah Thank you. That would be helpful
 Yes, it's true. The property's already been deeded. But just so you know, in this case, the city is getting not only the parkland dedication, but we're also paying the fees. We're doing both because we want to see a really quality asset, not just for the city, but also for our community. So you're actually getting both this time, but certainly parkland dedication is done. Thank you. Any other questions from the council?
 So I just want to make sure and clarify that that is, Jonathan, that is completely locked in, what Mr. Mims just said. If you'll allow me a moment, I apologize, it'll take me a minute to get into the deed history. Mayor, I did find that the city received a deed that was recorded on November 6, 2020, for that property that covers the stream. Okay.
 Okay, and it is 1.3 acres that the city received Anything else anybody else? Okay. Let's take some public comment Everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken in segments of three and two minutes Don't engage anyone in public or any council members stay on topic. Please no rude behavior Give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first And then those in person will be allowed to speak after that who is on zoom says I
 nobody okay those that are here in person would like to speak on this rezoning who is here to speak on this okay I will bring it back to the City Council what discussion action items what would you all like to do come if we spend the rules go to the second reading second most of the second to go to the second reading care would you please call the roll Kenyon yes Eddie yes
 Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-046, located southwest of South School Avenue and West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, for approximately two acres from DG Downtown General and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to MSC Main Street Center.
 i'm moving up wait a minute matthew go ahead i'm just going to move to spin the rules and go to the third reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading care which please call the role kenyon yes eddie yes
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes in ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-046 located southwest of South School Avenue and West Martin Luther King jr. Boulevard for approximately two acres from DG downtown general and I won heavy commercial and light industrial to MSC Main Street Center
 No. Okay. Council Member, beat me to the punch. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Caravage, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay. Thank you all.
 number five an ordinance for his own that property described his own petition rzn21-047 located north of 2619 north quality lane for approximately two acres from rmf 24 residential multi-family 24 units breaker to cs community services place
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 24 Residential Multifamily 24 Units per Acre to CS Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Let me get this pulled up. This property is in northern Fayetteville. It abuts the eastern edge of the University of Arkansas's AgriFarms. It is an undeveloped piece of property along Quality Lane. If you've never driven down Quality Lane, you'd be forgiven unless you went there specifically for it. It's about midway between Drake to the north and Sunbridge to the south.
 If you're eating at the Millstone Bread Company, you can just go a little ways up. Greg on the west side of the street is how you'll find that. Or if you've ridden on the Skull Creek Trail, you probably saw it to the west. The property is currently undeveloped and slopes upward from Quality Lane. The request is to rezone the property from RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, to CS, community services.
 The applicant has indicated that they intend to develop it with offices, classrooms, training, and a meeting space to support families with disabilities. The development in the area or the zoning in the area is fairly consistent. There's quite a bit of residential development, including immediately to the south and to the east across on Gregg. Staff feels that rezoning the property to the CS and affording the opportunity for services to serve these residential areas is complimentary.
 Similarly, we feel that the request is consistent with our adopted plans. The Future Land Use Map has this property as city neighborhood area, which is a designation that supports a fairly wide spectrum of residential and non-residential uses.
 In terms of city plan 2040 and the infill score that you see there, the property does have access to all the typical infrastructure. In addition, there is a Ozark regional transit stop very nearby, and there's the Skull Creek Trail immediately to the east, both of which would be very complementary of development on this piece of property.
 As far as it relates to Skull Creek, that is one of the more interesting aspects of the property. It does have a fairly wide floodplain at this point and that does extend across Quality Lane encroaching into this property somewhat.
 But we feel that the development under the community services zoning district affords flexibility and being able to deal with that. It certainly came up in internal conversations that there are certain administrative allowances where a building can be somewhat pushed away from a property line if it's unfeasible to develop in it because of issues like floodplain.
 That said, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission agreed, affording it unanimously 8-0. They had a similar sentiment to staff that this is an area where services can be beneficial to quite all the residential housing in the area. Similarly, they felt that access to the trail and transit nearby would make this a very appropriate area for additional development.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions, and I believe I have Alan Deaver here, or not here, online. I have Alan Deaver speaking for the applicant. Okay. Mr. Deaver's online. All right. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Hello, council and mayor. This is Alan Deaver with Martin Shipley Engineers representing applicant sources. I don't have anything further to add to Jonathan's comments, but I am here to answer any questions if there are any.
 Okay, what questions do we have from the City Council for the applicant or the staff? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please no rude behavior. Give us your name and address. Those that are participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are here in person will be allowed to speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan?
 Okay, well those of you that are here to speak on this Topic may speak now. It's in the council chambers anyone Okay, well and then I will bring it back to the council what actions with the council like to take discussions If there's no questions, I'd like we I'd like to move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading Second we have motion second to go to the second grade care, which please call the roll. I
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-047 located north of 2619 North Quality Lane for approximately two acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to CS Community Services.
 we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second yes yes
 turk yes herzberg yes gutierrez yes jones yes an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 21-047 located north of 2619 north quality lane for approximately two acres from rmf 24 residential multi-family 24 units per acre to cs community services and final comments that we have in the council okay carol would you please call the roll
 Kenyon yes Teddy yes Bunch yes Turf yes Ertzberg yes Gutierrez yes Jones yes okay thank you all number six an ordinance to rezone that property described in zoning petition RZN 21-048 located at 956 west Cato Springs road for approximately 0.50 acres
 From RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, and I-1 heavy commercial and line industrial to NSG Neighborhood Services General, Blake.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo from RSF 4 Residential Single Family 4 Units per Acre and I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan? Thank you.
 thank you mayor this property is located in south fayetteville on the north side of cato springs road immediately west of the cato springs trail which is itself immediately west of the cato springs stream or creek i'm not sure of its classification honestly it's currently developed with a residence that is accessed immediately off of cato springs road and the trail that runs along the north side of cato springs road terminates immediately to the southeast of this property
 The request is to rezone the property from its current mixture of RSF4, residential single-family four units per acre, and I1, light industrial and heavy commercial, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General. The applicant has indicated that he would like to develop the property in a trail-oriented manner.
 As you can see on the zoning map, similar to some other items tonight, there's a pretty wide spectrum of uses in the area from single family detached homes up through large and multi-family buildings to the west. Similarly there's warehousing and offices and even a concrete plant once you get closer to Razorback Road. So it is quite a mixture of activities in the area.
 As far as long-range planning documents go, it is part of the Fayette Junction plan, which you can see here. It's located towards the central area of it, just off of where the heavy rail transit junction was anticipated to be as part of the plan.
 in those terms staff does feel that this request would be complimentary if a major transit effort was ever made in this area that would be certainly be complimentary regardless of whether that does or does not ever happen staff feels that this will be complimentary of the area
 As we have seen in recent years, our trail system has become less of a recreational tool and more of a transportation tool. These function just as often as streets, as they do as forms of leisure. And in that case, staff is inclined to think of some of these corners where a trail intersects with the street as you would a street corner and could be an appropriate place for services.
 In that regard, we feel it is complementary to our future land use map and many of our goals of City Plan 2040, including creating those complete connected neighborhoods where people can access services near where they live.
 As far as the infill indicators for the property, it does have access to prompt fire department response. There's water and sewer accessible. It is near Great House Park to the north, which can be accessed by the Cato Springs Trail. And it does have transit access through Ozark Regional Transit.
 With regards to issues the two I have on the screen here are interrelated So we did receive some public comment prior to the Planning Commission meeting and at the meeting itself with concerns about drainage The Cato spring branch again does run immediately to the east of this property just east of the Cato Springs Trail
 The floodway associated with the Cato Spring branch does run up just about to the eastern edge of this property, so much of this property and a lot of property in the area are within floodplain.
 Although staff was concerned with this, we do feel that some of our more rigorous ordinances that were recently passed by the council, specifically those about development in the floodplain, help protect neighbors and help protect users of any specific property. And ultimately, we do recommend approval of the request.
 The Planning Commission agreed. Although they did forward it unanimously, they did express some hesitation about development adjacent to a floodway, but felt on the balance of issues that our city ordinances protected adjacent property owners and, again, those within a given property from harm or damage, and felt that the proposed request and all the uses allowed with it were compatible with those existing in the area. Okay.
 And so with that, again, staff is recommending in favor. I'm happy to take any questions. And we have a few members of the applicant's team here in person tonight. I believe Garrison Roddy is leading them. But I think we also have Nathan Stout and possibly others. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Garrison Roddy. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and City Council. As we looked at this parcel, again,
 We were a little bit thrown off by floodplain and floodway. As we did further research, the house that's there now takes up quite a bit of room on that property through doing a peer system and also talking with neighbors down the street. We feel like the actual porous areas is gonna increase
 rather than decrease. In layman's terms, we're not even bringing a bunch of red dirt, fill it up so that it puts a water problem on our neighbors.
 We also are very excited about the Fayette Junction plan with the trails and all the development that's going on in South Fayetteville, the new engineering building, as was stated. The Greenway is not just used for recreation now, it's used to travel in the city. So we're very excited about that.
 all the activity that's going to happen in South Fayetteville. We want to have a small placemaking area down there that we can develop that will drive more traffic on these trails. So thank you very much. Anyone else from the applicant side? You've got about...
 Seven minutes left. Did you say there was more than one applicant? I think available for questions. I didn't know that they all wanted to speak Okay. All right. What questions do we have from the council on this for the applicant or staff? Yes, Teresa. I
 So Jonathan, like you mentioned that eastern portion goes into the floodway. Would the applicant be permitted to build in that floodway or not? Could you just clarify if there are any limitations with that regard? There are indeed.
 without trying to go into the terminology, typically when you build into a floodway, not a floodplain, so the path where it will flood in the instance of a water rising, a developer is required to provide a no rise certificate. And what that means is the water level will not rise on other people's properties because of the amount of water volume that you are displacing. So development in the floodway is the most, among the most strenuous types of development you can do from FEMA standards.
 city has heightened standards above that as a part of that recent stormwater ordinance we have something of a municipal no-rise certificate that's required for development in floodplain areas especially if there's recognized issues associated with that thank you for that and similarly are there other you know concerns or I guess limitations in the hundred-year floodplain area that
 I mean, I was impressed with the applicant saying that he wants to build a pier system and reduce the impervious surface. That's really a nice change in consideration. I'm just wondering what the limitations are with the city legally. Okay.
 certainly apologies I wasn't very clear on that the the second piece of it that I described the the Municipal no-rise certificate for lack of a better term that is required in the flood plane as well I I did anticipate questions of this effect and spoke to Alan Pugh about it before the meeting and he did share that to date there's not been any issues on this property if you're familiar with this area you probably or if you've looked at our city GIS in this area you see there's
 a city-owned property to the south however and that is where the city ended up buying out a property owner because it was a repeat incident where that house was flooded several times so the city was seeking to reduce the the potential risk in that area and also to increase the amount of perviousness or areas that can absorb rainwater thank you for the explanation i appreciate it yeah the questions council okay let's take some public comment then everyone has one turn to speak you have five minutes
 Five minute duration, broken in segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those in person after that. Who do you have on Zoom? Okay, who would like to address us from the public in the chat? Anyone? Okay.
 So I will bring it back to the City Council. What discussion, action items, what do you all want to do here? I'm really excited about this for Ward 1. So if there are no more questions, I would like to suspend the rules. Go to the second reading. Go to the second reading. Thank you. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 21-048, located at 956 West Cato Springs Road for approximately 0.5 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre and I-1 heavy commercial and light industrial to NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 Just one comment. You know, I'm in this area quite a bit. There's a storage unit place, and there's a lot of dense housing nearby. There's a lot of variety of housing nearby and a lot of potential with
 land that doesn't have anything at all so i think it would be great to have a variety of offerings in here to serve that neighborhood so i'm looking forward to continuing to support this so i will move that we go to the suspended roles go to the third reading second you have a motion to second go to the third and final reading care which please call the roll canyon yes eddie yes
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Pittsburgh? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 21-048 located at 956 West Cato Springs Road for approximately 0.5 acres from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre and I1 heavy commercial and light industrial to NSG Neighborhood Services General. What final comments do we have in the council? Sure.
 Well, I would say that I live about 300 yards from this development. I live down in that area. This goes along with the Fayette Junction master plan. I'm very pleased to see this type of development going. We've waited a long time for this kind of development. I think it's a real good project, and I really appreciate you all bringing it forward. So with that, can everyone please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number seven, an ordinance to approve vacation 21-014 properly located at 3553 North Steel Boulevard to vacate a portion of public right-of-way. Blake?
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under Arkansas Code Annotated Section 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of public right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portions of street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as exhibit A to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner slash developer's expense. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is in North Fayetteville.
 It is located one lot south of the intersection of Van Asch and Steele. But before we get into the discussion, unfortunately I have a clerical request. In reviewing this item in the lead up to the city council meeting this evening, I found that our internal staff review of the legal description had placed it about 300 feet to the south.
 So I'd like to present a proposed exhibit A alternative for what's in your packet. I'll pass that around now. If the council sees fit, I'd ask that you amend the ordinance to consider this in lieu of the exhibit A that was in your packet.
 And while that's being passed around, I'll kind of describe more or less what exactly happened other than our mistake, which I apologize for the confusion caused by that. So the exhibit A that is in your packet is shown on screen here. It has the subject property there, which is about 57 square feet in front of an empty lot on Steel Avenue.
 which is unfortunately, if you can see my cursor, about here, which is precisely not where the applicant needs it. There's no building on that property right now. I can see the red arrow there showing where the current exhibit A shows versus the arrow in blue, which is the intended location for the legal description that's in your hands now.
 And that's just showing you there, that's exactly what I'm talking about there. I'd place it just to the northeast of the existing building on the property. So again, I submit that that be considered following my presentation if the council sees fit.
 So moving back to that, some of the issues at hand, or I guess talking about it overall, this is a somewhat unusual right-of-way exhibit. Usually the council sees paper alleys or dead-end streets or things of that nature. It's not usually small pieces of right-of-way. This is, again, about 57 square feet in front of the first national bank building that was recently built on steel just south of JBGB, if that helps orient you.
 The applicant had intended to locate a sign in close proximity to the street. They had found in utilizing their zoning entitlement to put their building closer to the street where they could put a parking lot in front of it instead that it unfortunately hampered some of the visibility of their customers and so they wanted to exercise the right for a monument sign. Our sign ordinance standards, which I would defend to the death, I do recognize that they are somewhat stringent.
 and that would basically require you to put your monument sign up against the building where it would have little to no effect. So in that context and in that light, the applicant is requesting to vacate a portion of right-of-way to scoot their allowance for a sign closer to right-of-way, if that makes sense.
 As far as typical issues of public right-of-way vacation requests, the franchise utilities have all looked at it and signed off. That includes the city utilities, water, sewer, recycling, and trash. This is an excess piece of right-of-way in terms of our Master Street plan. To put it in that context, to help benefit me, this is the typical Master Street plan section that would be applied to steel.
 yr un o'r llaw ar y llaw yma, yw'r ardal y maen nhw'n ei ddewis i'w ffynnu ac yna byddai'r awenau yn mynd yn unig ar hynny ac yna wrth gwrs y cwestiwn olaf a hoffwn i'ch gweld yn gynharach yn y blaen oedd y cyfrifiad
 Mae'r staff yn teimlo nad oes effaith anodd i'r bwyd cyhoeddus gyda hyn. Rydyn ni'n teimlo bod y stiwl wedi'i adeiladu i'w cynyddu, ac nid ydym yn amlwg ei fod yn ei angen i'w llenwi'n fwy. Mae'r gwellau ar draws y llwybr ystod amser wedi bod yno. Roedd trefi'r llwybr wedi'u plantio gyda'r Ffync Cenedlaethol gyntaf, ac rydym yn argymell ym mhobl. Mae'r Cynulliad Cynulliad wedi cytuno.
 Yn ystod y cyfnod o'r Cyllid, roedd yna drafodaeth rhwng staff cynllunio a'r Cyllid Cynllunio efallai fod yna ddiddordeb llawer fwyaf mewn gwirfoddoli'r holl fawr o'r ffrynge i greu fawr cyffredinol.
 Yn y pennaf, fe wnaethon nhw gyflwyno'r cymorth i'r cyflwynwyr, sef beth sydd o'r blaen i chi heno, ar gyfer y 57 sgwyrt-fed, ond fe wnaethon nhw gynnwys, mewn adroddiad arbennig, ymchwilio'r holl ffrindiau, ond rydyn ni ddim yn cael disgrifiad leol ar gyfer hynny. Felly beth sydd o'r blaen i'r Cyngor heno, yn ymwybodol, eto, bod chi'n cymryd y gweithgaredd arbennig, neu'n ymwneud â'r gweithgaredd arbennig, yw'r 57 sgwyrt-fed o'r blaen.
 Mae'n ddrwg i mi wneud cwestiwn sy'n hynod o bwysig, neu'n cymhleth. Rwy'n hapus i wneud cwestiynau. Ac rwy'n credu bod Tanya Mims yma yn person i wneud cwestiynau fel ymgyrch. Diolch. Roeddwch chi'n dweud bod gennych ymgyrch yma? Ie, Tanya Mims. Ie. A fydd y ymgyrch yn hoffi siarad gyda'r Cyngor? Helo, rwy'n Janie Mims ac rwy'n gyda'r Banco Cynulliadau Cynulliadau Cyntaf. Ac mae'r lleoliad yma ar 3553 Steele Blivard.
 nid ydy'n ystyried pan wnaethon nhw gyflawni'r cynllun gyda'r arbenigwr arno arno, bod yna broses cyflogwriaeth arbenigol ar gyfer y cyflogwriaeth arbenigol. Roedden nhw'n meddwl, oherwydd roedd yn y cynllun, bod hynny'n golygu ein bod ni wedi cael ein cyflogi i'w lleihau yno. Felly, fe wnaethon nhw ddod yn dda i ddynnu sgwab concretau yn ein ffwrdd ffwrdd ar gyfer hynny. Ac yna, pan wnaethon ni ddysgu
 rydyn ni'n rhaid i ni fynd drwy'r holl hyn. Rydyn ni wedi ystyried nad ydyn ni'n gwneud un ar gyfer cyfnod, ond rydyn ni wedi dod yn ddiweddar nad yw pobl yn gweld ein adeilad, oherwydd nid yw'n edrych fel sefydliad traddodiadol neu ffranch. Felly mae pobl yn parhau i'w hwydo ac rydyn ni wedi dod yn ddiweddar bod angen amser amser. Felly rydym yn gobeithio fod oherwydd y llawr y byddwch yn ystyried cyflogi hynny i ni.
 Beth cwestiynau mae gennym ni ar y staff yma? Unrhyw beth? Iawn, gadewch i ni wneud rhai sylwadau cyhoeddus yno. Mae pawb yn cael un turn i siarad. Mae gennych chi ddur 5 munud o dduradu, ac wedyn, wyt ti, rydyn ni'n rhaid i ni wneud amgylch yma, dydyn ni, Blake? Rwy'n sori. Ie, felly gall unrhyw gyngor cyngor wneud amgylch ymgyrch ar unrhyw amser i... ...dechrau... ...gwneud ymgyrch ar y cyfnod A.
 whatever this property i move we adopt the revised exhibit second okay a motion second to amend to the recent vacation exhibit correct jonathan yes mayor okay all right any discussion on that okay any public comment let's
 everybody gets one turn to speak on the amendment they have five minute duration but open in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those that are participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first on the amendment and then those in person will be allowed to speak after that do we have anybody on zoom okay do we have anybody from the public out here in the council chambers who would like to speak for the council
 I'll bring it back to the council. We have a motion and a second on the amendment. Any discussion from the council? Chair, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Now we have the amended vacation. Anything else you want to say on it, Jonathan? No, Mayor, but I'm available for questions. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 we have the amended resolution ordinance before you what's your wishes the council mayor i'm going to reach the spin the rules and go to the second reading second second okay let me take some public comment if if there's not any questions let me do that first
 all right everybody um we'll take some public comment on the amended uh ordinance everybody gets one turn speaking for five minutes you have segments of three and broken in segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address those that participate in the zoom will be allowed to speak first and then those that are here in person do we have anybody on zen okay does anybody in person want to address us on this
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. We do have a motion in a second to go to the second reading. Is that correct, Karen? That's correct, Mayor Jordan. Okay. Would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hurt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 21-014 for property located at 3553 North Steele Boulevard to vacate a portion of public right-of-way.
 So, Mayor, I move we suspend the rule to go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Care which police call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to approve the AC21-014 for property located at 3553 North Steel Boulevard to vacate a portion of public right-of-way.
 Any final comments from council on the vacation? Martin just had one. You just had a vacation. I did. I made it back for the meeting though. Yes, you did. Yes, you did. Thank you very much for doing that. If there was no other final comments, Carol, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez?
 And Holly was on vacation as well, yes. You started it, Mayor. Huh? You took vacation first. You started it. Didn't you take vacation earlier this? Took two days. That's vacation. It is, you're right. I stand corrected. I did take vacation. All right. Number eight. An ordinance to amend 178.02, sidewalk cafes to stream access
 line and make permanent sidewalk cafe and park development processes for use by restaurants, bars, performance venues and other businesses like
 Whereas the use of sidewalk space is currently allowed through the sidewalk cafe permit process But the use of city-owned parking spaces for parklets and the lifting of review and permitting processes for sidewalk cafes and parklets that were Authorized by ordinance 63 32 have ended with the expiration of the governor's emergency declaration And whereas the proposed amendments to section 178 point o2 clarify the process for businesses wishing to utilize sidewalk cafes or parklets as
 In hopes of providing additional options for expanded dining and permanently codifying the review and permitting process for parklets and sidewalk cafes allows these types of uses to create a sense of place throughout the city. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 178.02 Sidewalk Cafes of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code,
 and enacts a new section 178.02, Sidewalk Cafes and Parklets, as seen in Exhibit A, attached here too and made a part hereof. Mary, I believe you have this one. Yes, I do. Good evening. I have a short presentation for you guys tonight. It'll last about five minutes. Good, you have ten. You do have ten. I'm going to keep it short for you. I'm going to share my screen now. I'm not sure which...
 Give me one second. Technical difficulties. Okay. There we go. Okay. So, as Blake just said, the use of sidewalk spaces is currently allowed through the sidewalk cafe permit process. The use of city-owned parking spaces for parklets and the lifting of review and permitting processes for sidewalk cafes and parklets via emergency ordinance 6332 has expired with the expiration of the emergency ordinance.
 This is the background here, so it gives you a little bit of information about, you know, what we're trying to do right now, which is essentially permanently codify the review and permitting process for parklets. We did not make huge changes to the Sidewalk Cafe section of code. This is primarily focused on the parklet section of code.
 The ordinance amendment before you clarifies this process for businesses wishing to utilize one or both of either parklet or sidewalk cafes in hopes of providing additional options for expanded dining in order to create a sense of place throughout the city and permanently codifies the review and permitting processes for parklets and sidewalk cafes. So essentially this amendment strikes the emergency provision that waive the fees and permitting steps associated with obtaining sidewalk cafes and parklet permits.
 It includes language to permanently allow parklets and sets a permitting process and review fee for the permit, which is $100. Includes provisions which ensure safe use, ADA access, and design guidelines based on the National Association of City Transportation Officials design guidelines. And that white paper was included in your packet, and it has a ton of great information on parklets.
 This amendment interfaces well with the outdoor refreshment ordinance as well and allows businesses the opportunities to be creative and try new things.
 We'll do a little parklet refresher here. Parklets are small platforms that take the place of one or more multiple on-street parking spaces, which extend the sidewalk to provide novel spaces for seats, tables, or other public amenities. Parklets are built, operated, and maintained by an adjacent business owner organization, and they offer residents and visitors new opportunities to stop, sit, and enjoy the surrounding neighborhood and street life.
 Parklets invigorate the pedestrian realm with activity, thereby contributing to a 24-hour urban core. With proper design and management, parklets add vitality to the street by encouraging walking, shopping, dining, socializing, which in turn boosts economic development efforts.
 We've had our parklet emergency ordinance in place for about a year. We've seen four parklets go up around our downtown, and I'm sure most of you have seen these around. These are the current pictures of the parklets here. Staff has received no complaints, nor have there been any accidents associated with our existing parklets. These parklets are often full of people, and I've encouraged people to spend time in our downtown throughout the pandemic.
 We also have two sidewalk cafes downtown at Maxine's and at West Mountain Brewing. In addition, staff is speaking with three additional businesses about utilizing a parklet or sidewalk cafe. Should this ordinance pass, staff would continue to encourage businesses to consider outdoor seating. Thank you.
 In conclusion, parklets can be anything. They can be used for a temporary event, or they can become a long-term investment for local business owners to offer a novel way for patrons to gather. We hope this ordinance can provide guidance and reassurance to business owners that the city is invested in maintaining a vibrant and lively downtown. And with that, I will be happy to answer any questions that you all have. Okay, what questions do we have? We're still on this.
 Yes, a couple of questions. So, Mary, just to clarify, are the car clips only allowed in the in the outdoor and the entertainment district? No, they would technically be allowed anywhere that there is city paid city parking.
 Okay, thank you. And then the second question is, I appreciate you adding the ADA, making sure that those design standards are met for ADA. But I've had complaints, obviously not in downtown, but in other areas of the city where there were issues that were non-ADA compliant. Does the city...
 envision because it is going to be right in the core or at least at least the examples that you have presented tonight are right in the core of the city can we anticipate monitoring to ensure further ADA compliant in compliance in the future
 Absolutely. And the ordinance, the way that it's presented and written, allows for city staff to regularly inspect the parklets. And I actually do that anyway. I've gone and visited these parklets multiple times to make sure they're being maintained properly and that the ADA access is still available. So, for example, they didn't remove it after they initially put up the parklet. So not only is it kind of codified in the ordinance before you, but it's been happening throughout the last year as well.
 That's really great news. Thank you so much Any other questions from the council? All right, let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak You have five minute direction broken segments of three and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any council members stay on topic No rude behavior, please. Give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first And then those that are here in person will speak and
 Next, who would like to address on Zoom? Jerry Davis. Okay, go ahead. Can you all hear me? Yes. Hi, council, this is Jerry Davis. I am, my address is 339 West Avenue. I am the general manager for 21st Amendment, West End, Los Bogos, and Rogers Rec. Just wanted to say one of the pictures that you all saw was the parklets in front of 21st Amendment.
 And I just would really hope that you all voted in favor of this. Not only have we seen an increase in business, we have seen that this parklet is just a great attraction to Dixon Street itself. Obviously during business hours it allows for us to be able to, during the OR, with the ORA in place. It allows for people to be able to go outside and have somewhere to sit.
 I'm on Dixon Street all the time, all day long, throughout the day. Even when the business is not open, people are still utilizing the parklet itself. It is not limited to whenever business hours are open. Anyone can use the parklet.
 um next door if we have people next door that want to you know have a drink and come out and sit on the parklet they're more than welcome it's for everyone uh we make sure that we keep it clean uh we make sure that we keep it uh the repairs and everything done uh and i just wanted to just let y'all know like this is this is an amazing thing um several several times i've been there i have definitely seen people just outside of the parklet
 while the business is closed, just taking pictures and stuff like that. It's just awesome to be able to see that and to see Fayetteville develop in the way it is. I really appreciate y'all's time. Thank you. Zane Chenault. Go ahead. Yes, this is Zane Chenault. I live at 2894 East Picasso Place here in Fayetteville, Arkansas. But tonight I'm speaking on behalf of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce.
 The Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce supports this ordinance. These parklets are a great place to sit, relax, and enjoy the city. It's a great place to be outdoors and not cooped up inside. This creates outdoor space that we would not otherwise get to have due to some of the narrow sidewalks that we have in certain areas.
 These are common across the country, and we're excited to see this opportunity for our local businesses. I believe it will expand their opportunity to generate revenue, as well as sales tax for the city, and also as an attraction for people to live in Fayetteville. So we live by the motto of work, live, play, and this is part of the live and play.
 During the last year, we witnessed the creativity of our business community as they adapted to the challenges of the pandemic. These parklets were a big part of that success and it also came with the added benefit of activating some of our streets with a new energy and a new kind of activity. On behalf of the Chamber of Commerce, I ask that you approve this ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Does anyone hear from the public in the chamber would like to address this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? If there aren't any questions, I move we suspend the rolls and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Fudge? Yes.
 yes earthsburg yes gutierrez yes jones yes an ordinance to amend section 178.02 sidewalk cafes to streamline and make permanent the sidewalk cafe and parklet development processes for use by restaurants bars performance venues and other businesses
 I do have a comment. I want to thank Mr. Davis for coming and speaking about his parklet and letting us know all the positive things. I didn't realize people would hang out there when he's closed and that he's fine with it. And I could see that would really enhance, especially as we go toward the cultural arts corridor, so that's pretty awesome.
 so i appreciate that and um i think it's great that it's enhancing and expanding spaces for businesses so that's that's awesome i'll support it thank you and do we need to move to the go to the third reading i'm going to go to the third reading second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading care would you please call it canyon yes eddie yes
 Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. An ordinance to amend section 178.02 sidewalk cafes to streamline and make permanent the sidewalk cafe and parklet development processes for use by restaurants, bars, performance venues, and other businesses. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay, seeing none, Karen, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Kirksburg? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Jones? Yes. Okay, thank you all. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? Mayor, I have two announcements.
 The dive-in movie series begins at Wilson Park Pool on July 23rd. All the details are on the website. And then I wanted to invite the city council and the public to join us in celebration of Connie Edmonston's 35 years of service with the city of Fayetteville. Thursday at the town center, it's a drop-in from 1.30 to 3.30.
 Connie has not only been with the city for 35 years, she served the last 23 as our parks director and we appreciate her service and all of her contributions to the city. I hope you'll be able to join us. Thank you. Any other announcements from the council? I would highly encourage people to get out and get their COVID-19 vaccinations. We have the Delta variant that is available.
 upon us now and it's time for everybody to take action. The best way you can take action is to get COVID-19 vaccination. So that protects you and everybody else. Also, I do want to remind the council and the public that we do have a federal special election set for August the 10th and that's one month away. This election will determine whether we extend the existing one-cent sales and use tax for another ten years.
 I can't emphasize enough tonight how important this extension is for the city operations. Without it, we would see major cuts to services throughout the city. Early voting begins at the county courthouse on August the 3rd and runs through August the 9th, and you can find a list of voting centers open on August the 10th at the Washington County Election Commission website. Council members, I hope, and I ask you, that you
 that you support this extension and that you encourage people to get out and vote and vote for this very special tax extension so thank you all very much for all the work you're doing all right i don't think i have anything else we are adjourned thank you all good work