I would like to call the City Council meeting of July the 2nd, 2019 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Petty. Present. Scroggins. Present. Fetch. Here. Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Kenyon. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor Jordan. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? Yes.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. I believe under presentations, Peter, you have a presentation tonight? It's on? Can you hear me? Okay. Okay.
 So last week, Mayor Jordan sent me to be his representative at the U.S. Conference of Mayors summer meeting along with the Climate Mayors Summit. And I was sent there to accept a Climate Leadership Award on behalf of Mayor Jordan, the
 The award was presented to me at the summit. And so I wanted to formally this evening present that award to Mayor Jordan. Just a little bit about the award. The award had two categories. It had a small city category and large city category.
 We were the winner, obviously, of that small city category for cities under 100,000 people. We bested five other cities that received honorable mention. One of those communities was actually one of our economic development peers, Asheville, North Carolina. And we were joined by the city of Los Angeles that received the large city award. I wanted to share with you what I...
 my remarks that I made at the U.S. Conference of Mayors meeting about the project. So the project that we won the Climate Leadership Award for was our wastewater treatment plant solar project.
 So here's what I shared with the group of mayors from across the country. This project represents an example of how public policy adoption can send market signals and drive action. In January 2018, Fayetteville, Arkansas concluded a year-long stakeholder engagement process
 when our City Council adopted Fayetteville's first energy action plan. This plan outlined several ambitious goals and actions, including a goal of moving our city to 100% clean energy to power city government operations by the year 2030.
 One month later, in February of 2018, Ozarks Electric Cooperative, Fayetteville's locally headquartered utility company and stakeholder in our energy action plan development, approached the city with a project concept for a large solar array project to be owned by the city at the two wastewater treatment plants.
 Ozarks Electric knew that the treatment plants were the city's two largest electricity-using facilities. They knew that nearby electrical infrastructure could easily interconnect to the large generation facilities. And most importantly, Ozarks Electric knew that the city of Fayetteville had committed to 100% clean energy and that we were eager to act. Thank you.
 Ozarks brought their solar development subsidiary, Today's Power, Inc., to the table, and together we worked to develop a $23 million project partnership. And it will be, when it comes online next month, it will be the largest solar project on municipal property in Arkansas.
 It'll offset 100% of the electricity used at the two wastewater treatment plants, and it will include the first utility-scale battery storage in the southeastern United States. This project will also take the city of Fayetteville from 16% to 72% clean energy. It'll save us $180,000 a year, and it will reduce the city's greenhouse gas emissions by 10,000 metric tons per year. We believe that Fayetteville's Energy Action Plan and Wastewater Treatment
 plant, solar project are policy adoption and market action examples that are scalable to other cities across the United States. In closing, we want to thank our project partners, Ozarks Electric Cooperative, Today's Power Inc., Jacobs Engineering, the Arkansas Public Service Commission, and the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust, along with the U.S. Conference of Mayors and Walmart, who is the sponsor for this award, for this prestigious Climate Leadership Award.
 And I want to also personally thank the city of Fayetteville City Council, Tim Nyander and our Utilities Department team, Susan Norton and our Communications team, Blake Pennington and the City Attorney's Office, Chief of Staff Don Maher, and I want to formally present this Climate Leadership Award to Mayor Lionel Jordan. Congratulations, Mayor. Don't drop this, it's kind of heavy. Susan wants a picture of it.
 The last one of these awards that I received that was the first time award for a city was in Little Rock. Was it Little Rock, Don? And we had about 600 people there. The first time the city had ever received a city award in that category for one of the best livable cities in the state. After I received the award, I dropped it and broke it in front of 600 people. So it was...
 This one, I promise you, I will not drop tonight. But I, too, want to thank the U.S. Congress mayors in Walmart and Ozarks Electric and Today's Power, Inc. I want to thank Peter Nearing Garden and the staff in the city attorney's office. And for all of those that did that work, I want to thank this city council for thinking ever forward, ever progressive.
 And not saying, well, today's good enough, but looking beyond where we are today to see where we need to be tomorrow. Because it's important not only for us, but for our children and our children's children and every citizen that is here now and will be here in the future. Because it's your efforts and your work and your dedication that make these kind of awards special.
 so i want to thank you all because i think i have the finest staff and the finest city council that any mayor could have in the united states thank you okay now we have a couple of walk-ons uh the first walk-on i have is a submergible pump repair i need to add that to the agenda did i miss something i'm sorry no oh i thought somebody had a question
 So I need to add that to the agenda. I need a motion and a second to add that to the agenda. Then I will read the title. Kyle. So moved. Do we have a second? Mark. I will second that motion. We have a motion and a second to add the submersible pump repair to the agenda. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Roggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Tart. Yes. Smith. Yes. Materas. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all and it reads an ordinance waive competitive bidding and accepted quote in the amount of $33,190.40 plus taxes and freight charges from the Jack Tyler engineering Incorporated for the repair of a submersible pump for the use at the Farmington live station Yeah whereas the Farmington lift station pump number one experienced mechanical failure in April and was pulled for disassembly and repair and
 And whereas the recent heavy rainfall exerted heavy pumping demands on the remaining pumps, causing the failure of pump number 3 on June 23rd, which has left the operation of the Farmington West lift station relying solely on a single fully operational pump and a temporary pump around solutions to assure full capacity of the station. And whereas the City will achieve substantial savings by accelerating the rebuild of pump number 1.
 which Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated has agreed to do, thus reducing the amount of time the temporary pump is rented, and whereas formal competitive bidding is not necessary for the repair of, quote, hidden or unknown damages. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that because of Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203-14E-E,
 Repair of, quote, hidden or unknown damages, the repair of the submersible pump does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives competitive bidding and accepts a repair quote in the amount of $33,190.40 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated and authorizes payment of that amount. Okay. Mark. Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm Mark Rogers, Water and Sewer Operations Manager.
 A daily record rainfall of 4.27 inches on Sunday, June 23rd, led to a pump failure of a second of three pumps at the Farmington Lift Station on Devil Springs Road. A rented portable pump large enough to handle the approximate 2.7 million gallons per day of flow through this station was installed on Friday, June 28th.
 The portable pump will protect against what would be a sizable sanitary sewer overflow if we had a failure of one of the operational in-station pump known as pump number two. We have a pump currently torn down in the shop in Little Rock to determine needed repairs. This was done in accordance with Arkansas Code 19-11-203 subsection 14-EE, which eliminates the need for a bid waiver and or formal sealed bidding.
 The pump rebuild is estimated to take two to three weeks. When the City receives the rebuilt pump, the rental pump can be returned, halting the rental cost of $10,000 per month. Staff is requesting approval of an emergency repair of one flight brand submersible pump from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated in the amount of $33,190.40 plus applicable taxes and freight
 Freight is estimated at $1,000 and taxes are estimated at $3,333.57 for a total purchase request of $37,523.97. And I'm available for any questions. Mayor, I also just want to add, we want to thank...
 Chairman Mark Kenyon, Councilmember of four. We reviewed with him about locking this item on tonight in your absence so that...
 We could actually begin and get this without costing the city more money. We reviewed it with him since the committee wasn't able to meet, but to make sure that we at least ran that by the chair. I wanna thank him for his support of bringing that forward. This is our largest lift station, and we have a contractual obligation to meet the requirements for Farmington. And so we don't have the option of having sanitary sewer overflows or not having a pump that could work.
 and this is the best cost-effective method to handle that. Okay. All right. Any questions on this? Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Swanton. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Saunders, would you please call the roll?
 Petty? Yes. Froggen? Yes. Batch? Yes. Hurt? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Ginnion? Yes. And norm is to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $33,190.40 plus actual taxes and freight charges from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the repair of a submersible pump for use at the Farmington lift station. And so...
 So move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Mark. I'll second that. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, please call the vote. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $33,190.40 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the repair of a submersible pump for use at the Farmington lift station. Okay. What final comments do we have from the council on this? Okay. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty.
 Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Batch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay. We have another walk-on tonight, which basically is an ordinance to amend 31.45 duties of the
 Fittable city code to affirm the city prosecutor has the traditional inherent power to exercise discretion to the mist to dismiss most misdemeanor criminal Charges, I will entertain a motion to add this to the agenda Sloan so moved Mark I'll second that we have a motion in a second to add this to the agenda So would you please call the roll?
 Petty? Yes. Croghan? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, let me read that one more time. An ordinance to amend 31.45C duties of the Federal City Code to affirm that the city prosecutor has the traditional inherent power to exercise discretion to dismiss most misdemeanor criminal cases. Kitten?
 Whereas, with the exception of driving while intoxicated type cases, the Fayetteville City prosecutor should have the traditional inherent authority and discretion to dismiss criminal misdemeanor cases within his jurisdiction if agreed to by the judge. And whereas, the current Fayetteville City Code does not expressly recognize a prosecutor's traditional inherent discretionary power when it directs the prosecutor, quote, to prosecute all cases, unquote.
 And whereas the Fayetteville City Code should be amended to clarify that the City Council recognizes and approves of the City Prosecutor's traditional inherent discretionary power to dismiss appropriate misdemeanor cases, especially in light of the citizen-enacted lowest law enforcement and prosecutorial priority policy requirements. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend Section 31.45C6 of the Fayetteville City Code by enacting a final sentence to the subsection as follows, quote, the City Council recognizes and agrees that the City Prosecutor has the traditional inherent discretionary power to determine whether or not to prosecute any non-driving while intoxicated type criminal case,
 encourages the use of such power to ensure that appropriate cases of simple possession of less than one ounce of marijuana for personal private adult use be considered for dismissal in accordance with section 130.02 arrests and prosecutions of marijuana cases passed by the Fayetteville City voters. Okay, Mark I believe.
 Well, I brought this forward as we're all aware. Are we discussing it or putting it on the... Well, I'm a kid or a young... I can explain it or you want to. Well, I brought this forward because as all of us are aware, there were some statistics that were presented by an independent group that were troubling. And since we do have on our books the...
 low priority for misdemeanor small amounts of marijuana, I thought that it would be important that we recognized that the city council recognizes and says that it's low priority. And in addition to that, we need to get to the bottom of some other numbers that indicate that there may be a bias towards minorities. Now that's not handled in this necessarily, but,
 Is in a way in a roundabout way because things can be you know dropped so kit I Appreciate mark for bringing this forward. I returned from vacation last week to find that there had been some discussions about this And so I researched the law we cannot Unilaterally just dismiss any type of cases. There's a state law says we must enforce the law
 But what we can do, I think, is encourage the city prosecutor to use his traditional discretionary power to look at various cases, such as small amount of marijuana cases, which are being used for adults in private and not for delivery to anybody else, but personal use.
 The prosecutor will look at many things, including criminal history and anything else that would indicate to him that maybe a case should be dismissed or not.
 But when I looked at our code section, the code section had said, and for a long time, that you're supposed to prosecute all cases. Well, I didn't. I think that was really an overstatement of what the city council wanted, but I thought I should at least present it to you and see if the city council would be willing to state on the record that you recognize the city prosecutor's inherent authority to dismiss or null prosecutions where appropriate.
 then even mention the fact that especially if it's in relation to the ordinance that was passed by the citizens to make prosecution of low-level Misdemeanor marijuana cases the lowest priority lowest prosecution priority. So this was what I believe was Farthest we could do the most we could do in order to try to fulfill What the citizens asked us to do when they passed that ordinance It's I should say
 Prosecution of these cases has been a low priority for decades. Even before the ordinance was passed, it was a low priority. We've continued to make it a low priority, but I think this might help to make it even a lower priority and give express authority to the city prosecutor, where right now the city code kind of implies he should prosecute everything. I don't really think that was the intent of the city council.
 Because the prosecutor inherently has the right to know a process case I did that when I was a county prosecutor and I don't think there's any authority in The state statute saying I had that but I had that in here in authority But I wanted to make it clear and I want to give you all an opportunity to weigh in on this issue and make sure That you all were comfortable with the city prosecutor Exercising his authority in their appropriate cases and I will answer any questions that you might have and
 What questions do we have? Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Kit and Council Member Kenyon. I guess I had a couple of questions. One was, I was curious, when does an event become a case? Well, the city prosecutor usually receives a low-level misdemeanor marijuana possession case as a citation.
 So the police, several years ago, got the right to be able to write citations from our local municipal judge rather than arrest someone. This is class A misdemeanor, but they have the right to cite out. And there are citations like a parking ticket or a speeding ticket. So it's a document that actually begins the case. And so that citation is then provided to the city prosecutor. And normally they just go on from there. And now the city prosecutor.
 He's never asked for jail time and the fines have been lower and lower But this will encourage the city prosecutor in the right case to actually be able to dismiss the case Thanks for explaining that That's that question because I do think that this is an important action to take and I hope we take a stronger action than what's written here But also I think it that answer affirms for me that the fundamental problem of having too many rests arrests and citations will persist and
 Even if this ordinance is passed tonight, it's one thing to give the prosecutor the ability to dismiss cases and not put forward penalties or argue for penalties. It's another thing to correct the issue with issuing too many citations and having disparities in the way citations are issued in the first place. So I hope that
 This council agrees with me that this is the beginning of a set of solutions and not a final action. I was curious why you wrote this ordinance such that it had a difference in threshold from what the state law has. The state law misdemeanor is, I believe, four ounces or less, but you've written this ordinance to say one ounce or less.
 Well, obviously, I'm not going to be dictating to the city prosecutor anything because we cannot do that. If I attempted to say you're going to dismiss all the cases under one ounce, then that would be in violation of state law. Because state law says that a mayor, a mayor, a member of the city council, any elected officer would be held as non-feasance in office.
 If they willfully, knowingly fail, refuse, or neglect to execute state law. And so we certainly cannot and neither can the council instruct either the police department or the prosecutor not to execute state law. And state law still says that marijuana is illegal for recreational use, not medical marijuana.
 i actually believe that this is probably at this point the furthest we can go from the legal point of view this doesn't mean if you want to you can certainly amend this to make it a larger amount i don't think that's necessarily going to change what the city prosecutor does because one of the factors you will look at and one of the things we should keep in mind is that the lowest law enforcement priority and prosecution priority was for
 misdemeanor small amount of marijuana and back then I think it probably was down to an ounce and if you look at someone that would have three three and a half ounces of
 that begins to look like it's not for personal use. It began to look like that very well might be for distribution, and that certainly is still illegal and a felony, or at least it can be a felony, and also not what the ordinance that was passed by the citizens talks about. It talks about personal use. And so that's why I recommended one ounce, not more than one ounce,
 because that is much more likely to be personal use and not for any other prohibited use. I appreciate that explanation.
 Don't pretend and I don't think the council should pretend to determine prior to any Investigation or argument in front of a judge What any position would be intended for I think that's what that process is meant to do That's why state law is written that way with a difference between possession and intent to distribute regardless of the amount that's possessed and
 So I'm in favor of rewriting this to mirror state law and give the prosecutor, with respect to the prosecutor's direction from the city council, more freedom to exercise their discretion and would be in favor of amending this to simply say appropriate cases of misdemeanor possession of marijuana. I'll leave that up for the council to discuss.
 I just want to thank Kit and Kenyon for bringing this to us. Clearly we need to look at these issues and I also hope that we can go further, but I definitely on the first kind of go at this, want to make sure that it's not going to get struck down almost immediately and then we have to go back to the drawing board. So I appreciate y'all for bringing this, look forward to voting for it.
 And look to do more stuff as well. Okay. What else? Mark. Well, this is for Matthew. Help me. Were you changing the amount or were you just saying whatever? I don't understand what you suggested to amend because I. On our printed page in section one, paragraph one on the fourth line.
 the fourth line currently reads appropriate cases of simple possession of less than one ounce of marijuana for personal comma i would suggest that it reads appropriate cases of misdemeanor possession of marijuana for personal comma which uh would allow which is basically just a reference to whatever the state law says four ounces is that what you're saying i don't think we should say it an amount i think we should just say misdemeanor possession
 But currently, as of today, it would be four ounces. That's correct, although state law doesn't make a distinction if it's intended for distribution. That's true. Kyle? I guess since we referenced the citizen-passed low-priority ordinance here, does that specify an amount? It does not. Okay. I would...
 If that were different from state, I would prefer that it mirrored our citizen ordinance. But if that's not in there, then I think it might look like the state law is appropriate. Anybody else? I'm trying to keep up with all this. Do we have? Oh, sorry. Sorry.
 Thank you Kit for helping us write this and Mark. So if we do, Kit, if we do change it to what Matthew has proposed, does that still, do you feel still comfortable with that or you just absolutely do not? You want to put the ounce in there? No, that's really up to the city council on that. If you say misdemeanor, marijuana, possession, I think I'd like to have,
 I mean, I think the city prosecutor is going to be looking at every case and I guarantee you when it gets, if he finds cases with significantly more than one ounce, I think it's much less likely that that case would be dismissed or not crossed. But there could be factors that would indicate it still should be. So if you want to have that other language about misdemeanor or marijuana instead of having any ounce mentioned, then that would be fine. Okay. Okay.
 Matthew. Mayor, I'll move that we amend Section 1 to read instead of appropriate cases of misdemeanor possession of marijuana. To read appropriate cases of misdemeanor possession of marijuana. Okay, so basically you're amending it to line up with state law on misdemeanor marijuana charges. That's correct. Okay, I want to be sure I've got my head wrapped around that. All right. Now, do we have a second on it?
 So yeah second, okay. We have a motion in a second to amend to state law instead of amount to Say to line up a state law on mr. Mayor marijuana charges and mr. Mayor possession of marijuana for personal private or adult use Okay, okay any other discussion on the amendment Yes we are
 So now we're going to open it up for public comment and let's all stay hooked up with the amendment changing it from an amount to Just a misdemeanor level. Yeah, it's mere marijuana possession Now here's the rules Everybody gets one turn at the mic you have five minute duration unless the city council by a vote
 a second motion in a second and a vote of the city council to give you more time we will discuss how much time that will be or if they ask you questions keep your comments directed to me don't engage anybody on the city council or anybody in the public stay on topic which is the amendment please give us your name and address who'd like to be first good afternoon my name is wes dawson i'm an attorney in town one thing my law firm does is we
 We have an organization called Potter's House Justice Center, and we represent the minorities and the poor of Fayetteville. When they fall through the cracks, they may not be able to be represented by legal services or another organization. We're affiliated with Potter's House Thrift Store, and that's where a lot of our clients come from, and they're represented for free. I will say, myself and our organization fully supports Potter's.
 this amendment and to the ordinance, as many of you have heard and you know, and I guess the rationale behind this is our system is broken and it falls...
 hard on the minorities and the poor. They often they have unstable living conditions. They don't get notice They don't understand what a failure to appear is and before you know it running a stop sign can turn into them losing their Their driver's license and then they don't pay their penalties and they're in jail for six months They don't have a job and when they get out they can't drive a car It is something that is
 We don't know what the solution is, except to represent them when we can and take steps like y'all are tonight. To loosen up some of these rules and give the prosecutors some discretion in situations where somebody might not necessarily be at fault in the situation that they're in. And so we applaud what you're doing, and we look forward to it.
 further solutions because it's a good step, but there's a lot more to fix. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, City Council. My name is Lorraine O'Neill. I live in Fayetteville at 2070 East Bonnell Link in the Cliffs Apartments. And I understand the content of the ordinance, but I'm concerned that the people of Arkansas had established the laws that we govern ourself by.
 And to give too much power into the hands of one entity, I think is inappropriate. And I think at the very least, this should be tabled until the citizens of Fayetteville have had a chance to think it over and to weigh in about it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the camera. Okay. Okay.
 thank you mr mayor uh clint schnickloth i live at 3205 east charing cross here in fayetteville my only comment on this amendment is i would like it to be even stronger and if it possible in the direction it gives to the prosecutor and the city attorney
 What I hear the city attorney saying is that he isn't that free to exercise discretion, and yet we know he does exercise discretion in other situations and cases. So I think actually he has quite a bit of discretion already.
 What this could do is direct us to simply not prosecute misdemeanor cases, period. And I think that would be a stronger move to make. Otherwise, it leaves it still kind of up in the air whether he's going to prosecute it or not or let it go.
 Since we've been sitting here in the last few minutes, he's even mentioned that possession at higher than one ounce, they probably still would pursue prosecution. And yet that actually isn't a good idea if you take a look at like why people are holding on to marijuana at those levels. And then in terms of a justice issue, it is important.
 as you know, situationally rather odd, that at the same time, that people who are producing large amounts of marijuana are getting contracts and are gonna be able to make money off of that in the state of Arkansas, while we're prosecuting people who hold on to like six ounces of marijuana as if they're felons. That's a real odd situation to be in. And it's racist because it's primarily minorities who are in the middle situation of selling the marijuana, not the large corporations.
 So for that reason, I would love to see the city council be as strongly directive as possible to simply stop prosecuting all misdemeanor cases that come up that are about possession. Thank you. Thank you, Clayton. Who else would like to address us on this? I'm Ed Schemberg. I live at 2070 Spinella Link, just off of a crossover here in Fayetteville, Arkansas. I want to thank the council for taking up the issue. I think that there's...
 A need, although I think that people who break the law should face the music and go through the process, and if they're guilty, do whatever punishment that they're given by the court system. However, we do have a need to keep our jails as less crowded as we possibly can. So this could be of help there. But I do have a—this has been talked about in the sense of minorities and the poor—
 Now, I didn't grow up in Arkansas. I've lived here most of my life, actually. But I grew up in Marin County, California. And I'm 70 years old. So you can imagine I smoked a lot of weed, hash, dropped acid, did a lot of drugs when I was growing up. Fortunate to still have my faculties. A lot of people that got busted where I grew up weren't poor people. They came from some of the most wealthy families
 in the San Francisco Bay Area, and I'm sure some people here who would have less than one ounce. So my concern would be that, yes, it is a hardship, fines are more of a hardship on people who are poor, and there may be some statistics, or there are, that maybe certain groups of people fall into the category rather than others, but people from every walk of life, every economic strata,
 get busted, okay? And I just would have a concern that this would not be unfairly applied to just a certain group of people, if you know what I mean. So I'm kind of here speaking for people who might have more money, more means to pay fines, but who are busted with amounts or less, and they don't get the same consideration as a poor person does. That's what I would say that I wouldn't like that part of, if that were to happen at all.
 So thank you. Thank you. Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I smoked pot in my 20s, and I knew how to do it, so I'd get good and stoned. I told the Navy about it when I enlisted, and I've got a waiver so I can talk about it freely. Anybody else here smoke pot? No.
 Well, I know what I'm talking about. I had friends in their 20s who were psychologically addicted to it. And these were white people. Not that I think that matters, but they were white. They were wealthy. They were highly educated. They were professionals. One was a federal prosecutor. And I had a son who smoked pot and it became a stepping stone to crystal meth.
 As a criminal defense lawyer, and it is a stepping stone drug, anybody who says it isn't a stepping stone drug either likes getting stoned and lying about it or doesn't know what he's talking about. Because people will do things when they're stoned on pot that they wouldn't do if they weren't stoned. And in fact, the way Carl got off it was to stop smoking pot and eventually stop drinking because that would lead to smoking pot.
 So I think this is a serious matter. The real point I want to make is that I think the police and the prosecutors should have some latitude in this because they may use it to gain leverage on the way up to a bigger case that may have nothing to do with drugs. I've defended drug importation cases, big ones. I've defended drug manufacturing cases, big ones. It was a long time ago when I was practicing law in the D.C. area.
 but I know how this stuff works. And I think, I was not on the prosecution team, I was on the defense team, but I think prosecutors should have some latitude and police should have some latitude to use investigative techniques that are going to protect the community. Not that pot is that much of a danger to adults. I think it can wreck your life if you become psychologically addicted to it, but it is definitely a danger to the developing minds of teenagers. So why would not...
 Send a message to the prosecutors that we don't want this addressed in Fayetteville Thank you Council I appreciate y'all acting so quickly on this issue we released our report the Arkansas Justice Collective on Thursday Stephen Coger, thank you. I
 Two days prior to that, City Attorney Kit Williams suggested that he wouldn't change any policies until state law changed. Within three hours, he changed his mind and suddenly it needed to be city law that changed. I'm here to urge you to please pressure him and his office to do the right thing and drop all misdemeanor possession charges. As you may have seen in our report, a disproportionate number of people that are harmed, criminalized for the use of marijuana are
 people that are black people or brown people. And I can't prove this, but I suspect LGBT people. And it's affected a lot of people that I care about dearly. Their financial situation prior to this, criminalization was already dire. And when they have suddenly more fines to pay, it becomes more dire still.
 LGBT people, we're more likely to be kicked out of our house. We're more likely to not be able to rely on mom and dad to pay our attorney's fees. It's harder for us to get a job. And if we were outed, we might lose a job. So there is a lot
 that we can do right now you know um on our report we called for several different changes but the one that could happen today is that you order mr williams brian thomas and jacob d young to start dropping all these charges it needs to happen for our city to live up to this vision that we sell of being a safe and inclusive city i'm a little nervous a little passionate um
 I would hope that y'all can see that these numbers are undeniable. The FOIA of 2018 information is straight from the police department. Corporal Rashear is so patient and so kind as he responded to our request for information.
 There has been some dispute as to the 284% increase in arrests because certainly probably some 2008 arrests were expunged or sealed, actually is the right word, in Arkansas. Nevertheless, the 2018 numbers are accurate. And that was admitted verbally by Chief Tabor and in writing by Kitt's office.
 So we have a really serious problem with discrimination and the criminalization of human beings that are our most vulnerable neighbors in our little city. And I hope that y'all will not stop with this less than an ounce stuff. On the phone today when I was talking to Kit this morning, he mentioned that, well, maybe if they have two or three or four ounces, they're actually dealing. Okay, well, if they have a scale, you know. I have a friend, a friend.
 Actually, I won't tell that story because he's identifiable. But anyway, it's a misdemeanor possession should not be criminalized. All right. I mean, it's often a way, especially for people who have survived trauma to self-medicate. Oftentimes we can't afford a therapist. We are ashamed of therapy. This is how we make it through. All right. This is how we are able to even stay functional, some of us. And given...
 the Bible belt that we live in, sometimes there is an increased likelihood for trauma and this is a way to self-medicate.
 I would ask and plead that y'all also adhere to the other four community solutions that I garnered from visits with the African American Advisory Council, other community groups, and affected individuals, lots of friends of mine. So that would mean an advisory council to help Mayor Jordan find a new police chief nationally, to change the culture of the Drug Task Force if y'all don't withdraw from it, which is another recommendation. And
 We're asking for a cessation of arrests and a complete dropping of all misdemeanor possession charges. I'm so happy to come to y'all's house. Y'all are welcome at my house. I will meet y'all at our Sega's Depot for tea anytime that I can do anything to help y'all help people. You know, my day job as an immigration attorney, I mostly represent undocumented children and refugee children. For deportation defense, they are...
 As you maybe saw in the report, Latinx people are more likely to be arrested for mere possession. So anyway, I hope y'all will do the right thing tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay. I'd like to read a state statute that we're all subject to. It's called Removal of Elective or Appointed Officers.
 If the mayor, member of the city council, or any other elective officer of any city of the first class or second class or incorporated town in this state shall willfully and knowingly fail, refuse, or neglect to execute or cause to be executed any of the laws or ordinances within their jurisdiction, they shall be deemed guilty of non-feasance in office.
 It shall be the duty of the circuit court of any county within which any officer may be commissioned in acting, upon indictment charging such officer with nonfeasance in office, to hear and determine the charges. If upon hearing the charges are proven true, the court shall enter a judgment of record removing the guilty officer from office. I do not recommend that you attempt to force me
 or the city prosecutor not to prosecute any medical, any marijuana charge. I will not do that. You could order me to do that and I will disobey your order. But all of you would be attempting to not allow the execution of the laws by our police department and by the city prosecutor's office. What I have presented to you in encouraging the city prosecutor to use his discretion
 It's as far as we can go under the law, which we all have taken the oath to follow. So even though you hear people saying, oh, you could just do it, it's not true. And so anyway, I wanted to make sure you all were well aware of that law. Okay. Well, what discussion do we have? Sloan. I just want to be clear. The amendment presented by Matthew, you don't think violates that?
 Yes, that that that amendment is fine. Basically you are Acknowledging the city prosecutors discretion to dismiss cases where appropriate Therefore you're not directing the city prosecutor not to obey the law or not to enforce the law And so that is fine. And that's that's as far as the City Council can legally go. Thank you Okay, well We have a motion and second to pass this amendment, correct? I
 that's correct all right any other discussion on the amendment all right sandra would you please call the road yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all now we're back to the amended ordinance correct that's correct okay so matthew yes thank you mayor i wanted to take just a moment
 Clarify what my legislative intent is and get it on the record so it can be considered by the prosecutor in the future First I want to make sure that the intention of this language is yeah I in my intent here is not to acknowledge or reinforce any kind of a predisposition that a possession of any misdemeanor amount is Intended for distribution or for other purposes other than a simple possession I intend
 If it were up to me, I would insist that the evidence in the case be relied upon to make that determination and nothing more than the evidence in the case. The second thing I wanted to talk about is what I interpret and what I intend whenever I talk about lowest law enforcement priority. To me, lowest law enforcement priority rests on the use of the superlative lowest priority.
 not low, lowest. So in my mind, if an officer is typing in a citation and gets a call for another traffic stop, that officer now has a higher priority. If the prosecutor has a caseload and has to choose between extensive overtime or moving this case lower on the priority, that the prosecutor has a higher priority case.
 If our jails are overcrowded and we can use our discretion to prosecute higher priority cases that involve violent criminals or more victims, the prosecutor has a higher priority. I don't expect that there is a – I guess what I'm trying to say here is when I think of the word lowest, I think that should be – that should have the strongest possible interpretation that is still within the law.
 And that has not been the case. The ordinance in 2008 has been a failure. The people passed it, and we have failed to follow it. More than a 200% increase in marijuana arrests since 2008, since that ordinance was passed. Population hasn't doubled. Something like a third, almost a third, more than a quarter, almost a third of the arrests are arrests of people in the African American community. They make up just less than 7% of the people who live here. I think it's something we should be ashamed of.
 Really help I'll say this again. I'll repeat it I really hope this council and this administration looks at this and what we're doing tonight and sees it as a first step of many Not a final solution, and I really hope we hear soon as in weeks Months how we're gonna address the rest of it Okay, who else would like to comment? Okay What would you all like to do this reading? Yeah, let's hold it on the first reading so people have time to give us feedback on
 Yeah, because I really have not exactly read this. I got it late this afternoon. Sorry about that. No, that's all right. That's all right. That's all right. I know we've been meeting with some folks the last few days, and we'll have a few things that we will suggest. Thank you.
 Okay, so we leave it here. I've got a question. Sure. We had public comment about the amendment to the amendment. Oh, sorry. We haven't done public comment for the original ordinance. Would anyone like to address the ordinance as a whole again? Thank you, Sloan. Do I need to state my name again and address? Lorraine O'Neill, 207 O East Benelli, Fayetteville, Arkansas. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Appreciate that. I'm glad that you're here.
 tabling this, I guess, in ways. Oh, absolutely. That's what you do. We're leaving it on the first reading. Pardon? We're leaving it on the first reading. Yes, sir. Um...
 As to the fact that there are more arrests being made, my thoughts are that that means that there's more abuse being done. There's been more disregard of the law. That doesn't mean that the arrests are up because people are being more observant of the law. It means they're being more disrespectful of the law. This is a land of laws. They're passed for a reason.
 Should we stop dismissing traffic tickets for people who disregard traffic lights? Because one or two are doing it, and then all of a sudden there's more and more people disregarding traffic lights, and all of a sudden we have mayhem? No, that is not a good logical way to approach something like this. There are more arrests because there are more people who are disregarding the law. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you.
 Angela Belford, Ward 4, Fayetteville, Arkansas. I want to take you back to a time about four years ago when I was a business owner in northwest Arkansas and had very definite opinions about what it meant for people experiencing homelessness, except back then I just said homeless people, those people that, you know, beg for money on the side of the road. Right.
 And over the last two and a half years, I have, as you all know, become a very staunch homeless advocate as I came out of the closet about personally having experienced homelessness as a child and a teenager. And what I'll tell you is that during that time, I have become very aware of the things, the causes of homelessness from childhood trauma. If you look at what childhood trauma does to the brain development and your ability to make good decisions,
 and you look at the number of people that are experiencing homelessness that experience childhood trauma, I think it's unfair to just automatically take our own white middle-class values and project them on someone when we don't know the trauma that they have endured. As I have become aware of people experiencing homelessness and the causes and the reasons for that,
 I would encourage other people that are maybe not aware of their own biases, perhaps maybe this ordinance can not only give the prosecutor the discretion that he needs and the encouragement to
 do what he's probably already been doing, which is use his discretion, but also to raise his awareness. Maybe this ordinance will help to take for our police department, who I think do an amazing job and do a great job for our public housing authority, for sure. And responding to people in need that have a variety of issues. They do a great job and they need their awareness raised because I doubt that many of them are actually aware of,
 that there is a higher percentage of people that they arrest that are African American. I don't think there's malicious intent. I think there's a lack of awareness. And if this ordinance helps our prosecuting attorney, helps our law enforcement, helps our whole community stop, think, take a deep breath,
 and decide is this someone that is actually a detriment to society or is this somebody that perhaps has a back story and that has had a lot of trauma in their life and they're using the marijuana and I'm not saying it's legal but they're using the marijuana because they're not able to go and get prescription drugs to deal with the anxiety that they have and the depression that they have
 If this ordinance helps to raise awareness for our law enforcement and our judicial community and our entire community, the way the advocacy has done for me over the last two and a half years, then our community will be better. And I do agree that we need to not just look at this ordinance, but what are the ways that we can help
 our judicial system will look at the entire process and the entire effect that it has on poverty and the entire effect that it has on people of different socioeconomic and racial backgrounds.
 You know, a lot of times when you're a homeless advocate, people will say to you, well, why don't they just get a job? Why don't they just quit doing drugs? It's so frustrating because once you have a couple of these fines that start stacking up, you have a couple of trips to the Washington County Jail, you have friends that can go and look at the Washington County Jail website and
 and see that you were arrested, it gets harder and harder to live in this tiny little bitty community. And it gets harder and harder to work your way out of the mistakes that you've made and harder and harder to deal with the trauma. So then you have, on top of all the childhood trauma, you have systemic trauma.
 trauma that is being used, being inflicted on people. And I suspect that these small misdemeanors are not really going to be the deterrent that we think that they are. You look at the national statistics, you look at international statistics on the criminalization of drugs in general, it's not working.
 We have to try something different. And if this ordinance helps to raise awareness, then I applaud you. And I thank you all for your thoughtful consideration of this. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address the summons? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. So we're going to hold it on the first reading. All right. Oh, Rick, consent already. It ain't moving right along. All right.
 I'm consent. Number one, a resolution to approve the purchase of Dodge Ram 1500 Quad Cab 4x4 truck from Steve Landers of Siloam Springs with a total amount of $22,993 pursuant to a state procurement contract for use by the Utilities Department. Number two, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a Cal... Cal... Cal... Help me out here. Thank you.
 Calisaki. Thank you. Mule from Freedom Power Sports and Federal in the amount of $10,836.90 for use by the airport and to approve budget adjustment number three, a resolution to authorize contract with Centos Corporation number two pursuant to a Omnia Partners cooperative purchasing agreement for the rental and purchase of uniforms, mats, mops, and other items through October 31st
 2023 and two additional two-year renewal options. Number four.
 A resolution authorized professional engineering services agreement with CEI Engineering Associates, Inc., pursuant to selection number 23 of RFQ 19-01, any amount of up to $135,000 for design and construction administration services associated with the phase one development of Centennial Park and Millsap Mountain, and to approve budget adjustment number five.
 A resolution to approve a limited service agreement with Black Hills Energy in the amount of $10,948 plus political taxes to install a natural gas meter and bypass valve for the thermal drying unit at the biosolids management site and to approve budget. Number six, a resolution to approve the purchase of three automatic sanitary units from Sanford.
 H company for the Westside wastewater treatment facility any amount of seventeen thousand seven hundred and eighty three dollars and fifty four cents plus applicable taxes and to approve a budget adjustment number seven a resolution to prove amendment number two to the professional engineering services agreement with Hawkins we're engineers incorporated in the amount of not to exceed thirty eight thousand four hundred twenty dollars for the construction management observation services
 associated with the goshen water tank rehabilitation project number eight no resolution to award bid number 19-18 authorized construction contract with lear enterprises incorporated any amount of 238 thousand seven hundred seventy seven dollars for the goshen water
 Storage tank improvements project to approve project contingency in the amount of $23,877 and to approve budget adjustment. Number nine, a resolution to approve change order number one to contract with Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation in the amount of $156,128 with additional electric make ready infrastructure costs associated with solar projects at the two federal wastewater treatment facilities and to approve the budget adjustment. Number 10.
 A resolution to approve five-year software as a service subscription agreement with WatchGuard Incorporated for the purchase and implementation of mobile video recorder system replacement for the Federal Police Department in the amount of $409,433 for the first year and $18,983.75.
 per year in years two through five pursuant to a national association of state procurement officers go off to purchasing contract improved budget adjustment number 11 a resolution toward bid number 19 dash 30 and to authorize a contract with 81 construction group incorporated any amount of one hundred six seven thousand nine dollars and twenty four cents to
 for construction of parking and sidewalk improvements at gregory park and to prove a project contingency in the amount of sixteen thousand seven hundred dollars number twelve a resolution to approve the purchase of 0.72 acres from dustin and ryan davis in exchange for the
 Conveyance of point zero six acres of city on land and payment in the amount of twenty five thousand dollars plus the city share closing cost payment in the an estimated amount of ten thousand three hundred thirty eight dollars for water meters impact fees and the relocation of utility poles to facilitate the removal and reconstruction of the Benson water storage and
 stand pipe and to approve a project contingency in the amount of two thousand dollars and number 13 a resolution authorized conveyance of utility easements to the city of west fork for the installation of sewer lines required for the treatment of west fork sewage at the nolan wastewater treatment facilities i will entertain a motion except it's in agenda's red i move that we accept this
 Mark I'll second that we have the motion to second to accept consent agenda as read Sonnage, please. Go. Yes Upstate Yes Yes, yes Yes, yes And around finished business
 Number one, a resolution to approve an agreement with Food Recycling Solutions LLC for the hauling of organic compostables and recyclable material in the city of Bedwell. Kip, do you have this one? No, I think probably Peter has this. Sorry, Peter. Mayor, there is an amended version of the contract that was presented at agenda session.
 I suspect we may need an amendment kit to our motion. Yes, we can. And Blake worked on the amendment, so if you want, he can explain what the amendment was of the contract. It's not amending the resolution. That is simply amending the exhibit. So we actually do need, I believe, an amendment to the resolution as well. The resolution...
 Title currently states that it's a resolution approving an agreement with Food Recycling Solutions LLC for the hauling of organics, compostables, and recyclable material in the city of Fayetteville. I think we want to take the recyclable component out. Okay. And I can explain the changes very quickly as well to the contract while I'm up here. So essentially, the original contract, paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, 8,
 10, 11, and 18 were all removed. Excuse me, changes were made to those paragraphs, and then the old paragraph 7 was removed entirely, so there is no more mention of the hauling of recyclables in the contract at all. The contract is only relating to the hauling of organic compostable material. It's a one-year contract with up to two one-year additional renewals.
 As I mentioned, the contract only allows for the hauling of organic compostable waste. It does require a payment of 5% fee associated with any hauling of compostables in the city of Fayetteville. All of the compostable material is required to be brought to the city's compost facility so that it can be added to the waste that we compost, extend with our yard debris compost process, and then it's also added to the city's compost.
 Diversion percentage in terms of material that's diverted from the landfill So those are essentially the summary of the changes So you need to move to amend the resolution to remove and recyclable material both from the title and from section one Okay Make a motion to remove and recyclable material from the title from section one and they use them in the contract as the exhibit Second we have motion to second
 for that amendment to remove recyclables from the title of the box. Is that correct? Yeah. Very much. All right. Any discussion on that? Okay. Do we have any public comment? I'm back. Wes Doss with Doss Law Firm, and I represent Waste Reduction Resources, LLC, of which Louie Mann, which many of you know, is the manager of. We worked with the city staff a little bit on this stuff.
 contract and i won't say it was a very pleasurable experience they were cooperative they were nice and very reasonable rational i will make a note that kit was on vacation so but it wasn't so it was really really nice no you snuck it in during that window yeah that's right i was watching when you're on vacation so um as you may know several cities around the u.s have been
 called landfilling some or all of their recycling, and that's the real concern for waste reduction resources. We're all familiar with the Fort Smith lawsuit, and just last week, the U of A has issues and has discovered their recycling was being landfilled. Des Moines, Iowa, Providence, Rhode Island, Santa Fe, New Mexico, Chattanooga, Tennessee, Houston, Texas are a few
 of the city's cause that have been found to be landfilling what the citizens thought was being recycled, and they were paying for it to be recycled. Fourteen communities north of Dallas, with a population of between four to five million, people found out that the recycling had been landfilled for more than a year. One big problem in all these cities, of course, is that the citizens have been charged recycling fees, and that's one of our concerns.
 The common thread with these communities is a lack of transparency in single stream. I'm not sure if single stream is a coincidence or not, but that is the common thread. One thing that we've done is we did request an additional change to the contract, which I think may be in your packet. And it was just to add some language somewhere along these lines. The representatives of the city and or...
 Its citizens shall have the right to arrive unannounced and observe the unloading or loading of composting materials in related operations. This language comes from a situation that in one of our pilot projects, we heard that there were some unsafe conditions with our pilot program. And people tried to take a look at it and see if that were true. The language...
 Rationale that we got was it's a private operation and we would have to get the permission of the contractor Of course the contractor did not give that permission So to our knowledge nobody ever inspected the facility and we've got a lot of watchdogs in Fayetteville It's it's kind of our heritage and our legacy and I would just encourage the City Council to use these people these these advocates that we have and
 to make sure that our workers, especially our blue-collar workers, are not working in dangerous situations. And we can do that with more transparency by allowing the citizens to just take a look at the facilities. It could possibly be by cameras, but that seems kind of expensive, but just arrive and take a look at it. There shouldn't be any objection to that at all. But somebody who's doing business with a public entity such as the city of Fayetteville.
 And further, which we'll talk about more in the future, we would like a transparency ordinance passed, which would facilitate situations just like this and using our citizens as watchdogs. And it would be in the forefront. It's on the cutting edge. And it needs to be done. We've seen what's happening around the country in these situations. And who should be better to do it but Fayetteville, Arkansas? Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this one?
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. We have an amendment first Okay Peter Thomas in Ward 3 this came up at the last City Council session This gentleman just used the phrase single stream it is this There was a lady who had hired an attorney to represent her here at the last meeting Does this allow single stream recycling or not? No
 I thought that was one of the points that was going to be clarified at the last meeting. Yeah, we just the amendment takes any reference to that possibly out. Is that correct? This is composting only not even recycling much less single stream recycling. Well, I just heard the phrase single stream. I know. All right. I know. Anybody else? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council.
 we have we have I'm sorry it's okay Thank You mayor I I just want to clarify on our packet we have the revised contract that's the last portion on our packet is that is that accurate okay thank you okay we are going to amend them to remove recycling in the body of this resolution first correct okay everybody good all right Sandra would you please call the roll
 Well, we need a motion and a second since it's a resolution. Oh, we got one? No, we had that. We had that. Oh, yeah, we got to do the amendment, but then we still need that. Yeah, we had to do. Okay. Petty? Yes. Coggin? Yes. Yes. Turk? Yes. Yes. Yes. Union? Yes. Okay, now we have the amended resolution before us. What's the wishes of the council? What discussion do we have on that?
 What public comment do we have on the amended resolution? Okay, bring back to the council and so ah Make motion to pass the resolution. Yes mark. I will second that we have a motion to second to pass the amended resolution Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes
 Okay, number two in ordinance to amend chapter 33 departments boards commissions and authorities of the federal city code to expand opportunities For federal residents to serve on city boards commissions and committees. I will entertain a motion to go to third and final reading Sorry, I move we go to the third and final reading we have a second So long
 Before we do that, you know, there has been a proposed amendment. So maybe we ought to do the amendment first and go to the third and final reading. And I would invite Blake Pennington, Assistant City Attorney, to explain that. And I've got the proposed amended version here.
 Okay. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. As I mentioned at the last meeting and at the agenda session, there was a question that came up about whether we could potentially be held in violation of the Sanctuary Cities law that was passed by the state legislature earlier this year. You know, our conclusion is if this ever made it to court, I think we would win, but the Attorney General is the one who makes the call and turns off the spigot of state money in the meantime. Okay.
 The particular section of the sanctuary city law that I'm concerned about is one that prohibits a practice or policy that quote grants to illegal immigrants the right to lawful presence or status within the municipality in violation of federal law. If we change this to just say Fayetteville residents, it is possible that an undocumented immigrant could become a member of a board or commission that.
 that is considered a governing body under state law under the Freedom of Information Act. And now whether the Attorney General would determine that that is a policy that grants a status or presence in violation of federal law is kind of up in the air. I don't know, but I can suspect what she might do. And it kind of worries me. So our recommendation is that in the first line of
 Section A in 33.329, that it be amended to read, all favorable residents who are legally authorized to live or work in the United States shall be entitled to apply. I see. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to second what Blake just said.
 There's a real problem with the state law. I think it's probably a violation of due process because it gives the Attorney General unfettered discretion basically just to determine that somehow we're the sanctuary city or have a policy in favor of that. If she would do something like that, we would lose the right to apply for any grant during that period of time.
 The only option state law gives you is to go down to the Pulaski County Circuit Court and try to get it reversed. And obviously it takes a period of time to do that, to even get to trial. In fact, it could take many months even to get to trial. And then it could be appealed to the Arkansas Supreme Court, which has not always looked with great favor on the city of Fayetteville. And if something like that would actually happen, my plan would be to go to federal court.
 and try to get the state law ruled unconstitutional at that level, because I think it really is she has
 No, nothing that would tie her hands. She can make a decision with no evidence, no facts, no nothing. Doesn't make any difference. She's made the decision. We lose the grants. Even if we get it reversed, we probably don't get those grants back because most grants have real-time requirements on them. So if you don't apply within time, which we would not be able to, then those grants go away for us. We would not be able to get it. Our citizens would suffer.
 So I think that I certainly agree with what Blake has said. This is a good amendment that will hopefully prevent any problems, problems
 with the Attorney General, where certainly anything that she would do at this point, if it's passed the way that Blake has suggested, I think would be clearly wrong. And she would not even have a leg to stand on. So I think that this is a good amendment and we need to do that to protect our sentences and make sure that we can continue getting the grants
 That would be lost if in fact she made it the Attorney General made a determination that we are somehow Acting with the sanctuary city policy, which I don't believe we were but I don't want to give her any option to be able to Try to establish that okay. What questions do we have? Most insect oh yes, um When's the next time the nominating committee is meeting I?
 I'm sorry, what? When's the next time the nominating committee is meeting? In September. Okay. So if we don't get this through today, it wouldn't hold anything back, would it?
 so i checked with the clerk's office on the calendar for that they do have to publish their notifications and have the application updated and that will go out in at the end of july so while it wouldn't need to necessarily take effect until the nominating committee was meeting the clerk's office would at least i believe need to need to know what the outcome was going to be so they could get the paperwork so if we vote on this in two weeks
 Would this be able to take effect if we approved it? The reason that we walked it on at the last meeting was to get it in. So, yeah, we're on the third reading tonight, but if we voted on it next week, since we did the first two, we would still be able to have everything done in time for the next cycle. Well, we're on the second one, and we'd have to make a motion to second go to the third. Well, we're automatically going to go to the third reading unless somebody would table it.
 I mean, I might have to read it, which I don't really want to do, but I will be happy to if you want me to. Okay. This change to 33.329A, how long have the people in this room been able to see that change? Because I was just handed something. We talked about it at the agenda session last week. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Kyle. Well, I just wanted to thank the city attorney's office and Blake for working on this.
 Obviously, the risk to city funding was never an intended function or feature of the original presentation, so I appreciate their work fixing that bug. I've already talked about the substance to this a couple of times, so I'm not going to say too much more about that, but I'd make the motion to adopt the amendment.
 Go ahead, Senator Sloan. I second. We have a motion to second to adopt the amendment to read all Federal residents who are legally authorized to live and work in the United States. Correct? Yes. Okay. Any other discussion on that? All right. What public comment do we have on the amendment? Now remember, we're talking about the amendment. Hello. I am Leslie Martinez. I live in 3310 Barrett Fable, Arkansas. I am a resident of the city of Los Angeles. I live in the city of Los Angeles. I live in the city of Los Angeles. I live in the city of Los Angeles. I live in the city of Los Angeles.
 and it is important for there to be diversity in the board because it will help reduce barriers. At the moment, us minorities are not being adequately represented. Decisions that affect immigrants are being made by non-immigrants. Although I do not qualify for this measure because I'm a US citizen, I fully support it. I am excited that this is happening in the city I live in. It is a huge step forward. Thank you.
 Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. This is a quote. In your hands, my fellow citizens, more than mine, will rest the final success or failure of our course. Since this country was founded, each generation of Americans has been summoned to give testimony to its national loyalty. The graves of young Americans who answered the call to service surround the globe.
 And then he said later, and so my fellow Americans, ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country. Obviously, those words were spoken by President Kennedy at his inauguration in 1961. I don't understand sometimes why the city council takes the Pledge of Allegiance so.
 You have just again managed to disenfranchise 88% of the 52, almost 53,000 eligible voters in this bond issue, which is the same you did with the library in 2016 when you got a 12% vote. Even if you measure by the 50% of people who would normally vote, citizens, taxpaying citizens, electors.
 you still managed to disenfranchise 76% of people who likely would have voted in a general election. And now you want to have people, and I realize you've just made this little tweak to what you're trying to do, you would have people who are illegal aliens functioning in the government. And again, this is being done in the summer, which is when the city council takes up radical and possibly illegal actions when,
 Most of the citizens are away on family vacations and not preoccupied with things like this. It's what you've done before. It's what you did with the library special election. It's what you did with the HRC ordinance. And it's really sad because it comes five weeks after Memorial Day, four weeks to the day after the Battle of Midway, less than four weeks after D-Day, and right two days before Independence Day, which is why I wore this T-shirt.
 that you are considering having less citizen involvement, elector involvement in the government, and inviting illegal aliens to act in the government. Now, I know you're backing off from that a little because of this, what Mr. Pennington calls a terrible law. I don't know how many of you served in the military. Anybody else? I know Kit has claims to have had two years, well, he had two years in the army from what I saw. But I had nine friends killed
 serving this country. There's a movie coming out in November about these men. This is Torpedo Squadron 8 from the Hornet. This picture was taken in May of 1942. Less than a month later, 14 of those 15 men and all 15 of their tail gunners were dead. This man survived the battle, came back to the carrier, and when the nose wheel broke,
 The tail snapped over and through that tail gun, crushed the pilot, but it threw the tail gunner headfirst at about 60 miles an hour into the deck and he died. We've had a million Americans who have died for our rights as citizens to vote, a right which I cherish. I look at it every time I open my wallet. I don't know. Mr. Kyle said, well, maybe if we appoint people
 who don't vote, maybe it will encourage them to vote. That's completely backwards. You should, if somebody doesn't have the responsibility and the energy to sign up and vote and participate in this democracy, this precious democracy, then they have no business opining anything about government. Mr. Kyle said we should have minors, but he's gonna screen them for maturity. What does that mean? If they're woke enough,
 And then you're using this border. They have to reside within the city. If you're willing to take people who have no respect for a national border and national laws, why not just open it up? Why do they have to reside in the city? Just take anybody because that seems to be what you want to do.
 But I continue to be appalled. I have never, I grew up in New York. I lived in Washington, D.C. I have never been under a government that had so little respect for voting citizens and taxpayers as this city council. Thank you, Peter. Who else would like to address this? Ed Schemberg, Spinell Link, Fayetteville. I've spoken with Kit before a long time ago, and he may not remember.
 after the welcoming plan was adopted by the city council. And we talked about this because I looked through the welcoming plan and I noticed on page 13 and also page 17 that the one of the points there and one of the more immediate objectives of that plan was to amend.
 the ordinance governing on who can sit on city boards and commissions, and that they want that recommended to remove the requirement that a person be able to vote, be a voting citizen. I'm against it. I'm against your proposed amendment, and I'm against changing that. To be an American as in the United States, let's just put it as United States citizen, because if we start talking about America...
 We can talk about North America, Central America, South America. A United States citizen, you know, is a very awesome responsibility. I, too, have been in the military. At one time, I was drafted to go to Vietnam. I was not taken, not because I ran away, not because I wasn't healthy eventually. Apparently, they decided I was too much of a danger. I was a communist. I was a Marxist-Leninist.
 I was an SDS member and a member of the Progressive Labor Party. Now, they didn't take me. I did go into the military in 1975. My wife and I were the first couple of Northern California, second couple in the state of California, to become members of Richard Nixon, President Richard Nixon's new all-volunteer army.
 I was out of work at the time. I was making good money before that in construction. I was out of work. I said, honey, I want to go on an adventure. And I talked her into it. So we went. It's an awesome responsibility. People die being Americans. Most powerful country in the world. What no matter what you think about our wars since 9-11, a lot of guys have died. Some women have died in service for this country.
 So I think that to be a full American citizen is required to sit on a board, a commission, a city council, the state legislature, the Congress of the United States, and to be president of the United States and a lot of other positions to boot, whether elected or appointed. Citizenship is important. People who want—I have no problem
 with exchange students, people here on visas, or anything like that. I love people. Sometimes I get mad at them, but I do love people. But that, to me, is how it ought to be and how it should be. Now, I'm also aware of American history. I've been doing some reading on this ever since this came up, and I'm aware that the other municipalities throughout history, you know, have allowed non-citizens to vote. Did you know that Arkansas...
 was the last state, not every state ever went down that road, but Arkansas did. Did you know that? To allow non-citizens to vote in state elections. And it was the last state to cut that out in 1924-26. You can look that up. So it has been different over the years.
 but I'm a person who believes in the strength of citizenship. Now, some people have said on this welcoming plan that, well, it will encourage people to become a citizen more. It could, maybe for some, but if a person who is here by visa, okay, is legally here and they want to be involved, they can come up to the city council and speak on any issue, just like I'm doing right here. Don't have to be a citizen to do that.
 They can come to any board or commission and do the same thing. And if they're hungry enough, hungry enough to want to be a citizen, then they can go through that process and become a citizen. And I'll close with this. My daughter. Time. Okay, I just want to clear. Time. Time's up. You have five minutes. Okay, thank you. Thank you.
 I'll be back. Okay, that'd be great. We'll be here. Who else would like to speak on this? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Council. Lorraine O'Neill, Ward 1. And I'm opposed to this. I'm glad that y'all amended it. I didn't hear the entire amended statement, but I'm still against it because I fully support the statements that Mr. Thomas made.
 and that Ed Sheinberg just made, and I've got a few of my own. My father fought in World War II, died as a result of being incarcerated in a prison camp and contracted tuberculosis, but I'm an avid student of history of this country. I know that we are a country of many, many, many cultures.
 And I think that's fantastic. I like nothing better than to enjoy a Thai meal or a Mexican dinner or whatever culture it is. And I think we are a better nation for our diversity. But if someone values citizenship in this country, they need to have a vested interest in it.
 They need to know, we need to know, that they are interested enough in being involved in this government's activities that they are willing to make themselves legal. There are many, many, many millions who have gone through the process, my ancestors included, of becoming a citizen whenever they first arrived, and if it's really important to them,
 they will do the same. I'm quite sure because I have many, many friends who are from somewhere else, from Italy, from Germany, from Mexico, from Puerto Rico, from wherever, who have gone through the process. And it's not that it's that difficult, but how important is it to you? Yes, it takes some time, it takes some commitment, but to have someone sitting on a committee
 representing me in Fayetteville, whenever they don't have a vested interest in this country, I think it's totally inappropriate. And I think beside the fact that you're kind of tiptoeing past the Constitution and the possibility of maybe losing out on some grant money, I know that usually money talks, but to try to push the boundaries...
 The sanctuary city issue, I think is totally inappropriate and I do not support this proposed ordinance at all. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, my name is Eric. I live at 1665 Radisson Drive here in Fayetteville.
 I'd like to leave my main comments for the main ordinance, but I'd just like to quickly point out that even before this amendment, this already did not, to the best of my understanding, this ordinance already did not give the right to sit on a committee to someone who is here illegally as well as this amendment provides the necessary
 legal status as a prerequisite. Furthermore, I'd like to point out that we have several committees that have empty seats and if any one of us feels like they're not being well represented enough by those committees, perhaps they should apply for them and then the ones that are the most qualified would then go through the approval process. Thank you.
 Hello. My name's Anna. Hello, Mayor. Hello, city council. I'd just like to thank you all for your time today. I'd like to bring some attention to you on this amendment. It's important for me because I am the definition of the American dream. I'm not a US citizen, but that does not mean that I don't pay my taxes. I'm a recent University of Arkansas graduate with a major and two minors. And I'd like to see more of my kind in these committees.
 We can help fill these voids in, and we lack representation and diversity. So I would like you all to please consider that. It doesn't matter where we come from. We can all get to where we're supposed to be. It is 2019, and I think we all need to be a little bit more open-minded. Thanks again for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Thank you Mayor, City Council. My name is Rosa Velasquez, 10 Fairmont Drive in Little Rock. I am the advocacy director for Arkansas United and Immigrants Rights Organization that was founded in Fayetteville in 2011. Thank you for allowing me to speak today. Arkansas United takes great pride in witnessing such a great welcoming effort that are integrating immigrants and youth here in Fayetteville. We wholeheartedly believe that this ordinance is a step forward for Fayetteville and most importantly the rest of our state.
 Reality is we don't have a lot of diversity in age, ethnicity, and gender in our city boards, and that affects everyone who lives in Fayetteville. Without diversity and intentional inclusion, we lose the ability to truly understand the range of both problems and solutions.
 that affect us here in Fayetteville. Arkansas United is excited to see this happen because the population of Fayetteville will have the opportunity to be reflected and represented. These are historic steps towards progress and shows great leadership on work on behalf of immigrants and youth that see the lack of representation and access to it. This is exciting that Fayetteville is leading the equity conversation with actions.
 There was a concern about this resolution creating a backlog, but after speaking to a council member today, I was told that there are currently no backlogs and that there are even some boards that at the moment have more than one unfilled position. The CED has boards that are currently only sitting males, which now creates a gap in gender diversity. With this opportunity, the pool of applicants will be much more representative of the community.
 Earlier this week you received an email from Arkansas United's executive director Mireya Rice regarding the concerns Governor Hutchinson himself had regarding the anti-sanctuary law. I hope that this letter provided some clarity that this resolution has absolutely nothing to do with Act 1076 and everything to do with the advances and changes that are welcoming and inclusive.
 With the newly added amendment, this resolution gives access to serve to U.S. citizen youth and legal non-citizens, including legal permanent residents, those with work visas, among others. Although this language was, I believe, not necessary, I do urge you to please not let misconceptions about Act 1076 interfere with the great progress this city is taking. Everyone needs a voice.
 I want to echo and amplify that Arkansas United is fully supportive of this resolution. This isn't protection for anyone or creating new rights. It's just giving our population a voice and representation on these boards. These positive and historic actions affect all great advances that this state has taken thus far and provides opportunities for actions we can still make in welcoming and integrating immigrants.
 youth, and others through local-led initiatives because Fayetteville and Arkansas are stronger together. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay, this was on the amendment. Bringing it back to the council. Is there any other discussion on the amendment? Very good. All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, now we're to the amended ordinance. And, Kip, we're on the third reading, correct? Well, we will be on the third reading, but if you spend the rules, I only have to read the title. All right, that's where I was trying to go to begin with. All right, I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Kyle? I have a motion to suspend the rules and save Kip the trouble of reading the three pages.
 Second whatever that was. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Froggin? Yes. Yes. Yes. In Ordinance to Amend Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fayetteville City Code to expand opportunities for Fayetteville residents to serve on city boards, commissions, and committees.
 Okay. Kyle, anything you want to add? Are we going to take an additional round of comments? Oh yes, I am. Okay, I'll save my last comments for that then. All right, is there any other questions from council or anything? All right, we'll take more public comment. Who would like to be first? Sure, Ed, come on up. I'm Angela, and I earlier said that I lived in Ward 4, but technically I live outside the city limits of Fayetteville.
 I do like to think of myself as a West Fayettevillian. Anyway, I am married to an immigrant. He's Canadian. If you met him, he looks a lot like the guys that are sitting up on the dais. I'm not entirely certain why he hasn't gotten his U.S. citizenship. He's lived here for 27 years. We pay plenty of taxes, I assure you.
 This, or I also, my brother is served currently, is active duty military in the Army. And so I have a patriot at heart. I listen to a lot of people that talk about how apathetic
 the young people are in our community, that the millennials aren't getting involved, and they're not active, and they're just lazy, and all of these things. And I happen to be the parent of three millennials. And when we pass an ordinance that allows younger folks to have a voice and to potentially give them an opportunity to set themselves up for a whole lifetime of service...
 These boards and these commissions, the ones are there, are to give recommendations to the council. There's no actual governing authority, I believe, if I understand the ordinance correct. These are boards that are making suggestions and ideas. And when we look at the opportunity to include people that are coming from different ethnic backgrounds and that may have an opportunity, maybe I'm here because my husband is on a
 I would love to contribute. And I was a doctor back home, but I can't get a work visa here. And I could contribute my ideas to the city of Fayetteville in a way that is productive and that is going to add value. And maybe I saw something in Venezuela that might be a really creative way for us to do things here and to make recommendations and to add value and to add voice and to say that it's
 that it's wrong or inappropriate for someone to want to add value to their community. These are boards that have openings. That means that the people in our community that are voting members and that are US citizens aren't stepping up to spend their time that they have, because maybe they've got other things that are going on.
 and they're not spending their time. If all of the boards were full, we wouldn't need an ordinance like this, but the boards aren't full. And so to allow other people to contribute in a way, a lot of the people that you meet that aren't US citizens, maybe there's a reason why they're not a US citizen, and maybe they aren't able to complete that process, but to be able to contribute to a country that they consider their second home and that they want to be an active part of, I think is absolutely
 what the founders fought for and what they declared on July 4th. So I think it's beautiful and amazing that you're doing this on the week of 4th of July, because at the end of the day, all of us, if you go back about 250 years, we're all immigrants. My oldest daughter, her best friend in high school was a young lady from Mexico and her family lived down in South Arkansas in El Dorado.
 Her family worked at Sawmill in Urbana, and she became a United States citizen. Yolanda did. That family worked hard. They became citizens. Had Yolanda do some work for me one time, and she made sure she got paid well. She learned how to be a good American over time. So I'm just going to reiterate, I think that history shows us things have been different in the past, but we have evolved over time to where...
 predominantly in our nation we have had citizens voting citizens representatives whether in a legislature city council any any board appointed but that has not knocked out and that's one thing i wanted to make last point on me to keep it as it is which you're obviously not going to do i don't think so but to keep it as it is to have voting
 citizens on the boards and commissions, okay, is going to maintain what we have had for a long time, which is actually quite inclusive when you think about it, when you think about the history of this country. And I would like you to remember it was on this period of time that in the Civil War, the two seminal, the two most important battles that determined the outcome of that war were fought
 at Gettysburg and wound up at Vicksburg. The union won the war, thank God, and we got the 13th, 14th, and 15th amendments and Negro Americans got the right to vote. I won't talk about reconstruction because I didn't like what happened, but anyway, I just urge you keep it as it is. Honor citizenship. The people who want to be involved in these boards who aren't citizens can come and speak.
 Anytime they want to they can come and talk to you they can phone you up They can do whatever they want to do to pass along the wisdom that they have and if they're that Interested I guarantee you they just might become citizens and voting citizens. Thank you
 As I mentioned earlier, I kept the main part of my argument for this segment. But my name is once again Eric Le Dieu. I am a naturalized citizen who is living at 1665 Radisson Drive here in Fayetteville. As both an immigrant and a scientist working at the University of Arkansas, I believe that the importance of diversity in community life
 in the community and specifically in the boards that represent it. Study after study has shown that more diverse groups tend to avoid groupthink, which reduces bias. They come up with better and more creative ideas, and they tend to generally consider more angles to any given problems.
 Furthermore, most of these boards, to the best of my understanding, are merely serving in an advisory position, meaning that still, if that is your main concern, your elected representative, which actually makes a decision, would be the members of this council, which are all U.S. citizens with voting rights. Many of these boards have empty seats.
 which shows that we clearly need to widen the applicant pool. Furthermore, citizenship is a lengthy and expensive process and can be a great barrier to many people. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? First of all, I want to say I'm not a U.S. citizen as yet. I'm hoping to go from my interview within two weeks. But I do want to applaud the actions of the city council.
 for their brave action because many countries of the world look at the United States as an example, as a leader in ideas that forge forward not only in its intentions for democracy, democracy which gives opportunity to every single human being in this world. Many of us have reasons why
 We have not become citizens as yet. It's an arduous process. Sometimes there are reasons. In fact, I'm talking about taxes. I was a resident of the U.S., living in my home, in my country, for reasons I was serving, and I was paying taxes even in another country, paying my taxes to the United States, and yet I was not living here. So coming back here with an education, having three masters, and the opportunity of sharing our hearts,
 for the betterment of this country, of this city, and of the state. Why are we being limited from doing so? What are we afraid for? Ideas that can enrich our communities. Any diversity, any idea coming from any source can enrich, not deter us.
 So I just want to, again, listen. I was not wanting to speak today, but hearing those speaking against it kind of made me sad. Coming from another country, when I was a senator in my home country, we would listen to the decisions being made here in the United States. There are many countries in the world that are listening and are hearing.
 And we think that the United States is where democracy flourishes in its fullest extent. What are we afraid of? Others that can bring their ideas and share with us and make us a greater country than we are. Thank you. All right. All right. All right. Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I'm the grandson of immigrants who came here legally. And that's the only point I want to make. These are laws. You're a lawmaking body.
 And the incongruity of having illegal aliens, people who are here illegally involved in the making of laws, is just too much to take. Now, I understand, I'm looking at Mr. Pennington's memo. This is under the proposed ordinance before it was amended. He said it is possible that an undocumented person, in other words, an illegal alien, could apply and be appointed to one of several volunteer boards, blah, blah, blah.
 Certainly if people are here legally, that's a good thing. And certainly everyone who is here legally has a right to speak and address issues
 the government. You might get more volunteers for these boards if the city council started to show more respect to taxpayers and electors and give them a fair chance to vote on $225 million bond issues and other significant issues instead of cutting them out of the pattern and just arrogating unto yourselves the right to, you know, it's starting to look more like, I call it fae ensuela.
 I just don't feel the voters being asked to be involved. You seem to think you have all the answers among yourselves and we just are along for the ride. So maybe you should reach out more to citizens. Maybe you could get more citizens involved if you let them know that you really cared what the citizens think. There are a lot of smart people out there.
 I mean, one reason why I like this city is because it has a law school and a medical school and a dental school and an architectural school and a business school. It's got a lot of educated people. It's got a lot of tradespeople with knowledge and skills. I was talking to one yesterday in my house. Those people want to be heard. But you seem to find ways never to talk to them and never get them involved. And then you wonder why they don't show up for your boards.
 I mean, just this Fayetteville bond issue, you had the 10 for Fay with this little select group that got their postcards to come down and vote. So once again, you got to vote through with less than a 1% margin using 6% of the electors to pass a $225 million bond issue. And I wasn't even opposed to it. It's a good time to borrow money. Interest rates are low.
 But the arts corridor slid through, which I don't think it ever would have made it. That fiasco ever would have made it if it had been put up for a fair election to the people. So you're sending the message that I'm reading loud and clear, and I think other people are too, that you really don't care what the citizens of this city think. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Yes, sir. Once again, Lorraine O'Neill, Ward 1, and I appreciate the opportunity to speak again.
 I am very, very disturbed by this ordinance, and you seem to be determined to pass it anyway because it's gone around and around and around, and if it doesn't pass this time, you'll find another way to come back again, and I think it's totally inappropriate. I wouldn't want someone to come into my house
 and tell me how I should arrange my furniture, or how I should arrange my dishes in my cabinet or anything else. And this is the equivalency. You're asking outsiders to come in who have no vested interest whatsoever because they haven't taken the time and effort to pursue the route of citizenship. If they haven't taken that time and effort to pursue the route of citizenship,
 They don't have a vested interest in the city, the state, the country. They'll say their little piece and go back to wherever they were and leave us with the mess that they created. And I think it's inappropriate for someone who doesn't have a vested interest in the city to have a say of this sort. I think diversity is fantastic.
 And I think that we have a lot of it already. And I don't think this is going to make one whit of difference. You'll pass this as though, oh, look at me. Pat me on the back. I passed something wonderful. But it will not make one whit of difference. But it will send the message to all the citizens out there who are working hard, who do have a vested interest, that you don't think that their opinion matters.
 or that what they feel is valued. You're not going to get a huge influx of people clamoring to be on these committees because of this ordinance. It's just not going to happen. And I totally, totally oppose it. I'm sorry. This is just wrong. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council. My name is Margo LeMaster. I live at 220 Adams Street in Fayetteville. I oversee the Engage NWA initiative, which is part of the Northwest Arkansas Council. Engage NWA was founded on the principle that diverse communities perform better economically, and in our increasingly global economy, the regions that embrace these challenges will thrive.
 It's by engaging this diversity across all levels, sectors, and communities that we can continue to be considered one of the nation's best places to live and work.
 We think Fayetteville's welcoming plan provides tangible efforts to help us build an inclusive and diverse region and approval of this ordinance is one example of that. We believe this will also help us attract and retain top talent in our region. There are many non-citizens who legally reside here and live, work, and study in Fayetteville and our region and they've made Northwest Arkansas their home for many years.
 They strongly contribute to the economic prosperity we've experienced in this region and are vital to its future. Including them in voluntary city processes will only strengthen their contributions. Approving this ordinance is one way we can do a better job with increasing diverse representation, as many people have shared this evening, and we applaud your effort. Thank you. Thank you.
 I truly apologize for speaking twice. I didn't know the earlier topic was coming up, and I needed to add time so that Stephen Koger could get here on time to make his remarks. So I was actually here for this. This is the only thing I'd like to raise for us to consider around this ordinance, and I think it's fairly important when we're thinking about the state and municipal dynamic. We just passed this last year the anti-sanctuary legislation in the state of Arkansas,
 And that's a deeply problematic piece of legislation. What I'm concerned about tonight is that what we did was at very last minute, similar to the way that piece of legislation was passed, amended this ordinance without much time for review. And we did it by pre-compliance. So we're like jumping ahead of what we think the Attorney General might do,
 just to make sure and avoid it. And I'm not sure you're gonna get to avoid it regardless because we're committed as a city to being a welcoming city and we're committed to on some levels opposing what the state leadership wants to do around immigrants and migrants in our community.
 So what I simply want to raise is, as we continue to make decisions that are like this one, that are really welcoming, that we really decide, are we going to be so worried about what might happen that we edit the value of what we've, I mean, you voted on this language twice before and you were fine with it, and suddenly because a couple of fears are raised, then you come in and edit it. I'm a little worried about that, and it makes me worried about how we might move forward. So, and my encouragement to you is, let's try not to pre-comply.
 Let's not try to guess what bad actors are going to do on the other side. Let's actually do what we think is right. And then on the ordinance itself, I love this. It sends a really important signal in our community. I don't know how many people are going to jump onto these various boards or not. But what I do know is that it makes the residents of our city who are at different levels of, you know, green card or status,
 feel like this is a city that really welcomes them and is committed to them. And so I'm really proud and really happy that all of you are working on this and bringing this forward tonight. So thank you. Thank you. Who else? Mr. Mayor, members of the council, I'm Steve Clark. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane. I'm president of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce.
 A point of personal privilege, if I might, on behalf of the Chamber, Mr. Mayor, we'd like to congratulate you for your Climate Protection Award. You've brought honor and respect to our city, and we appreciate that leadership very much. I stand here before you tonight to urge you not to adopt these amendments, and it's not about patriotism. It's not about citizenship. I volunteered for the Army in 1966. I served 14 years between active and reserve time.
 I've been a citizen for a long time. All those, it's not, that's not what this is about, we think. We think this is about participation, not inclusion. And so the first thing I want to do is, one, thank the mayor and this city for seeing the importance of having a welcoming plan. That's critical and vital to us to thrive. So we need a welcoming plan. And as I read over some of the welcoming plan, one of the words, a couple of the words that
 and encumbrances that would keep people from participating. And I compliment the city and the mayor's staff on eliminating some of those barriers, both like language translation for official documents, signage, other sorts of things, and then outreach programs. All of those are critical to have a successful and thriving community. I also compliment the mayor
 I've been in my job 11 years. I was quoted in the paper Sunday as saying, and I'll say it again, I have never seen this mayor turn away anybody from this podium, ever. Not once. I've never seen this council let anyone even think they would be turned away from this podium. That's important. But I think what's been hit here is a nerve that, at least from the chamber's perspective, maybe got uncovered and exposed that we had not really realized needed some attention. Thank you.
 Inclusion is important and it has to be a part of the process, but participation not only is about inclusion, it's about really effective government. And we don't have much participation. And so you can say, well, they're unfilled positions because people are apathetic. You can also say there are positions where there are three and four candidates on a regular basis. And this council, whether the candidate receives this accurately or not, hears the words, you're not welcome to serve.
 We chose X, not Y and Z. So there are people who have wanted to participate who haven't participated. The best example of participation that would have inclusion in it, of which I've been aware since I've been in my job, was Fayetteville Forward.
 Fayetteville Ford had more than 600 people participate, over 15 major broad issues, and people were given pipe stems and paper and glue and glitter and said, setting at a table, come up with your dream. I remember this vividly because the person I sat next to said to Fayetteville, I hope we have, we'll have no streets and no cars and no public transportation. Right?
 And I say, well, I have a little bit different view than I think you do, but we need to work together to see what our view for Fayetteville might be. And in my opinion, that sort of issue is what we really should be looking at. I don't think these amendments go far enough. They don't address the essential issue of who participates.
 And some of that is thinking now, some 10 years later, and we haven't doubled in size, but we have grown somewhere around 25,000 to 30,000 people, and we are a much different community now than we were 10 years ago. I think all of these boards and commissions should be looked at because if I read the provisions right, about half of these would be excluded anyway. So I might have a dream or vision to be on that board, but I can't. Citizen status wouldn't make any difference.
 So, in this instance, it seems to us at the Chamber, the issue is participation. So we would urge you to think about new ideas that would either follow along the lines of Fayetteville Forward or other lines that create more opportunities for people to participate. Some targeted at groups that have been underrepresented historically, some directed directly at groups that are very engaged.
 But we see this about participation, and so we don't think enough has been done. We urge you not to adopt these amendments. We urge you to look for ways to get greater participation. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the City Council. What closing remarks do we have? Kyle. Well, now I'll take my go at it, Mayor. Just first, for those that are concerned about the timeline of the amendment, I'm
 We actually discussed the concern at the very first meeting where we heard this. So we've worked on the language and it was available a week ago at the agenda session. So it has not been a rush. We've taken our time through it. In fact, that's the reason that we held for the third reading at the first meeting. But I will say that when you warn us against pre-compliance and how that might stunt what we do, I hear you.
 um and a reminder again and i think spelford spelled this out pretty clearly that these are not policy making positions that we're opening up to a broader audience or broader participation base some of them do make decisions to apply policy that's set by the city council most of them just give advice
 And some of them give advice on some very technical aspects that we Couldn't be expected to possess up here and then I started to make a list the arts the environment construction and then I looked around the Group up here and realized that maybe we do have some of those expertise is in here but there are nuances that we get from the
 professionals and passionate residents that know more about those things than we do and can contribute to the conversations in meaningful ways that that help us form the right policy perspectives.
 I hear two big ideas in tension here. There's a fear of giving up power that's presently reserved for registered voters, and there's a desire to welcome new ideas. And ultimately, Ms. O'Neill is probably right that I don't think we will be flooded with new applicants knocking down the doors. I think ultimately the practical impact of this is probably going to be very small.
 But sometimes you have a policy that is there mostly to help express your values rather than to make earth-shattering changes In a diverse community like Fayetteville. We're going to have Different values and as I shared with mr. Clark last week Sometimes we'll just agree to disagree and we'll work together on the next task but let's let's talk a little bit about what citizenship means and
 Because that was tossed around a lot as the gold standard for participation. But citizenship hasn't always been enough. Now all we require is for you to fill out a form for voter registration, but once upon a time you had to be a landowner. Once upon a time you had to be male. Those were what was required to vote and participate.
 It's not about military service. We have non-citizens that die in service of this country in military combat. It's not about paying taxes. We have long-time residents and immigrant residents of our community that pay their property taxes because they own property, pay their sales taxes because they go shopping, and collect sales taxes because they own businesses. Some of them have been here longer than I have.
 For most citizens, the only requirement is that you're born. Now, where's the vested interest in that? I have a certain loyalty and allegiance to this place because I was born here. But, you know, I think there are other ways to demonstrate that. So...
 I guess the last thing I want to address is the alternative because that microphone right there has been pointed to several times tonight as The place where anyone can come to participate without question and and that's right But I want us to ask ourselves how many times we've felt frustrated By a proposal that got to this level and we felt like we hadn't had enough input yet because that's sort of the microphone of last resort and I
 Sometimes we even hear from the people that are on our boards and commissions right now that they want to be involved in the process earlier in staff development. You can't do that when you wait for an agenda item to talk to us for five minutes. We have people with more to contribute than that.
 so that microphone is necessary to keep the the conversation open to everyone and i hope some other cities in our area could adopt a microphone just like that and take comment on every issue but it is not in itself sufficient for the standards of the city of fayetteville so with all of that in mind i appreciate your support and and hope that everyone will uh will vote to adopt this thanks thank you max
 Thank you mayor, and thank you Kyle especially for the way you explained that have me thinking about this in new ways Even at this late part of the game. I just wanted to touch on through four short things first you know any argument that that that Starts out don't do this thing because it's good, but it doesn't go far enough It's not very compelling to me especially on this issue
 I wanted to ask, you know, because we've had the specter raised of some kind of taxpayer revolt. In the last general election, Mayor, what was your margin? Something like 30 points, 40 points? No.
 You ran against an ideological conservative candidate, and you won by an insane margin. Theresa Turk won by a great healthy margin. I won by a healthy margin. We three had ideological oppositional candidates. Every time we do a general election, so far, at least in the last three elections I've been a part of, the city of Fayetteville seems to indicate support
 for these kinds of positions, and for those of us who are willing to take these kinds of positions. So I feel very confident that we're doing the right thing if we pass this, and that we're doing what the voters want us to do. I said I'm confident that we're doing the right thing when we pass this, because to me that's why we should do it. I don't think that,
 Maybe this is a little bit of a curmudgeon in me coming out, but I do not think this is going to lead to a lot of new applicants to fill every vacancy we've got. I think the vacancies we have could be because we've got too many committees or because some of the committees are perfunctory and don't have real advisory power. The committees that do have power and authority are full and have a lot of applications for those positions.
 So I think if I was on the nominating committee, I would be looking at these committees and how to empower them more. A great example for that is the Arts Council, which we struggled to fill for ages and now we have some active members on who are trying to change the kinds of things they are allowed to talk about and advise us on because they want the committee to be active. It's the right thing to do for this simple reason.
 We want the best people advising us, the most qualified people to advise us. It is irresponsible to me that we would choose a less qualified candidate than, for instance, a dreamer with two master's degrees to serve on our town and gown advisory board. Irresponsible. It would be irresponsible to pass over a surgeon on a work visa for our public health board. Irresponsible. Irresponsible.
 They're advisory committees. They advise us. We must have the best people. Someone who's lived here for 30 years has all the qualifications they need to serve on the neighborhood interest forum. They're just advising us. We should get the best advice. It's the right thing to do. And I think the voters support it. Okay, who else? Nobody? I have a statement I'd like to make. This started out about 2001. This is the second time I've been involved in one of these.
 And I voted with the majority of people, council members at that time, to make sure everybody was a registered voter. It's been 18 years. Times have changed. And I have too. I hope to think that I have become a little wiser as I've become a little older and a little more accepting for everybody. You know, I don't want to get too involved in a lot of stories, but
 i remember when we were doing the civil rights ordinance you remember that one matthew and you know we we knew that we had transgender people in this city we knew they were there i knew they were there but you know what did i really do anything to help those folks i didn't the night 18 of those stood up in front of this city council told us what they had gone through i got to tell you folks you know what i thought that night
 Where have I been? And there was, I was determined to make sure that everybody was treated with equality and equity. We throw those terms around. We need not just throw those terms around. We need to mean what we say. Canopy came in and Engage Northwest Arkansas and Welcome America came in and presented to us. Canopy came in. Do you know
 that folks stay in refugee camps 17 years on average before they get into the United States system and then they spend another two years. And I thought we need to do something about that and speed up the process. So we decided to work with Welcoming America and devise a welcoming plan. Mr. Branham worked on that plan.
 She's not here tonight, but I want to thank her for her work, Susan. You know what we all went through. We spent a year taking public comment. Was it a perfect plan? No. Is this a perfect ordinance? No. But you know what? It's a start. It's a place where we began. Now, I want to thank Council Member Smith for bringing this item forward because I know of at least one or maybe two of my State of the City addresses this has been in there.
 This was passed by this city council in 2017. So this shouldn't be anything new. I also want to say that when immigrants arrive in Federal, they face barriers that are unique and sometimes complicated. And it's up to us to evaluate and ask ourselves, are we really doing everything we can to make Federal a place that's easy for everyone to call home?
 We want all our residents to know that we welcome you here in Federal today and every day. We want to increase the diversity of our boards and commissions and invite your energy and expertise and participation in our city government. This item helps remove barriers and encourages civic engagement,
 from those residents who may not yet be citizens but are legally authorized to study, work, and live in the United States and in this city. It is the first recommendation in the welcoming plan passed by this council in 2017. It meets the standards set by a partnering organization, Welcoming America,
 and the goals we work on with Engage Northwest Arkansas. Thank you, Margo, for being here tonight. We support immigrant participation on committees in the city and in the region, and we welcome the immigrant population to join us in civic leadership. Thank you again, Kyle. And with that, Sondra, would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes thank you council all right moving right along to new business okay thank you all right number one a resolution authorized purchase of four Peterbilt we're in new business a resolution to authorize a
 the purchase of four peterbilt 520 side loader trucks with new way roto pack bodies from arkansas municipal equipment incorporated in the total amount of one million one hundred and thirty thousand eight hundred and twenty dollars and eighty eight cents pursuant to a source will go off the purchasing contract for use by the recycling and trash collection division evening again mayor and council this is a routine purchase of replacement
 trash trucks for the Recycling and Trash Collection Division. It's a purchase of four sidearm trash trucks that are very similar to the ones that we currently use, with one exception that I'll explain in just a moment. Sufficient funds have been collected for this purchase and these purchases were approved at the Equipment Committee on June 11th. These trucks are not for the use of recycling collection.
 there for the use of trash collection. A similar truck was purchased, excuse me, you all authorized purchase of a similar truck on March 5th of 2019 for use in our composting program.
 We're expecting delivery of that truck in September or October. We have demoed this particular type of trash truck earlier this year, and earlier this spring we sent staff to Murfreesboro, Tennessee, to observe operations of this particular type of trash truck.
 So the difference between this truck and our current truck that we utilize, as I mentioned, it has the same sidearm grab operator that grabs a trash can and tips it up and dumps it into the hopper. Current trash trucks use a mechanism that compacts, presses and compacts all of the trash to the back of the trash truck.
 And that allows us to collect on average around seven tons of trash per trash truck. This particular truck has an auger mechanism that macerates the trash and allows for greater compaction of trash as it goes into the hopper. So it allows us to
 to accumulate and collect up to 10 tons of trash per trash truck, which saves us on the number of round trips that we have to do back and forth to our facility, back and forth to the transfer station to dump the trash out of the trash trucks. It also has the side benefit of, because it pre-compacts the trash and macerates it when the trash is dumped on our transfer station floor, and as we're moving it from the floor into the open top tractor trailers that transfer trash to the
 landfill. That trash does not have to be compacted as much into the open top trucks. We do that compaction right now with a backhoe which is very intense and an operation that causes a large amount of wear and tear on our backhoes and we see a lot of maintenance needs on those backhoes. So we envision having to do a lot less of that packing into those trucks because that trash is already compacted so we see a lot less
 of a maintenance need on our backhoe as part of that transfer station process. I mentioned the savings that we'll realize in terms of the numbers of round trips that we'll have to make because we're able to put more trash into our trucks. And it also has the benefit of, as I mentioned, our current trucks use a blade to compress the trash into our trucks.
 One of the disadvantages of that type of operation is that sometimes or regularly a trash accumulates behind that blade as it moves back and forth and at the end of each cycle our drivers are required to open a clean out and climb inside that clean out in our transfer station floor and clean that trash out that has accumulated from behind that blade. It's a very
 let's just say unpleasant job to have to do, not to mention it's not the safest job to have to do for our employees to clean that out. So this new type of truck, because it has the auger system, doesn't have that cleaning requirement from behind our blade.
 So we're very much looking forward to bringing these trucks into our fleet and using them for operation and collection of trash throughout the city of Fayetteville. With that, I'd be glad to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Peter on this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this item? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council.
 Matthew. May I move we pass the resolution? Sonja. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Sonja, would you please call the roll? Oh. Yeah. Sorry. Sonja, did you have something else? No, thank you. It's okay. All right. Eddie. Yes. Croghan. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Turt. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Number two, an ordinance to enact 75 electric motorized scooters and scooter share programs. Ken? KEN HOWARD, Whereas the Arkansas General Assembly enacted Act 1015 of 2019, the Electric Motorized Scooter Act, which authorizes the deployment of electric scooters and scooter share programs throughout the state of Arkansas.
 The Electric Motorized Scooter Act may not allow cities to prohibit the operation of scooter share programs, but authorizes local authorities to enact reasonable regulations. And whereas the Electric Motorized Scooter Act goes into effect on July 24th of 2019, and the city's regulations and permitting process need to be effective prior to the expected deployment of hundreds of electric scooters citywide.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby enacts Chapter 75, Electric Motorized Scooters and Scooter Share Programs of the Fayetteville City Code, as shown in Exhibit A, attached here to and made a part hereof. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay,
 so that reasonable regulations regarding the safe operation of electric motor scooters and scooter share programs which are necessary for the public peace as well as the health and safety of fable residents are in place before the expected deployment of hundreds of electric scooters across the city therefore the city council hereby declares an emergency exists such as this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval okay peter
 Mayor and Council, as Kit described, the ordinance before you is in anticipation of Act 1015 taking effect on July 24th of this year. That act was passed by the Arkansas General Assembly. It allows for motorized electric scooters in cities, but also allows for you all to regulate.
 them in our city. So we, in working very closely with Blake Pennington and Kit in the city attorney's office, have worked to look at scooter ordinances in a couple of other communities and develop this draft ordinance. We look at Charlotte, Dallas, Austin, Texas, and Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
 So I'll walk you through kind of the highlights of what is in the proposed ordinance. First, I wanted to just...
 spend a moment on focusing on what it is we are talking about in terms of electric scooters. We're talking about scooters that weigh less than two wheel scooters that weigh, excuse me, two or three wheeled scooters that weigh less than 100 pounds. They have a handlebar. They're equipped with a floorboard that folks can stand on when riding the scooter. The scooter has to be powered by an electric motor and has a maximum operating speed of 15 miles per hour.
 This does not include motorcycles, electric bicycles, or electric mobility-assisted devices. In terms of operation of motorized electric scooters, the draft ordinance requires that a person operating the scooters must be a minimum of 16 years of age.
 And in terms of where they can ride the scooter, we have proposed an ordinance that would require operation very similar to how bicycles are regulated inside the city of Fayetteville. So it says that scooters may be ridden on sidewalks as long as an operator yields to pedestrians and that they are only operated on sidewalks where the sidewalk does not abut the building face.
 where the building face does not abut the back of the sidewalk and what that means in layman terms is if you can picture a Dixon Street or the downtown square where the building face is right up against the sidewalk right outside this building where you come down the steps and you're right on the sidewalk we feel it's unsafe to have scooters zipping up and down that type of sidewalk because you might have someone Coming out of a building and get blindsided by a scooter or a bicycle for that matter, but where we have sidewalks that
 in our more suburban areas of the community where the building is set back from the sidewalk. Picture MLK Boulevard or College Avenue. We feel like operating scooters on those sidewalks where you have adequate ability to see where a pedestrian is, that it is safe to operate a scooter.
 When riding on roadways, the ordinance requires that scooters, again similar to bicycles, be operated in the right-hand lane or as far to the right as practical.
 In terms of parking, parking is going to be one of the areas where we're likely to have the most challenges with scooters, particularly around scooters that are improperly parked. But currently, the ordinance requires that scooters not be parked in a way that would impede reasonable access of pedestrians on our sidewalks.
 and that they must be parked in a way that maintains a minimum clear distance of 48 inches. They may not be parked in a manner that interferes or violates the Americans with Disabilities Act. They may not be parked in a way that impedes vehicular traffic or is a threat to public safety. They must be parked standing upright. Right.
 and they must not be parked in a way that blocks transit stops, transit shelters, loading zones, railroad tracks, disabled parking zones, street furniture, building entryways or vehicular driveways. They may be parked at trailheads on our trails.
 And there is language in here requiring that scooters that are improperly parked be removed within two hours on a normal weekday and within 12 hours from receiving notice on a weekend or on a holiday.
 The ordinance next moves to regulations around scooter share operators. So typically, you know, these scooters are managed by a company that operates on the scooters. And they're the scooter share operator. The draft ordinance currently allows for up to 1,000 individual scooters to be deployed within the city limits of Fayetteville.
 and requires that operators pay a $150 application fee and $20 per scooter that is deployed within the city of Fayetteville. That application fee and per scooter fee is good for six months. Then there's a $100 renewal fee and then another $20 fee per scooter for an additional six months of operation.
 The proposed ordinance states that the costs incurred to the scooter operators and the revenue generated from the fees would be used to administer the scooter share program and then would also be used for infrastructure improvements and maintenance related to the operations of electric scooters and bicycles.
 An operator of a scooter share would be allowed to deploy between 100 and 250 shared scooters initially, and then at a six-month renewal period would be allowed to increase by up to an initial 250 scooters on their renewal so that each operator could have a maximum of 500 scooters in their fleet.
 Scooter share operators would be allowed to charge a fee for the checkout and utilization of the scooters. And we're proposing regulation of that fee that the unlock fee, excuse me, that the permitted fee is no more than one-fifth of the unlock fee. And what that translates to is many of these scooter share operators charge $1 to unlock a scooter.
 And so what we're saying with this language is that the maximum per minute fee to ride the scooter or operate a scooter would be 20 cents. So 20 cents or less would be the allowed operation per minute fee if their unlock fee were a dollar. If their unlock fee were higher than a dollar, obviously that ratio would allow for that per minute fee to be raised. Let's see what else. The –
 The ordinance also requires that scooter share operators provide for the ability to check out scooters with that for folks without smartphones, it requires that rates for scooter share checkout and operation be clearly advertised and understandable.
 And very importantly, the draft ordinance requires that scooter share operators have the ability to implement no-ride and slow-ride zones. And so what that translates to is they must have the ability to geofence or draw a boundary around areas of our city that we designate where we do not want scooters to be operated at all or where we want operators to be operated.
 scooters to be operated at a maximum speed that is something less than the 15 mile an hour maximum for operation in other areas of our city. So this may apply to areas of the University of Arkansas campus, perhaps some of our parks where we may not want scooters to operate at all or where we may want may want them to operate at a speed that is much more close to a walking speed say three to five miles per hour.
 The draft ordinance also has minimum insurance requirements and has monthly data sharing requirements in it as well. And then, as Kit mentioned, there is an emergency clause included with this, and the purpose of the emergency clause is to have the ordinance take effect ahead of the July 24th effective date of the state law. And with that, I'd be glad to answer any questions that you all might have. What questions do we have for Peter on this? Teresa. Yes.
 thank you mayor um you described you looked at other cities like charlotte and dallas and austin um did any of those cities sort of have a phase-in period in other words did they have fewer scooters to start off with and then until they got really up to their maximum number that they allowed in the city
 I can't speak to the specifics of the phase-in period of those particular cities, but I am aware that many cities have done phase-in processes where they have allowed a certain number. Looking at the data, understanding what utilization looked like.
 like than they have allowed for additional or in some cases decreased the numbers of scooters based on what the data is showing them. But I don't know that the details or the specifics about what those pure cities did.
 Okay. Secondly, you know, we had a little bit of a discussion last week about sort of the per capita number of scooters. And how does this thousand that is proposed right now, how does that compare with these other cities and per capita number of population? Yeah, it's pretty similar. It's very close to the number Austin has. Obviously, they're smaller.
 Population is much larger than ours. So there's a number of scooters is much larger than ours, but we did compare the ratio and We're in the ballpark of what many of the other cities have in terms of their allowed number of maximum scooters. Thank you Thank you mayor Last week the agenda session. I think Don talked a little bit about the operational impacts. We've seen from the bike share in terms of mowing when things are in
 laid over in the right-of-way. If I'm doing the math right, this comes out to maximum annual revenue of $40,000. Was it $20 per scooter for 1,000 scooters renewed twice in six months? Yep, plus the permit fees. Plus permit fees, so a little more than that. I just want to make sure that we didn't talk about how severe that operational impact was. Will this cover both administration of the program and what other
 parts of the city operations might be feeling the pinch from that? I'll look back and forth about that until you decide. I'll give it a stab. We don't know the answer to that yet, Kyle. I mean, I think we're going to have to see how that works. We have experienced some of that as it relates to bike share, but we
 We don't have as many as 1,000 in our city today. We also don't tend to have them left as often as we have heard in some other locales that scooters may be simply because of the size of the items. Smaller, lighter, easier to leave. So it's hard to tell what that will be. I just maybe wanted to highlight on Tuesday that it doesn't come without operational impact.
 But we're not quite ready to quantify that impact yet.
 I think we've looked at the administration, the cost of this more about the administration of maybe the permitting aspect and then some dollars towards the infrastructure components. We've not really looked at the impact on transportation or parks and their staff that might have to deal with that when they're mowing right away or park or trail areas. Okay, thanks. I do think it has a potential that we have to think about
 parking as it relates to some of these items and we don't want them left in places we don't want them. We do have to provide guidance to where we want them. That could have some, you know, maybe identification in lots that are currently not used or have sections that aren't for parking but but we might want to corral. It may take some parking spaces to actually provide it. I mean we haven't really gotten into that.
 Our plan initially was to do an RFP process until the state law went into effect. And since we didn't have the ability to kind of go through that, we're kind of beat the clock on this topic. So my point of that is, is that we will keep the council updated on those impacts. And you may see tweaks to this ordinance as it goes forward. You may choose differently on your phase and we had to start somewhere.
 And I'll add that the revenue generated from this, where we can use it for infrastructure improvements,
 in combination with the data sharing so we know where Scooters are being parked and perhaps we also know where we're having Maintenance issues with scooters being illegally parked or improperly parked We can use that to help triangulate where we can invest some of that money in building some additional parking to help relieve ourselves of some of the maintenance Issues that we may be having in certain areas but we feel like that that
 kind of max best-case scenario annual revenue should be enough to cross our fingers and hope we can do those things yeah it'll definitely be enough to do you know to implement some level of parking for for scooters and for bikes whether or not that's enough to satisfy the full demand that is generated we don't know the answer to that yet thank you we'll say you're never going to get rid of all the operational impacts I mean I
 The bike share is a highly successful program, but we're having a repeated issue of, quite frankly, some of them being pitched over the Lafayette Bridge. We're replacing lights. We're having issues below that. You can't regulate for that. Those are things you're going to have to deal with as a result of the bad actors. I guess my concern is not…
 eliminating the every possible need to mow around one or move one before you mow, but just making sure that we're Whatever it costs us to do that that we're recouping through this believe me if it has crew impact. I'll be back to talk Sure Yes, Peter. Do we have any? any idea from the companies that are Applying how long they think of scooter last well, I thought it doesn't get run over by a mower
 Yeah, I've heard varying degrees of life expectancy on skewers. I've heard as short as 28 days life expectancy, and I've heard as long as one year.
 So it's difficult to know exactly where the truth lies. Some of that, some of what I've heard is that the older generation scooters are the ones that are lasting shorter periods of time. And as the scooter operators have become more mature and sophisticated, they're now building scooters that are more robust and last longer and have that longer life expectancy. Okay. And one of the things I was wondering is, I know there are different...
 types of scooters that have different the battery configurations are a little different maybe on each one. How long do What happens to those batteries when they're no longer able to be recharged? Are they recycled? They typically operate on lithium ion batteries and as far as I know lithium batteries are recyclable Now whether or not every vendor is recycling those batteries. I can't speak to that.
 Okay, okay. Yeah, that's something I'd like to know before we, I mean, I read something that said, you know, that some of the batteries were,
 you know, ran kind of like from the 28 days to one year, you know, time frame they ran, they could be charged 300 to a thousand times. And then, you know, if, if that battery, if we're creating this in Fayetteville, I'd like to know that those batteries are being recycled and they're going to a safe recycling instead of, you know, just being dumped somewhere. Um, you know, from, from my perspective, you know, I think this,
 On one hand, I don't like anyone coming into our city and telling us that this is the way it's going to be. We're going to dump these on your streets. Deal with it. I did. Pardon me? I did. You did. I think that the idea that you...
 You know you go ahead and you ask forgiveness later instead of permission now That's kind of the the worst of the ride share You know when they first started out that's the very worst of those companies I think just coming in and doing whatever they're going to do but but one of the things I do find very interesting is the ability to collect data and you know, I saw the phrase in something I read a transit desert and
 And this data that we collect can also show us where, you know, where we have deficiencies in our own programs and can help us possibly, you know, design our city better in the future. Be that as it may, though, I think I'd like to propose that we limit the number of scooters to start with, possibly 500 total. And then we review in six months and then again in a year.
 And we have some sort of, you know, if people feel, if we feel, if we have the data that says the scooters are being used sufficiently, then maybe we increase the number of scooters. I'd rather start out with a smaller number than a larger number. And I think that's fair. Okay.
 Mayor, I wanted to address one of Councilmember Bunch's questions about recycling of batteries. Section 75.11 does require operators to have in place a proper recycling and disposal program that meets with the regulation, the federal regulations for battery disposal and storage. Let me get to then. Okay, thank you.
 One of the things we've also learned about the different scooter share operators is that some of the scooters are built in a way that the battery is integrated to the scooter and so the whole scooter has to be taken away to be plugged in and charged. Other operators now have a battery that is removable from the scooter and so a replacement battery can be put in. Who are the companies that we have that we've received
 notification that they're going to show up on the 24th? We haven't received that notification from anyone, but we have received interest from so far this year.
 Within the past, I'll say, six months, we've received interest from Lime, which is a national scooter and bike share operator across the country. Bird, which I believe first deployed scooters there out of Santa Monica, California. VioRide, who operates our bike share system, now has scooters there.
 And there I think there's been a couple of others. I think what you meant be referencing is before this legislation passed, we did get contacted by a company that was going to leave 150 over a weekend of one of our holidays. I think it was Labor Day maybe or something. It was Martin Luther King Day. Martin Luther King Day. That's the only one that we had and then we told them that we were going to require a
 ordinance to go through the process and so if they did it we would impound them they ultimately did not do that and so we did not have them okay okay that's that's um i'll have some more questions later on i'm sure but i think that's going to be it for now okay so thank you mayor um i'm
 wanting to say that I really am excited in general about having the scooters because I think until we have more transit, it's going to be helpful to have another option for people to get exactly from point A to point B. So I'm excited about that.
 I also think, which I haven't heard very much about, if you know what possible economic benefit there is for people, I think there's ways where people can take them and charge them, and they can get paid for charging them, so they kind of become employees of the scooter systems. But do we know any of that data, like that they add so many jobs or economic benefit back into the community data?
 I don't know any of the data on that, but I am aware, yes, that some of the scooter share operators, their model is everyone's an independent contractor and you go charge their scooters and you get paid per scooter or per hourly rate for doing that. Others operate under a model where the only people touching or managing or swapping out batteries on their scooter are their actual employees. But it definitely varies from vendor to vendor.
 and we may have some providers in the audience tonight that if they speak you can see if they can touch on that okay thank you okay um yeah i think uh last week when i talked about this when we're talking about the numbers i think i originally said zero um
 I've talked to some people that say that this will serve some of our lower income residents a little more than I initially kind of had thought. So I think that's important. On the actual number though, even if we limit it now, which I really don't want, is I don't want to be in a position where we have municipality controlled monopolies.
 I hate it when we say one company can do this or that and then stop other companies. So if we do end up somehow creating a number that is less than the interest, I don't want it to stay there indefinitely. I really do not like creating monopolies with the government. So thank you. Sure. What I proposed was a review in six months.
 And, you know, I'm assuming that could allow new companies to come in if we feel like it's needed or the existing companies, which if we have four of them, that's not really a monopoly. But then they could ask for more scooters or we could, you know, we could have some. I was reading about Denver and they have that they have.
 Their restrictions are each they have to have this the data that says each scooters been ridden us a certain number of times each day and then they'll go back and review at a certain time and if it if If the companies can prove that each of their scooters have been ridden this number then they'll possibly up the number for them So that's what I was proposing something like that Okay Well, let's open this up for some public comment
 I think everybody knows the rules by now. Andrew Miles, 1884 Caton Drive. Also the general manager and southeast regional manager for VO Ride. So I am the subject matter expert in micromobility in the state of Arkansas. So I'll field questions on all those. Every one of those questions can be answered industry-wise and if you have specific company
 I would like to commend Peter, Blake, and Dane, and everyone else in the city for writing the ordinance. It's smart and proactive in its preemptive approach. The one thing I would urge consideration, and I would urge that it would be amended is related to the
 vendor limit. If you want to ask me why a thousand is right or wrong, I'm not going to, you know, you know, go one way or the other too much. But if you're thinking more competition is necessarily better for serving the community of Fayetteville, I would urge some hesitancy in that. Think about 250 scooters per company equaling a thousand between four companies off the bat.
 In essence, you think 1,000 scooters are on the streets. But with four for-profit companies trying to gain market share, you're actually forcing those companies to consolidate to the areas they know will be ridden the most, which is not providing a transportation alternative.
 you're actually just providing a novelty, joy-riding alternative and a very consolidated, which will likely be the downtown and campus areas. So you're not actually serving the rest of the citizenry of Fayetteville, nor are you going to see universal brand adoption of four companies between every single user. So for most users,
 they're only going to see 250 scooters, maybe 500. It's not going to be a thousand. So I would urge, in my opinion, I'm okay with more than one vendor, but I would urge that in this area, at least 500 be a cap. And I would not recommend a phase up at six months.
 Even if you did keep it as is, the one thing I've not been giving clarification on from anyone involved in the city in the last week since this was put forth in the agenda session is what if you have four vendors come in with 250 and there's a hard cap of 1,000 and they want to renew. So we're not actually letting them renew. There's no process for getting up to 500.
 So there's some ambiguity in how that is written. So I would urge some consideration of a rewrite there. But at this time, if you want me to answer any of those itemized questions, I'm more than happy to answer those because there are very clear answers.
 Sarah, I would say for recycling batteries, yes, most companies I believe have at least some plan in place. I can tell you from Vioride's perspective, we already do have swappable batteries. We're one of the companies, as Peter mentioned, actually I think we're the only U.S. company that does swappable batteries in all of our e-vehicles. We're currently in a process of recycling with a Little Rock based company. Our e-bike batteries that are old and used, we plan to do the same for the scooter batteries as well.
 Remind me of another question. Sonya, what was your question?
 employing or economic benefit impact on the community for the community members? Right, so there are we're one of the companies that has a centralized team So we hire locally, but we have a centralized staff and we don't have the gig contractor model where just anyone can get off their couch go pull a scooter and charge it in their home. Some of the reasons that that's actually going away if you google a lot of negative press you might see stories of fires occurring and
 That usually happens with people trying to have these battles over grabbing scooters and charging them in an improper fashion, overloading capacity, bringing them into dorms, unsafe environments. And so there's a lot of cities mandating against that just because of those risks. As well, it incentivizes people just trying to get every last dollar and not actually letting scooters stay on the streets. So there's that negative consequence as well.
 Teresa, what was your question on there? Kyle was on the floor next. Kyle, okay. And there's about a minute here left. Are you going to continue the questioning? So I need to know what we're going to do. I've got a really quick question. Okay. Have you experienced a phase-up in some of the other cities where you had lesser numbers or not? We have. In fact, I recently just launched our scooter market in Knoxville, Tennessee on May 1st. They had a phase-up. They had two companies.
 companies. And each of us was allowed to start with 50 scooters the first week and phase it up to 250, what the current level is now. So 500 total scooters are in Knoxville between two companies.
 And they don't anticipate upping that cap until the six month pilot is over. I'd say from our perspective and probably our competitors perspective, we could probably double or triple that. And the market size is, I'd say, going to be about half of what Fayetteville's should be to really service the whole community. So lessons you learn. So some of the demands are angry customers because not enough available scooters in Knoxville because they turn over anywhere from six to ten times a day per scooter.
 Okay, I have zero on the timer right now. So, but if you have a question, if you have a question. Do I need to make a motion to give him more time to ask? Usually, if you all are asking questions. No more speeches, but they get to ask questions. All right. So I'm basically faced with the prospect of multiple operators coming up. I've just, I've got a list for you. So what markets and how many scooters do you have from VL Ride? Just kind of.
 We're currently in three markets launching a fourth this week and two more next week and seven more by the end of the summer. So we'll be in about 20 by Halloween, I think is our projections. I've been a part of all but one of them so far and will be a part of another six that I know of. And forgive me, I may be asking data questions that you don't have off the top of your head, but do you know the average lifespan of one of your scooters?
 We haven't fully realized that yet. We're one of the, we've projected in testing up to a year. We have a commercial grade scooter. You can't buy ours on Amazon like pretty much every other scooter that's manufactured and just rebranded. A lot of companies are trying to follow suit with that because of the life expectancy. The 28.3 days that Peter referenced was from a study back conducted yesterday.
 that concluded I think in February. It's just the industry is so young there's not a lot of conclusive data, but we do know from some of the personally bought scooters that are actually rebranded by Lime, Bird and other companies that that's kind of been the average lifespan in certain cities. But I couldn't give you definitively what ours are now. We're past 28 days in Knoxville and we still got hundreds on the streets. Just since you've already had bikes here and have experience in that, do you know what your average bike lifespan has been?
 If it's not being thrown off the Lafayette Bridge, which I personally retrieved about 10 of those. I think you still got to count those. So if we're counting those, I mean, I don't have the number off the top of my head, but 85% of the fleet's still there from day one. So we're going to aggregate, you can probably extrapolate close to two, three years if they're still going. Okay, I'll let you get away with the 85th percentile number then.
 So if they're lasting about a year, how about the annual waste tonnage of disposing of scooters? You know how many tons of scooters were thrown away every year?
 I do. They actually just got 57 out of the Wilmette River too last week, so that stinks. But no, we try to recycle just like we've done with our scrap bikes that have been maliciously or incidentally destroyed. The university has a beautiful metal recycling program. We have rubber recycling. We have other materials recyclers that we can upcycle if we're able to, but then recycle for free or at a low cost pretty easily around Fayetteville.
 Same thing would be with the scooters. So you talked about the batteries, and I guess the metal of the scooter just goes, gets shredded and reprocessed? Steel and aluminum, yeah. And that'll be my list for anybody else that wants to come up and frame the golf. Okay. All right. Thank you. Any other questions? Okay. Thank you.
 Mayor? Yeah, Blake? Can I address the question about the number of permits? So the proposed ordinance sets the absolute cap at a thousand total permits.
 It then says that each operator could apply for 250 permits initially and an additional 250 at the six-month period. So if you only had two operators come in, those two operators could potentially get 500 permits. But if you had four operators come in with 250 permits on the first round, that's it. Nobody's getting additional permits. They're not going to hit their 500. They would all be capped at that 250 because the overall total cap is 1,000.
 Of course, that's six months from now, and if the city council wanted to raise the permit level, it'd be pretty damn easy to do that. So, you know, it's certainly something to look at in six months when you have a lot of experience with what's going on. Okay. Kyle. Sir. Okay. All right. What are the public comments?
 Hello again, my name is still Eric Ledieu and I still live at 1665 Radisson Drive. As I mentioned during the previous comments, I am a naturalized citizen but I'm originally from France, specifically from the city of Paris where they implemented bike share program right around the time when I was leaving out, moving out.
 I was wondering in what form would the scooter share program take form as compared to that bike share program? In Paris, the Velib system is basically a bunch of nodes with a bunch of parts, bikes, that you can just rent out and then turn into any other node. Is that the same type of system that you would be...
 implementing with the scooter share program because actually even though I've lived here for a year, I've never even realized we had a bike share program. So yeah. So all the scooters operate on a dockless type of a model. My suspicion is that the node type system
 you're referring to is a docked-based system of bike share, which is an earlier, older generation and style of a bike share system where the bikes all have to be returned to a dock and the dock actually locks the bikes up. I'm not aware of any scooter share operators that are operating scooter share systems that have a docking system. My understanding is that they are all dockless, which is similar to how our bike share system operates in a dockless way. So the ride can be ended
 Almost anywhere, obviously the methodology for managing that is through geofencing in terms of where that ride can be ended or not ended. Peter Tonneson, Ward 3. I have three points or issues, none involving moral imperative or national destiny, so everybody can relax.
 THE ACT SAYS THAT LOCAL AUTHORITY MAY REGULATE, QUOTE, THE PRESENCE OF ELECTRIC MOTORIZED SCOOTERS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY, UNQUOTE. AND THE MEMO SAYS EXPRESSLY SCOOTERS MAY OPERATE ON TRAILS. BUT THE ORDINANCE ONLY MAKES TWO OBLIQUE REFERENCES TO THAT. ONE IN 75.02 D,
 says roadways and bicycle facilities, and then 75.03k talks about parking, that parking alongside trails has to be done at trailheads. I'm interested in this because I ride my bike one to three times a week, 20 miles, and I think that's going to be a big impact. I've noticed in the last two years there are motorized bicycles, which as I read this are not covered by this ordinance,
 A couple of them are really big. They're like bicycle tanks. They're huge. They have big, fat tires, and they're heavy, and they have motors on them. And they go up and down the trails. And then you ride, you know, I'm pedaling along. I'm still fat, but I pedal along. And there's signs that say no motorized vehicles. So I've wondered about that. I haven't complained about it. But, you know, how does this fit in with motorized bikes?
 And then let me make the last point and then I'm done. I have four TVs downstairs and I watch the news constantly from one end of the house to the other. Fox News had something going on in Nashville a few weeks ago. And since that time, Fox News commentators and maybe none of you ever watch Fox News, but that's a country and Western kind of station. And all they've been doing is complaining about the motor scooters in Nashville and how it ruined the visit.
 Now, I guess management got them to back off, but little Dana Perino was still complaining about it yesterday. So I think you should contact Nashville and find out. These things apparently are a menace or can be. And if they hit people, that's an issue. And then today I saw on TV, I think it was MSNBC, somewhere a vigilante group took like 50 of these motor scooters and threw them in a river.
 because pedestrians aren't really happy with them around, especially when people who don't know what they're doing rent them. So I would just ask you to think about the impacts. Maybe six months is a good study time, but turning these things loose on the bicycle trail is gonna materially change, I think,
 the nature of the trail. There are a couple of motorized wheelchairs. You feel sorry for those people. I mean, obviously, they have a right to see nature on the trail. But if you just turn it into a California-style superhighway for electric scooters, I'm not sure that's in the best interest of the city. Having said that, I don't have any answers. So good luck. Thank you, Pete.
 Well, when we first started regulating the trails, we did authorize electric powered bicycles and scooters for the trails, not internal combustion vehicles. So they've been allowed on the trails from day one. There is a speed limit on the trail. Fifteen. Yeah. So and hopefully people are obeying that. When it comes to Nashville, it actually made NPR too, so all spectrums were covered.
 And the mayor there was interviewed and they did, they are removing the
 electric scooters from a Nashville now they're probably going to look at other Regulations and maybe allow them to come back, but they did have a lot of problems especially in the downtown area lots of the businesses and people were very unhappy with them and so they did Go through and remove them. You know one of the scooter riders died and that was another reason that I
 They were concerned about that because obviously one of the things the mayor said was that they have this
 locator and so they're finding out where the scooters were leaving from and many of them were leaving from the bar areas and his comment was is that the scooters are have small wheels and you really need to have good agility on them and And good judgment and usually coming out of a bar might not be the exactly the best place And so they were concerned that so many of them seem to be starting their rides from a bar and so I don't know exactly what Nashville is going to do but I
 they were talking about it too good luck okay so what y'all want to do
 I guess the bottom line though from the legal department is the bottom line is that when the state law goes into effect, it would probably behoove us to have regulations. And those regulations might need to be changed or adjusted. The number of scooters might need to be adjusted up or down or things like that. But we probably ought to have something in place when the state law goes into effect.
 Do you agree with that, Blake? 100%. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I was just going to add to what Kit mentioned. That date is again July 24th. You all do have one more meeting prior to that, to the date that that takes effect.
 When Blake and I worked together on this, we wanted this to be introduced, allow you all to have at least two meetings worth of discussion on it. So I don't think we're in any rush to get anything passed or adopted this evening. Okay. All right, Matthew. That's great. That was going to be the first thing I asked about. Well, I'm really appreciative that we're taking a proactive look at this, and I actually think the ordinance is pretty darn good.
 I'm reminded of the experience Dallas had with bike shares where they just had a free-for-all and then all the bikes ended up being basically self-impounded by the companies because there were so many bikes there that they saturated the market so oversaturated that it became unprofitable, so unprofitable even though they wouldn't even ship them back to where they'd come from.
 because they had so many. And so both with bike share, which we put out a request for proposals and now we have a negotiated contract, I think that's the right approach for a city to take. It preserves competition so that the citizens of Fayetteville get the best deal, but it also, I think, helps to control the supply in the market, which I think is something that we need to do with scooters as well.
 One of the big problems with Nashville and some of the other communities that have seen scooters is that they don't have any bike infrastructure at all. So, I mean, you take a scooter and you put it on a street, one pothole is enough to kill somebody. Right.
 Because the wheels are small Fayetteville I think we're fortunate in Northwest Arkansas in general that we have a lot better bike infrastructure than the rest of the of the of the nation and tying scooter fees or Any surplus revenue we get from these contracts to the development of the further development of infrastructure is exactly the right move That's how you make these programs safe. I
 relatively safe not act not like 100% safe but you know getting in a car and driving is probably the most dangerous thing you do already right and we're not talking about banning cars or waffling over whether or not cars are allowed even though there's a car death in the city I don't know at least once a month so you know I want to encourage us again to be open-minded there's a suggestion
 that we reduce the number that's allowed in the beginning and um i probably wouldn't support that although i understand the sentiment and why some people might um i would suggest that that we um
 I'll basically start with the numbers that's been suggested, but I would like to see if it's possible, if staff wants to consider and think about it, some kind of automatic provision to change the number up or down based on the daily usage rates, the average daily usage rates that was referenced. I think it was mentioned that Denver did something like that. Okay.
 We say over and over again that after a pilot period or every six months, it will be easy. I put these air quotes in. It will be easy to come back and change the law. And it's never easy to come back and change the law.
 no matter how trivial we think it is, no matter how technical we think it is, especially with something like this that is gonna be so public and used in different ways by so many citizens, it's not gonna be easy to change that. Whether it's right to change it up or to change it down, it's gonna be something that is political and is controversial for us. So I would be very much in favor
 and encourage the council and the staff to consider having some kind of automatic adjustment based on average daily usage and look forward to seeing this again in two weeks. Okay, so I definitely agree with most of Matthew's suggestions there. Like I said, I don't want a number that limits it and then we can't increase it or decrease it later.
 Don't think I'll ever become a libertarian, but I keep sounding more and more like one But I don't want that to be controlled There and then safety and I saw in the news this or that 1.3 million people died the world in cars every year so I Think we should really think about safety, but like relatively speaking you know
 This is way safer, but I don't want them on the sidewalks on Dixon. I really like the one fifth rule that was proposed. So that this is actually people that are going to work and not just somebody that's apparently drunk on Dixon that wants to get home.
 I definitely will vote for whatever we have today or in two weeks. It looks like to get some of Matthew's suggestions, it would probably have to be in two weeks. I don't think we could get all those done tonight. Probably not. Blake, do you have something else? You're looking twisted. Yes, I thought so. Okay.
 I agree that's something that we ought to look at over the next couple weeks and maybe we can come up with something to bring back to you if you have any ideas about how to formulate the auto adjustment within the ordinance. We're all ears, but that's probably not something we can come up with tonight.
 And there might be other factors you'd want to consider as opposed to usage for example if there are problems or issues like that So even though sometimes it might be controversial to have to look at something again sometimes you'll have more facts more information and even if it's controversial still worth a look and
 and review it at that point in time and maybe at that point you'll have enough actual real evidence of how they're working in Fayetteville to make a longer lasting and a better final decision.
 Mayor, I do want a couple comments. During the state legislature, this came up on the very last day. I think I shared this on Tuesday. The point I want to make about it is that there was a lot of dialogue about looking at data collected from cities that utilize these services to maybe address the state law in the future. So I think it's important, one, to know that this...
 It's a pilot whether we want it to be a pilot or not because from the state legislative perspective there's going to be input coming back to what it allows local communities to control and what's going to be done at the state level. The advantage you have and I think I thought it was a good argument that day and I think it's a good argument today is that while the state can only do that every two years, the city can do it every two weeks.
 And so you do have the opportunity if we get something drastically wrong to be able to bring it back very quickly and address it as we look at it.
 The other thing I just want to say, because I think it's important to keep all of your plans in front of you, is that the Fayetteville mobility plan talked about multimodal opportunities and that over a very significant amount of our trips in the city are between four miles or less. And so this is an option that, if it is successful, helps us both address –
 our roadways, equity, congestion, another service for people, transit-related connectivity without having to fund our transit to the quarter of a mile of a location, but giving us other options. And so there's reasons in your mobility plan that I think you really wanna look and try this. I think it's very prudent to be cautious about how you're doing it. The point I want you to just hear from staff is that
 We think this is good because it matches your plan. We think you should be willing and open to looking at problems because we can't think of everything that we've never done. And there's not even enough of this information across all communities. If you looked at communities that have had scooters in the early stages, some of them have gotten so burnt by having problems that they chose the path of eliminating them totally. And that's why I think it's prudent to move cautiously.
 but not at the point of limiting the ability to have it. Because I think that, I wish Chris were here, but the number is very significant. Like 60% of our trips in the city are like four miles or less. It's not a small number. And so I think that's a very real opportunity. Maybe Matthews, the chair of the committee, knows whether I'm even in the ballpark of that percentage. But I think that was right from the Nelson-Nygard study.
 So I suppose we're going to table and revisit in two weeks. Well, it's an ordinance, so it will be there in two weeks. We're just going to review it again in two weeks. I still stand by my suggestion that we start out with a smaller number. I think that seems very prudent at this point.
 And it gives us time to collect more data. And one of the arguments that's been made, you talk about the scooters. It's a mode of transportation for what they say the last mile. So it could be if we have trips that are a mile or to four miles in this city, this might take out a car off the street and get someone to a transit stop or to work or something like that.
 And, but you know, one of the suggestions and comments that have been made is that this really helps our disadvantaged, you know, community that may not have access to a car. And I want to, you know, I think if we start out with a smaller number and we really, really work on tightening it up and, and looking at it, we can, we can see that that, that community is being served and helped. And, uh.
 you know i just i'll look forward to talking about this again in two weeks but i do i do think we need to at least start out a little smaller and i do i also believe that you know if this is growing this industry is growing so rapidly there are so many companies getting into this i i don't know which uh ford motor company even owns one of the the e-scooters you know
 vendors, so that's how important it is. But I suspect that in maybe two to three to five years, we will not have 500 scooter companies. It'll probably be pared down a lot more. Then things will be a lot different then. But I'd love to limit the number and go back and revisit it. And we do that all the time. We revisit stuff all the time. It's not impossible. Thank you. Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. I agree with Sarah. This is a brand new program that's kind of being, you know, thrust upon us whether we like it or not. And I really think we need to go slow. We need to see how this works here. A thousand is a huge number of scooters all of a sudden to descend on our city. We get criticized for that many times about, gosh, you guys didn't go slow. You just immediately implemented something. And so I think it would be really helpful.
 to have a smaller number, to collect all that information. I mean, there's just a lot of questions. Like, for example, I'd like to know how many scooters go over 15 miles an hour, if that kind of data is being collected. So I think that would be interesting. How, you know, are we having really some serious safety issues?
 Is there a lot of education or signage that we need to do? All of these things that we could really look at, which is kind of a six-month period to go back and see if we get it right. We could have some big glaring oversight. I know everybody's done their homework really well, but maybe there's something new.
 I would just encourage us to start slow, get a lot of data, take a look at it, and come back and revisit that, and then we can make some adjustments. I think six months is a good number, too. Thank you. Okay. So I take it we're going to leave it right here for two weeks, right? Oh, okay. And, Don, you said that the state legislature gives us the local control of –
 What? Of enacting an ordinance to deal with it, but not to, according to our city attorney, to not prohibit them in the city. So they're giving. Is that correct, kid? I think it remains to be seen exactly what that law does. We don't really want to go to court to find out, actually. Yeah.
 well i thought we were getting some local control that would be refreshing um so you get what they give you yes you do but it's the local control not to control anything i see okay so mayor
 I'm just going to read off what the state statute actually said. Okay. It says, except as otherwise provided by law, a local authority, which is the city, may establish reasonable standards, rules, or regulations providing for, one, the safe operation of electric motorized scooters, and two, the presence of electric motorized scooters on public property.
 So what they're saying, we can't refuse to have them, but we can control them. Yes, with reasonable regulations. I'm just trying to get it in my head. Correct. Whatever reasonable regulations means. Well, I mean, I know I'm trying to get it a little more black and white for myself. Okay, well, we'll leave it right here. They wouldn't pass that test. All right, number three. Moving along to number three. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote
 in the amount of $49,492 plus taxes and freight from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the purchase of a submergible pump for use at the Farmington lift station kit.
 Whereas the Farmington Lift Station pump number one experienced mechanical failure in April and was pulled for disassembly and repair, and whereas the recent heavy rainfall exerted heavy pumping demands on the remaining pumps, causing the failure of pump number three on June 23rd, which has left the operation of the Farmington West Lift Station relying solely on a single fully operational pump and a temporary pump around solutions to assure full capacity of the stations.
 And whereas the staff has explored alternative pump makes, models, and configurations, and the pump recommended by Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated is specifically designed for handling the heavy solids that consistently cause wear on the pump equipment at the Farmington Lift Station. And it is also the only pump capable of delivering the pump pressure requirements while fitting into the existing piping configuration without extensive redesign.
 And whereas purchasing a new pump requires a lead time of 8 to 12 weeks, and because of additional time involved in competitively bidding such a purchase, staff recommends expediting the purchase of a replacement pump to reduce the amount of time the temporary measures have to remain in place. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and accepts a quote in the amount of $49,492, plus any applicable taxes and freight charges, from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the purchase of a submersible pump for use at the Farmington Lift Station. There you go, Mark. Haven't you had an exciting evening? Oh, absolutely. Thank you.
 The Farmington Lift Station on Double Springs Road pumps 100% of Farmington's wastewater directly to the west side water resource recovery facility using three 130 horsepower pumps. This year, on an increasingly frequent basis, maintenance technicians have been regularly responding to lift station alarms that require back flushing the submersible pumps to dislodge clogging rags and other solid debris that bind the pump impellers.
 In April of this year, the station sent an alarm indicating a failure to start for pump number one. Maintenance technicians determined the pump's circuit breaker tripped from high amperage draw. After clearing possible impeller debris, pump number one immediately experienced the same high amperage draw fault. This failure to start required pump one to be pulled and sent to Jack Tyler Engineering, Inc., Arkansas' only certified distributor and repair facility for flight products.
 Little Rock for disassembly inspection. The pump inspection found significant damage requiring approximately $33,190 to repair. Project staff have been investigating alternative pump makes, models, and configurations for a solution to address the high level of pump wear experienced by this station's consistent issues of binding rags and other solid waste products.
 No other pump distributor can provide a pump capable of delivering the station's pump pressure requirements of 200 feet of total dynamic head and also fit into the existing piping configuration without extensive redesign. Jack Tyler Engineering has recommended flights patented in-technology 3315 model pump with compatible pump mount and an impeller specifically designed for passing heavy solids.
 The 3315 model's unique impeller design and chopper ring features are well suited for handling the station's solid waste that are leading to the excessive pump wear and subsequent damages experienced by the current 11-year-old pump models. This pump should provide a major reduction in maintenance costs and service disruptions due to clogging. Jack Tyler Engineering has submitted a quote to replace the failed pump number one in the amount of $49,492.00.
 The pump order will have a lead time of 8 to 12 weeks. Staff recommends approval of the purchase of one submersible pump from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated in the amount of $49,492 plus $300 for estimated freight charges. Taxes are estimated at $5,117.97 for a total purchase request of $57,609.97. And I'll entertain any questions. Any questions do we have? Pardon me.
 Any public comment on the submersible pump? None? Well, I'm shocked. I want them out. I'll bring it back to the council. Sloan? I move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I thought you might. Mark? I will second that. I have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Under which police call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And ordinance away competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $49,492 plus applicable taxes and freight from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the purchase of a submersible pump for use at the Farmington lift station. And so. Well, we got a motion to table. What?
 I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Kyle. Yes, please. Second. I move the motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Eddie. Yes. Rogan. Yes. Fetch. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And the ordinance to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $49,492 plus applicable taxes and freight.
 Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the purchase of a submersible pump for use at the Farmington lift station Do we have any final comments from the council on this? Okay, so under would you please call the roll? Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, okay We're moving now We're off to a rezoning here. Oh
 Couple of them an ordinance rezoning property described rezoning petition RZN 19-6666 for approximately 0.40 acres located at 119 and 127 Southwest Avenue from NC neighborhood conservation to MSC Main Street Center. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1.
 that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from neighborhood conservation to main street center section two that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 Mayor and Council, this rezoning request is across the street from where the expanded library is being built across West Street. Quickly, the surrounding zoning is RIU. That was approved last year, and it's under construction for two duplexes. There's a pocket of NC, Neighborhood Conservation, in green at this location, and it's kind of...
 sandwiched between the library and the cultural arts corridor, both of which are becoming busier and more active. The adopted plans, it's in the downtown master plan area. Early West Avenue was identified as an important connection.
 City Plan 2030, of course, recommends infill. And of course, we recently completed the Cultural Arts Quarter Plan. So the Downtown Plan really was kind of preserving a pocket of single family.
 and that is now significantly changed. Duplexes are under construction here and recently completed here and the remaining five houses are rather deteriorated and the area has significantly changed from when the downtown plan was completed. Issues that were identified, is this compatible? Is mixed use compatible, which the applicant is seeking?
 It doesn't complement the cultural arts corridor. It has topographic challenges. It has a little bit of relatively level space facing west and then it drops off precipitously. And lastly, the allowed height, it allows five to seven story buildings in this district rather than the present three story buildings.
 Planning Commission and staff do recommend approval. I did notice today that you heard from the chair of the library board who was concerned about a tall building at this location.
 I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe Mr. Canfield is here, if you have questions for him, or if he wants to make a presentation. Yes, would you like to speak before the council, Mr. Canfield? I really don't have anything to say. I just didn't hear you. What do you all have to say? I'm happy to answer any questions. All right, well, what questions do we have? Sloan. Under MSC, would they be allowed to build like an art studio or something of that nature?
 Under the present? No, the new one. The proposed zone. Would they be allowed to do what? Would they be allowed to build like an art gallery or an art studio? Yes, sir. Yes, it's an allowed use. Is it currently allowed? No, it is not. Okay. So I feel like that MSC fits more with the ORC corridor that we're hoping to have here.
 I seriously doubt you could get an engineer that would allow you to build five stories there. Could you even put five stories with setbacks with the size of this? That would be very, very challenging. Mr. Canfield might want to address that. But the lot is very, very steep, very,
 to build a tall building at that location on two lots. The lots are 60 feet each, so you've got 130 feet of frontage. Getting rear access would be difficult. You know, at this point, my interest is in expanding the opportunities and the diversity in the neighborhood through introduction of neighborhood services that will support...
 the density that we'd like to see down there i think the diversity supports density and vice versa i have no intentions of putting anything except what's right there in a refurbished state so that's that's my intentions at this time all right thank you uh i think that answered my questions any other questions no okay what public comment do we have on this no
 Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Here you go. I did have another. All right, it's mine. Was there any public comment during? No, there wasn't. There was one letter in support of the application to the Planning Commission, but nobody appeared at the public hearing. Okay. Unless somebody else can present something, we can actually vote on this tonight. Thank you. Please. Thank you.
 Well, I've been hearing a lot from citizens, not about this particular issue, but about many others, and that they're just not aware. They have an opinion, but the media hasn't got out, and they haven't seen it, or they've been too busy, or something like that. So I would really like to hold this for another couple of weeks, and so that the public has an opportunity to be aware of this rezoning request.
 Y'all are still on the screen. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. What's everybody want to do? I know besides go home, but. Well, let's leave it on the first reading and we'll have the second one in two weeks. Well, I think that's great wisdom. That's different. Who knows in two weeks? Who knows? We're leaving it on the first reading? Okay.
 Okay. Or we can move it to the second reading, I guess. Is that what we should do? Well, I don't know. What would you like to do, Mark? First reading. Okay, well, we'll hold it right here. Main thing is we have two weeks for people to get back with us. And there, with the library board president sending a note concerned about the view shed and the height. Yes, I did receive a couple of emails, I will admit, recently.
 Okay, well let's move along to number five. An ordinary zone, that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6678 for approximately .69 acres, located at 2280 West Stone Street from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. Ken?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RSF 4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Mayor and council that this application is located across the street from Ramey middle school on Just north of Stone Street between Tsang Avenue and Root Avenue It's at the base of the western the southern base of Martin Markham Hills and
 As you can see, it's a pocket of RSF4. It's entirely surrounded by RMF24, which is what the applicant is requesting, and it's zone P1 institutional cross street for the school. So it's a designated city neighborhood area in 2030 comprehensive plan. It encourages a variety of residential building types and increased density.
 and recommends forum-based zoning. RMF 24 would be viewed as a forum-based district. No issues were identified. No one appeared at the Planning Commission meeting, and Planning Commission staff recommend approval. I believe the applicant, Ms. Wallace, is here, if you have questions for her. Do you have anything, Ms. Wallace? Would you come to the mic, please?
 Thank you for your patience. The only other thing that I was going to point out was that there's a bus stop right across from this property. So if someone did live there, they could easily commute with the multifamily. That would just be helpful. Okay. Thank you. Any questions? Council? No. Do we have any public comment on this? No. Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. And here we are. What would you all like to do?
 I move we go to the second reading. Thank you. Mark. I will second that. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Yes. Abstain. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6678 for approximately seven tenths of an acre located at 2280 West Stone Street from RMF RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre We go to the third of our reading
 I will second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. How about that? So I'm going to please call the roll. Yes. Yes.
 Yes, yes Yes Yes, and ordinance reason on that property is cried and rezoning petition RZN 19-66 78 for approximately 7 tenths of an acre located at 2280 West Stone Street from RSF for residential single-family 4 units per acre to RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre. Okay mark Oh
 Where are we at? Well, we're ready to vote. Okay, well, let's vote. All right. Let me make a comment for Commissioner Sloan Scroggins.
 He is kind of a fellow realtor in the same office as the applicant, and therefore he felt like he should recuse. Normally the best thing to do is before any votes or any comments are taken, you explain what your situation might be and he recues or not. But I think the public explanation is always a good thing to do. And so it wouldn't be left hanging. That's why he decided to recuse. Okay.
 I want you had folks just before we vote on this I wanted to Express my wish that we were also taking that one last little bite Our SF for it's gonna now gonna be sitting as the loan parcel in the middle of all of us Yeah, it is in a different ownership and the applicant Is aware of that issue and would have preferred it together me too? Okay
 Everybody good? Well, shall we vote? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Katie? Yes. Yes, you have Zane. Batch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Number six, Danielle. Thank you.
 All right, an ordinance to approve Vacation 19-6672, properly located along Marks Mill Road, to vacate portions of two conservation easements. Kent.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority in our ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portions of conservation easements are not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1...
 that the City Council of the City of Fairville-Oxford hereby vacates portions of two conservation easements as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1,
 New conservation easement shall be dedicated as follows. A, a 30-foot wide conservation easement across the rear of lots 30 and 31, totaling approximately 9,327 square feet as shown in Exhibit C. And B, a 25-foot wide conservation easement across the rear of lots 37, 38, 39, and 40, totaling approximately 10,901 square feet as shown in Exhibit D.
 Condition 2 the diversion berm Shall be extended to the south as determined by the city engineering staff to protect the downstream property owner to the west The extended berm shall be inspected for completeness. Thank you. Good evening mayor and council Jonathan Ely in the engineering division this request tonight is to vacate a couple of conservation easements in the summit place subdivision, which is along the south side of township and
 just east of College. Hopefully you're familiar with that area. This subdivision has been platted and replatted and had a couple of these iterations of vacations and dedications over probably the last eight to ten years. As we see this subdivision continue to develop out, this is another request to vacate some conservation easements and
 And the proposal tonight is to, as you heard, is to dedicate additional easements that result in approximately the same area, about 500 square foot more area of conservation easement in other locations in the subdivision.
 The little bit of background on those conservation easements and why they were dedicated to begin with was as the subdivision was morphing and changing between lot sizes, it was originally platted as larger lots, I think about 50 lots. They came back and replatted it as small lots and when they did that we were concerned about the drainage off the subdivision. Instead of altering the detention pond to
 deal with the drainage they came up with this idea to dedicate these conservation easements to preserve green space and limit the amount of impervious area so several of these were plotted on site now that they've kind of changed they're proposing to build some larger houses on some of these lots and requesting to dedicate some additional easements elsewhere so overall engineering staff is in support of the request um we'd
 The requested good planning commission and was recommended to be forwarded to you with a recommendation of approval. I think all but one voted in approval. We have received a little bit of public feedback in opposition of request to directly the adjacent property in our to the west.
 was at the Planning Commission meeting and voiced opposition, citing reasons of drainage and increased concerns with drainage on her property. I don't think she was able to make it here tonight but wanted to make sure you were aware of that.
 I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Any questions you have? I think the Planning Commission asked your department to look at whether you needed to extend the berm, and did you determine that you needed to do that? We've not yet. The reason that there's a question on that is, and you can kind of see, it's difficult to see on this exhibit, but the very southwest corner, which would be kind of the bottom left hand of that, that string you had up there, Garner, before,
 So along the west edge of this subdivision when it was built there was a diversion berm, which is kind of it's a For those of you that were out there on the tour you saw it it kind of directs the water off of that subdivision to the detention pond. When it was installed it didn't really extend all the way to the southern limits of the subdivision that kind of petered out a little bit and just but so the last couple lots there aren't quite being captured and
 However, there's a pretty mature growth of trees in that area as well. And so part of the question is, do we install a diversion berm and take out trees? Or are the trees actually serving a better purpose than that diversion berm would be? And so I think that is still to be determined with urban forester staff and engineering kind of working together to make sure that if there's a good canopy of trees in that area, it may be better served to just leave the trees. Okay. Mr. Dean.
 I believe the applicants are here tonight. George Ducane with Loon Associates. I'm representing the owner, so I'm here if you have any questions. Okay. All right. What questions do we have on this from council?
 Hi. Thank you so much for actually putting the slopes in there. We went out there and actually had a tour on Monday. So my question to you, is it common to have a slope of up to 33% where there's not any trees or where houses are being built on that slope and you're not experiencing any kind of surface runoff or degradation? I'm just curious about that.
 No, 10. Well, what we refer to as three-to-one slopes, which would also be called 33%, just run that same ratio. Those are pretty common, usually vegetated with grass, make sure the root system actually captures and stabilizes the soil in that respect. If that's your question...
 That's my question, but also do you go back and actually make sure that there has not been any runoff, that those soils really are stabilized? And I mean, that looked very clay, but also kind of a shell underneath right there. Did you all go out and actually do a soil analysis in that area? With three-to-one slopes, you don't normally do a soil analysis. That's usually considered a stable slope in this area. Most geotechnical engineers would agree.
 So, but the maintenance of the slope and the kind of grass they put in with the houses would obviously be a little bit more substantial than what you might get in a development phase. In a development phase, they'll usually put seed and straw. Not quite. You're supposed to get good, hardy grass growing, but when they go and actually develop the houses at that point, they really want the grass to be visible and they want it presentable to any potential property buyer. Okay.
 What other questions do we have on this? Okay. I don't have any public comment on it. I'll bring it back to the council. Mark. You know, we've seen this property so many times. I always get a little wary, but I do have concern to relocate the conservation area.
 Because if you look at the topography where it's going over on the south end, it actually is just kind of making a high-velocity ditch that's pushing it on down the hill, and then we're losing the protection that's going north and south that we requested the last time we zoned this. The lots, it's evident, are going to be built –
 with large homes, so there's not gonna be an opportunity for any pervious lawn or anything. There's just nothing, it's all gonna be impervious and so we're gonna get the high velocity. And whenever we walked it, again, looking at the soil with the clay and the flint and the slate, it's already evident where the water runs, it's very unstable. And then where they've built the houses and they've brought in the red dirt,
 Around it on each side then there's more washing you know the whole problem We had with this last time we looked at it was how do we? stop the Velocity and the flow going down the hill which would be to the west and so if you have a conservation easement Going north and south like they have proposed it really isn't doing what we were hoping would
 the other conservation area was doing. And it does work, and it does push it down to the pond, it looks like. So I do have concerns. This is some tricky property, if you go down, because there's not gonna be, it's just all rooftops. That was my concern. Theresa. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I share the same concern.
 It just looked, you know, you have these drainage easements established for a reason. It's not like the landscape has changed. There's still, I would, I looked and it looked to me like there's a great deal of threat to a lot of surface runoff. And, you know, you have neighbors that are downhill and they have interest too. So I have some serious concerns in these areas. Yes, please.
 And I just think we need to be cautious. That easement has already been established, and I think we need a good reason why to change it. And I didn't see any good reason to change that easement yesterday. Kyle, in all of our stormwater committee presentations, there are a couple of areas around town that are used as...
 kind of the examples of what we're trying to to fix with that potential new program and this is one of the areas that we That we see in every presentation where they're looking at The way the stormwater runoff is managed from from this hill which has some of our more modern management down Towards college where there's a mix of old and old outdated infrastructure in in private hands
 and we're probably going to get to to clean some of that up for them in the not so distant future and so i think we've we run a pretty good risk of making that worse messing with uh with this right up the hill from an area that we know already has trouble so um yeah i mean we walked around this and just a lot of head scratching going on with that one so thank you thank you mayor um i read two things in the report i wanted to clarify with engineering staff
 The first thing I read was that you thought the drainage commitments could be maintained with the proposed easements. And the second thing I read was that the Planning Commission imposed an additional condition that the berm that exists today be extended to protect the downstream property owners. Do you still agree with your findings, and do you think that the berm will sufficiently protect the downstream property owners? Yes.
 Yes, yeah, I think based on what we've seen on site and the way that you could see visibly when we were out there at the two or yesterday, even though there wasn't any water flowing there, you can see evidence of where the water was flowing along that diversion berm. There were certainly a couple of places where I think a recent house had been constructed and it wasn't quite put back. That needs to be fixed, but.
 I do feel like it was making its way to the detention bond as it was designed. And, you know, looking at that subdivision, you know, as a whole, you know, if you've got a circle and you kind of move the pieces and parts of it around, you know, you may have an easement here that gets vacated as long as that, you know, equal area is protected.
 you know restored within that circle and it's all going to the detention pond the really the people who are going to feel that and that impact is is at the outfall of the detention bond that's kind of where we were coming up with that as far as that that recommendation um
 In regards to the Planning Commission condition approval, that's kind of what I mentioned in response to Kit's comments. There's that diversion berm just kind of tails off into some trees about halfway through the second to the southern lot on the south side. And so really it's just an evaluation of...
 If we have them go in and extend that berm, it will likely damage or take out some trees. And is that better than just leaving the trees? So I think it's just going to kind of be a call that we need to make and evaluate exactly how much area would actually bypass that berm. You know, are we talking about a significant amount of water that would bypass that? If so, then I agree the berm needs to be extended. If we're only talking about, you know, slivers or, you know...
 tenth or quarter of an acre of the back of a lot that might already be wooded anyway, then maybe it makes more sense to keep the trees. At what point would you answer that question? I think prior to, you know, I guess prior to definitely, you know, building anything on any of these lots, but we would need to make that determination here pretty quick.
 I would actually like to change that condition's wording. I would suggest that it would say the diversion berm shall be extended to the south if determined by city engineering staff to be necessary or advisable to protect a downstream property owner to the west.
 So I think it's a little more clear of what he's really wanting to do rather than it'll be to the south as determined because maybe they'll determine not to extend it at all. And so I'd rather change the language that has been presented to that if you all decide. I don't know what you're going to do with the ordinance, but if you're going to pass the ordinance, I would like that modification. What do you all want to do?
 Thank you. Well, I would move that we amend the condition as suggested by the city attorney. Second. We'll have a motion and a second to amend according to the city attorney's suggestion. I remember that. Okay, now we have an amendment. So what's the discussion on the amendment? Anything? Nothing? What public comment do we have on the amendment? See, now I'm bringing it back to the council.
 Don't everybody look confused? We don't have to hurry along and vote. So what discussion do we wanna have? Matthew. I would just say, you know, regardless of whether or not you think the vacation should be approved or not, I think that the language is suggested by the city attorney in the issue raised. Comparing the impact of the, or the relative impact and benefit of extending the drainage berm, one of our city engineers, I think makes the amendment worthwhile.
 Any other discussion? Okay. So this is just an amendment, and we haven't decided on the vacation yet, so you can make the amendment anyway. It don't cost you nothing. All right. So, Sandra, would you please come on the row? Penny? Yes. Froggin? Yes. Fetch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. DePere? Yes. Indian? Yes. Yes.
 very good now we're back to the amended ordinance so what shall we do thank you uh thank you mayor so um you know i have a degree of skepticism about anything that comes forward like this but i tend to rely on our engineering division whenever they make a detailed evaluation like they have in this case which is why i asked those questions about whether or not they thought their findings were still accurate
 And I think the answer that we got about the berm indicates, at least I take that as an indication that the engineering division is on top of this and is detail-oriented in this circumstance, so I tend to trust them.
 I guess, I'm ready to vote on this tonight. I'm also comfortable waiting for two weeks. I'm about to make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. I wanted to give a little history on this site. This subdivision was, I think it's been designed by three or four different teams. And what got originally plotted was done by the very first team.
 And then the team got changed before the first unit was even built. And all the easements got dedicated, and then they had to be changed once. And I think this is the fourth or fifth time. And it's been rezoned, too. I mean, the zoning's gone up and down. So it's been a very difficult site to work with, not just because of the topography and because it was originally forested, but also because of its location and the development program.
 that has taken place and there was a recession in the middle of it. So I don't bring up any of these as excuses, but I bring it up because I do think that there are legitimate reasons that the original plans have been asked to be amended so many times. And I think in this case, this is another one. As long as our engineering staff says that they think the requirements are still gonna be met, they've got their eye on it. That's what gives me the confidence.
 So in any case, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Saunders, please call the roll. Eddy. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. And the ordinance approved VSE 19-6672 for property located along Marks Mill Road to vacate portions of two conservation easements.
 Okay, thank you Yeah, I will probably vote differently than him on the last vote, but I'll second the motion to go ahead and do it Okay Or not
 This is our home now, Mark. Okay. I like how you heard you. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No.
 That is five votes in favor, Mayor. It requires six votes to pass. You may vote if you please. I'm going to go. Do you mean to suspend rules and go to the table? Right. Yes, I will do that. All right, so it passed. In order to approve VAC 19-6672 for property located along Marks Mill Road to vacate portions of two conservation easements. Okay, let's follow the comments of the guy. Okay, let's vote. Summons, please call the roll. Okay.
 Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Order has failed. Okay. Thank you all. Number seven, an ordinance to approve vacation 19-6689, property located 1923 North Candleshoe Drive, to vacate a portion of the general utility easement kit
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate Purposes and whereas the City Council has determined the following strike portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes Now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 There's a City Council the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of a general utility easement as is described in exhibit B attached to the planning department's agenda memo and
 Section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached as exhibit a to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk and section 3 this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or Damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner developers expense Okay, who has scar?
 Yes, Mayor. This is a simple Eastmont vacation associated with a single-family home. It is unneeded. It's not been identified to serve any useful purposes. It has no utilities in it. Planning Commission and staff recommend approval. We have heard from Ms. Pilcher, who said she had a conflict, couldn't be here tonight, but...
 I don't see this as being an issue that needs to be held. Okay. What questions do we have regarding this? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Oh, yes. Yes.
 We do have that here. Thank you for your patience. Yes mayor. I'm Peter main I'm a neighbor of Pilcher's and miss Pilcher Not able to be here tonight asked me to stand in his proxy and just be available if you all have any questions Did you know it was gonna be 945 before you get to speak? I've been at council meetings before yes Okay, what do we have any questions council, okay, I
 Any public comment on this? None? All right, bring it back to council. Sloan. What's the vacation needed for? It's a utility easement. Okay, so what are they needing it for? I would have to ask the applicant's representative. The current utility easement is about 20 feet, and the request is to vacate the 10 feet of that that's closest to the house.
 The utility easement is literally at their back door. What is it preventing them from doing? Well, anything that they could get permit for in terms of patio or improvements, that type of thing. Okay, thank you. Okay. Well, okay. What are we going to do here? I need a, if you're going to move it along, we need a message. That's what I'm doing. All right, Mark.
 I move that we suspend the rules and go to the next reading. All right. Second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the vote? Yes, sir.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 19-6689 for property located at 1923 North Candleshoe Drive to vacate a portion of the general utility easement. Motion to suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Yes. Sonja. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Sonny would you please call the roll? Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, and orange approved the AC 19-66 89 for property located at 1923 North Kennelshoe Drive to vacate a portion of a general utility easement Yes, yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All righty, that concludes our business. What sort of exciting announcements might we have tonight? Christmas right around the corner.
 Christmas in July, Mayor. Fireworks on this week. So just to remind citizens that fireworks are allowed. They started yesterday. They're allowed today, July the 3rd, all from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. And then on Thursday, July the 4th, from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m.
 The guidelines of firing fireworks are on the city's website under the news articles. So If you could see that abide by those guidelines for those who have pets sensitive to the Fireworks, you may want to take precautions over the next three days two days more to go But that detail is on the city's website also the
 gully park concert series the next concert is july the 11th it's one of fayville's own ultra suede
 Started out as a fun thought during a happy hour at George's majestic and 25 years later Provided high-energy interactive dance party entertainment in a four-state area They were voted the best party band in Northwest Arkansas for five consecutive years earning Hall of Fame status so come put your dancing shoes on at Gully Park on the 11th and experience Ultrasuede you could be a radio announcer. I
 Also, we have one of our slow roll biking events coming up on Saturday, July the 13th. The event starts at 10 a.m. The ride starts at 11. It will be at Tricycle Farms at 1705 North Garland Avenue, an opportunity to explore neighborhoods south of the UA agricultural farm.
 It's for all ages, so if you'd like to experience one of the Fayetteville biking slow roll events, mark July 13th, Saturday 10 a.m. And then just to remind citizens that city offices will be closed on Thursday, Independence Day, July the 4th. So if you need to do business with the city, we will reopen at our business hours on Friday, July the 5th, but we will not be here on Thursday.
 anything else well thank you all very much we're adjourned