I would like to call the City Council meeting of July 6, 2017 to order. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here. Present. Here. Here. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? Thank you.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business is consent. I understand that item three on consent is to be pulled.
 Yes, Mayor. The resolution needed to have a budget adjustment approval, so that has been done. I've handed out a copy of the resolution to be amended to the City Council. Do you need a motion to pull it off the agenda? Yes, you do. Somebody has to ask to have it off the agenda. All right. Alan. So moved. Thank you.
 Second. We have a motion to second to pull item three off the agenda, consent agenda. It states the resolution of award bid number 17-34 and to authorize the purchase of a Ford F550 with Dakota body and aerial platform from Grand Truck Equipment Company LLC of Afton, Oklahoma in the amount of $103,115 for use by the Transportation Department that
 been asked to be pulled. Could I ask the reason why we're pulling it? Yes, there was not a budget adjustment attached, and we have to, there is now, and we have to have a second section in there to approve of the budget adjustment. Okay, and then we need, we'd like to put it on the first order of new business. Do we need that? It's right underneath consent. Yeah, right after consent. Okay. All right, everybody good with that? All right. Sandra, would you please call her up? Uh-huh.
 You got to get the motion in second. Well, we got a motion from Alan and one from Sarah to pull it. And I assumed that with the motion it was going to go on the first item of new business, but do we need a separate motion for that? No. Okay. It goes right underneath consent. All right. Sarah Marsh? Yes. I'm sorry. It's all right. It's okay. Okay.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay, now for the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the June 30, 2017 City Council Meeting Minutes. Number two, a resolution of Ward Bid Number 17-33 and to authorize the contract with Vance Brothers Incorporated for Asphalt Microsurfacing,
 of city streets at a cost of $2.28 per square foot as needed through the end of 2017. Number three has been pulled. Number four, a resolution to award bid number 17-35 and to authorize the purchase of a Ford E350 box truck from Lewis Ford Sales Incorporated of Federal Arkansas in the amount of $37,007 for use by the Recycling Trash Collection Division. Number five, a resolution to award bid number 17
 and to authorize the purchase of a Ford F750 with Alltech Aerial Platform from Alltech Industries Incorporated of Creedmoor, North Carolina in the amount of $132,212 for use by the Parks and Recreation Department and the Transportation Department. And number six, a resolution authorizing a one-year contract with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms with the Arkansas Occupational Medicine Services, PADBA, Arkansas Occupational,
 health clinic in the amount of not to exceed $50,000 for physical exams and health screens for the fire department employees at a cost of $2.64 $264 to $575 per exam. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. Justin? Second. We have a motion in the second to accept the consent agenda as read. Sandra would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And now we have the addition, correct? All right. Resolution of Ward Bid Number 17-34 and to authorize the purchase of a Ford F-550 with Dakota body and aero platform from Grand Truck Equipment Company, LLC of Hampton, Oklahoma, in the amount of $103,115 for use by the Transportation Department and to approve a budget adjustment.
 So we just need a motion to amend to the resolution that I handed out to you right before the meeting, which only adds the budget adjustment. Sarah? Motion to amend. Adela? Second. The motion is second to amend. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. French? Yes. LeTierre? Yes. Yes. Gray? Yes. Okay.
 The resolution reads, resolution to award bid number 17-34 and authorize the purchase of Ford F-550 with Dakota body and aero platform from Grand Truck Equipment Company, LLC, after Oklahoma, in the amount of $103,115 for use by the Transportation Department and to approve the budget adjustment. Staff, do you have anything to say on that? No.
 No, I just apologize. We apparently left the budget adjustment off when we talked about this agenda session. It's just to expand for the traffic division. They are currently trying to cover 120 lights, stop lights in town, plus a few hundred street lights that they maintain. The recommended amount is to have one bucket truck for every 40 traffic lights. We've been managing to get by so far with 120 traffic lights in one truck.
 So we, three times the number, so we feel like it's time to expand with this piece of equipment. Okay. Any questions from the council? Okay. Any public comment? Okay. Back to the council. Adela? I move we pass the resolution. Okay. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Kennett. Yes. Patch. Yes. Lutcher. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay, on an unfinished business, we have one item. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5776 for approximately .31 acres located at 1320 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RYU Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay.
 This is on the third reading. So, does staff have anything to add? Oops, sorry. I think it was on the second reading, so we have to go to the third and final reading. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. I've got a frozen screen here. Okay. So moved. All right. Sarah, do we have a second? I second that. Okay. Sarah made a motion and Justin seconded, right? Yep, there we go. We good?
 I'm having a problem. It's all right. It's fine. Third and final reading. Yes. Yes. Justin and Sarah. Yes. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Any public comment? We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Correct? We're going, we're spending the rules going to the third and final reading. Okay. Sorry. That's my fault. Any public comment on it? Yes, please.
 And I'd like to speak in favor of the rezoning. My family is in the process of purchasing adjoining property to the south. And in my personal opinion, I think this will have a long-term positive effect on both the local community around Walker Park and for the city of Fayetteville as a whole. I also think it'll give more people the opportunity to live and enjoy the park, which I think is a wonderful park.
 and thank the city for that. And just like Sam here to support it. Okay, any other public comment? Hi, my name is Keaton Smith. I live in the neighborhood, own property in the neighborhood. I'm supportive of the rezone as well. I think adding density increases affordable housing options.
 If we only had two homes built on the property, they'd have to be more expensive homes than if we built four. So thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Any final comments from the council on this? Good? All right. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Union? Yes. Petty? I'll recuse from this and the rest of the discussion is affiliated with the project. Okay. Bennett? Yes.
 Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. And in order to rezone that property, describe a rezoning petition RZN 17-5776 for approximately .31 acres located at 1320 South College Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RI-U Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay. Any final comments from the council? All right. So under which please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kagan? Yes.
 Sorry, he's... Yeah, he recruits. Yeah. Bennett. Yes. Max. Yes. McClure. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay, let's go on to new business. All right.
 Number one, a resolution to award bid number 17-37 to authorize the purchase of a John Deere 5100E tractor mowing attachment and a John Deere 6110M tractor with mowing attachment from the Countryside Farm and Lawn Equipment Incorporated in the total amount of $202,099 and for use by the Transportation Department. Who has it? Terry. I do.
 This item that, these are two roadside mowers that we use in the transportation department. We usually know about anywhere from five. One of them mows the first five feet off the roadway, get the word out. The other one has a long arm attachment that will reach out up to 20 feet where we mow further back towards the edges of the right of way. These are two tractors that we pretty much keep in service all year long.
 or not all year long but during the mowing season which is about seven months from april to november the uh it's an integral part of trying to it takes care of a lot of complaints we get from right-of-way complaints can't see around corners can't see people pulling out of the driveways things like that so these are two mowers that we use extensively in the summertime and are a big part of our right-of-way maintenance program so
 Okay, what questions do we have in the council? Yeah, John. Terry, describe for me the process when one of our departments comes to you and says we need new mowers and tractors. How do you go about, what is the procedure? How do you go about letting people around the state know that you're in the market for tractors? Do you send out emails? Do you send out letters saying we're taking bids? Well, I'll give you the first part of that and I'll probably defer to Andre, our purchasing director, on how it is actually sent out because they actually do that.
 In this case, it's my division, the transportation division that uses this equipment. We will, when an item comes up for replacement, we're usually, we try and use fleet's knowledge of that plus anything that we have gleaned to try and figure out what is the best thing. This was last replaced in 2004, a year after I took over this division.
 over the last 13 years. So we know there's a lot of Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, Tier 4 engines for emission control that are out there. These were, I think, Tier 0 back then.
 So there's been a lot of changes for emission-wise, which affects anything from horsepower to everything else. So we go out and look and try and see what else is being used in the marketplace out there now. What new things have come along in the last 12 to 13 years that maybe wasn't available back then? So it just so happens we had a...
 a person in our department that used to work in Pulaski County for the Pulaski County Road Department and actually used some mowers down there similar to the ones we use. So through his contacts, we looked at the type of mower they use just to get a comparison to. And
 We go to the fleet operations supervisor, and he will then evaluate that, put together the bid package, and then they'll send that to purchasing, which is then sent out. I'll maybe let Andrea give a recap of where it goes from there, and then I'll take it back over after that.
 Good evening. So with any city bid, our first process when we get it in, after touching base with any department that's involved, it goes in the Northwest Arkansas Times, which is statewide. It goes in the classifieds. We also have a purchasing mailing list that's distributed to over 1,800 vendors, and then we touch base personally with any vendor that we know may sell that piece of equipment or that commodity. Question? Yes, sure, John.
 When you're drawing up the bid sheets, when you're saying this is what we want and you're listing the specifications, do you list those specifications or do you solicit help from somebody else? That mainly comes from fleet and transportation before it gets to our department. So fleet and transportation say we want this bell and whistle, we want that bell and whistle, we want that, all these characteristics. Yes. And fleet and transportation would be, Jessie? Yes.
 Okay, come up Jesse. Let's just have a good conversation here. All right, so where do you get your list of bells and whistles of everything you want in the piece of equipment? It depends on the piece of equipment. If we have looked at a specific piece of equipment,
 Everybody wants to write the spec for it. We try to generalize it as much as possible. When you say everybody, all the people trying to sell it to you? Yes, we do have vendors. Who write specifications? They would like to, yes. Of course, they specify things that just are characteristic of their piece of equipment. That's right. But you don't let that happen, right? I try not to, yes. Okay. Okay.
 Do we ever give preference to local vendors? Like they might be a few dollars higher, but they're local. We keep the money in the local economy. We cannot offer local as defined in purchasing is the state of Arkansas. As far as I'm aware, the city does not have an ordinance allowing us to preference for the city. The state of Arkansas has a...
 State Procurement Code talks about that in reference to a resident vendor and a non-resident vendor. A resident vendor being considered a vendor doing business in the state within itself. Non-resident will be out of state. All three vendors for this bid were all in-state residents or in-state vendors. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else got any questions? What public comment do we have on this? Mayor, council members, my name is Tim Bailey. I'm with Williams Tractor located in Ward 4.
 I appreciate the opportunity to address some of my concerns that I have with this bid. I hope it doesn't seem to everybody that I'm here to complain, even though that's what I've been called. I am concerned that the local government where my business does business overspends at times and overlooks local businesses that the local businesses fund.
 You know I realized the council makes the best decisions based upon the information. They've been given I feel in this situation You've been shorted with the necessary information Two tractors were bid on the first I was the low bidder by $17,000 almost 16% Taking one exception on two cubic inches of an engine my engine was five percent more my engine was five percent larger in horsepower the performance spec and
 Nobody asked you the size of your engine. They asked you how much horsepower you have. Mine was 5% bigger. Mine burns six-tenths less gallons of fuel per hour. For an eco-friendly city, you think that performance spec would be very noticeable. The second tractor I was $15,000 low. Taking the same exception, except this time it was six or 69 cubic inch smaller, yet building the required horsepower. Fleet agreed the first tractor was
 was sufficient. We talked about performance specs, non-performance specs. I did not get that in writing and that's my fault. I bear that burden. There was an idea of entirety thinking where this bid was awarded based on the entirety of the bid or recommended, not awarded, I'm sorry for that, but the bid was recommended based on the entirety. The one tractor was was lumped in with the other tractor and the only reason I've been given for that
 is that they were afraid of the 69 cubic inches being smaller regardless of the required horsepower that was met. Nothing tangible, nothing that is supported. These tractors are replacing, like Mr. Gulley said, a New Holland tractor that's been in the fleet for 12 years. That tractor was in our shop last fall. It had 6,463 hours. Probably not the most hours in the fleet of the City of Fayetteville, but
 on the high end of the spectrum by far. Probably some large construction pieces have more hours than that, far exceeding the expected life. Yet when it came time to research specifications, fleet or transportation traveled to Little Rock to search specifications never considering or coming across town to look at what was being replaced by an adequate tractor. After the bid opened in May, I invited fleet to come to my shop to look at a comparable model
 that we were assembling for another municipality. You have one minute to conclude. Yes, sir. I don't want to give the false impression that I think, myself, my company, my equipment is perfect. We're not. No manufacturer of construction or agricultural equipment is. Fleet faced a situation of service, tractor, lawnmowers being in our shop for an extended period of time. That was addressed with myself and ownership. We made a commitment to do better.
 And a couple of months ago, Fleet recommended and the council approved the purchase of some lawn mowers from my company. A good relationship. They're again founded. We want to have a good relationship with the city. We want to support the city. We loan equipment to the diverse activities of the city. We serve a meal to the police and fire departments of the city once a month. We pay our taxes. $100,000 has been paid by my company to the city of Fayetteville. Time's up. Time's up.
 Tim, I have a question or two. Yes, sir. So it's your contention that we accepted a bid that was higher than your bid for basically the same thing? Yes, sir. The tractors were comparable? When you say comparable, I cannot tell the difference between a Chevrolet and a Ford. If it's a sedan, it's a Chevrolet or Ford, it's my personal preference for one and yours for the other. But they're basically the same thing. Is that what you mean by comparable? That's exactly it. Functionally equivalent. Both will do the same amount of work.
 the same performance specifications, they do exactly the same thing, even though mine's a little more efficient in fuel economy. You think we'd want that, right? Absolutely. It'd be cheaper to operate. Yes, sir. But we went to Little Rock to buy it, and we ignored our local business. That is my contention, yes. Anything else, John? That looks bad, Mayor. Okay. Anything else? Was there anything else you want to tell us?
 i would love to if i had the opportunity the speaker's time is up unless you make a motion to give him more time and the council i move mayor i think we should have this full discussion alan i'll second the motion we have a motion in a second to give the speaker more time so would you please call the row how much more time three minutes okay three minutes more time
 Marsh. Yes. Ken. Yes. Hattie. Yes. Tennant. Yes. Patch. Yes. LeTierre. Yes. Long. Yes. Brad. Yes. Okay, you have three more minutes. Thank you, council. I said our company had paid $100,000 to the city of Fayetteville in the form of sales tax in this calendar year. The city has to recognize there's some intrinsic value there. Or even though the state of Arkansas considers the other bidders as local,
 None of their revenue comes into the city of Fayetteville. We are truly the only local vendor. No, I don't ask for any kind of preference. If I'm the high bidder, I completely understand that. Somebody else offers a better value. But I would ask some courtesy as a business within the city of Fayetteville. Tonight I would ask that this agenda item be tabled at the very minimal. Sent back to the equipment committee for reevaluation in the future.
 I would ask to be involved in the equipment purchases that we have proven to provide. Replacing my tractor, it's 12 years old, been a functional machine, done a very good job. Fleet issued a statement to me that says the City of Fayetteville goes above and beyond in good faith attempt to keep purchases within the city. However, the state of procurement law discusses local preference by terms of resident and non-resident. Resident is defined more or less as a vendor doing business in the state of Arkansas.
 If that's what the city of Fayetteville means when they say buy local, I'm sorry, I fully misunderstood that. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else like to address us on this issue? John, did you have something else? I'm sorry, I apologize. That's all right. Mr. Mayor, I'd go ahead and move that we table the motion until we can reconsider this on the equipment committee. Justin? I wasn't going to second the motion. I was actually going to continue the conversation, but can I ask a question?
 Even if the motion is seconded, that doesn't mean there's no debate. You can still talk. There'll be some more discussion on it. I'll second the motion. All right. Go ahead, Justin. Oh, I'm sorry. We have a motion and a second to table. And what discussion do we have? Justin. Well, I'll go on record saying that for years I haven't liked the state procurement contract, not just for tractors, but for a lot of different things. I...
 I investigated this years ago when I was with a different technology company and I didn't understand why we were hands were tied on rewarding contracts and in some of my investigation with those in Little Rock it was said to me that that that's the way it was and if you wanted to change it you could try to change it at the state level. When I got here I remember I don't think that's something we can change locally.
 But to Alderman Latour, I would be interested in investigating that if it was something that we could do. Because I think preferential treatment, given
 Given maybe a certain percentage points or something either way, I think we should have leeway to decide on our own especially with a With a local group or even a regional group I mean there's there may be a tractor place honestly in Springdale that does a good job or any other person I would rather give the business of them than somebody in Little Rock or Benton or Pine Bluff or wherever but all that being said this particular situation that we're discussing
 It smells like there's more to this to me, and I would like to ask city staff why, and Terry, I guess that could be to you, if there was, in one opinion, equal to or greater efficiencies or things, what swung it the other way? Why wasn't that done? Just out of curiosity. I trust the city staff, so I just would like to hear from them. Okay. You know, number one thing is we, you know,
 The three bidders were either from, two from Springdale and one from Fayetteville. There was no Little Rock bidder in this. We just went and looked at Pulaski County so we could compare equipment that other municipalities or counties were using that were newer than what we had been using. So it was just to evaluate the equipment.
 We did not yet receive one bid from anywhere other than Morristown County. Okay, thank you. Springdale Tractor, Countryside, and Tiny Town, and Williams is here in Fayetteville. Okay. You know, we put out our bid specs, and you know, those are attached in the packets we handed out to you. And there's one on an addendum, and then there's one related to that was sent out that were filled out by Williams Tractor.
 We made a determination, we went with cubic inch to placement on engines because that's just what we picked. We did not pick horsepower, we went with this. Everyone knows what that means as well as horsepower in the tractor world.
 So we put out this bid, and then those companies filled that out. And out of the three that filled it out, in that packet is one from Williams, and it asks on the engine side, do you meet the specifications? 276 CID four-cylinder inline diesel. They wrote no.
 And then they also wrote 274 CID. It's close, yes, but it's not what was put out in the specs that everybody else was given a level playing field to bid on. And on the next page of that, it also asked, does your tractor have an integrated park position, automatic independent park brake? Again, they answered no. So that was the second item in the bid that they did. We asked if it had a park lock. They again wrote no.
 Then Tim signed this and that's the bid they submitted. So if you ask Andrea, both Springdale Tractor also bid smaller CID engines and did not meet the specs either. So Countryside was the only one that answered yes to all bid specifications put out equally to all bidders that wanted to bid on it. So the bottom line is by...
 Purchasing, you know, she's going to tell us, you can't buy that because it did not meet the specs of the bid. Do I want to spend more? Not necessarily. Do I want to do that? But you know, just to kind of, and the equipment committee kind of has a line on this because I've harped on it so many times on that fleet does not just look at purchase price when we're looking at what we're going to invest in for, in this case, at least the next 10
 So we look at several different items, whether it be the
 purchase price, the life cycle costs, the maintenance we put into those machines, the downtime we have, the dependability of the equipment, service from the bidder, and the resale value. And we try and take all those factors and combine them as to this is the actual cost of the machine. It's not what we pay for it or write the check for up front because we've determined in the past through our milling machine, our
 19 backhoes we own, a grader that we did. We made some purchasing decisions based on certain types of equipment, return $30,000 when we resell them after their 10-year life, and certain other types we get 10 to 15 for. Same type of equipment. But when you figure in that $20,000 difference, then they have twice the equipment maintenance charges over the life of that equipment.
 we may have a $30,000 swing. So suddenly a $120,000 backhoe is cheaper than a $100,000 backhoe when we evaluate everything in the system. And that's what we've been trying to do in fleet, is look at the whole picture, what does it cost us in the end? This tractor in particular, we've had serious issues with in the last year, in the fall of last year.
 We sent this tractor in to Williams to get it for repairs. It was sent in on September 16th of 16th.
 We documented every time we made a phone call about this, and you'll see that also in our letter of response. September 22nd, we called and was informed by William's director, they were trying to make room in their shop to get 580 in. However, someone there told us they were still catching up on their hay season equipment repairs and hadn't had time to get it in yet.
 October 3rd, fleet called again and was told parts had just come in and they would have the parts that day and the repair would begin. Called the next day. Was told parts were installed but they were still having issues and needed more parts. October 7th, fleet called and was told part needed was there but the technician working on it was out and it would wait for him to come back to continue on it.
 And just stop here for a second, because one of the things we also put in this bid when we did it this year was trying to make sure that we could get service because of these issues. And we asked, how many technicians are available to work on our equipment? Hang on just a minute, Terry. Terry, do you have something on the speaker time? What is that? Okay. Okay. I did not know. I was unfamiliar with that. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Okay.
 But we put in there, because of this one technician being out, we were not getting our tractor repaired. We asked them when they bid this year, also in that same form they wrote no on, how many technicians are available for this? They said seven. If there were seven that was capable of doing it, we did not get an explanation why then it was not repaired in a more timely manner.
 October 12th, tractor still having issues. October 19th, told the part had not yet come in, but they had a big job that came in, and after they were finished with that, they would be getting ours back in the shop. October 25th, fleet called and were told they were working on it. The tractor would need to be split in half to repair it, but it may be done by October 28th. October 28th, fleet called, told four bolts were broken in the process, which cost them another day to get those parts.
 November 1st, transportation was able to pick up Unit 580 from the shop. The issue with this is we have a seven month window where we're out doing this type of work with these tractors. If you add up that six and a half weeks and divide it by that seven months, that was 23% of our mowing season.
 And we're doing the final cleanup at this time of year, which then lasts us all the way till April when it starts growing again. So this is our window when we get everything knocked down, it frosts on it, and we're done for the year. But we went all that time period without this, which was the long-arm tractor, and we have no backup or replacement for that. There is no loaner program or any way to do it, and it's not cost-effective to have another tractor sitting there and not be used all the time.
 We've added, you know, we had the verbiage in there about the bid. It's stated twice in the bid in two different situations, or two paragraphs in here. Any questions can be addressed by calling Andrea's assistant, Les, and bring those up. If we felt like it was something that needed to be addressed, we could have put out an addendum for it.
 They did not quote requests from either one of those portions of that bid to after seeing oh We're so close to this Can you make an exception to it and had we wanted to do that? We could have put out and you know We were not requested by that to I think 55 days after the bid was submitted is when they contacted less so
 I mean, through all these issues, but bottom line is they did not meet the specs of the bid, so technically we are not able to grant them this. We had one bidder that did meet that, so how do I tell that person, you did everything you could do and you met it and we're still not going to give you the bid?
 They had gone up one engine size to get that displacement and then would have met the specs with the parking brake and all that. We would have gladly bought from Williams, but they did not do it, and by law, we can't buy from them if they do not meet those specs. So that's the story of what went on. That's why we chose them, and that's why we're paying more.
 But we are getting what the minimums that we asked for. And we don't do bells and whistles on equipment. We put out the bids for the minimum things we need and go that route and then hope we get a bid that –
 It's competitive. Well, thank you, Terry. And as I expected, there is a lot, as I assume, there is a lot more to the story. There usually is. But in this particular case, I would like at some point to revisit how we do state contracts on everything, technology and equipment and everything else. But in this particular case,
 this went through the equipment committee i would have a tough time wanting to send it back to the equipment committee i trust the equipment committee i trust the city staff and the procurement division if the chairperson of the equipment committee
 wants this and thinks this is a good use of their time, then I would support it. But I hate sending something back to a committee and putting something else on their agenda that's already, I think, been flushed out fairly well. So that would be my position on tabling it or sending it back to the committee. I would lean, unless the chairperson says,
 be happy to do that uh i i wouldn't i wouldn't want to table it or send it back to committee okay john thank you mr mayor this is a question for terry how is pulaski county going to maintain our equipment we're going to ship it to little rock pulaski county has nothing to do with this all we did we had an employee that moved up here that works on this right away crew that um
 knew they had equipment down there similar what we want to purchase. So we knew what we had, so we went to look at the other place that had it. It was the county that had already purchased this. They're not selling us anything. So all we did was visit there and look at what was available, and then thought it did a very good job for what we do.
 We knew the tractors had changed numbers over the years from the T115 we had to, so they were going to bid a different type of tractor. They changed styles.
 That was their call to bid whatever they wanted to bid. Nothing is going to Pulaski County. We're buying from local vendors in Springdale or Federal were the only places that bid. Nobody from Pulaski County bid. Okay. We were just looking at equipment to have a comparison to put out for bid. So the people who bid on it, all from northwest Arkansas? All in Washington County. All in Washington County. All right. Thank you, Terry.
 Mayor if you would allow me I'd like to bring Tim Bailey back up and have him respond to Hang on, Alan has the floor if you will. Well okay, go ahead John. Well Tim if you'd like to come up and respond to what Terry told us. Your service sounds bad. Doesn't it though? We was working on a tractor that had 6400 hours on it and fix one problem and the next one come. Yes it took a long time, absolutely.
 I won't apologize for being busy. We're not busy. We're not in business.
 No doubt we have visited and me and Mr. Williams both have had had the conference with Jesse and I believe Terry was involved in that made a commitment to do better in our service for the city of Fayetteville because we Know what's important? To all the citizens of Fayetteville and the work that they do for them. So we've had those conversations. We've we've made our Promises to do a better job to help them out and and those were accepted thought we'd moved on from that Apparently not
 I said my fault in some of this bid because before the bid opened, I went to Jesse Beeks and said, Jesse, we're two cubic inches short in engine. I said, Jesse, we meet the horsepower requirements. We exceed the horsepower requirements. We talked about non-performance specifications, which that is it. 1984, I had a Chevrolet truck that had a 400 cubic inch engine. Now my 2014 has a 327 cubic inch engine because technology.
 and efficiency made those things better. I was being compared, and maybe to our fault, we did a good job 10 and 12 years ago doing business with the city of Fayetteville. Now they're comparing the equipment that we sold you then to the new technology today. And I'm being held accountable for that because the technology is better today. So my tractors that are 12 years old doesn't look as good as tractors that are made today. And so the cubic inch displacement, you know,
 This is all conversation that took place, and I know that's not too credible in the here and now. There is a deagler in Little Rock that sells the boom mower that goes on this tractor. That's where your boom mower's coming from is the deagler in Little Rock. Little Rock Equipment is who sells the Tiger boom mower. We've purchased them from them. The Tiger boom mower that's on the tractor that's being replaced came from Little Rock Equipment. I bought it off of them, sold it to the city of Fayetteville.
 Three years ago that boom mower was absolutely wore out. We refurbished that boom mower. They didn't go back to the dealer in Little Rock. Came to me, we refurbished the boom mower so that it could be put back into service for another couple years, which is what has happened. Our service is good. We have a, Mr. Williams has been in business for 44 years in the city of Fayetteville. We wouldn't be there still yet if our service wasn't good.
 We commit to do service and want to have that opportunity to do service for the city of Fayetteville. For some reason, money makes no matter. We cut our margins. We make sure we're low bidder so we can have this conversation. And still yet, the business isn't won. Any questions? I know I've taken a lot of your time. You have a question now? OK. OK. Your time's up. Thank you. Good luck, Mr. Williams. Tim. Tim. Come back. Oh, sorry. Not a question.
 I work in procurement too and so looking at the process and hearing the background of this story, it seems like the process was followed the way it was supposed to be done. And I know I spoke with Mr. Williams on the phone and referred him to members of the equipment committee and the chief of staff when he called because I wasn't part of this bid process. But I do agree with Alderman Tennant that we do need to look at the way these are done.
 Going forward I do think it's too far too far in the future to walk this back seeing as how it was done in May but I do think there are some communication issues that need to be worked out between Williams tractor and the city of Fayetteville is specifically when looking at the addendums to the contract and you know with there's a
 For instance, Terry pointed out something really good to talk about. You know, if it doesn't meet the specifications, then, and I've been on selection committees, if it doesn't meet the specifications, we don't consider it.
 So that would be the time, I think, to make a phone call to the city and say, we need to put an addendum in place or make sure that this is considered so that you're not kicked out of that consideration of process. So I'm not going to vote to send this back to equipment committee tonight, because I think that there were some specific gaps on both sides, but specifically in the bid that was submitted. But going forward, I do think we need to look at that. And I apologize that that happened to y'all.
 I appreciate the apology. I do. I did go and sit down in front of the fleet operations, talk about some of these issues. Did not go to purchasing to less, and I do bear that responsibility, I guess. When fleet operations says, hey, you know, we're talking about performance issues, I meet all the performance issues, thought that was laid to rest. Communication is very difficult.
 I have no doubt that Fleet thinks that this was bombarded on them. I don't like to surprise anybody, and I've tried to call Fleet and tell them that, hey, I'm going to send this to the council, I want to have a conversation about this. Yet to be able to contact. Voice mails are left. Communication is very difficult. Very difficult.
 And I think keeping purchasing in the loop in those conversations is very important because they control the bid process. So not just fleet operations, but keep in touch with purchasing as well because those processes must be maintained according to state law. So that's just my two cents, though. Sure. Oh, and you had something you wanted to add? Thank you, Mr. Bates. Thank you.
 I do want to make a comment because I feel like that it's an attack on the integrity of the staff and their ability to follow the process. So, Andrea, could you come to the microphone for a minute and specifically tell the council what has to be done to give purchasing preference to city of Fayetteville located businesses?
 Well, it goes again back to our state procurement code that's put out by the state. And again, that talks about resident versus non-resident. Kip might be able to speak to more about this, but I don't know the legality of at this time awarding something to someone just because they're in the city of Fayetteville limits.
 Again, state law references resident and non-resident. So I want to make sure that it's clear that we can talk with our local delegation of elected officials, but this will require a state law change in state purchasing policy, not something that you can do as a city council unless the state law gives us the ability to do so, unless our city attorney finds some other mechanism for us to do, at which point we can make you aware of,
 It sounds like Alderman Latour and Alderman Long might want to be two sponsoring council members for that legislation if we're able to do something locally. Otherwise...
 This is the type of item that we would put in a legislative package with our state legislators. This is something that all of you talk about when you're on a selection committee. It's not privy to any one of you. Council Member Gray almost every time talks about she wishes we could give it. Council Member Tennant has said the same thing. We've heard it from Council Member Long. So it is something that is restricted at this point based on the state law.
 The second thing I want to say is we're actually proud to be partners with Williams Tractor because I think that what comes across in this conversation tonight is frustration on their side of feeling like the staff is purposefully not wanting to use Williams Tractor. It's simply not the case. We had equipment that did extend its life, but that's due to the great performance of our fleet management.
 of the equipment that we bought in 2006 was for equipment that extended the original life when we purchased it. And it's because of that management, how we look at the maintenance fees of it, how we buy it, the resale point. We don't run it until it has no resale value so that we get the opportunity to get some of that purchase price back. It is that kind of management that has allowed us to have one of the top 15 fleets in the nation. And
 And while some may think that we need to extend that further, which we have done before, it is that management that allows us to extend the life on these original assignments. Resale value is a very important factor because it keeps our costs lower as well, and that's something that's done. And in terms of writing specifications,
 I meet with vendors all the time who want a specific way of something to be written in hopes that theirs is the only piece of equipment or item that could be bid. And we have a checkpoint in that, and that checkpoint is Andrea's department and Les and the people who review it to make sure that our specifications are not written so specifically that we rule out the ability to get good competitive bidding on these processes.
 and when they are they kick them back and that is an internal checkpoint for the city to make sure and operationally they escalate those to me as the chief of staff if someone's done that so that I can ask questions about why we have to operationally have that specification this park lock I'll use that as an example because I asked Terry why is that a requirement
 And so an example used or responded to me by the Transportation Division was if someone's mowing on one of our major roadways and they see a stop sign or a sign that is down in the grass and the mower needs to handle that because we don't want to tear the mowing equipment up by mowing over top of it.
 The mechanism that goes into place locks the machine so that it can't move, the arms can't move, the equipment can't move when the operator is off the seat for a safety perspective. That's not something we want to compromise if it isn't available on the equipment. Some of these things are done because it makes us either more efficient or it allows us to do it in less time with larger decks for mowing.
 And it is a comprehensive evaluation of all of these items, not one single component. It's when we buy on cost, not just on price, even in these bidded items. And I think the bigger item for you to think about is if we were accepting a bid from someone who wrote no, we didn't write that. They wrote no.
 on these requirements, then how do we legally defend against the bidder who met all of these requirements without them coming to us saying, we gave it to someone who didn't. And I think that that's illegal, and that's something that purchasing also is a checkpoint on. This isn't personal with Williams.
 We buy equipment, we continue to buy equipment. I've met with them before, with Alderman Farrell. I've had multiple meetings with council members and Williams when they haven't received a bid that they think that they should have gotten. And how long has it been since Alderman Farrell was on this council? And we've continued to buy equipment from Williams when they win the bid legally and in the specifications that we required. The other item is this is not new to them.
 So asking for an addendum and having conversations, and everyone in the city is trained that we don't, we have conversations once we get into specifications. In fact, I think this has even been said to those of you who've sat on
 meetings that you're not to have conversations with people bidding that purchasing is the point of contact during that process and I'm sure Alderman Long knows that with his purchasing background so if someone had something that they wanted to change that's the point it's not the fleet operations manager the transportation manager the chief of staff its purchasing they are our coordinator and that's so that we they are making sure we're being fair
 so i just wanted to make those points because um i don't like the insinuation that this is personal or we're trying to purposefully not use a local vendor and i guess i'll end by saying we look at equipment all over this country sometimes we pay to send staff to equipment expos to look at types of equipment that are out there because not everything is local
 Sometimes we look at places that have longer growing seasons whose equipment gets more wear and tear because it might help us extend the life in what we purchase or the specifications that we designate. I don't think we should just consider what we have when we're looking at it. We should be looking at the opportunity to have the best return and operational efficiency when we make these decisions. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes, Mayor. I am the chairman of the Transportation Committee, and I'd be delighted to bring this item back to the committee if I felt like we had not properly done our homework.
 I think that the thing that gives me a lot of comfort as chair in this position is that I know that I can count on Terry Gulley and Jesse Beeks and Andrea for taking care of those things and following the law exactly as we have to. They are very careful about that.
 I appreciate so much when Terry Gulley gets up and talks about all of the, and Jesse Biggs talks about all of those different things they take into consideration.
 not just the price or whether it's the year for it to be replaced. They look at everything, and I am not a bit surprised that we have this good high rating that we do on our equipment because I see it all the time. The other thing that I want to say is I'm always delighted when we can give the bids to someone in Fayetteville. Okay.
 And everyone who sits on that committee and sat on every committee with me, whether it's a selection committee or this equipment, will know that I'm always so happy when we can give it to Fayetteville. And we will continue to do that in every opportunity that we have. Thank you.
 I feel that we've done our homework. I think that our staff has done exactly what they needed to do in this case. And so, like I say, otherwise I'd be happy to bring it back to our committee, but I don't believe we need to in this case. Thank you. Good. All right, John. One last time there. The essence of John Latour is, I think, one of our primary functions on the city council is to safeguard the public purse.
 If somebody in Rogers bids 20% less than Williams Ford tractor, give it to the people in Rogers. I want the local guy to win too, but I want them to win legitimately, not because we have some kind of preference system for the local guy. Okay? So that goes back to guarding the public purse. I want to make sure we're getting good money or good value for the money we're spending, because it's not our money we're spending. We kind of lose sight of that fact, because I manage my money real closely.
 I make my employees turn off a light when they leave a room. I'm paying that utility bill. I make my children do the same thing, okay? When I'm spending, I sit on that equipment committee, and I always ask Jesse, in your heart of hearts, do we really need it? We're spending the people's money. Do we really need it? Is this a really good deal? Would you do this for yourself or your family? And I make him say yes. Okay, so I'm depending on that.
 But when I have a local vendor come to me afterwards and say, we actually bid lower, we had more horsepower, but just a fewer cubic inches, sounds like the addendum process is what we need to be implementing here so that we can buy comparable equipment. Maybe Williamsport Tractor didn't meet the exact specifications, but if they came...
 If they had more horsepower, who cares how many cubic inches they have? And maybe that addendum process needs to be what's lacking here. I hate for us to lose the bid to someone else when we were $20,000 to $30,000 cheaper because we didn't meet the cubic inch specification, which it doesn't really gauge the performance. The horsepower would gauge the performance. And just like my phone, our computers...
 have grown very much smaller and can do a lot more, even with their smaller size. I suppose the same thing is happening in diesel engines and big equipment. We're finding more ways to make it more efficient, more fuel efficient, more performance for less size. And that's always a good thing. That's just technology progressing and moving forward, which we expect. So,
 Bottom line is, I wouldn't favor anybody locally if they were more expensive than somebody in Rogers Springdale. I want to safeguard that public purse. I want the local guys, like Alderman Gray, I want the local guys to win also. But I want them to do it legitimately. Not because we rigged the system so that they'll get the bid. You know, that's how we serve the people of Fayetteville the best. So, work with us, please. Thank you, staff. I trust you and...
 I appreciate you being there. And Williams Ford Tractor, work with our staff. Communicate when there's just a minor difference so that we can get legitimate bidding going. Thank you, Mayor. Okay. Matthew. Thank you, Mayor. There's been a lot of talk about principles tonight, and both sides of that kind of are compelling and influence me one way or the other, but I haven't really heard any.
 Questions about the practicalities of the decision before us? And so I have a couple questions with regards to that. Just in terms of face value questions, if we were to vote to re-bid this, how long would that take? First, we'd have to go through a series of revising the specifications. From that point, it would be about four weeks from advertisement to bid opening, anywhere from 21 to 28 days, sometimes even 18 days.
 um and then it would have to go through the uh city council process for deadline and then come back to the council you're looking at 12 weeks possibly and after an order was placed how long would it take for pizza equipment to be delivered it might depend on the manufacturer and where it's coming from and if they have it in stock versus if it has to be ordered that's what i read in the bid i just wanted to verify that i think six months we have we have uh up to 180 days i think
 for delivery, some of this equipment and getting it ready? So if we restart this process, we're looking at something like 36 weeks before we, you know, potentially before we could get a piece of equipment, maybe we're generous and we cut 12 of those weeks off for a quick delivery. So, you know, we're looking at 24 weeks, you know, on average, maybe start to finish if we revoted on this thing tonight. And I bring that up because, you know, I think, you know, the fairness argument
 about how do we justify this, and I think there's a legal consideration too to other bidders is salient.
 I also, you know, and it's also compelling to me, you know, that we could potentially save five digits worth of money for something that does the same work and has virtually the same functionality. So that's why I came down on the, that's why I want to ask these questions about practicalities, what happens if we vote to re-bid it, because it seems to me 24 weeks of work and waiting probably washes out any savings we might get, and, or close to it.
 You know, if this was we could open this bid back up today and have this thing solved on virtually the same timeline, I'll be honest, I would probably vote to do it for the savings. But if we're looking at 24 weeks turnaround or even more to restart the process, then it doesn't really seem, just in terms of brass tacks and dollars and cents for the city of Fayetteville, it doesn't seem worth it. Okay. We have a motion and a second at the table. Oh, is there any more public comment on this?
 I would like to bring one quick fact to the council in perspective of how much business the city does with Williams Tractor. A year today we've spent $92,955.12 with Williams. So I did wanna bring that as just a piece of information that the city does do a lot of business with Williams Tractor. Thank you. Okay, we have a motion and a second to table. Any other final comments from the council on the table? All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? No. No.
 No. No. Yes. No. No. Okay. Now we're back to the original resolution. What public comment do we have on the, we were in the middle of public conversation, I believe, when we ended up tabling this. Is there any? Has there been? There has been public comment. It's been a while since we did that. All right. All right. It's back to the council then. What's the wishes of the council?
 adele i move we pass the resolution sarah second okay is there any final comments from the council i want to say something i want to apologize to the staff tonight i trust the staff and i think they do a great job that's why we've got one of the best fleets in the nation we don't have a good old boy system we don't try to rig it to help our buddies out we're straightforward we're honest and i appreciate the staff's work and i want to say that before we vote now sundry you may call the
 Marsh. Yes. Union. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number two.
 A resolution to award bid number 17-32 and authorize a contract with Goins Enterprises Incorporated in the amount of $1,919,872 for the construction of the Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, Huntsville Road, and Garden Park Apartments water line improvement projects to approve a project contingency in the amount of $288,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. Tim.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Council. This resolution is seeking approval of a contract in the amount of $1,919,872 with a 15% contingency of $288,000 with Goins Enterprises for the construction of three separate waterline segments.
 The first location includes replacing an existing 12-inch water main with approximately 3,000 feet of an 18-inch water line along the south side of MLK Boulevard from Smokehouse Trail to Densmore Trail. This line is the main feed to the City of Farmington and has experienced frequent breaks.
 The second location includes replacing existing 50 year old 8 inch water line with approximately a thousand feet of new 12 inch water line along the north side of Huntsville Road from Sherbin Avenue to Happy Hollow Road. This will be a continuation of the 12 inch water main that was installed as part of the Happy Hollow Huntsville Road street intersection project constructed in 2005.
 The third location includes replacing an existing 30-year-old six-inch water line with approximately 1,900 feet of a new eight-inch line with the vicinity of the Garden Park Apartments. This existing six-inch line experienced frequent breaks.
 On May 16th, the city received five construction bids for this project. Goins Enterprises submitted the low bid of $1,919,872, and it was approximately 1.1% below the engineer's estimate of $2,164,230. This project will be funded by the Water and Sewer Fund,
 And this project was presented to the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee on June 13th and was voted 4-0 to the council with a recommendation for approval. We have to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Tim? Mark. I'm just ready to move forward. Anybody else? Any questions? Any public comment on this? We'll bring it back to the council. I move we accept the resolution. Sarah. Second. The motion is...
 And second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Kim? Yes. Ed? Yes. Kenneth? Yes. Yes. Walter? Yes. Walt? Yes. Yes. Number three. Yes.
 A resolution to approve a change order in the City's Public Access Television Policy and to amend the contract with Community Access Television Incorporated, DBA, your media to expand public access services to residents of Washington County and Benton County for an annual fee of $50. Doug. Good evening. Doug Bankston, Director of Media Services. Let me log in here. There we go. Okay. Okay.
 Your Media, the city's contracted third party service provider for the public access operation, is requesting an expansion of service availability.
 Your media has been effectively growing the FPTV operation, and as a result, interest in utilizing its services has also grown, but this is including from non-residents of the city of Fayetteville, notably educational institutions, students, and nonprofit organizations that serve Fayetteville residents but are not based in Fayetteville.
 So, for two and a half years, staff in your media has researched the feasibility of this change. Some sample inquiries were included in your packet, but I have some up here as well to kind of display the wide-ranging nature of these inquiries. We've received them from people from Greenland and Rogers wanting to produce video for things they may have available for church. Landon Carpenter from Centerton.
 Wanted to take classes. We have a Maria Cunningham from Bella Vista wanting to produce hooping videos. I don't know what those are. And we've had inquiries from Springdale students at the Spring Creek Arts Festival. They express interest every year. And we've also had an inquiry from Steve Cooper, the Dean of the Music Department at NWAC.
 and inquired about partnering with FPTV to teach video classes to its students. We've also had a recent inquiry from NWAC, again from the Performing Arts Department, to do the same thing. Al Lopez, who's from Springdale, wants to produce Spanish language programming.
 And we've also had inquiries from Elkins, who Chris Jenkins wanted to, Chris Stricker wanted to submit just programming in order to telecast. We've got Sarah Jord from Rogers, who wanted to take classes to produce video for her non-profit.
 And we've also run into instances where we've had Fayetteville Productions wanting to have maybe a crew member who's not from Fayetteville. Earl Hale from Rogers was an instance there where he's from Rogers, but he could not work on a Fayetteville production. Kay Grant from Prairie Grove inquired about his school class. He's a student. Inquired about his class coming to take video production.
 training and Farmington High School wants to submit programming to be telecast and We've just recently in the past couple weeks. We've had Girl Scout troops wanting to Come take video production training because believe it or not They have a digital media merit for Girl Scouts But the troop is made up of residents and non-residents so kind of leaves the non-residents out there and
 And then, just the other day, the Teen Action and Support Center of Springdale, which serves a lot of teenagers and offers them programs, is interested in having them come do arts and video production. So, this is just a highlight. There's actually more in the packet, and we realized we've kind of experienced
 based on talking to all these people, that expanding service availability will allow new talent the opportunity to contribute to FPTV content. It will bring people to Fayetteville and will widen the reach of the operation through increased viewership while promoting the city of Fayetteville. So they come in and all of this actually goes back out throughout the region.
 And in conjunction with that, it actually will also allow for new content to be generated by students outside of Fayetteville that can be played on the city's education channel. The education channel reverted back to city operation in May of 2016 when the Fayetteville public school system handed it back to us.
 Like the annual fee, the public library charges non-residents to use its services. I believe they charge about $40. A $50 annual FPTV fee for non-residents to utilize its services is proposed. We believe this to be kind of a fair and accessible price point for people.
 These fees will be paid into the trust account, which was set up in 2011 as a transparent way for your media to accept payment from the public for things like DVD copies, digital transfers, and contract productions. Funds from the trust are used foremost to promote FPTV and its services to the public.
 based on the years of inquiries that we've gathered, some of which I mentioned earlier, your media has determined that the demand would equate to an increase in participants of between 10 to 20 percent in the coming years. A provision though is built into the language of this change that will ensure that Fayetteville residents will maintain a majority of utilization.
 Staff brought this proposed non-resident policy change before the Telecommunications Board, where it was endorsed and approved unanimously. Thank you. OK, what questions do we have? OK, what public comment do we have? I'm going to bring it back to the council. Which is the council? Allen. Make a motion to pass the resolution. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll?
 March. Yes. In. Yes. Eddie. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 17-5802 for approximately 0.31 acres located at 147 East Spring Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Kip? Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City of Council and the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RMF 24 Residential Multifamily 24 Units per Acre to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby amend the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 above. Okay. Andrew.
 Yes, sir. This property is the southeast intersection of Washington Avenue and Spring Street. It's just east of downtown area. There's an existing house on a fairly large parcel. It is currently zoned RMF 24, which is multifamily, 24 units per acre. The applicant would like to subdivide the property and build smaller infill residential development.
 and they're proposing to rezone it to R-I-U, which would allow for that type of development pattern. And the Planning Commission did discuss this at June 12th, and it was recommended in favor. Staff's recommending in favor of the request as well. We feel like this zoning district would integrate well into the neighborhood that does have a mix of single-family homes and smaller multifamily buildings. And with that, we're recommending approval, and I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have. What questions do we have for Andrew on this?
 is the applicant here yeah come up you won't say a few words sorry i didn't already invite you
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. I'm Brian Teague. I actually live at 201 East Spring Street, which is right next door to the subject property at 147. I bought that property in 2015 for a couple different reasons. One being hope for good neighbors, and the second reason, I wanted to develop the property around the existing duplex, if you will.
 I've been working with Andrew on a site improvement plan for the property that's pretty much approved. I went to the bank to get financing, and they essentially wanted me to put each building, there's four buildings, each building on its own property.
 and this RIU zoning would allow for that. The RMF24, I'd have to keep all four buildings on one property. So that's the real technical reason why I'm asking for the rezone request.
 But on top of that, I feel like this zoning category, it's really a better fit for the neighborhood for a couple different reasons. I think it encourages development or buildings at a smaller scale that's more compatible with single-family homes.
 It does that in a number of different ways that I won't get into but I Wish you'd support this rezone request to be happy to answer any questions. Thanks. Okay. Do we have any questions? Mr Tager the staff, okay. We have any public comment on this seeing then I'll bring it back to the council Sarah move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading Adela a second that motion We have a motion a second to go to the second reading Sandra. Would you please call the roll? I?
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Batch? Yes. LaTierre? Yes. Gray? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5802 for approximately 0.31 acres located at 147 East Spring Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RI-U residential intermediate urban.
 Sarah. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Adela. I second that motion. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Ginn. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 17-5802 for approximately .31 acres located at 147 East Spring Street from RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Any final comments from the council? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Kenyon.
 Yes. Batch. Yes. Lutere. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Thank you all. Number five, an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 70-5803 for approximately 10.86 acres located east of the intersection of Old Missouri Road and Rolling Hills Drive from RSF 4 residential single family four-use record to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Kip. Okay.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General. Thank you.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Sorry. Andrew.
 This property is just south of the Butterfield Trail Elementary School, you know, just east of the dead end of Rolling Hills Drive and Old Missouri Road. Its proposal is for 11 acres out of a 50-acre parcel, proposing to rezone the 11 acres to NSG Neighborhood Services General. The applicants indicated a desire to do a mix of uses.
 In staff's opinion, it would be a compatible rezoning. There's obviously the school to the north, there's some small offices and a church to the west, and then transitioning to more residential uses further to the east.
 And it is in line with our future land use plan map that designates this area as a residential area. We do have a planned extension for Rowland Hills Drive to extend east through the property, so this would be at that potential for a corner location where you could have more intense non-residential uses as well as non-residential multi-family. The Planning Commission also agreed with staff recommendation and forwarded this with a recommendation for approval. If you have any questions, please let me know. Okay. Is the applicant here? Yes. Okay.
 Good evening, Mitch Weigle, Downtown Properties, for the applicant. We've chosen a section within this parcel that we think will spur some development within the community towards our 2030 plan, having some places for some neighborhood services,
 that would enhance a future plan and sort of get away from the RSF4, which the whole 50 acres is currently zoned. This would allow for some cluster housing, some small dry cleaning conveniences, coffee shops, things like that in the neighborhood, as well as access for future development of trails, traditional housing.
 and then some other mixed-use housing we purposely limited the boundaries within our 50 acre parcel so it doesn't touch any of the surrounding residential neighborhoods it does not touch the school it will be naturally bordered by the extension of rolling hills Drive as it extends into the property and then oak cliff that would come down to the front so this is really just the frontage to the east of old Missouri Road which it'll be similar in
 and style to other things, offices, churches that are across the street. Thank you. OK, do we have any questions of the applicant or staff on this council? OK. I've got a question. Sorry. I'm sorry. That's all right. Sorry. Come back. I'll say something. Justin? This is actually for staff, but thank you very much. No, I'm kidding. No, I'm just kidding. No, go sit. Sit down. It's fine. Sorry about that. So for staff, I've gotten a few calls on this.
 I also got a few calls on the questions about the extension itself. I think there was a little bit of confusion on one relating to the other. So just for the public to know,
 Do we have a timeframe for the Rolling Hills Road extension? And if so, what is it? And if not, what are our long-term next steps for looking at that entire 265 to Rolling Hills extension? Yeah, it's certainly a timely question with our mobility plan is, you know,
 Towards the end of the study and this particular connection was a part of that study so you'll see some recommendations from the traffic consultant and so with We do not have a time frame for extending rolling hills at this time through this property It's it's like many of our streets on our master street plan It's desired for a connection to improve east-west connectivity through through Fayetteville, you know from crossover towards the core of the city I
 I think when the transportation consultant will show you some of the results they actually plugged into their model you know how many seconds off of a commute if we built this road it would take and so those are the decisions for the council to look at as you look at the upcoming bond program and and where you're putting your money and how you want to disperse those funds okay I appreciate that because that that'll alleviate some of the concerns of people thinking it was a
 a more immediate situation than it was. The other thing I would say, I would exercise caution on any of this. This is one of those one shot deals where we wanna make sure we develop things right in that area and in the same breath that people tell me they want more east-west connectivity, they say, but when it comes to something like Rolling Hills, there's gonna be maybe traffic issues and there's a school there. And so I just want it on record, this is a very complicated spot.
 And as we look at our long term, I'm not saying it's a good idea or bad idea, I'm just saying the spot in general and the entire, what is it, 50 plus acres? Most people don't realize there's a patch that big in anywhere in the city. So I just wanna make sure everybody hears that. So thank you very much for that time there. That's good points.
 Yes, I too have gotten quite a few calls and emails about this piece of property and about the rezoning issue. Some of the same things that Justin had just mentioned, but in response to one of the emails I got, I had sent, at least I think I sent this out, requesting that we do a tour of
 Okay, so I'm not just imagining that I sent this out. That we do a tour of the site. And, you know, right now I'd like to talk about it and maybe, you know, table it until we can do that tour. Well, why don't you just leave it here? It'll stay two weeks. Let's do that then. First reading if you want to do that. Okay.
 So I make a motion to leave it at the first reading? You don't need to do that. It just stays. Unless the rules are suspended, it will remain on the first reading. Unless you want to move it forward. No. If you don't. Okay. Thank you. You're very welcome. So I assume you want to leave it here on the first reading. Yes, sir. Everybody amenable to that? I do know there's some folks here and you probably want to make some public comment. I will take some public comment, but just keep in mind this is not going to be passed tonight.
 So if you have some public comment, everybody gets one turn at the microphone. I should have made this clear earlier. My apologies. And you have a five minute time limit, unless a council member brings you back up for questions and keep your comments directly to the chair, which would be me. So does anybody have anything they'd like to say on this project? Keep in mind, you can say it again in two weeks. Everybody good? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. We'll leave it on the first reading.
 Okay, everybody good? All right. Thank you, Council. Number six, an ordinance to approve Vacation 17-5815 for property located at 492 North Vincent Avenue to vacate a portion of a street right of way. Kip? Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes,
 And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any relocation of or damage to utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number 2, a 10-foot wide general utility easement shall be retained behind the Master Street plan right-of-way. Okay. Andrew.
 And this property is on Vinson Avenue on Mount Sequoia. There's an undeveloped parcel that the applicant is intending to develop with a single family house. This particular section of Vinson has some excessive right of way, and the applicant simply wanting to vacate that so they can have more buildable area to build their house. And this has gone through all the franchise utilities and the city transportation department, the planning commission, and everybody's in favor of vacating this right of way.
 And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions you may have. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this? Okay, any public comment on this one? Okay, bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Allen. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Hinton. Yes. Hattie. Yes. Siena. Yes. Batch. Yes. Letier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes.
 An ordinance to approve VAC 17-5815 for property located at 492 North Vincent Avenue to vacate a portion of a street right-of-way. Okay. Allen. Motion to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Hinton. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Sinnott. Yes. Batch. Yes. Fletcher. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to vacate 17-5815 for property located at 492 North Vincent Avenue to vacate a portion of a street right-of-way. Okay. Any final comments from the council on this? Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Tannin. Yes. Batch. Yes. Loutier. Yes. Long. Yes. Gray. Yes. Okay. Number seven.
 An ordinance to amend Chapter 167, Tree Preservation and Protection of the Unified Development Code, to make clerical revisions, including defining certain terms, removing definitions of terms that are defined in other portions of the Unified Development Code, and correcting ambiguous or unclear names and terms. Kip? Thank you.
 Whereas, Urban Forestry staff and the Urban Forestry Advisory Board have reviewed Chapter 167, Tree Preservation and Protection, and have recommended clerical changes to make this portion of the Unified Development Code more clear for both users and administrators of the code. And whereas, both the Urban Forestry Advisory Board and the Planning Commission voted unanimously to forward the changes with a recommendation that they be approved.
 Now therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 16701 by removing and preserve from the introductory paragraph. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 16702A6 by repealing the paragraph and enacting a new 16702A6 as follows.
 The City of Fayetteville recognizes the most current additions of the following benchmark standards for tree maintenance, International Society of Arbor Cultural Best Management Practices, and the American National Standards Institute A300 tree care practices. The urban forestry staff may adopt other benchmark standards for tree maintenance. Section 3.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends Chapter 167, Tree Preservation and Protection, by replacing every instance of, quote, Tree and Landscape Advisory Committee, unquote, with, quote, Urban Forestry Advisory Board, unquote. Section 4. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals Section 167.04a and an act of replacement with Section 167.04a, as shown on Exhibit A, attached here to and made a part hereof.
 Section 5 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends section 167.04b by inserting quote proposed unquote before roads and utilities in subsection 10 and by changing UDC to Unified Development Code and capitalizing city in subsection 13. Section 6
 that the City Council of the City of Fela Arkansas hereby repeal section 167-04C and an act of replacement section 167-04C as follows
 canopy area. In all proposed developments that are required to submit a tree preservation or abbreviated tree preservation plan, trees shall be preserved as outlined in Table 1 under percent minimum canopy, unless the applicant has been approved for onsite mitigation or offsite alternatives as set forth in subsections I and J below.
 The square foot percentage of canopy area required for preservation and new development is based on the total area of the property for which the applicant is seeking approval, less the right-of-way and parkland dedications. An applicant should not be required to plant trees in order to reach the percent minimum canopy requirement on land where less than the minimum exists prior to development. Section 7. That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby repeal...
 The first sentence of section 16704D1, and an actual new first sentence as follows, quote, if trees have been removed below the required percent minimum canopy within the five years preceding application for development, the site must be forested to meet the percent minimum canopy requirements set forth in table one, plus an additional 10% of the total area of the property for which the applicant is seeking approval, less the right of way and parkland dedications, unquote. Section 8.
 That City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeals the second sentence of Section 16704E1 and enacts replacement as follows.
 Quote, trees in existing and not to be vacated utility easements shall not be counted toward the percent minimum canopy requirement and such utilities shall be routed wherever possible to avoid existing canopy, unquote. Section 9. That the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Oxford are hereby amend Section 16704F by replacing all instances of subdivisions with developments. Section 10.
 Section 10 the City Council city of Fayetteville, Arkansas her by repeal section 167 of F 167 oh 4 f1 and an actual replacement section as follows residential developments the percent minimum canopy and residential development shall be located in areas that have the least possibility of impact as public infrastructure and proposed utilities are installed and homes built a
 The intent is to leave undisturbed as many existing trees as possible for the use and enjoyment of prospective lot owners. Residential developments requesting tree removal below the percent minimum canopy requirement may choose either residential on-site mitigation or to contribute to the tree escrow account that is set forth in Section 1670FJ4A.
 Trees and existing and not to be vacated utility easements shall not be counted toward the percent minimum canopy requirement, and such proposed utilities shall be routed to avoid existing canopy and shall count toward the percent minimum canopy requirement. Section 11, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby amend Section 16704F2B by inserting proposed at the beginning of the third sentence and changing the fifth sentence to read as follows, unquote,
 The developer will be required to compensate for the canopy removed from the defined individual lots by making the appropriate payment into the tree escrow account. Unquote. Section 12. At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Oxford are hereby repeal Section 16704F3 and enact Section 1670F3 as follows. Hillside Hilltop Overlay District.
 Individual parcels or lots located within the hillside hilltop overlay district boundary shall submit a tree preservation plan or an abbreviated tree preservation plan as set forth in section 16704 H3 indicating the location of the structure and the preservation of the minimum tree canopy requirement. Section 13. That the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby annex a new section 16704 F4 as follows.
 Developers have the option of creating cluster development, such as a planned zoning district, which would encourage more open space and tree preservation. In this pattern of development, the trees preserved or the open space on each lot can be transferred to a larger tree preservation easement instead of individual lots required to meet minimum percent requirements. The tree preservation easement shall be clearly depicted on the easement plat or final plats.
 Section 14 at the City Council the city of Fevella Arkansas hereby amend section 167 0 4 g 1 by replacing preliminary plat large-scale development or site plan with Proposed development by capitalizing city and by inserting and longer approval times after higher costs section 15
 That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal section 167-04-G2 and replace replacement section as follows. Confirmation. The urban forester shall document whether the applicant participated in an initial review meeting in the tree preservation and protection staff report given to the applicants going through the development review process. If the applicant chooses to attend an initial review meeting, the staff report shall also document any recommendations made.
 The urban forester shall ensure that a copy of the report or email becomes a part of the permit file for the project. Section 16. That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 16704H by replacing all references to site analysis with, quote, tree preservation. Section 17. That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 16704H1
 by inserting, quote, as defined in the City of Fayetteville's Tree Preservation Protection and Landscape Manual after any significant trees in subsection D, and by repealing and replacing subsection G as follows, quote, all features, including trees, buildings, perennial and intermittent streams, and creeks that exist on the site are within 100 feet of the limits of disturbance."
 Section 18 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend section 167 0 4 h 2 by changing the subsection title to Additional tree preservation plan content and by adding the following language to the end of the subsection Examples can be provided upon request to the urban Forester section 19 at the City Council city of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amend section 167 0 4 h3 by replacing large-scale developments or subdivisions and
 In the first sentence, to developments required to go through the development review process of the Technical Platte Review Committee, Subdivision Committee, and Planning Commission, unquote. And by replacing this plan in the second sentence to an abbreviated tree preservation plan. And by removing examples from the sixth sentence and replacing that with, quote, either a site analysis plan or with an and in the last sentence. Section 20.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Horses are hereby repeal Section 16704 and enact a replacement Section 16704 as follows. Analysis Report. The applicant shall submit an analysis report when minimum percent canopy is not met. The report shall detail the design approaches used to minimize damage to or removal of existing canopy that were considered in arriving at the proposed design.
 Written justifications shall be presented as to why individual trees or canopy must be removed. The report shall also detail proposed on-site mitigation options or off-site alternatives as detailed below. Section 21. That the City Council and City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 167.04 and annex Section 167.08 as follows.
 Grading and utility plans. All subsequent grading and utility plans shall depict tree preservation areas, preserve trees, and the physical limits of all protective measures on-site required during construction.
 Section 22 that the City Council City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeals section 167.04.H6 and an act of replacement section as follows submittal requirements the applicant shall submit a tree preservation plan Development plans with removal a tree canopy below percent minimum canopy shall submit an analysis report to the urban forester concurrently with their tree preservation plan
 Applicants submitting abbreviated tree preservation plans shall not be required to submit analysis report. Section 23. That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Oxford hereby repeal Section 1670487 and the next replacement section, tree preservation easements.
 The City of Fayetteville shall encourage the use of tree preservations for the added protection of trees preserved to meet percent minimum canopy requirements or trees planted, in those instances where such would be of mutual benefit to the applicant and the City of Fayetteville. Section 24, that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 16704 by changing the first sentence to read, quote,
 The tree preservation plan must graphically represent the species and location of all existing trees on site and by removing subsection C and D and renumbering accordingly. Section 25 that the City Council, the City of Fairlarks are hereby amend section 16704 I3 by inserting quote or landscape plan following tree preservation plan.
 Section 26, the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the last sentence of 16704I5 by replacing species density table with species table and by removing, quote, along with examples for using the base density formula.
 Section 27 at City Council City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby repeals the first sentence of Section 167.04.I.6 and enacts a replacement as follows All trees to be planted shall be species native to the Arkansas region or native cultivars When available or selected from the list of preferred tree species set forth in the City of Fayetteville Tree Preservation Protection Landscape Manual Section 28
 that the city council city of favorable are hereby repeal section 16704 i8 and renumbers the subsections accordingly section 29 that the city council city of favorable are hereby amends the first sentence of section 16704 i9 by changing subdivisions to developments and by removing the reference to sections subsections i1 through 7. subsection 30
 That the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeal 16704 and and an act to renew section 16704 as follows.
 Developers requesting mitigation trees be planted along the street right-of-way of a residential subdivision shall submit a landscape plan that complies with the standards outlined in the City of Fayetteville Tree Preservation Protection Landscape Manual in order to ensure the new trees planted are of the highest quality, require low maintenance, and do not interfere with public safety.
 The species of trees to be planted shall be selected from the approved street tree species list or be otherwise specified or specifically approved by the urban forester. The applicant's mitigation plan for planting street trees shall describe in detail the method for tracking the development of the individual lots, which shall best ensure the number required number and species of mitigation trees are planted. Section 31.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxford hereby repeals the last sentence of section 167.04 and enacts a new last sentence as follows, a tree preservation easement must be conveyed concurrently with or prior to submission of a final plat by the applicant to the City to protect any off-site preservation or forestation and the legal description of the tree preservation easement shall also appear on the final plat.
 Section 32, the City Council, a favorable arc star hereby amends section 16704J3B by changing the code reference from the tree preservation and protection chapter to chapter 167, tree preservation and protection. Section 33, the City Council, a favorable arc star hereby amends section 16704J4.
 By replacing subdivisions with developments in subsection A and by inserting section 167.04 prior to subsection J2 and 3 and subsection D. Section 34, that City Council, the City of Fayetteville hereby amends section 167.04L by adding and tree preservation easements, unquote, to the end of the title. By replacing all references in subsection L to pre-preservation areas with tree preservation easements.
 Section 35 at the City Council the city of Feb larkson Arkansas hereby amends section 167 Oh for l1 by repealing the reference to the tree preservation plan By inserting which following a new reference to the tree preservation easement in the first sentence and by replacing to be reserved with in a tree preservation easement in the last sentence section 36 a
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxford are hereby amend Section 16705B by replacing the first instance of tree preservation areas with, quote, trees illustrated as preserved on tree preservation plans, unquote,
 by replacing the second and third instances of tree preservation areas with, quote, areas of preserved trees, unquote, by replacing, quote, at each tree preservation area with, quote, areas with preserved trees in the fourth sentence, by inserting details prior to standards specification and guidelines in the fourth sentence, by inserting and between offsite trees and the roots of which extend in the sixth sentence,
 Am I replacing tree preservation area with areas of preserved trees in the eighth sentence? subsection 37
 That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby amends Section 16706A by inserting, quote, details prior to standards, specifications, and guidelines in Subsection A and by repealing Subsection I and replacing it with the following. City employees, before cutting, pruning, removing, or trimming any tree, City employees performing a tree work on public grounds shall attend an educational workshop on basic tree pruning.
 Workshop attendance shall be recorded by the urban forester. Employees are encouraged to seek recognized tree maintenance certifications listed in 16707. Section 38 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeals the last sentence of Section 167-1081 and acts a new last sentence as follows. The amount shall be equal to that provided in Section 16704-J4.
 Section 39 that the City Council, the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 16710 A5B and enacts a new subsection. B as follows, a clause that requires that if the approved contract is breached the developer shall immediately supply an acceptable replacement maintenance contract or shall deposit into the City's tri-escrow amount the amount set forth in Section 16704
 And I will never complain about having to read a bond ordinance before. This was much more difficult. Alright. John. Good afternoon. This is the first of the four parts of Chapter 167-177 changes that we'd like to make. Urban Forestry staff plans on submitting clerical and then the substantive changes for both chapters.
 The goal for the first part was to clean up one chapter 67 by editing terms and grammatical errors, and we believe it to be less controversial changes and have very limited impact on the code itself. Clarity was our main goal for those particular changes. I would go over the examples, but he read everything, so I will just answer any questions if you have any. What questions do we have for John on this? No questions. John. Mayor.
 I should have at least one question. Are you our urban forester? I am. Great. Have you ever held a memorial service for a tree? I have not, but I have heard of such things. In our city? Yeah. Okay. Will this ordinance make developers more happy or less happy?
 I believe it will make them happy because it's clarity. It provides clarity, and it's black and white, and it helps them. Is it reducing the regulations they have to comply with or increasing the regulations they have to comply with? Neither? Neither. Neither.
 Okay, thank you. It reduces some redundancy in languages and clarifies language. I think a prime example would be the term tree preservation easement. In our code right now we have conservation easement, tree preservation area, and then tree preservation easement all for one term, so it kind of clarifies that and gets rid of some redundancy. Did I hear you say this was the first of four installments? Yes. Yes. Okay. Mr. Williams, you've honed up on your reading skills.
 Well, fortunately, the rest I don't think are going. They're going to be substantive changes, and they're actually much shorter. The reason this was so long, it was the entire chapter, and if we had just attached it at Exhibit A, which I would have been happy to do, it would have gone on many pages and been very expensive to publish, and of course citizens wouldn't have heard what we're doing, so that's why we...
 boiled it down to make it as short as we could and yet still cover all the changes that were requested by the urban forester.
 Mr. Williams, do you agree with our urban foresters assessment this will reduce regulations or not have any change in the amount of regulations on our developers? Yeah, these are really not substantive changes, John, but there will be substantive changes coming forward. And, in fact, I'm going to have one myself that I'm going to recommend to you, which is going to be a very short change but will be truly a substantive change. But I haven't been able to get that together yet, and it will be coming in the future. Thank you. Thank you.
 okay don mayor yes i just wanted to thank the staff and thank the council and the city attorney for sitting through all of that but this clarity is really important in terms of our development community when we use three different terms to mean the exact same thing it's natural for people to look for definitions of what what is a tree preservation area what's a conservation area with a tree preservation easement
 And that one example is a perfect example of all of these changes, just making it clearer and more layman-like for people to understand who have to comply with this. And while it is tedious, it is part of our mayor's directive to improve and make our development process easier, and this is just one department in the development review process
 addressing items along with many others that will be coming as we evaluate that. Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. Gonna bring it back to the council. Allen. I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and move to the second reading. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Gagan? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Sennett? Yes. Batch? Yes. Latour? No.
 Yes. Right. Yes. In order to amend chapter 167, tree preservation and protection of the Unified Development Code to make clerical revisions including definitions, including defining certain terms, removing definitions of terms that are defined in other portions of the Unified Development Code and correcting ambiguous or unclear names and terms. Sarah. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Della. I second that motion.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Ginnan. Yes. Petty. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Bunch. Yes. No. Yes. Gray. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to amend chapter 167, tree preservation and protection of the Unified Development Code, to make clerical revisions including defining certain terms, removing definition of terms that are defined in other portions of the Unified Development Code, and correcting ambiguous or unclear names and terms. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? Okay, thank you staff for all your work on this kit. Thank you. All right, Sandra would you please call the roll?
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Tennant? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Leter? No. Stone? Yes. Wright? Yes. OK, thank you all. Number eight, a resolution to express the intention of the city council to include funding in the 2018 budget for additional traffic calming installation within city streets. Alan, I believe you have this. And Matt? I do.
 I guess I'll start unless Matthew would like to. Go ahead. Okay. Well, I appreciate Matthew cosponsoring this with me. One of the number one requests I receive is for infrastructure specifically related to traffic safety. That's by schools, by street pedestrian crossings, neighborhoods used as cut throughs, especially neighborhoods close to large amenities or community services.
 And I think that the lack of infrastructure for traffic calming and traffic safety Prevents us from having great as great of pedestrian mobility as we could have in the city of Fayetteville I think that I know that at agenda session a lot of people talked about what what amount of money are we talking about here? I don't have a specific amount in mind. I think that staff is more than capable of determining what
 they think is necessary to come up with specific solutions, creative solutions that fit what's needed in Fayetteville. We've tried new pilot programs in the past that can address specific problem areas. Similar to what we discussed in Transportation Committee at the last meeting in between Gregg and College on North Street,
 with the pinchers they're doing there, the raised curbs in certain situations, street narrowing projects, whatever it may be. I think that we need the ability to try some solutions and give staff that flexibility of coming up with ideas. One thing that came up last year and we were able to address it was by Holcomb Elementary. We needed to put in a temporary speed table.
 and I know we don't do a lot of speed tables, but by schools sometimes we make exceptions for things like that, and what ended up happening was there was a $600 fee that needed to be paid for to buy the bolts to install this speed table. Well, the POA that lived next to it ended up writing a check to the city of Fayetteville to pay for that $600 worth of bolts, and I just think that
 Things like that are a good example of, you know, what the city of Fayetteville should be paying for and not just the neighborhoods around the schools because it's more than just the people in the neighborhoods around the schools, children that go to those schools. So things like that, traffic calming by schools, coming up with good solutions, being able to try things, I think that that's what we need to have a small amount of money set aside for so that we can try and just try to come up with some solutions in the upcoming year. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I agreed to sponsor this for a couple of reasons. Mainly, it's been a discussion for some time and we've talked over and over again about how maybe we should put something in the budget. I know that we've been asked to submit comments on the five-year CIP now and that's certainly one potential source and that'll be included in my comments.
 But I think this resolution is appropriate, and it's appropriate to talk about this this way because there are a lot of other sources of that kind of funding, and there may even be some more creative ways of administering a traffic calming program if we were to fund it. So for example, you know, there's in the transportation bond program, there's $500,000 that's been set aside generally for intersection improvements with no further specification about what might happen there.
 Quite a bit of traffic calming should take place at intersections, so that's a potential source. The street fund itself, with part of our overlay program, is another potential source, and that's, of course, related to the CIP. We've also got this brand-new program that's in beta right now where we allow—
 anyone in the community, an individual or a group, a neighborhood, a civic institution, a company, to submit an application where they themselves have designed public improvements of a temporary nature to test out ideas that might be traffic calming.
 And we allow them to install those after they've been through that application process if they meet certain design requirements. That's a brand new program and I expect that that's going to be pretty heavily used as we iterate on it and make it even better. And that might be a way that we talk about funding traffic calming. Maybe we need a coordinator or maybe we need a bike ped coordinator or maybe we should add traffic calming.
 to the job description of a bike predator coordinator if we're thinking about hiring one for 2018 or for 2019. So I think this resolution and this council is appropriate because this is really the only forum we have until we get into real budget discussions when there's already a proposal on the table to talk at this kind of a high level with the full council involved.
 I think sending a signal that we think it's important and that we think it could be met in a variety of ways is the appropriate role for us to take as a council whenever we talk about budget because even though budget is ultimately our responsibility, we're not equipped with the kind of information to have a detailed recommendation at this point, and we aren't until we see a budget in front of us.
 I understand that can be a little bit frustrating for somebody that's tasked with pulling together a budget because we've got a laundry list of priorities. Probably stretches all the way to the street if we were to print it out even on just regular letterhead. We aren't tasked with funneling that down to a budget proposal, but we're tasked with criticizing the administration's proposal whenever they do that funneling for us. So I'm sensitive to that.
 But I also think that this is a priority that has been talked about for so long that it's important that we go on the record and say this maybe should be elevated a little higher than the council has elevated it in the past. And there might be some creative ways of doing it. In terms of scale, I know there has not been a specific number recommended or requested and that's for some of the same reasons and not having clarity information.
 at this stage of the budgeting process that would be needed to make that kind of recommendation. But I can talk in kind of generalities. You know, my expectation or my hope would be that we come up with,
 a funding amount and a process for administering it that did something on the order of a half dozen to a dozen traffic calming projects per year. And I think that we can make the money that we put into that go even farther with the new tactical urbanism neighborhood led tactical urbanism opportunities that we've got because that allows us to match some of that money which we would put into hard infrastructure with
 Design services that may be contributed in some kind of sponsorship manner with these local groups, or sometimes the design of these projects is even completely self-performed just by the amateur designers of the neighborhood.
 So in any case, you know, up or down, whatever the council thinks, I think a vote tonight says, you know, in accordance with the template that has been discussed verbally tonight, you know, we might elevate that as a priority. I'm not saying it's the highest priority in the city, but, you know, I think on the order of a half dozen to a dozen projects, I think we probably got room for that.
 at various places in the budget to, you know, cobble that together or maybe even find it all wholesale from one source, especially if we're thinking about doing anything, you know, in the direction of bike pad coordination or more tactical urbanism projects. Okay. All right. Well, any questions on that? Don? Yeah.
 oh mayor just going to make a few comments to add to the context of your discussion in 2007 the city council passed a resolution to put 187 760 dollars into traffic calming specifically to the wilson park and washington willow neighborhoods association as a part of the transportation department bond program also in 2008
 budget the City Council approved in the transportation operating budget in its overlay program $50,000 for traffic calming it was removed from the budget in 2009
 the 2009 budget done by the council in 2008 of which I think only one member is remaining to here in 2008 so we think it's very appropriate of the council since the decisions were made by the council to take it out in that budget for the council to have this policy discussion about putting it back in I also just wanted to give you a reference of the dollar amounts the hundred and
 87,000 that was done in the Ward 2 area for the bond issue, and the 50,000 that was done citywide in the Transportation Division. I do wanna make it clear though, and this is why it's really important Paul sent out communication to each of you about the items that you would like to see and what areas you would identify taking it from because the money is the money. You know,
 people might want to be critical i'm going to use council member latour on tuesday when we were talking about drainage he at least said well here's an area that i would look to cut to address drainage that may or may not have consensus on the council but to give an idea of what areas you would look to reduce in order to do this because we don't have new money we have the same amount of money unless we do a future
 whenever we pay off the current ones, that also opens up an opportunity on a larger scale.
 but it is important this is the very discussion that we hope to get from you in the cip information uh back some of you have already shared some items with us more importantly sharing with us what items you would remove to fund these items you want to add because it is still the same amount of eight to nine million dollars that we have you have to july 30th to do that and we did change that this year um normally we give you the cip with
 the staff as the planned document for you then to have to amend. And we heard your feedback last year that you wanted input on it on the front end. And so that's why we've taken this two month period to get that on the front end. So we hope you will take time to do that, even with this resolution.
 And the other point I wanna make is that the transportation division where this money has typically been funded has been under pressure where we have taken overlay money in the past several years. We did two $500,000 movements for Willow Bend that will just be coming back in the 18 budget. And so we're hoping to be able to get that money
 to be able to catch up in some of the overlay that we deferred as a result of getting some of that money back so that we maintain our streets. But in the past, that's where you would have seen it. You would have seen it in when the council was presented with sidewalk, road overlay programs, you would have seen traffic calming as a part of that. And so, depending on what your actions are tonight, at least the initial discussion would be that. And that dollar amount that was in the budget specifically for that was about 50,000.
 So just so you have that context. All right. John. Well, let me thank our chief of staff for recognizing I was willing to say what I would be willing to cut. And it reminds me of Margaret Thatcher's quote, the problem with socialism is sooner or later you run out of other people's money to spend. So we do have a fixed pie here with our budget.
 I guess some ground rules I'd like to establish. You know, when we're talking about traffic calming, none of us like traffic. Whether you're liberal, conservative, Democrat, Republican, it doesn't matter. None of us really like traffic. We'd rather just get in our car or get on our bike or get on our walk at our own pace, unimpeded by anybody. Every time there's development in our city, people come and say, well, this is going to increase traffic or it's going to increase problems. Of course it will, right?
 If we want absolutely no traffic or that's very important to you, then maybe you should consider moving to a rural setting and not living in a city. If you're going to live in a city, traffic's going to be part of the equation. That's just part of the cost of living in the city. You have to comply with zoning ordinances living in the city that you don't have to living out in the county so much. There are costs. There are benefits and there are costs to living in a city. I just don't want our traffic calming to slide so far that it actually becomes traffic impeding.
 we want to continue i think there would be consensus here on this council that we want to see traffic move and clear itself but of course we want to slow things down around schools and particularly sensitive areas i think it was matthew petty who admitted that speed bumps don't really work unless you live right in front of a speed bump that's been my experience too matthew if i have to slow down for a speed bump in a real hurry i'll probably go even faster after i pass the speed bump so
 Would like for us to look at other calming traffic calming techniques You know Crosswalks or parking on both sides of the street to make a more narrow passageway Those I think would be more effective in calming actually calming traffic and slowing people down But I guess my overriding consideration would be we don't want to become a traffic snarl we don't want to comment so much that traffic doesn't move or you know, it doesn't clear itself and
 So we want to be sensitive to that also. Thank you. Okay. Sarah.
 Thank you. I am strongly supportive of the intent of this resolution. One of the frequent things that citizens do contact me about is requesting traffic calming in their neighborhoods. And I was very excited to hear Alderman Petty speak about the potential for a bike pedestrian coordinator. Last night at our Active Transportation Advisory Committee meeting, we did unanimously endorse the creation of that position. And everyone will be getting a memo about that.
 because that was identified in our walk-friendly community evaluation as something that we were sorely lacking, and this is an opportunity for that, another thing that that individual could help with.
 But I do want to see us move away from the speed humps to looking at other solutions, whether that's chicanes or coordinating these with LID strategies and overall narrowing our lanes wherever we have opportunities with our overlay. But ultimately, I'm hoping that our mobility plan will help us design better streets for
 to fit the desired speeds that we're trying to achieve. I live on a road, the Cato Springs Road, that was recently repaved and people are using it like a runway because it's smooth and it's flat and the lanes are really wide. And I think we made a big mistake in how wide that road was built.
 while we do have some money to spend in order to remediate some of these conditions, I hope that ultimately we can get better with our roadway design so that we have less of this retrofitting in the future. Thank you. Gary Allen. And Sarah, I appreciate your comments. I just wanted to clarify the reason that when I was asking Kit to draft this that I left, I requested to leave
 speed tables in the actual resolution was because sometimes by schools it is necessary, just due to the nature of the drives and how narrow they can be, and you can't really make traffic move in other directions. So that's why I wanted to leave it in this one. Okay, anybody else? What public comment do we have on this? Okay, bring it back to the council. Sarah? I move we approve the resolution.
 Matthew. I'll second, Mayor. Thank you. Now, I do want to bring you up to speed on a couple of things. I was around here in 2008, and the biggest complaint we got, we started those speed tables while I was chair of the Transportation Committee back a long time ago, probably 2004 or 2005, and the number one complaint we got from the citizens as far as
 Issues in the road was speed tables now I know that y'all are getting a lot of folks wanting speed tables now But I can assure you back when I was running for office that was not the case I can remember standing in front of a room full of about 150 people and told them there wasn't any funding for speed tables and they all stood up and gave me a standing ovation And that's a fact That's how bad they they was talking about the bottoms of their cars getting knocked out and every I mean it was I
 So, but the funding for it was pulled in 2008, and at that time we were doing about 187,000. Terry could tell you, because he put a lot of those in at the time. But we certainly got challenged on those speed tables. I think when you start installing them again, you're gonna get a few challenges again. But that's neither here nor there.
 I'm not a real big fan of the speed tables either, but anywho I just want you all to know that before we get into this and normally usually during the Amendments is we sent out a letter a month ago It's the first time I think that we've asked you all to weigh in on the CIP and you're probably didn't need a resolution But if you want, you know So be it
 We're just trying to divvy up the money that we got, folks. As I said the other night, I mean, I've heard from a few of you in the last month or two, and there's some significant amounts of money you're wanting from stuff around this city, and I want everybody to remember we got $8 million to work with in the CIP, and that's it. That's it. So we can split her up any way you want to, but at the end of the day, I got so much money to work with, and you've got fire and police that's wanting a—
 full implementation of their pay plan, which would be significant. So just keep all that in mind as you make decisions on finances in the city. So – Mr. Mayor. Yeah, Matthew. I think it's important to clarify one thing, and that's –
 You know, back whenever we did traffic calming the first time around, really the only way of doing it that we thought we had was with speed tables and maybe a couple other minor things. And now, you know, the technology or the approach nationwide and in Fayetteville as well has evolved substantially. And even in our adopted minimum street standards where we list around a dozen different traffic calming techniques,
 We've included language that explicitly acknowledges that speed tables only used in very limited circumstances because they are not preferred way to traffic calm. And I think anybody that might have an expectation that a vote tonight or future funding allocation for traffic calming is gonna be with a work plan that's gonna be organized around speed tables, probably doesn't have the right expectation because I wouldn't see that as has happened. And I also wanna say, I wanna remind the council again that
 There's not just the CIP to consider here. I mentioned it before, and I think there are other funding sources besides this one, but there's $500,000 for intersection improvements in the bond program right now. That's true. It's just one potential source. Like I said, I'll include comments about this in my CIP comments because I think that's one source, and I've got some other things to talk about in CIP as well, but the budget's a lot bigger than that. No.
 I think I just went blank on whatever it was I was going to say. Okay, Del. I wanted to clarify now. As I recall, it was the speed bumps that made us get so many, many. It was. Okay. That's what I said. It was the speed tables, and that's all we had. Well, now, speed tables are different, right, Matthew? Yes.
 Because Matt... Maybe technically, but I think we all kind of mean the same. It's like what's around Wilson Park is a speed table. Okay, okay. Well, I like speed tables a lot better than speed bumps. The bumps is like what you might see in other places. We got so... I remember what the mayor was talking about and the reason we took it out of the budget was that we had so much complaining. But anyway, thank you. That's what has always made me a little edgy. I know when we did Block Street, we did the islands out in the...
 the road that slowed everybody down. I did get a few calls on that one too. But, but. Mayor, I did think of my comment and that was, it's important that I would ask that the Transportation Committee members in our mobility study really look at the recommended process for approving where we use these items because there's two steps to this really that we hear from citizens. One is,
 funding to do it. But the more important item is my neighborhood can never qualify to get it.
 And so as we look at the mobility component, I just want to encourage you to make sure that our dialogue with our consultants talks about our process for assessing and improving where they should go. Because there's always going to be someone on the other side of the number that justifies having it added. And that becomes a real issue when you leave the systematic process for approving.
 And I don't want anybody to think that I'm not in favor of traffic calming because I am. It's just that my first experience with it was not a real good one. So I'm fine. We'll get into budget discussions later on, and I'm sure a lot of this will be brought up, and we'll go through all this. But anyway, okay, any other final comments? Sandra, would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. What final comments, I mean, what announcements do we have?
 mayor we've got several announcements tonight first of all tomorrow if you're in the mood for a movie while you sit in the water at wilson park pool there's dive in movies the movie is zootopia remember these movies were selected by parents in our community for so bring your children out to that a couple of items coming up next week for citizens to put on their calendar uh
 A week from today, Thursday, in Gully Park is the Gully Park Concert Series, and the group is called Melody Pond. It's a song that dances on the water, echoes in the wind, and chants your eardrums. It's a duo of songwriters and singers.
 and they use modern indie influences with throwback moods of funk and blues with jazz. So a little bit of something for everyone. Is that tonight? No, it's the 13th. Tonight was first Thursday. Okay. Wait for me tonight. The next item is I do want to remind our citizens that we currently have an active
 survey out on the website for our mobility Fayetteville's future transportation strategies and priorities We really would like your feedback We're really looking to make sure that we get representation from all Fayetteville citizens walkers bikers drivers suburbs downtown and
 historic neighborhoods, et cetera. So the way to get represented is to make sure that if you're in all of these various areas that you participate and give us your feedback. That survey can be found on the city's website, but if you could help us encourage your constituents when you visit with them to participate, we would appreciate that. And then also next Saturday, July the 15th,
 The city announced the garden walking tours for sustainable landscapes. So for people who are interested in what that means, if you want to see sustainable landscapes, there are going to be tours of the two winners. The residential winner was Deb King and Janine Larson.
 Subvert, I think is how you pronounce it, 228 East Dixon Street. Parking is available at Washington County Courthouse. That's at 9 a.m. and then at 10 a.m. is a tour of Specialized Real Estate Group and Moda Studios for the campus at Arcega's located on 200 West Church. Those were the two winners of the Sustainable Landscapes this year. So those tours will be next Saturday if you have an interest in seeing those. All right. Anything else?
 All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned.