I'd like to call to order the July 2nd, 2024 City Council meeting. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Here. Stafford? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Lederkirk? Here. Burnham? Here. Bunch? Here. Moore?
 Heard. Hear. Mayor Jordan. Hear. Would you join me in a pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which one nation, under God, indivisible, and liberty and justice for all. Okay, the first order of business we have tonight is the
 Finance report by Paul Becker and Paul is on zoom from the office. Okay. Go ahead Paul Paul you're you need to unmute Okay, Steven, do you have the finance report? He is going back and forth with his mute button, I'm sorry Well, let's go ahead and we'll just read the consent agenda and we'll come back to Paul. I
 All right. Don't let me forget to come back. All right. On the consent agenda, number one, approval of the June 18th, 2024 city council meeting minutes. Number two, resolution to approve the renewal of continuing of care program grant agreements with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
 and the total amount of $334,694 for the city to administer programs to assist homeless federal residents. Number three, a resolution to approve an amendment to the professional services agreement with Santex Consulting Services incorporated any amount of $34,988.75
 for a multiple property documentation form and National Register of Historic Places submission for the University Heights and Haskell Heights neighborhoods. Number four, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and authorize the purchase of eco-display, classic, and eco-counter incorporated in the total amount of $41,644.64 for the Razorback Greenway
 section of adjacent to the upper Ramble Civic Plaza and to approve a budget adjustment this 2019 trail improvement bond project. Number five, a resolution to approve change order number one to the contract with Spatco Energy Solutions LLC and the the amount of thirty seven thousand two hundred ninety seven dollars and thirty cents for the fuel farm
 rehabilitation project at Drake Field and to approve budget adjustment. Number six, resolution to approve a joint funding agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling
 and monitoring at various locations in the city of Federal in 2024 in the amount paid by the city not to exceed $57,580. Number seven, a resolution to award RFP 24-07 to authorize a contract for the purchase of youth soccer uniforms from
 from American Soccer Company Incorporated, DBA, score sports in the amount of $16.10 plus applicable taxes per uniform for fall and 2024 and spring 2025 seasons with an option to renew for up to four additional one-year terms. Number eight.
 A resolution to convey a 25-foot wide natural gas easement to Black Hills Energy for the extension of a gas line through Combs Park. Number nine, a resolution to approve the purchase of a 2024 International CV515 from Rush Truck Centers in the amount of $110,548.16 pursuant to a source well co-op purchasing contract.
 and approve a budget adjustment. Number 10, a resolution to approve the purchase of two hybrid Ford F-150s from Lewis Ford Sales Incorporated in the total amount of $104,368 pursuant to Ordinance 6491.
 Number 11, a resolution to approve amendment number one to the engineering services contract with Hopkins Ware Engineers Incorporated in an amount not to exceed $155,500 for professional services associated with the Nolan Water Resource Program.
 the Cover Facility Primary Gear Switch Gear Improvements Project, number 12. A resolution to approve Amendment number 2 to the Engineering Services Contract with Hawkins-Weir Engineers, Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed $226,140 for additional services associated with utility relocations along Highway 112, and to approve a budget adjustment.
 And number 13, a resolution to approve potable domestic water access to Ellis Estates subdivision, primarily plat,
 primary plat which was approved by the city on august the 9th 2021 for 53 water taps i'll entertain a motion except consent agenda as well so moved second we have a motion second to accept the consent agenda as red here would you please call the roll hertzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Tired. Yes. All right. Thank you all. We have no unfinished business. And a new business. And, Mayor, you asked me to remind you Paul came down. Oh, thank you. I'm sorry, Mayor and Council. I was having some technical issues. I'm sure it's a user issue because I don't usually zoom in. So I'll give the report from here if I may. Okay.
 This is a report for May, month five of the fiscal year 2024. When I'm looking at the general fund, the sales tax is down 4.6% this year in time. Franchise fees are down 8% compared to the budget. Now, alcohol beverage taxes are down roughly 9%. They're pulling back a bit.
 Building permits at this point in time are up 4.5%. Now remember, that's the actual revenue that I see that I post to my accounting records.
 As far as charges for services, they're down a little bit for some of the programs in the parks funds. Court fees and fines are up. Also, interest earnings are up pretty well. So all in all, the general fund is down about 3.5% at this point in time for the first five months. Street fund, as I look at the street fund, remember the street fund, that's mostly turn back coming from the state.
 That's for the half cent sales tax allocated to roads. That's also for our share of motor fuel taxes. So those are down roughly 2% at this point in time. I'm not really concerned, but it does show a bit of a pullback at this point in time. Parking. Parking revenue is down about 5% compared to budget. Again...
 We're going to make the bond payments, etc. And I don't see any significant issues at that point in time. At this point in time, excuse me. Billings for water and sewer are up about 2%. So their revenues in total are up about a percent and a half, 2% at this point in time. Recycling and trash collection.
 Billings are about 2% under budget. That's pretty close to flat. So as far as water and sewer and recycling and trash collection, they're holding their own. Now the airport revenue is down 10%, 10.6% of revenue down compared to last year.
 flights are down at this point in time starting to pick up a bit so hopefully that will pick up before the before the end of the year and with that that's the that's the end of my report and I'll be happy to take questions what questions who have all the fun is good all right now let's move into new business number one an ordinance to amend one eighteen point zero three suspension and
 revocation of business license of the city of the federal city code to address the relocation of business licenses for short-term rentals kit whereas the ordinance review committee recommends approval of an ordinance preventing an owner or operator of a short-term rental from reapplying for a business license to operate a short-term rental on the same property for a period of 12 months now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the city of a of Arkansas section 1
 that the city council the city of fayetteville arcs are hereby amends section 118.03 suspension and revocation of business license by enacting a new subsection d as follows quote subsection d revocation of business license to operate a short-term rental number one if a business license to operate a short-term rental is revoked
 the owner or operator of the short-term rental may not reapply for a business license to operate a short-term rental on the same property for a period of 12 months. And number two, if the property changes ownership following revocation of a business license and a conditional use permit to operate a short-term rental remains active, the subsequent owner may apply for a business license subject to the terms of the existing conditional use permit
 provided they receive written approval of the Development Services Director. Okay. Holly, you have this?
 Yes, Mayor. Thank you. So this came out of a discussion at the Ordinance Review Committee and we were talking about how there was not something in the code that prevented an owner from just getting back on the wait list if a business license was revoked. So we were recommending a cooling off period. So we came up with this and we did not want to unduly punish a new owner. So we did. And
 Offer the recommendation if there's a new owner They can reapply under the same conditions and with approval and with that I'll take any questions. What questions we have Thank You mayor, you know I was in some of those meetings and this did not this did not come to my my mind at the time But I'm wondering what is to prevent an owner that has his had his or her license revoked and
 from joining, creating a new LLC, would that membership or that ownership be disclosed or be able to be identified? Kind of asking you, Ted. Oh, well, of course, as you're aware, because I think you were the author of it, we have a landlord registry
 And if you own a short-term rental, you must be on that. And you must have an agent. So I think that we probably are going to be able to come up and figure out what's going on if something like that would happen. And if the transfer is attempted to another entity like a new LLC, they can only do it with the approval of the Development Services Director. And so I'm sure Donovan will keep a heavy eye on this and make sure that those shenanigans won't be allowed.
 Mr. Mayor, if I can add to that. Jonathan Currit, Development Services Director. I think that was the express intent of adding that passage to it to add that extra layer of review so that you couldn't just go from a private entity to an LLC to an LLC to a shell corporation to whatever it may be. So that staff could, as we often do with these applications, review the Secretary of State information to see who the registering agents were and if there's consistent members that are associated with
 bad acting with these licenses we have the authority to not allow them to even apply for a license within that one year timeline. Thank you. I'm glad you all thought of that. So I appreciate it. Okay. Any other questions? Okay. Well let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public. In my line of work that kind of scared me. Anyway.
 Scared, that's what my granddad would say. How much fun was that? I mean... Okay, don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address.
 That was present the chamber bill out to speak first those this being was in speak after that Who would like to address this that's in the chamber tonight? No, sir, okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council This is an ordinance what discussion with the council like to have or what? What action would the council like to take motion? We suspend the rolls and go to the second reading
 Second. Second. OK. We have a motion and a second to go to the second. Brady Karabich, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 in order to amend section 11803 suspension and revocation of business license of the fail city code to address the revocation of business licenses for short-term rentals motion we suspend the rules and go to the third reading i have a question before we do the third reading so um so in the ordinance review when you were playing when you were talking about this you're thinking of uh
 revoking of a license would be for any reasons, right? Like anything that you would get your, like, you know, excessive complaints and things like that. Is that how you came to this?
 Yes, and I'm happy to offer some context. I was asking that up. And it's not just complaints, it's also administrative issues. For example, if somebody doesn't submit the proper paperwork, as an example, right now we're going through a property where they are no longer the permanent occupant of that household. They're no longer claiming a homestead credit. So we've engaged with them that we're likely revoking their license as a part of that.
 I think what this was intended to be is, I think when we talk about the discretionary piece that has been granted to me with this is, if it was for something administrative like that, not a complaint, if a subsequent property owner was to come in and petition for a license on that particular property, that's when we would be allowed that discretionary consideration. Was it revoked because they're no longer the homeowner or was it revoked because they had a party every single Saturday and had police calls regularly? Okay, great, great, thank you. Certainly, then Mayor.
 I might add also, I think it was pretty clear. It's not the city's goal to be going out, you know revoking people's business lives We wanted to conform but we felt like we needed some teeth to the to the to the Corrected measures second Yeah, we have a motion in a second go to the third and final reading here, which police called row Hertzberg Yes Stafford yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Leiter? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. In Ordinance of Amend, Section 118.03, Suspension and Revocation of Business License of the Fayetteville City Code to address the revocation of business licenses for short-term rentals. All right. We're on the final reading. What final comments do we have in the council? Anything? Okay. Everybody, please call the roll.
 herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes yes yes yes yes yes okay let's go on number two an ordinance to amend 169.03 review and or permits required exceptions on chapter
 Exceptions on Chapter 169, physical operation of land of the Unified Development Code to require permits for the placement of more than six inches of mulch and compost kit. Whereas the Ordinance Review Committee recommends approval of an ordinance requiring a grading permit for the placement of more than six inches of mulch or compost. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, I hereby repeal section 16903B, grading permit required, and enact a new subsection B as follows. Quote, subsection B, grading permit required.
 Unless exempted by Section 169.03 , all grading, clearing, filling, including the placement of mulch or compost, excavation, land alteration of any kind, or construction of new impervious area greater than 10,000 square feet, shall require 1 prior development approval as specified in Chapter 166,
 except for general grading to an existing developed site that does not impact trees or floodplain and does not significantly alter the natural landform. Number two, a grading permit pursuant to this chapter. And three, an Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality stormwater construction permit and incorporated stormwater pollution prevention plan if required by state law.
 Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkshire hereby enacts a new exception for mulch and compost used in landscaping and gardens in Subsection C-5 as follows. Subsection E-5. Placement of mulch, compost, topsoil, or like material at reasonable depths of 6 inches or less for purposes of creating or enhancing landscape beds, gardens, or lawn areas in accordance with accepted best practices and industry standards for such areas.
 This is me again. Ordinance review's been busy. This came out of a couple, well actually many, neighbors' complaints about excessive mulch on properties that have been contributing to tracking onto the street and some issues with stormwater management. And so we were trying to figure out what would be the best place to put an ordinance like this.
 to ensure that excessive mulch would not have a negative impact. And so this is where we decided to put it, and this is what we have come up with and are here to recommend to the council tonight. Okay. Thank you. What questions do we have? Bob? Yeah, just a general question. This all sounded pretty good. It seems like you guys put the due diligence into it and worked it out, and I just want to make sure that we consider that,
 And it sounds like we did that this isn't going to unduly infringe on someone who's doing like legitimate landscaping work on their yard and you know like maybe they need a big thing of mulch dumped off and it takes the workers you know time to
 place at all this this won't this won't harm anybody that way will it and i don't know if this is somebody on ordinance review holly or i can take that yeah that was something that we had discussed and um i think one of the fail-safes is the complaints driven piece and so i don't think that someone who's just doing landscaping would have the generative complaints that would require a review
 Anybody else on Ornette Trivia, if you guys have any other comments, please feel free to fill in. Thank you, Holly. Yeah, I would agree. This, you know, the one hesitation we had on this is this is really over one complaint over, but it's an excessive, I mean, it's a very unusual complaint.
 And that was one of the challenges trying to figure out how to navigate that. So that it is complaint driven, but we did give a clarification on landscaping and such. Okay, awesome. Thank you. Okay, anybody else? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic. Just give us your name and address.
 those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating with them will speak after that who would like to address on this topic is in the chamber have anybody on zoom no sir all right i'm going to bring it back to the council i would move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading
 we have a motion the second to go the second read care which please call the row herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes yes yes
 yes in order to amend section 169 oh three review and or permits required exceptions in chapter 169 physical alteration of land of the Unified Development Code to require permits for the placement of more than six inches of mulch and compost I would move to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading motion second to go to the third and final read it's bad
 yes Stafford yes Jones yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes in order to amend section 169 o 3 review and or permits required exceptions in chapter 169 physical alteration of land of the Unified Development Code require permits for the placement of more than six inches of mulching compost any final comments from the council
 All right. Caravans, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Okay, number three. A resolution of intent to implement the recommendations of the 2024 user fee study, including a full cost recovery model established
 establishment of the master fee schedule and annual adjustment jonathan thank you mayor allow me a moment there we are thank you mayor i am before council tonight recommending approval of a resolution of intent to implement the findings and recommendations of our user fee study uh
 Before diving into the details, I want to again thank Council for your time and attention last Tuesday at agenda session while I presented some of the history and the details that went into this study. As a quick summary and as a good reminder, these are user fees, these are not impact fees that we're talking about. If it's helpful for me to define those again, I certainly will.
 As another piece of summary, we have generally not touched a lot of our fees since about 1998 when the city adopted a unified development code and many of those fees were initially enshrined. Some have been touched since then. The council has seen those periodically or there are new fees where items like short-term rentals come into existence. But by and large, these fees have remained largely untouched.
 As for the fee itself, I touched on the scope of it. It's multi-departmental, multi-divisional. I touched on the methodology of it, which again, I can go into in detail. But for the purposes of tonight, I would like to go and spend my time before council to discuss the findings and recommendations of that study again.
 The foundation of this study is based on three data points. The first is the full cost of services. That includes not just staff times, staff time, the benefits we receive, also the equipment that we need to do our jobs and the services we receive from other city departments.
 Revenue is exactly what it sounds like. For the purposes of this study, we use the most current revenue. That's the 2023, 2024 data, the application fees, the permit fees that we've received for a multitude of class of projects from building permits to grading permits, to water taps, to rezoning applications.
 And then finally, the current subsidy is the difference between those two. With that, what does it look like? Taking all the staff involved in development review, extending from planning to engineering to building safety to business licensing to utility department to the fire department, it's about $4.8 million that we as a group cost the city.
 What we brought in in 2023 and 2024 was about $2.7 million, a little bit shy of $2.7 million. That leaves us with a subsidy of $2.1 million that is not being paid for by the applicants who have requested these services. If percentages help put that in better terms, we're covering just over half of what would cost the city as a group.
 Looking at that in a more divisional and departmental perspective, this varies all the way from fire on the low end where many fees are not being charged right now today up through planning, water, sewer and engineering that recover about 20 to 25% of our cost to the city to building safety which has historically been the driver of our permit fees which recovers almost 80%. This brings us to recommendations.
 There are five main ones that staff is proposing with this resolution that we would like to move forward with should the council approve it. One, and first and foremost, is to implement a full recovery model, a full cost recovery model. The second is to adjust our user fees annually. The second is to perform a user fee evaluation to establish a new baseline every three to five years.
 Finally, restructuring of the development fees outside of ordinance so that they can be modified on an annual basis without having to go through codification every time. That would take the form of a fee schedule. Starting with the first of these, what it looks like to implement a full cost recovery model. It's predicated on the philosophy that the people who are asking for these services, who are making these applications, are the ones that are driving the need for them.
 In that sense, staff recommends that they be the ones who bear the cost of those. I mentioned this at the agenda session presentation and to be completely even handed with it, there are multiple philosophies of how you think about it. There's also the argument that you all may have heard that these codes or these standards are required by the state or by the city and as a result they should absorb some of those costs because that makes us a better place.
 Other reasons to consider a full cost recovery model and why staff is strongly recommending it is that low fees or fees that are artificially low can induce a demand. A lot of the applications that the planning commission sees, the staff sees, that the city council sees occur not because that's what the city wants to see, but because that's the path of least resistance. I think my favorite example is our variance process. A variance is a request anytime somebody doesn't want to meet our standards.
 Up until recently, when we were able to modify it somewhat, we were charging $25 every time someone did not want to meet our standards. That's a very low bar to try to encourage somebody to meet our standards. In fact, it seemed to be an easier move for a lot of developers and a lot of applicants to pursue a variance rather than to try to make the effort to meet our standards.
 Another consideration for our full cost recovery model is that it affords more targeted incentives. Right now, everybody who applies with the City of Fayetteville receives some sort of incentive. I think some of the examples I gave at Agenda Session include luxury housing, it includes gas stations, some of the land uses that I think have caused some angst to our community in recent months and recent years.
 They are all receiving subsidies just as affordable housing is receiving subsidies, just as market rate housing, some land uses that we have said as a community we want to prioritize. By pursuing a full cost recovery model, we can more readily target where we want to incentivize or what we want to incentivize with that.
 A fifth point is that pursuing a full cost recovery model allows reinvestment in the staff that performs development review. This speaks directly to much of the feedback I get from the development community when I talk about fees with them. It's definitely in the realm of anecdote, but the consistent response I hear when I talk about increased fees with our developers is you couldn't charge me enough to get my project approved faster. That's a
 a synopsis, but that is generally what I hear from people. If they can get permits faster, reviews faster, questions answered faster, our permits could definitely have room for growth.
 And finally, a prominent concern for staff is that alternatives to a full cost recovery model are not data driven. This is all based on mathematical equations that we've worked with our consultant to develop. Anything less than that could be perceived as arbitrary. If we break a number out of the sky, some percentage of what a full cost recovery model could be.
 Moving on to other recommendations, I mentioned a moment ago the adjustment of user fees annually. The fact is that this is an uncomfortable conversation and by tying our user fees to a consumer price index or some other metric, that allows the fees to flow with time as well so that we're not having to revisit this every few years.
 The fact is that as I noticed, a lot of our fees were adopted in the late 90s and costs have gone up. Our development standards have gotten more complicated. Our labor costs, as you see highlighted here, have gone up about 72% since, sorry, that should be 2005, not since 200. And without making those changes regularly, we get further and further behind. So that when I come before you all with this conversation and the proposal that's in your packet,
 It gets more and more jarring the longer it's deferred. But with that in mind, a second piece of that recommendation is to perform a formal user fee study every three to five years. That affords council who serves in four-year terms to consider a new baseline if we feel like these fees are actually a reflection of what our community goals are, if there are opportunities to incentivize different types of development as appropriate.
 Getting more into the nitty-gritty of the recommendations, staff is also proposing restructuring our development fees and establishing a fee schedule.
 A lot of what you may have seen in the user fee study is the elimination of fees or the combination of fees. There are a lot of fees that we have that, as I keep noting, have existed since the 1990s. Our development patterns have changed, our city land use priorities have changed, and it doesn't make a lot of sense to have fees broken out in a lot of cases. Sometimes they should be combined for not just staff sufficiency purposes, but also for the benefit of an applicant who can look at a fee schedule more readily understand what is happening.
 With that in mind, a second component of that is to establish a fee schedule that is codified in the sense that it's observed within our development code, but the schedule itself lives outside of the development code so that it can be updated according to an index of some manner without having to be treated as an ordinance amendment each and every time.
 Finally, this brings us to a question of implementation. As I shared in agenda session, the next step if Council chooses to adopt this resolution is to begin drafting an ordinance. We wanted to revisit with you all. Despite your approving of the user fee study contract, we wanted to revisit you all and let you know what the findings were before going through the work of drafting an ordinance if this is not the direction Council wants to go. There's still a significant amount of work ahead of staff and we want to recognize your policy direction as a part of that.
 how it would roll out if the resolution is adopted. It could look two different ways. It could be that we adopt all these new fees at their proposed rate,
 Day one, what staff recommends however is a stepped implementation that benefits or that has potential benefits for our development community to be less jarring. What we propose is about a 33% increase to our fees for three years straight until we are at cost recovery. So one-third, one-third, one-third. And then finally that this would all begin with the budget year for simplicity and alignment's sake, January 1st, 2025. Okay.
 And lastly, I wanted to follow up on Council Member Byrne's question at the agenda session about regional peers.
 He posed the question, what are our neighbors doing or not doing as the question went maybe. If you didn't have an opportunity to hear at agenda session, generally we are a higher price than a lot of our neighbors, but we're also more staffed. We have more thorough development standards or more mature development standards than a lot of communities. And the fact is Fayetteville usually leads in a lot of these areas.
 That said, oh, am I out of ten minutes? You're out of time. They'll have to give you some more time. I'd like to go ahead and give him one minute, please. How much? One minute, please. All right. With that in mind, I had the opportunity to speak with both Bentonville and Rogers since agenda session. Rogers is undergoing their adoption of a development code at their planning commission tonight. A piece of that is to pursue full cost recovery for the very minimum of their planning application.
 we're not alone in this it reflects the development tensions in the region and bentonville is also exploring pursuing a user fee study as well with that thank you very much i appreciate the additional time i'm sorry for running over reuben revis our consultant from mgt is online and available for questions that i can't answer and all the department heads whose staff are represented here in this study are also present in case you have specific questions thank you so much okay what questions does the council have
 Scott? Jonathan, I should have thought to ask this question the other day, but have you taken into consideration an analysis of development today and what we project this resolution, what the cost would be with the new resolution?
 Are we to that point yet? No, we're not. All the numbers that are in the study that were provided to you are the proposed fees. I think that is a scenario I think we could project. But I think it does bear mentioning, and I think I failed to mention it tonight.
 What I'm discussing, these fees tonight, is what it costs to meet our current expense. So I know it could put a glimmer in your eye to think about these increased costs as potential to increase staffing or to increase resources. This dollar amount gets us to where we are today. What are the questions we have? Okay, well, let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber? Yeah, good evening, Mayor. Blake Jorgensen with Jorgensen Associates. I just found out actually about this.
 this proposal from Stacy. He emailed me today just asking about my general comments as a developer and engineer in the community and I do want to just basically agree with the staff that yeah fees do need to be increased. We're not any of my developers are not opposed to an increase in fees. It is simply what can we do
 How can we collaborate with the city to get our projects approved faster? It is never about the fees. It is always about the time. How much staff support does the city have to direct their attention to projects? So it may be unpopular from my clients for me to come in here and say this, that we're OK with increased fees.
 But I promise you, every one of my clients would echo and say, if I can get my project turned around two months quicker, let's go for that. The only thing that I guess, you know, I just I know the staff works really hard and we we submit projects and it's a two week turnaround. They do their best to turn that project around two weeks, you know.
 And if this allocates more funds to have more staff, that's great. If it just gives the staff an equal playing ground, I just want to say from the development community, we support this, or at least I do. And I commend Jonathan and his staff and what they do every single day. So I know I just found out about this today and
 I appreciate Stacey sending this to me. So thanks for all the city council does and the city does. So thanks a lot. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Anybody? Who you got on Zoom? No one's on Zoom for this topic. Okay. Well, I'll bring this back to the council. This is a resolution. So yes, Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I appreciate Mr. Jorgensen's comments. Thank you.
 Nationwide municipal fees for development projects end up being about 2 to 2.1% of the cost of the project for the developer, which is less than you pay framers to frame a house, to be perfectly honest with you. So municipal fees are not an exorbitant cost to projects. I worked for a municipality that experienced a 250% increase in fees
 and people lined up to pay those fees because of the reduction in turnaround time that those fees were linked to, which was shocking and surprising to us. But the answer that we heard over and over again was that your fees are not the cost to the project, time is the cost. We need to convert our construction loans to traditional mortgages for this commercial building or this residential building and that that's where the real expense is.
 So I am extremely supportive of the research that went into this. I'm supportive of staff for handling this project. I'm supportive of anything that we can do that builds the horsepower in the engine that services the people that wish to build in our community. And that's part of our economic development model. It's a part of our housing model. And so I applaud staff for pursuing this and thank you.
 Okay, Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. I echo Mike's comments. I applaud staff for working on this. I think we should have full cost recovery. I know you all are overworked and you need additional staff and we need to catch up and really have this not be subsidized, not the public subsidizing development. So thank you all for working so hard on this.
 Scott so what point Jonathan do you determine are we going all in are we going in in stages on the on the increase what's if there's not different discussion on tonight staffs recommendation and intent is to move forward with a one-third implementation over the next three years and in consideration for city attorneys letter about the 100%
 what is, you know, sounded like he did not feel like we needed to go the full 100%. What's your response to that?
 Mr. Williams would have to speak to if that's more of a legal concern or more of a personal perspective from his experience when he was on council in the 1990s. We very much calibrated our fees to not exceed that full cost. I think if you look at the numbers, the vast majority of them, unless they're associated with some manner of penalty, fell below the 100% cost recovery because we wanted to be certain that we weren't playing with legal fire, if you will.
 You want to pop in? Well, of course, I haven't looked at their study, but when they said 100% cost recovery, I know they're looking at many, many, many factors. And experts can sometimes disagree over the weight of certain factors, the cost of certain factors. And that's why, just from a legal perspective, I think it's good to have a little leeway at the top so that it'd be less likely that anyone could ever challenge the fees.
 So that, you know, if you're shooting, you have 95% cost recovery, then you've got a 5% leeway there that they'd have to prove that we exceeded that, which would be much, much more difficult to prove than when you say we're getting 100%. And if we just had one thing wrong, then we're getting more than 100%. Once you get more than 100%, it turns into a tax. And so that's why I like a little leeway just to be kind of careful.
 If it is being adopted one-third, one-third, one-third, we won't get to 100% for two more years at least. So it wouldn't change the first increase. But I am nervous about trying to go all the way to 100% because experts can disagree over what should be included in there and how much then cost recovery really should be. So that's my legal concerns.
 Bob, were you, or Mike? Oh, thank you, Mr. Mayor. I think that if we look back at the city council that was cited by the city attorney, which obviously are forefathers from the late 1990s,
 And we look at the data that says we've had just the salary cost increase of 72% since 2005. And you back that up another, let's just say seven years. If you're looking at labor costs of 80% greater than we're collecting, it would seem to me that that gold standard city council from the late 1990s
 just recouping labor and not technology, not fuel prices, not vehicle cost to service inspectors, any of that, that you're pretty safe looking at significant increases of even 80% just to recoup labor. So I have great respect for his opinion. I think that the math bears out this. While I would prefer going there with one increase, I'm not opposed at all to phasing it in.
 All I would ask is that if you phase it in, then in year three it would be nice if we have a moving target because cost increases are going to go up during year one and year two. We'll be perpetually chasing the tail unless we would say at year three we actually propose to get fairly close to cost recovery. And that's not a hill to die on, that's just a...
 wish list I would leave that to staff and the consultant to work out and the folks that are here in two years can Can deal with that? Thank you. Well, I think Mike I
 pointed out one of the issues i was concerned about or had a question about is that three-year implementation by the time we get the year three like what are we basing that number on and like mike said are we continually chasing our tail like because at year three we've had inflation and now we're still not up to speed we're still not at 100 of the third year so how would that
 Thank you for the question. I think that gets into the matter of the adopting an index that the fees would be associated with so that they would be able to adjust with those annual changes as well. Is that it? Yeah. Okay. And, you know, to Kit's point, I don't know, 5% seems a little big to me. I mean, I would like to see closer to full cost unless you really think there's a danger that we'd be encountering.
 By whose metric we're using to figure out what full cost actually is. But I think it's perfectly reasonable to count in things like the equipment, the technology, the other costs involved.
 Well, as I said, there will be no danger if you do one-third, one-third for at least three years. It would be when you would have the final year, the first time you could come close to potentially charging more than what we should be charging. Or what another expert might try to say is you're including too many costs here and so you're really, you're overcharging because you're including too many costs into these
 Fees so that's not going to happen at least for three years at that point in time. I still like to have a cushion Just if nothing else to avoid any challenge because they'll see if we have you know Even a reasonable question like five percent or three percent or whatever that's going to give us a lot of Protection if someone ever decided to come after us and try to sue
 Okay, I think I'd be willing to have a 2 or 3% cushion, seems reasonable. But it seems like that's something we could also approach in that third year. Yeah, okay, great. And I do, just to bring up what the developer spoke about is like, yeah, when you're in construction, I mean, time is money. And the longer something takes, the more it costs.
 And so I think it's great. And Jonathan mentioned that, you know, we're just looking at getting to where we're getting full recovery. And that's not going to be extra money to hire a new staff person. But what we have to realize is just by getting up to full recovery, we're going to have a lot more money left over that we haven't had that maybe does equal an extra staff person or two. So just another thing to consider.
 Jonathan, how many building permits are we looking at this year? If I could be allowed a moment, I can give you the second quarter numbers. We have issued 860 permits through the second quarter compared to last year with 625 permits. Now, I want to bring that to everybody's attention because they need some help in this department.
 I mean, he's churning out how many that there happen to deal with in the course of just a few months. And what I hear from developers is that, hey, mayor, it takes forever to get stuff through the staff. And, you know, I don't have as much problem with extra fees as I do the amount of time it takes to get a project going. So every day that they have to wait, it costs them, I don't know,
 Like, do you have, say, a number? Yeah, I think it depends on the project and the interest and the loan and all that. Give me a number. But it's so much a day it's costing them. And whatever they have to pay in extra fees probably will not amount to whatever it costs them to have to wait two or three weeks extra or whatever it takes because we're short-handed. Now, I believe that if we do this, that we're going to be able to churn out projects faster. And time is money.
 for them and for us because you're going to be hearing how long it takes because we're really people are really wanting to build and we really want to accommodate some of that so that's just my two cents worth teresa
 thank you mayor i just wanted to bring us back this is a resolution of intent right jonathan so the next time we see it if we if we pass the resolution of intent which sounds like we're very supportive of you'll have the idea about kind of the cushion what percentage that might be or if there is a cushion
 You'll have sort of an idea of what kind of index you may tie the increases to. And then do you have an idea of when we might be able to see an ordinance or a change, a final change? That's a good question. I was discussing with legal what their capacity looks like to work with us on something like that. I would like to see it changed.
 I should under promise over deliver here. I would think it would probably be around September is when it would come back. I think the fees are largely as written in the study that came to you, which includes percentages. Granted, the most easily seen ones are on a divisional level. So if you take them all together,
 what we're proposing when we say full cost recovery is 96%. So there is actually a 4% cover there, if you will. That varies a little bit by division, but that's the overall percentage.
 And then yes, I think that's an excellent point, Council Member Turek. This will not be the last time you see it. You'll be seeing the nuts and bolts of it when it comes forward again, what it looks like incorporating exemptions or waivers, kind of like we have in code today for certain projects, homeless shelters, capital A affordable housing projects, things like that that we think are important to continue keeping incorporated in there, which are ultimately policy decisions for you all to make.
 great thank you so much certainly um i i would like to make a motion that we approve the resolution of intent second second the motion second to pass resolution any final comments oh yeah okay please call the rope herzberg herzberg stafford yes yes and yes jones
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Barnum? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Dirk? Yes. Okay. All right. Let's go on to number four. Thank you all, by the way. An ordinance to approve Vacation 24-04 for property located at 4861...
 North Maple Grove Drive in Ward 3 to vacate a 312 square foot portion of general utility easement. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of a general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Memo, Section 2. A copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's Memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk and Number 3, Section 3. This vacation approval is subject to the condition that any damage to or relocation of any existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense.
 okay jonathan thank you mayor i'm continuing to have some technical difficulties i apologize well i will start verbally and see if i can get the presentation to catch back up with you uh this property is in north east fayetteville uh it's uh just shy of a mile east of the lake fayetteville park and botanical gardens of the ozarks
 The property is at the southwest corner of Bluestone Drive and Maple Grove Drive and was planted, excuse me, the home was built in 2010 with a utility easement along the western property line. As the request before council tonight as it relates to this property is to vacate about .01 acres, about 312 feet of the utility easement that's on the west property line to accommodate a pool's construction.
 The applicant has submitted all the required utility consent forms with no particular concern expressed by any of those franchises. Accordingly, staff is recommending in favor with but one condition of approval, and that's that if there's any damage to any of the facilities in that easement, it will be at the property owner's expense. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. Mayor Bruce Montgomery is the applicant for this item. Mayor Weill. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 Yeah, 10 minutes. No, no, come on up. Okay, yeah, I'm sorry. Bruce Montgomery, the resident here. We were submitting our request to vacate this property just so that we could have, we probably have what you would consider a thin, shiny backyard, and we needed some additional space to be able to place a pool in the backyard, and that was the reason for our request.
 Do we have any questions for the applicant or staff? Thank you. Thank you. All right. Let's take some public comment then. I didn't press my button quick enough. I'm sorry. Jonathan, this question.
 utility easement is not being used currently? There is a gas line deeper into the utility easement, but Black Hills only comment was that they wanted to ensure that they had adequate width adjacent to that easement, which they are receiving with this request. So when their consent and their consent letter, they noted that they had a facility in there and that they feel like they're comfortable vacating the smaller sliver of the easement. Okay, awesome, thank you. Anything else? Mayor, I've not heard any opposition to this at all since it's from Ward 3.
 I haven't either. Not a word. Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating in the Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber?
 anybody owns that no sir okay go bring it back to the council this is an ordinance what's the wishes the council move to suspend the rules go to the second reading second have a motion second to go to the second read care which please call the row herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes yes yes yes yes
 Yes. In order to approve the AAC 24-4 for property located at 4861 North Maple Grove Drive in Ward 3, vacate a 312 square foot portion of general utility easement. I make a motion to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and second to go to third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. And Orange approved BIC 24-4 for property located at 4861 North Maple Grove Drive in Ward 3 to vacate a 312 square foot portion of a general utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Carriage, please call the roll.
 herzberg stafford yes jones yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes thank you all let's go number five an ordinance to approve vacation 24-13 property located at 653 west 15th street in ward 1 to vacate a
 0.09 acre portion of sewer easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of sewer easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of sewer easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk and Section 3. This vacation approval is subject to the condition that any utility relocation associated with this easement vacation must be approved and completed as required by the City of Fayetteville. Okay. Jonathan?
 Thank you, Mayor. This project is in South Central Fayetteville in Ward 1. It includes about three acres of land that is just south of 15th Street between Van Buren Avenue to the west and Dunn Avenue to the east.
 Although it is currently undeveloped, it is under review for a 152-unit residential development. The request before Council is to vacate about 0.09 acres of an existing water and sewer easement that is crossing the property diagonal from the northwest to the southeast to accommodate the proposed building.
 The only issue that staff has identified is the fact that that easement currently has a sewer line in it. Accordingly, and you may have heard Mr. Williams note the one condition of approval that staff has noted, is that that line has to be abandoned and relocated. If you can see the faint dash green line, which is the new proposed alignment, and have that dedicated within easement before this vacation is to take place.
 With that in mind staff is recommending approval with that condition and I'm available for any questions and Mayor Jay Young this year as the applicant For the item. Thank you. Okay, dad can like speak for the council you have 10 minutes. Thank you mayor council members This property is an approved large site plan. It is currently under construction. We have already relocated the new sewer as past initial testing and we're getting ready to do the camera testing next week and
 The easement plat to dedicate the new easement has been submitted to the city and is going through the city review at this time. If there's any other questions, I'm happy to answer if I can. Okay, any questions for the applicant or the staff from the council? Okay, thank you. Thank you. Alright, let's take some public comment then.
 have you all had heard anything from anybody i haven't heard anything from anyone have not heard anything okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zone will speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber on this
 on zoom no sir okay we're bringing back to the council this is an ordinance move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second you get that care okay we have a motion to second to go the second reading would you please call the roll Hertzberg Hertzberg she's trying I think councilmember Hertzberg must be having some technical difficulty Stafford yes Jones yes
 Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. The charge approved, BAC 24-13, properly located at 653 West 15th Street in Ward 1, to vacate a nine hundredths of an acre portion of a sewer easement. I'd like to suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Second. I motion second to go to the third and final reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Stafford yes Jones yes more yes Yes, yes Yes, yes And your orange approved the AC 24-13 for property located at 653 West 15th Street Ward 1 to vacate a 9 hundredths of an acre portion of a sewer easement Any final comments from the council here? Would you please call the roll? Hertzberg
 Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Furnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay, let's move on to number six. An ordinance to approve vacation 24-11 property located east of
 1074 East St. Street Ward 3 to vacate a .66 acre portion of general utility easement. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454
 104. To vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo.
 Section 2. A copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached as exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3. That this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1. Any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the owner-developer's expense. And number 2. Any conflicting water or sewer lines must be relocated and accepted by the City of Fayetteville. Okay. Jonathan? Thank you.
 Thank you. This request takes us to northeast Fayetteville. It is immediately northeast of the University of Arkansas satellite campus. And although this aerial image does not show it, it is a property that straddles the newest extension of Sainte Street crossing Mud Creek, just east of College Avenue as it connects north to Joyce.
 The property is currently under construction, largely below grade with a lot of earth and dirt work going on, but running concurrently with that is a certain amount of due diligence on the property, which has resulted in the City Council becoming
 very familiar with it over the last year or two. Now this is not the first request of this nature the council has seen. I believe this is preceded by at least one right-of-way vacation and one easement vacation. And there is very possible that there may be one additional right-of-way vacation request coming on its coattails, just so you are advised.
 As to what this specific request is, it includes a proposal to vacate about two-thirds of an acre of unused utility easement that predates the new alignment of Sainte Street, which you can see much more clearly in the 22-24 aerial imagery, which I've juxtaposed there next to the development proposal, which includes several multifamily buildings adjacent to Sainte Street and further into their respective properties.
 In evaluating the request, we have not, we've only received consent from all the utilities and have not identified any issues of concern. Accordingly, we are recommending approval of the proposal. I do have only one condition listed here, although there are two. This, of course, the one on screen, which is that the damage and relocation of any existing facilities will be at the developer's expense.
 but also that any conflicting water and sewer lines must be relocated and accepted by the city of Fayetteville before the vacation takes effect. That's in response to the ongoing development of this area as lines and drainage easements and drainage ways are being relocated as it moves forward. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. And Mayor, the applicant on this item is Cody Sexton, and I believe he is online. Okay.
 Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. There we go. Hello, this is Cody Sexton with Loon Associates, representing the Trail Zone and Creek Development.
 As was stated, these utility easements are merely obsolete easements that were never actually developed with the previous alignment of Sainte Street. That alignment of Sainte Street itself has already been vacated. New utilities are currently under construction throughout the project, and new utility easements have been...
 added with easement plans that city staff has been involved in the development with and that are currently on their way to being recorded. Okay, any questions for the applicant or the staff? Bob? A question for the staff. Jonathan, do we need to amend the ordinance to add the requested conditions?
 No, that was simply a failure on my presentations drafting part. The legal department correctly represented it in the ordinance, so it's captured. Oh, it's all in there? Yes. Great. Thank you. You all heard anything? Okay. All right. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber tonight? Okay. There's no one on Zoom has their hand raised. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What is the wish of the council? Mayor, I move that the spending rules go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Everybody please call the roll.
 Hertzberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Edeker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. In order to approve the AC 24-11 for properly located east of 1074 East Sain Street in Ward 3, to vacate about a two-thirds acre portion of a general utility easement.
 mayor moved to spend rules go third and finally second yeah take care okay we have a motion second go to the third and final reading care which police call row herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 In Orit's approved the AC 24-11 for property located east of 1074 East Sain Street and Ward 3 to vacate About a two-thirds acre portion of a general utility easement any final comments from the council here Would you please call the rolls Hertzberg? Yes, Stafford. Yes Jones. Yes More yes Yes, Arna. Yes, yes
 okay yes okay let's move along number seven an ordinance rezoned the property described in rezoning petition rzn 2024-24 for approximately 27.77 acres located at 3145 east joyce boulevard ward 3 from ra residential agricultural to p1 institutional kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, AR Section 1. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, AR hereby changes the zone classification of the property sown on the map and the legal description exhibit be both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA Residential Agricultural to P1 Institutional.
 Section 2 that the City Council of City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This request is in Northeast Fayetteville in Board 3. It includes about 27.77 acres of land immediately east and northeast of the intersection of Crossover 265 and Joyce Boulevard.
 It is a largely undeveloped property and largely agricultural in nature. And as you can see on the aerial image here, the area overlaid in blue, Mud Creek borders it along its southern extent with a floodplain encroaching onto the site or extending onto the property itself.
 The request before council tonight is to rezone the property from its existing RA, residential agricultural designation, to P1, institutional. After a period of due diligence that included consultation with city staff on zoning, floodplain, and general development considerations, Fayetteville Public Schools purchased the property with the intent to build a new public school on it.
 When considering the request from a compatibility standpoint, staff does find it to be so. This is very much a transitional property in the City of Fayetteville. The uses immediately to the west along 265 are fairly intense in nature. There's quite a bit of commercial development.
 residential development under review as well. This, however, to the east is a completely different picture. It begins to, or not begins, it is unincorporated Washington County where you tend to see larger lots and mostly residential uses of nature.
 That said, given both the institutional district more generally and the fatal public school districts intent for the property specifically, staff finds that it can complement both uses, either to the west or to the east, including the property's adjacency to a major intersection and transportation corridor.
 From a long-range planning standpoint, staff finds the request to be consistent. The property's designation is as a residential neighborhood area, which is intended as the name suggests and as I've mentioned to you many times that it's meant to be residential, but it's also intended to include accommodations for services and uses that can accommodate residential uses or serve them better. Staff certainly finds schools specifically and many of the uses allowed in the institutional zoning district to fit that bill.
 Additionally, with the growth concept map designation of Joyce and Cross River as a Tier 2 center, this represents an ideal location to potentially have institutional uses that can benefit that area as it continues or begins to develop. Additionally, as you may have noticed on the previous map, there is a yellow dashed line that goes through the property. That is an indication of a planned city street.
 Joyce in this area has always represented a very challenging alignment as people transition from the city to unincorporated Washington County. Staff finds that their consultations and work with the school district show that this represents an opportunity to incorporate that alignment into their site's design. And so we think what that specific use or the P1 zoning district can accommodate those other long range planning objectives.
 Lastly, it could be said that the infill score is wanting, but the location immediately adjacent to a major transportation corridor suggests that additional consideration for the property's potential contribution to appropriate infill is more than that score may represent.
 Some other issues I wanted to bring to the council's attention. As always, I note the change in tree preservation minimums between RA and P1. It stays the same. It's 25% in either zoning district. Of note, there will need to be some infrastructure improvements with this property. And I think it's fair to characterize the school district's approach to it as very wide-eyed when they were considering this side.
 There is a need to extend sewer to the property in addition to the street improvements or street extension or street or realignment that I discussed shortly ago.
 Additionally, another consideration that the council may benefit from, and if you have the pleasure of attending the council school district meeting earlier this year, it's important to recognize that the school district's boundaries do not mirror the city's boundaries. The school district's boundaries are expansive as far as it goes east to west. They don't have the benefit of being located around something of a core like the City of Fayetteville does. The school district serves all the way to Madison County.
 And so whereas this property, which you can see with the star symbol, may appear to be peripheral to the city of Fayetteville, it certainly is positioned to serve the wider district.
 Lastly, we have received some public comments since the Planning Commission. There was a, appears to be a resident of the county who expressed a desire to see if it was possible to preserve the existing trees on the property in the barn. I think I mentioned at the agenda session, there was a assertion that the barn may have been used in a film and that would ideally be incorporated, but I'm not certain how that can be assured as a part of the ongoing discussions, but it was conveyed to us. So I wanted to make sure you were advised.
 With that all in mind, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously recommending in favor, finding that it was an appropriate school location, and also understanding that there certainly would be some infrastructure improvements needed to accommodate any future development of the site.
 with that I'm happy to take questions and mayor believe blink Jorgensen is the lead applicant on this item but I think I also saw superintendent Mulford here although I don't want to call him out if he's not prepared to speak thank you
 Mr. Shorts, would you like to speak? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. I have 10 minutes. I'll be less than that, I guarantee it. Okay. Jonathan, thank you much for the report. Yes, we're very excited about this project. We've worked with city staff to develop...
 what we are, you know, what we call the Joy Street extension, which is going to vastly improve that intersection as we go from the property and meander back to the east. So we're excited to have a street alignment and a design preliminarily ready to present as a large-scale development, but we'd like to get this rezoning approved before that point and
 We do have plans to preserve the existing barns on the property. We're currently going to do some 3D scanning to get some of the interior portions of the barn. It's basically a point cloud to develop structural integrity so you can try to figure out how to best
 rehabilitate that structure and incorporate it into the public school that we're trying to design right now with Moda Studio. So yes, Dr. Mulford is here and if you have questions for me or him, I'm sure we both be happy to answer them and we thank you all for consideration of this project. Thank you. Dr. Mulford, you have about nine minutes if you'd like to.
 To say a few words before they pepper you with questions. I'll do my best. Excuse my patriotic attire. I do this during the week of the 4th. I have a whole closet my wife only lets me wear this week. So anyhow, I do want to, like Blake said, we do plan to preserve both barns and share them up and use them as outdoor learning spaces, actually, for our students. We do not plan to remove any of the trees on the site.
 And the only thing we plan to remove is the old house that is there. So I'm very excited about the street design and if all goes as planned through the approval process this time next year, that street will be open to the public. And we wanted to have that open before construction started on the school.
 um and kind of get people used to that it does incorporate some street side parking because we're looking at a building that um our leading option is kind of an urban more urban design that aligns with the city's goals there and so we're trying to blend that urban with maintaining the farm and we just think it's going to be a really positive project all around for the city and the school district okay do you have any questions from here what do we have any questions
 Mr. Jordan's and staff on this.
 I have a question I think for staff. I appreciate, first of all, Dr. Mulford, for you preserving the trees and the barns. I think that's really a wonderful opportunity and item. My only concern was that there is that large floodway area kind of to the south and the southeast. And I don't know, since it's a P1 zoning district, if there's any different rules or regulations regarding that floodway area.
 there or not as it relates to the zoning district specifically i think one piece we've benefited from some of the pre-discussions with the school district however is what that street design could look like we've been looking at what some smaller footprint street designs could be and possibly pulled away from the floodplain as well with the potential that the school district could use the other side of the street as some form of outdoor classroom or outdoor space instead of programming it with structures and classrooms but that's
 more in their purview to speak to if they would like to i would add to that the building the building options we're looking at are completely out of the the flood zone component so the only thing that might go through there is the street component which blake can speak to more and then we're looking to preserve the other side of the street
 as outdoor learning spaces with bioswales and different things like that and even potentially, this is still a concept, a walkway from the upper level of the building across the street and down to that area for safe crossing for students and staff to hopefully encourage more use of that in the learning experience.
 that sounds great um i because we have had a lot of complaints about flooding in that in those areas so i'm glad you all are being very cognizant about the use of that area thank you any other questions yes sarah
 I think my question is more for staff. With this location, I saw it designated as residential neighborhood, which looked like that was housing primarily. And so I'm curious if we've been able to get any initial numbers. I know that Joyce was identified with our Vision Zero project as an area to improve, but it was not in this area. And so I'm curious with additional cars and then people possibly on foot, if we've looked at that.
 the number of car difference with a school facility versus what housing options would be in that area? I need to defer to Mr. Brown, our Public Works Director, as far as the Vision Zero and Safe Streets for All program goes. I do know that the school district and Jorgenson Associates is working on a traffic study. They've also worked on another development further to the north, and they're working
 make sure that there's a holistic possible view of what the street improvements, or excuse me, what the street traffic will look like and what improvements would be necessary to that intersection. To this date, I don't believe staff has been given anything to review since we're still more in the zoning stage of things, but I don't know if Mr. Jorgensen has anything to add to that or not. Mr. Jorgensen, do you have something to add? We have a full traffic study performed by Peters and Associates
 And that traffic study is available to anyone. It was presented to the school board and it'll be part of the large-scale development package when we present the Joy Street extension.
 Is that, if you have anything, I'll definitely try to. Just if you have any response, I don't know if they're, the baseline versus what the incremental traffic would be by changing it into a school versus just housing that would have been in the area. I didn't know if you had an answer to that or not.
 I cannot answer what you'd say the incremental value would be more or less, but I can say the level of service, which is how we analyze intersections at Joyce, will be vastly increased from basically a level of service like a D or an E.
 essentially, let's just call it ineffective, that traffic backs up. When we extend Joyce, we're taking that 90 degree turn out of it, and we're going to go basically due east with it. We'll have a mini roundabout in the central part of the project, and then a larger roundabout that connects Valerie and Joyce, and so that is going to help direct traffic both in
 to Valerie, which can be northbound. You can take a service road, which was what we're calling Old Joyce. And then also that mini roundabout will come back into the intersection of Joyce, which has a much more, we have a long, basically a turning queue so that we increase the level of service. So whether it would be residential, school,
 commercial, we're increasing the value of that intersection vastly with this project. Thank you for your response. No problem, thank you. Yeah, I'd just like to back up that the way that intersection is now, where the backside of Signature Bank is really horrible and god awful. And I think that with the new alignment, this is going to be a big improvement with that.
 Thank you, Mayor. I was just going to say that I've not heard any opposition whatsoever in our ward to the plans. I haven't heard anything period about this.
 as a follow-up I didn't know if Chris was able to speak to this or what staff would be appropriate but and would there be with the changes that are happening to the roadway or is there gonna end up with a cost share to the city at this time that we'd be adjusting current projects
 Well, so the Safe Streets for All project is the entire existing Joyce corridor between 265 and College Avenue. Mainly focused on some of the rear end accidents we have and some of the other sections, but we definitely want to look at this entire corridor, make sure that our vulnerable road users are protected and we've got facilities for pedestrians and bicyclists.
 terms of a cost share that is something that the the the school has mentioned has asked about there is a process for that and so that would just have to be discussed as we as we go through ultimately the City Council wouldn't have the the authority to to make that decision thank you Chris anything else okay let's take some public comment then
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic just give us your name and address those press chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this topic have anybody on zoom no sir okay i'm going to bring you back to the council this is an ordinance so which is the council mayor and make a motion there's suspended rules go to second reading second
 motion second to go the second reading care which police called row Hertzberg yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Yes. Batch? Yes. TARC? Yes. An ordinance to rezone the property ascribed in rezoning petition RZN 2024-24 for approximately 27.77 acres located at 3145 East Joyce Boulevard in Ward 3 from RA, residential agricultural, to P1 institutional. Mayor, I make a motion to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and second to go to third and final reading.
 Hertzberg? Yes.
 Stafford yes Jones yes Moore yes Lederker yes Turner yes Fetch yes Turk yes In order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-24 for approximately 27.77 acres located at 3145 East Joyce Boulevard in ward 3 from RA residential agricultural to P1 institutional
 any final comments from council mayor and tonight i wanted to thank the school district for trying to be thoughtful with this plan i know that it is hard to find enough required property to build schools in our area and so i understand that they've had some hurdles in that but tonight i can't be supportive of this project and for a couple of reasons that i want to share with my council members
 I feel like we have a lot of competing priorities. We talk a lot about our sustainability goals. We talk about equity. We've mentioned whether or not we've had chatter in the community. When this property had come up with the school board, there was conversation, especially from our sustainability director
 I'm concerned around equity and around sustainability of how many more children, how many more families, how many more bus miles, individuals, kids we're going to have. We have children that are going to be around the Asbell area, a somewhat lower socioeconomic area that will have to be bussed over to this location. They're going to have more time away from home and on the school bus.
 Additionally, I have concern because of this additional amount of folks that we're putting on the road. We have many goals where we're trying to create that walkability and that livability in certain areas.
 And so I don't know if for that reason, you know, we think about holding tonight. We listen more in the community and see it's summertime. People are not necessarily noticing things that are going on. But for me tonight, I don't feel like this is given the busing, given how far away at this junior high level that these kids that would have the potential for being closer in to where they would be going to school are so much further away that it's a
 great fit at this time to be able to reason that so I'll obviously go forward with if we decide we're voting tonight but I wouldn't be supportive of that yeah I just want to respond I had some concerns seems like overlapping concerns a few months ago when this was first about the magic I discussed this with
 various members of the school board and had a very great long meeting with dr. Mulford I felt my concerns were addressed I don't know if you've had the chance to have those discussions but my concerns were addressed
 we went over the plans in detail the options in detail and why this was the best solution and uh i i believe it is i believe they've done their due diligence um again my my concerns that were somewhat similar were answered and addressed and so i feel confident uh supporting this yes yeah uh i echo what council member stafford has said i've initially had a
 similar reservations, but as always I trust the leadership of our School superintendent and school board and so I'll definitely be supporting this anybody else. Okay care which please call the roll Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes
 yes okay thank you all let's go on to number eight an ordinance to rezone the property described rezoning petition rzn 2024-25 for approximately 1.44 acres located at 4260 west martin luther king jr boulevard in ward one from r.a residential agricultural and ut urban thoroughfare to ut urban thoroughfare kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential, Agricultural, and UT Urban Thoroughfare to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section
 Thank you, Mayor. One moment. There we are. Thank you. This request takes us to southwest Fayetteville, very near the border with Farmington in Ward 1. This is just west of Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard's intersection with Ruppel Road, which you can see on the right side of the aerial image here.
 In 2018, this property received its current split zoning designation with acknowledgement to a significant area of floodplain that encroached into the site or encumbered the site, however you'd like to describe it, up to the point of where you roughly can see the parking lot at the north end of the car wash that was subsequently developed.
 The request from the applicant today following the revision of FEMA maps and their adoption in January of this year is to rezone the balance of the property, which is being the northern half which is currently zoned RA residential agricultural to UT urban thoroughfare to develop
 When considering the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff finds that to be the case. We do find it to be compatible. The property's location on a major state highway, major transportation corridor with several other uses that are consistent with the Urban Thoroughfare Zoning District, whether that's
 automotive uses or strip retail and even instances of residential the ut zoning district can can and does complement that in many ways additionally it begins allowing the land use entitlements that can see the property develop more wholly in the future in ways that complement our long-range planning goals
 which to that point, this property's future land use designation of city neighborhood area is intended to promote a wide spectrum of uses, both residential and non-residential. The Urban Thoroughfare Zoning District does that to a greater extent than any other zoning district in the city, allowing anything from single family homes up through multifamily and on the commercial side, offices, retails, and any number of services.
 When looking at it from an infill standpoint, despite being so close to the edge of the city, it does have an infill score ranging from 5 to 7 depending where you are on the property. It has adequate fire response from the station on Hollywood, access to water, sewer, park, trail, and additionally the new school district middle school is immediately to the north on Ripple Road.
 The main issue to note on this one, which I alluded to earlier, was the change in floodplain on the property. Up till January of this year, the area that you can see in green was associated with the Farmington branch. Since then, the floodplain has been, sorry, I'm losing my terminology, been revised to not include this piece of property. And so it is no longer designated by FEMA as such.
 Accordingly, the remaining major change that will happen as far as ecosystem services as it relates to is that the tree preservation minimum will reduce from 25% to 15% going from RA to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 With those findings in mind, staff is recommending approval. The Planning Commission forwarded the request unanimously in support of it. Their main comment was regarding compatibility with our future land use plans. And to date, staff has received no public comment on the item. And I'm available for any questions. And Mayor, I believe Jared Brummer is online as the applicant for the item. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Here he comes.
 There you are. Can you guys hear me? Yes. My name is Jared Bermer with Club Car Wash. Like Jonathan said, we're just looking at rezoning the back half of the property to match the front half. I'll be around for any questions. Okay. Is there any questions for the staff or the applicant? I just have a thought, and it may be a stupid one, I'm prone to those. So this used to be a floodplain right next to the floodplain now.
 If the applicant makes that impervious surface and we get other development in the area, are we going to therefore add it back into the floodplain? And Jonathan, I don't know if you could answer that or if there's a risk to that or if...
 i think if i if i may rephrase your question back to you to confirm i understood the concern is that if the property is rezoned and developed under some land use allowed there that that will aggravate the flooding or floodplain in the area such that it will increase on other properties or increase back onto the property or other properties yeah if this was turned into impervious surface
 if there's more development in that area, well then we again see the increase in the floodplain.
 That's a difficult question to answer and I'm glad to see Mr. Brown is still here but he's not from our public works department so I'll do my best to answer it. When developing outside the floodplain there are not several of the standards that we typically associate with the floodplain. The most prominent one being that compensatory storage be provided. That's the engineer's way of saying that if you build it in the floodplain and you fill it or displace that water somewhere you have to compensate for it somewhere on your own property.
 So that would not be required with this change because it's not FEMA designated floodplain at this point. What any development would be subject to however, is our drainage criteria manual, which is founded on the premise that pre-development and post-development flows off a property have to be comparable. They will have to rework their existing detention pond that is north of the car wash today to accommodate any additional areas of imperviousness
 And that includes not just issues of particulate matter and capturing stormwater, but also releasing it in a measured way, depending on certain scales of storm events.
 Okay so basically it'll be kind of covered because whatever they do they'll have to make up for the extra drainage that may be caused on site. Yes that's what our drainage criteria is premised upon. Okay perfect. I can't guarantee that the FEMA in five, ten more years will revise in some way if we have a series of storm events that reflect flooding because of upstream or downstream impacts but that's correct. Now you answered my question, thank you.
 what else any other questions or anything good well let's take some public comment have you all heard anything and y'all's ward you haven't heard a single thing okay all right we everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone the public or any council member
 stay on topic please give us your name and address those present chamber allowed to speak first no participating but then we'll speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber on this topic have anybody on zen no sir okay you want to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance what's the wishes of the council i move that we moved i motion that we move to the second reading every second second okay
 we have a motion second to move the secondary carriage please call the roll herzberg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes yes
 fair enough yes yes yes and in order to rezone the property is cried and rezoning petition rzn 2024-25 for approximately 1.44 acres located at 4260 west martin luther king jr boulevard in ward 1 from r.a residential agricultural and ut urban thoroughfare to ut urban thoroughfare
 motion that we move to the third and final reading second motion second go to the third and final read here which please call the roll Hertzberg yes staffer yes yes more yes we did her yes Arna yes yes yes
 in order to rezone the property described in rezoning petition rzn 2024-25 for approximately 1.44 acres located at 4260 west martin luther king jr boulevard in ward 1 from r.a residential agricultural and ut urban thoroughfare to ut urban thoroughfare any final comments from the council care which police call it up arts fair yes
 Stafford yes Jones yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes okay thank you all number nine a resolution to require require the appointment of a renter and an individual who works with renters rights to the housing crisis task force DeAndre
 Excuse me, Mayor Jordan and City Council. This is just, this was, I was bringing this board based on, I've heard from different citizens and from, thank you Scott, thank you so much. And this is just to correct an oversight.
 as it relates to the previous resolution that was brought forth to include a renter to the task force in a renter rights act yes
 Yes, and just to add to what Councilmember Jones shared, just for some consideration, I know there's been lots of back and forth about, you know, we did say seven to 11 individuals, you know, why maybe, you know, add these folks. But understanding, you know, there isn't, I think, presently a renter that's there. I think that has been determined.
 One of the things that happens in clinical research, they use institutional review boards to ensure ethical and safety compliance with respect to the target population being studied. The board typically consists of various experts who weigh in on the issues that are well versed on and can offer feasible solutions. However, it's seen as critical to also include a layperson who is a member of the target population.
 All parties are critical to ensuring the population is properly represented and protected during study design and implementation. So just saying, you know, their role is to represent the affected population in order to make sure to help to avoid potential pitfalls in design planning, ensure ethical decision making. And so, you know, they do this in other areas.
 Boards the way that they're put together just making sure that they do have that viewpoint and just that consideration set of individuals And so this isn't saying, you know, there was an error and how This this committee came together. It's just trying to enhance and trying to make sure that the community at large who did give you know feedback on
 who were a part of putting initial resolution together, and that they're all considered and able to have their viewpoints there sitting at the table in that conversation. And I have to say I got to attend the very first task force meeting, and I want to thank the folks that applied and who are willing to give their time. They had a very robust conversation. There's a lot of energy and enthusiasm, so I'm very excited and think that these roles could be very complimentary to join those individuals.
 I have a question did you say that there is a renter that's on the task force I believe that it was found that there are not renters but I wanted to let someone correct me if they thought that that was incorrect but I believe that there are no renters currently on the task force I don't know we didn't ask for that so
 I saw this blow up a couple weeks ago on Facebook because I guess in in somebody I think maybe it was Scott the other week probably like yeah how do we know that there's no renters and so I asked around some of the people I said on those conversations and I guess somebody just simply went to the County Assessor site and looked up the people on board and they were all homeowners it's it's you know kind of funny to me like
 I was just like surprised because we are a city of renters and I was surprised to just roll the dice. You'd think that just by chance there would be a renter on there. I spoke after I was at the task force meeting, the initial task force meeting, and afterwards spoke to some of the task force members and I think the feeling there because
 blow up on social media for whatever that's worth but you know they I felt that there was a feeling with at least a couple of the members that they do you know just the question of optics and that they would like to be seen as a legitimate and I think they are I mean that that was a great meeting and and everybody on there is highly skilled I was very impressed I think we're gonna be in good shape
 But they were worried that, you know, for themselves, if they were seen as the objects were that somebody from the rural community wasn't there, that that would reflect on them and people would be able to question their legitimacy of it. Just from an optics standpoint.
 You know, first, when this was first brought forward, I was like, do we need a task force? We have all the information. When I saw those people together in that room and the things they talk about and everything that they brought up, you know, I realized, yeah, the answers are out there, but it's going to take a team of people like this to create the solutions for us. But as far as having somebody from the rental rights community or a renter on there, I've had conversations on the Arts Council and on other committees I've been on
 and other nonprofits I've worked with about representation and diversity. And one thing, I'll say the same thing here as I said in those situations, is I could be the most empathetic person in the world. I could be the most understanding person in the world and have great empathy. And I could know the subject. But the one thing I can't do, and I don't believe any of us could do, is speak from somebody else's lived experience.
 And for that reason, I don't think it harms and I do think it could help to have a voice from that community on the task force. And pretty much for that reason, I'll support this. I don't see any harm in supporting it.
 Again, you know, great group of people on there, amazing. I have great hope for what they're gonna bring us and I don't see harm in adding another voice to the table, especially if that voice is representing a community that is not represented on there. Thank you. All right. Sarah, were you, you or Scott? Yes, I was wondering, it was brought up,
 the other night of the possibility of you know maybe subcommittees or you know whatever with you know that work groups and I didn't know if we could if this was something that as the task force they're just starting they're trying to figure out how they're going to do things and what they're going to you know how they're going to set up their process if they could
 on their own, you know, pick hands with people and put together a group or if that was a possibility or we had to stick within those 11 members or does that, does that, do we have to stick with 11 members period but could we branch out into different work groups that maybe are greater than 11 members?
 I think the mayor made it clear to them they could organize how they wish to organize and have subgroups and subcommittees that would represent stakeholders. Right, so that's how they wanted to work. For clarification, I believe... I'm not done yet. Oh, I'm sorry. I just wanted to clarify.
 I don't see anything, you know, looking at the people that are on the committees, I personally don't see anything wrong with adding a Ritter. I think that's, you know, I think it's fair. But I also did read the resolution that we wrote, and we all crafted it here. And you know, the mayor is going to do what we ask him to do. He always does.
 I believe he did in this case and so what happened on social media was just it did blow up and I thought it was kind of unfair and you know not not really realistic because if you read the resolution it doesn't say renter in there and and that's probably an oversight on our part but
 But I don't see anything wrong with adding a renter. But I do think, don't we have someone that represents renters groups already on there maybe? I think so, yes. Yes, I think so. Scott, I'm sorry. Sorry. Scott. Mary, thank you. My challenge to this is, number one, we sit here for years.
 many hours and we negotiated between all of us in good faith to come up with a resolution. We asked the mayor to form a task force. We gave him the parameters in which to form that task force and he did exactly what the resolution asked him to do.
 And I applaud him for that because I think he's got a very diverse group of folks that's very forward thinking and is going to do wonderful work there. My concern with this is, if I remember correctly, and I believe DeAndre or Sarah may have mentioned the group, but there was a group that formed the resolution initially.
 Okay, I believe and I went back and kind of looked through some documents to try to find the name and and I think it's Fable housing action coalition and it editing included I'm looking at this correctly representatives from our Arkansas renters United circles Northwest Arkansas and New Beginnings. So They were the ones that helped craft this I would be interested to know if
 Did that organization recommend anyone for the task force? Can anyone? I can. Okay. We got a list. First of all, I just want to say I tried to follow this to the letter of the law that you all put before me to do.
 I had 99 people that applied. Now you think that would be relatively simple, but by the time you filter through 99 applications and I read them all. So I looked for these categories and we had some of you all were already recommending members for that task force. I'm not going to mention anybody but five.
 of the members of that task force was names that you all recommended to me. Five of them. Or those were mine, I guess you would say. Now what I was dealing with was a compromise resolution, so I certainly did not want it to get tilted one way or the other. So, three members of that task force was a recommendation letter from Billy Cook.
 on behalf of the federal housing action coalition there were so many names i don't know how many there was but three of those names was actually selected for the task force plus the ones that you asked me to i know deandre you had one and theresa you had one and scott you had one holly hersberg had one i can't i can't remember all of them there's about five and all five of those made that
 So, Henry Ho was of course one of my selections and he works with the renter group circles. And he and I have worked together for a long time. He is a very compassionate individual. He knows what it's like to come up poor. He's a good guy. Now I did tell the members, I did let them know,
 that they can add topics and they can add additional expertise and even break down into subcommittees if they choose to do so. That was part of it. Now they want to add, being that the task force was 7 to 11, I landed on 9. If the task force wanted to add two more members then they could do that. Now and I'll tell you, I'll be honest with you, I don't want to pick that round.
 I don't want to do it because since that time, since that meeting, I've had contacts from people that represent senior citizens. Will that be a possibility of a renter person? How about a low income renter person? Will that be the one that you're going to select?
 Mayor, you're going to select a student renter because the majority of the renters in this city are students. Are you going to pick a veteran? Are they going to be single? Is it going to be a guy or is it going to be a woman? I was asked all these questions by these people. I don't feel comfortable, to tell you the truth, unless you all want to give me some sort of parameters. I know you said that I could use the ones that's already available.
 there, and I don't know how many's there, but you're opening up two new positions. And these people, if they get left out, they're going to say, oh, I see, mayor, you picked one of your friends. And I will be honest with you, if we do go this route, I want you all to pick those last two. Now I picked nine, taking whatever heat I had to take for that. And that's okay.
 Because I agreed to do that. But if we're going to add some more people without opening it back up for everybody so everybody can apply, I don't feel comfortable doing that. Just don't. Mayor Jordan. May I finish my thought? So with the answer to the question of did the organization that initially authored the first resolution
 Make recommendations to the mayor and and if so, or any of the recommendations accepted. So they presently have three members on the task force that were part of their recommendations. So I struggle with them now coming back. People saying that renters are not being recognized. Their interests are not being recognized. If that were the fact, then.
 Why did they make the recommendations of the three people that are on the task force? And if that is in fact they want to do that, then should we pull the people that were placed on that task force per their recommendation off to put more renters on? Because are they not getting a disproportionate amount of representation?
 Because like the mayor says if we say we're gonna add renters What's the parameters of the renters we're gonna add? You know are we gonna add when we're gonna add a homeless because they're struggling with Housing too. Are we gonna add I think we have My struggle is we the mayor did what we asked him to do Announce the task force and immediately he was attacked about what was missing Okay
 He's a big boy, he can handle it, but it's unfair. And this task force, just in the first meeting, has impressed everybody. What I don't want to see happening is us micromanaging every move they make and criticizing every move they make. Because if we do that, we're setting them up for failure. We have to allow them to work.
 without having to worry about every move they make is gonna be scrutinized. And I call it governing by Facebook. I don't wanna see that happening. And especially in a situation that is this critical for the community, I think we have to go with who we have, let them work, let them do the subcommittees to bring in interested parties, let them talk to those folks,
 and let them work amongst themselves to hopefully come out with a successful product. So that was my statement. Thank you for that. I don't know who applied for circles or anywhere else. And that's not why I'm here. I'm just simply here to correct an oversight.
 the original resolution to match the true intentions when I look at the Housing Authority there they do have a renter it's mandatory that they have a renter when I've read the qualifications for Housing Authority it says that they have to have a renter now if we if we if we want to leave it up to the task force to
 Appoint a renter, that's fine. But 60% of our population,
 They're renters. Now, we all know that we can't please everyone. And who Circles put and who Billy Cook's group put down, I don't know anything about that. And I'm not reaching for that. I'm just here, and I'm not governing by Facebook. I'm governing by what people have told me and by looking at the numbers that Fayetteville is 60% renters and that representation does matter. And those individuals who are closest to the issues
 who are closest to the problem should be closest to the solution. And I mean, I feel like if I'm going to go ask people to vote for me, they're 60% renters. At some point in time, I'm going to run into a renter. And then I'm going to ask them to vote for me. But then, when it was time to advocate for them to serve on the task force,
 I had issues doing that. I don't that didn't sit right with me So my thing was just correcting an issue that I mean that was the original intent that whole Resolution it from the word go got discombobulated, but that's neither here or there but and
 with circles and with billy cook's group and those names again i don't i can't speak to that i don't know who they put why they put and when they did it all i know is that this is the prop this is something that i'm hoping that we can that we can correct uh if if mayor jordan
 that chooses not to do it that's fine if we are tasked to do it as hopefully it can get done i i don't care who does it as long as we can get representation from the renters that's what i'm advocating for
 how it happens. I'm not, that's not really, that's not what I'm pushing for. I just want it to happen. I found that this could be probably the easiest pathway to bring it to the council, but however we do it, I just hope that it gets done because representation matters and these individuals
 lived experience makes a difference. And I think we all know that. And it's not necessarily about listening to people on Facebook. People talk to me, they reach out to me, they email me, they call me, and they were concerned. And nobody's faulting anyone, it was just an oversight.
 And I believe that we can correct that. And I want to correct that if it's possible. And Mayor Jordan, I wouldn't want to pick that as well. So if we can come up with a way that the task force, if they can pick it, I mean, I don't know, but I'm just hoping that we can get representation for a renter. If you get, let, y'all let me meet with the task, I'm meeting with the task force again on the 24th and we can bring that topic up again. Okay. I mean,
 And I will, but I don't want to be the one to pick a renter. I just don't. So, Mayor, just to keep in mind your feedback up there, we also have Holly, but she came after the three that haven't spoken yet. Go ahead, Holly. No, I was just saying, as you call on people, Holly has her hand raised, but she came after those that are here. Let's hear it. Go ahead, Holly. Holly, go ahead.
 Okay, thank you. I had a question about the original intent of the renter group. What was the original intent for who would be the representative in that category? What's your question? What was the original intent when we were looking at the resolution for forming the task force? What was the original intent for who would be a representative within that?
 Someone who works for category. I'm okay someone who works for Directly with renters the last time I checked circles NWA. They don't that's not a renters rights group they work with poverty when I checked and I can I
 They don't work with renters. Now, when you talk about renters, that would include the groups that Solomon Birchfield, Billy Cook, they work with Arkansas Renters United. And I'm not sure if anyone from those organizations are part, but they don't work, those nonprofits, I don't think that they're represented. But Circles NWA, they are not a renters group. And I know,
 Henry Ho and I know that he has a passion for renters, but Sarah, they're not a renters group, are they?
 Their focus is on anti-poverty, just to clarify. And so their circle leaders oftentimes are renters because they are working their way out of poverty. But they are not housing experts. They don't do, you know, they're learning alongside their circle leaders. So I think that's maybe what we're talking about is their focus is really around poverty and poverty issues. Yes. Circles is a poverty reduction initiative.
 but it's not directly housing. So to answer your question, we were looking at more of Arkansas Renters United, the folks from Seven Hills, the folks who work with New Beginnings, those who work directly with individuals who are impacted by the housing crisis. Thank you.
 I'm sorry who was next? Well Mike go ahead that's easy I could see you tonight Thank You mayor Jordan I want to Appreciate the nine people that are selected for the time they're committing to us. It's a significant amount of time and They are
 appointed to a task force, an ad hoc mayor committee that we call a task force because of expertise, knowledge or experience in the field. They're not just randomly selected. And no, while I didn't recommend anybody, I didn't vet anybody, I'm stunned at the caliber of people that have been appointed, to be perfectly honest with you, and could not be more pleased. So you did a better job than I would have done appointing people.
 I think we forget the foundation, which is we even have a task force because we had resolutions because of renters. And so I think that I don't want to give the false impression that renters have not had a significant amount of influence and impact on this body, and on the resolution that we adopted, and on the task force being created. I'm not aware of any of the nine members that would not be empathetic to renters.
 And I'm not sure that a renter brings any special knowledge. I would love a renter who had developed rental housing is what I would actually like. So I don't want us to conflate need with solution. And so I think we've defined the need. We've defined the housing shortage. We've defined that we want to do something about it.
 If the task force and they have the full authority to bring in people to speak to them on any topic that they choose, I don't see the mayor preventing them from having a renter subgroup that would educate them further if they need it. I think the other thing that I have to remind myself on is that when we define who's an owner and who's a renter, that's a point in time count.
 You know, I had to do the calculation. 60% of my life, I was a renter. I happened to be a homeowner. Does that preclude me? Because I currently own when 60% of my life was spent as a renter. Regrettably, eight months of my life was spent homeless. Does that disqualify me? Because, you know, I wasn't a renter. So I think that the nine people probably have career paths like many of us, that at some point,
 you start that first job, you're not making any money, you get out of school and you are a renter. And if you're fortunate, then maybe you become an owner sometime during the progression of your career and what you're able to do. So I don't want to sell short nine people who may very well have had significant amount of rental experience just like I had rental experience. And so since there's no rule against them,
 requesting input from a renters group from from anyone that they choose to I don't view it as an oversight or an error or a shortcoming we passed a resolution we asked the mayor to do something he did what we asked him to do I can live with that and I'm willing to trust these nine people to literally deliver for us and so I'm just appreciative of their willingness to serve and that would be my contribution tonight mr. mayor
 Thank you Mayor. Well, as often happens, Councilmember Whitaker kind of echoed exactly what I was thinking. I think we have a, we went through a really long process, all of us trying to work together to get to a compromise. We've had a lot of conversations around this. We gave the Mayor, you know, parameters that he
 he used to make his decisions i think this is an outstanding group of people i mean the caliber of people that are in fayetteville is just mind-blowing and and i think we've got a really really good group there as mike said they've had experiences as renters i was a runner for a very very long time
 that inform me in my path forward. So I do think we have a really good group here. I would hope that we can stick with this group, that we can, they've got lots of flexibility. They need more expertise, they can request that.
 And let them do their job. Let's empower them. That's how they were selected. They volunteered their time. They're not getting compensated for this. So let's let this really outstanding group of people work their magic, come up with some solutions that they can bring back to us. And I feel very confident in who we have on board right now. Thanks.
 Yes, Mr. Mayor. I just kind of want to, you know, I kind of came into this, I put a lot of thought into it, and I've listened to everybody's comments tonight, and I keep kind of coming back to some of the, you know, to underscore some of the things that have been said about the group that is there now.
 And this task force is just getting started. They haven't really gelled yet. They haven't formed their structure or their policies or what their goals are going to be. And I think they're going to want to hear from us about what, you know, what our goals might be for this task force. But we do need to let them do their job and figure out what they're going to do and how they're going to do it. And if we look at the actual resolution that we all passed,
 It talks about the lack of affordable housing and options disproportionately affect low income. It mentions veterans, it mentions seniors, it mentions families and marginalized communities. And I look at each one of those or a combination of those could end up being a separate subgroup for this task force, and I think after listening to the mayor and thinking about, you know,
 who do we pick for the renter? Who do we pick? Who is that? I mean right now I am working with some people who are looking for to rent a house in the much more than I could afford forty five hundred dollars a month and I'm like is that the renter you want on there? Probably not but I think there's the possibility to let this task force kind of
 to form this and and come up with the best resolutions for the dimension groups the marginalized communities that we've mentioned in this resolution and that includes renters and i think let's let them do their job and let them come up with this decision thank you all right thank you mayor uh i would i would just reiterate that i think this is an excellent group of folks uh
 And, but the bottom line is if they don't bring us something that we think is beneficial, we always send it back to them to ask for more. I think we need to give them time to work. It's their first meeting. It was just really just an organizational meeting, but everybody came away impressed. But I had somebody use an analogy for me when we were talking about it, they said,
 if you don't, your doctor doesn't necessarily have to have the same disease that you have to treat you. So I thought, that's kind of odd. But then that kind of does play into this and the fact that
 These are experts in multiple facets of housing and the market. And let's let them work. And we've identified the issues we're trying to work with. And let's see what they come up with. And I think that the organization that authored the original resolution did present some suggestions for the task force. They did get persons on the task force.
 And I just, I struggle with then coming back and saying, hey, we didn't get quote unquote renters, but you did get representation that you requested or you recommended to the task force, to the task force. So I think they're represented. They may not be represented with a true renter at the time, but they are represented.
 Well, let's take some public comment. Y'all want to? Can I say something? Sure. Thank you. This is...
 Resolution had nothing to do with the merits of the task force and their abilities and their gifts and their talents and Not us not doing their jobs. I don't even know where that came from I'm not questioning their ability. I'm not trying to micromanage them. I don't have time to do that that did you did were you thinking about doing that because I wasn't I was just simply bringing forth a trying to correct something
 um making sure that we had representation and i do appreciate it bring brought forth that we have that there are that there's some that there should be some discussion around what's a renter however the fact remains that there are none there and that represent and that representation does matter and again if we do not do it tonight i hope that we
 believe that representation matters. And I will say this time and time again, and it's stated tonight, research whether you want to believe it or not or accept it or not, that those individuals who are impacted by whatever it is are subject matter experts. Now, I'm a renter, and I know a lot of other people who have told me when I went out to talk to individuals who were impacted by the housing crisis,
 The people that are on the task force, a lot of them weren't there. But the individuals who came to all those meetings, they were renters. But that's neither here or there. But I do want everybody to know that I believe the representation matters and not in the form of an advisory group. I understand the importance of an advisory group, and it plays a great role. It's a great piece. It's very instrumental. But I...
 I will say this, the housing authority, they make it mandatory that there is a renter. I'm not sure what makes this group any different. Well, yes, I do. But that's either here or there. But I just want the community to know that I am advocating for representation because I believe that it matters. I didn't have COVID.
 But if we're going to give examples, I didn't have COVID, but I'm able to empathize for other people. But there's so much that I can say about it because I've never experienced it. But when you've experienced something, you become a subject matter expert. You have a different you can see things from a different perspective. And.
 There's so much research out there that speaks to when you are impacted by something, being a part of the solution. But so many times impacted individuals are so far from the solution and so far from the resources. And tonight, unfortunately, it's no bet. It's the same thing. So I did this because I feel that it's the right thing to do.
 to do it again i would and i would do it again because it's the right thing to do because representation matters okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first those participating by then we'll speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber
 Good evening. My name is Bryson Austin. I live in Ward two. So representatives or council members more and Whitaker. It's nice to meet you. It's nice to see you again. Mayor Jordan. I have been a renter my whole life and I've seen the struggles that
 that exist around that. And as you all have said, representation does matter. And it's something that I have pushed for in my capacity within student government on campus. I am the director of diversity and inclusion within our associated student government.
 And this past year, one of my good friends that I've worked with for years was actually the president. And I had a problem with the way we recruited members of our government. And I brought it to the entire executive team and they kind of not shut me down, but they did not like that I was giving them negative feedback.
 I don't know if it was because we were friends or because they just honestly think that they were doing the best job possible, but my point in that conversation to them was representation matters.
 What I was trying to communicate to them was that a lot of members of our student government have never faced the strife that a lot of our students on campus had. They had never experienced poverty. They had parents that were taking care of them. They didn't necessarily, they weren't all parts of disenfranchised groups. So that people within our student government could better represent the people on campus.
 I agree that people can be truly empathetic, but as it's also been stated, there's nothing like first-hand experience. In terms of doctors not having illnesses and being able to take care of their patients, one thing that empirical evidence of studies have shown is that
 representation within the medical field matters that is specifically with with black female mother infant mortality like mother mortality having doctors that are nearby or that take care of you that look like you can really help save your life sometime and save your child
 What I feel like is that with 60% of the city being renters, we need just a little bit of representation. And it would be good to have someone looking from the bottom up and not the top down on that committee, showing them what the lived experience is. So thank you for your time. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, who do you have on Zoom? Beth Coker. Okay, go ahead.
 Good afternoon, Council and Mayor Jordan. I would just like to comment on this. Renters belong to a more vulnerable socioeconomic group normally, and I think their involvement in the task force can guide toward a more equitable and inclusive housing solutions and will ensure that the housing task force, the policies that they do make, are more inclusive
 will be advantageous to the renters. And it's my understanding that if they were on a subcommittee that someone has suggested where they wouldn't have voting rights and their voice would not be heard like with a vote.
 They're actually living through the housing crisis and they know what's what's going on with landlord tenant regulations and evictions and all that that someone who's on the task force who's not a renter might not know.
 And renters will be directly affected by any housing policies that the task force comes up with that they bring to you for consideration. And I haven't heard anyone say anything about any members who are already on that board, on the task force.
 that they object to adding renters. So if we have two spaces left to be filled, I would ask that we add two renters to that. And this next statement, I would like to be corrected if I'm wrong by someone at the city, but Billy Cook with Renters United did submit names. He submitted 15 names. And to my knowledge, none of those names were added to the committee.
 Thank you for listening, and I hope that you will vote for this resolution. Thank you. Three of those members were added to the 15 names for the record. Next, Tommy Davis. Okay, go ahead. Tommy, you'll need to unmute. Can you hear me now? Yeah. Okay, this is Tommy Flowers Davis, 106 North Willow, and I am currently on the
 the task force and I agree it's an excellent group of folks, excellent group of individuals. There's no question with regard to the expertise, the quality of folks on that committee. I'm speaking as an individual, I'm not speaking for the task force.
 I don't have a need to repeat things that have been said about needing to look at problems from the bottom up. We know that there's been lots of research that basically talks about the success of these types of community-based groups, task forces, and it does have a lot of evidence
 better success when you have diversity, different opinions, and when you do engage people who have lived the experience. So I'm just throwing that out as
 an individual, not as a member of the task force. And I think with the fact that we do have nine members, maybe that can be a consideration for the two additional members. It's looking at that, how we achieve it, I don't know, but I think maybe that would be something that would be very beneficial for our group, for the task force, once again, speaking as an individual. And thank you.
 I think that's a great point and I think the task force can take that up to the next meeting that they have. Yes and that's all you have on Zoom Mayor. Okay so right back to the council. Mayor? Yeah. Okay yeah I feel there's a lot of we're talking past each other and over each other and beside each other here.
 So what I saw was people kind of upset that there wasn't representation. I didn't see that coming and I have spoken with Billy Cook and he did get three recommendations placed but I didn't see his group as part of that. Like it wasn't them that I saw, maybe I wasn't paying attention close enough, but it just seemed to be coming from the general public that was interested.
 why isn't this, and like I said, it's kind of about optics. There are only nine folks on the task force, so there is room. There's nothing that I see in this resolution that says it's the mayor's choice, so it could easily be the task force's choice. This is a resolution and not an ordinance, it's non-binding, it's us saying, hey, maybe, take a look at this and do what you think is best.
 That's how I see ordinances, they are non-binding, there's nothing forcing anyone to do anything. And so my only other point, just like I said earlier, is that if the voice is not at the table, then the voice therefore cannot be heard. And I'll leave it at that. Sure. Again, I would like to put the task force
 make this decision and I think that's perfectly within their rights to do so. And I do understand that subcommittees don't have voting rights, or they might not have voting rights, but they have input. And we could end up with people on the task force that represented renters and a different subcommittee that represented renters as well. We could end up with a lot of renters involved here. And I'd let the task force decide this.
 because i don't want to go through 99 applications and try and decide who's a renter and and i know the mayor doesn't so i'm not going to i'm not just not going to i don't blame him but um but i think at this point uh i'd be comfortable letting the task force make this decision and i think that they will pretty much make the decision for us so thank you okay
 yes it sounds like there might be consensus on asking for the task force to look at this and so given the actual wording of what this resolution says in section 1 I want to make a motion to amend that we actually request that the housing task force select those appointees from the applications already received
 since that seems to be some consensus we've had so I'd like to make a motion to amend section 1 and request that the housing task force select those appointees say it okay what discussion do we have anything okay care which please call the roll Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes more yes Weedeker
 No. Burnham? No. Funch? Yes. Kirk? No. The amendment passed 5-3. Okay, now we have the amended resolution. Any discussion on that? Okay. Before we take this, so...
 Did you drop the set out of your ring there? So this is amendment to section one, right? So there's only one. Thank you. So it changes it to request the task force appoint. That is correct. It only changed from you to the housing task force, Mayor, as the selector.
 And then if I may ask, does it mandate that they appoint? Does it use that term? Well, the mandate was just to increase the number from 9 to 11, the way I read that. It's mandatory for the renter and an individual who works with renters rights to serve. But those two people would then be added to the ones that are on there now. They would be voting members. They're not taking away any votes here.
 So that's what the amendment would do. Still would require a renter and an individual who works with renters' rights to serve on the housing crisis task force. That was your amendment, right? I'm not sure you had applicants that represented renters' rights in your group. That's the problem with picking from the existing. We don't have enough information to be able to beat your specification.
 And the task force has got to read the applications, but we didn't take the applications based on a renter or a renter's right activist. Nothing on there to ask if they're renting. So we have to redo the applications. I don't know how it would be fair. That's not what this says. Yes.
 Is it possible for us to just remove renter rights and just say renter? You have to amend that. Just make the amendment because I feel like with renter's rights, it's ambiguous. I think if we just stuck with renters, I think that would be easier. So you want to strike then an individual who works with renter's rights? Yes. And say mandatory for two renters? Because right now it says a renter. Just one.
 I'm just saying we're we got a task force that we have asked to get to work on this and we're muddying the waters and we're going to ask them to to jump into this, you know, muddy water and select something that.
 Number one, the application has nothing that says that are you a renter or are you not? so now we're how are they going to make an appropriate choice from the paperwork that we have already submitted and
 So then to be fair, then we need to resubmit applications that ask, are you a renter or are you part of the renter association? I mean, that's only fair. Can we update the application? I mean, is it just like a touch of a computer? Can we just, Kara, I mean, can your office update?
 Okay, I mean Mayor Jordan can we update an application? Sure. Oh just to say that application didn't go through our office. Okay, I'm sorry. I just I mean I'm thinking that it's easy. Maybe I'm... I'm not talking about the ease of changing it. I'm talking about the fact that you have to re-put it out to the public for them to apply.
 Because if you're changing the application, you have to open it up for everybody to reapply. Well, it's quite difficult. If we don't want to do it, anything's hard. I don't think it's that hard. We do it all the time anyway, I mean, with boards and commissions. Could we possibly open up, make a posting to say that if you'd applied previously and had interest and were a renter that you would need to contact the city again between that time period until then?
 Meeting like the day before the task force meet so that they could know what the interest was from renters from the applicant pool That would give us several week. That'd be a kick question. I don't know Well, really this is I think you can do many many ways to do this you if this is almost totally up to the City Council's discretion on how to do it the problem at one problem I see with taking it out of the other applications is that if
 you have 90 applications left that were not selected. So you're asking the Housing Task Force, instead of doing any work, to instead go through 90 applications to decide who they are going to select. That wasn't the process I was putting forward.
 saying those that I had a process would be is that you would have to then go out again and request new applications That's not it What now to put out to the public? So that those that are applied or go directly to those 90 that are left if you still have interest if you can provide to Us whether or not you are a renter then they would come back and show their interest if they still Entertained and wanted to be a part of the task force and so those many of those on their own, you know, I
 fruition like came forward and so if they still wanted to be apart thought that they would then respond back and that would make it easy because it may you know We maybe only had 20 renters and maybe a handful or half have decided, you know They have other obligations and they don't think that they can undertake it. So I think it would be a smaller amount than 90 and
 So you're requesting still using the original application, but then to request from the ones that were not selected about whether or not they are current renters or have ever rented? They have to be a current renter? Current renter status and have interest still in participating in the task force. Well, this is a bigger thing than I thought it was going to be. So what would you all like me to tell the task force?
 Mayor, may I speak? I've had my light on for quite a while. We worked really hard to get these nine people. The mayor worked very, very hard to select these incredible folks. We need to let them do their job. This discussion tonight is muddying the waters of their task. We want them to be able to come back and form their subtask groups if they need to.
 If they need some renter expertise, they'll have the power to be able to do that. But I do not feel comfortable mandating them to do that. We need to let them do their work. I know we all want good ideas. We want to be solution oriented, but I don't believe that this discussion tonight has been very productive. I think it's a diversion from what our intent is
 So let us leave them alone. They have the flexibility. If they need some rental expertise, they can appoint some renters. Or they can appoint them on subtask groups. So that is my plea to you all. Thank you. Where are we? Well, we're still with a single amendment that just changed from Mayor Jordan to the housing task force.
 There has been no other official amendment. Sure. Well, given where it has gotten muddy to this point, I think that I would probably recommend that we table at this time. Well, because, I mean, you did make that point about and we can table it to a month or two months from now to see where the task force gets. And in the event they're able to pull in some renters. You know, the intention still, we may oftentimes come 
 to some of our best work when we're in the muck and things are hard and we're having discussions that feel like they're going round and round and I think it is worth it to have representation I'm sorry that it feels that it was muddied I still feel very strongly that again it was our oversight
 And again, that was a very mucky conversation between many resolutions. And I don't think any of us, when we put that task force crisis resolution together, got everything that we wanted in it. And so I think that it's going to continue to be a slog of figuring out the different details. And so I don't think that we're going to get to be much more productive tonight. It doesn't feel like, given some of the conversation. And so in the preservation, you know,
 because this is an important topic I don't think it's it's worth voting it down tonight I don't think that it needs to stop I think it's still a relevant conversation and so that's why tonight I would recommend we table it because I do think that runners have asked to have representation on the task force and they do deserve that Sorry, I'm lost in thought.
 Mayor, I would not be in favor of tabling. I think we need to move forward. I if we vote this resolution down tonight, it's not going to stop the task force from talking to renters, bringing renters in. I think I saw one of the gentlemen that are on is on the task force had been both a renter and and a landlord. So they they have different backgrounds.
 They can bring people in. I don't think by voting this resolution down does anything but allow them to work. And I'm just not in support of this resolution at this point, and I'm not in favor of tabling it. I think we need to pull back, let the task force do what we've asked them to do. Well, the task force has a little bit of play of two members. They do.
 because we said 7 to 11. They can bring you a recommendation, but the original resolution was that you would select mayor. So 7 to 11 would be for you, yes. Didn't say the housing task force could then select additional members for themselves. Okay, that's correct. That is right. Holly has her hand raised. I move that we pass the resolution. Second. Second.
 go ahead she did she moved to pass and then sarah second so we have a motion in a second to pass okay thank you i didn't quite hear that all right care would you any final comments let's go here would you please call the row so obviously it is the amended resolution because the amendment did pass
 that's the the amendment was to replace the mayor from selecting them to the housing task force yes that's what I remember that passed Hertzberg no Stafford yeah Jones yes or yes we'd occur no or no no no no no no no well the amended resolution did not pass okay
 No, I will talk to the task force this month and see. Mayor, I have one announcement. If you're leaving, I just have one announcement. Yes, I'm leaving. Okay. It is that city offices are closed on Thursday. Happy Fourth of July. Residential trash and recycling will be picked up as usual, but the compost facility will be closed. Thank you. Okay. We're adjourned.