I would like to call the City Council meeting of July the 5th, 2022 to order. Kim, would you please call the roll? Turk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Harvey? Here. Jones? Here. Kenyon? Here. Whittaker? Here. Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Bunch. Mayor Jordan? Here. Bunch?
 Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, it's good seeing everyone tonight. Thank you.
 All right, the first order of business we have tonight is our monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Paul? Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report will be for fiscal period five of the 2022 budget.
 It includes sales tax through April of this year. And as we've already discussed, sales tax is up roughly 11% in the general fund at this point in time. Franchise fees are up about 9%. Building permits are very strong. They're up roughly 30% for this period through April. Alcoholic beverage taxes are up. State turnbacks up.
 Fees, especially the parks funds fees are up roughly 20%. Course fees and fines are down as has been the case since COVID. Donations are down a little bit and investment income is down because investments are still very low at this point in time. So all in all, we're doing very well in the general fund through the period of May, which is period five for this year.
 Total, we're up about 11% compared to budget in the general fund. Street fund, again, is very strong. That's led by the sales tax for turn back for street fund. That's up roughly 10% at this point in time. Excuse me, that's up 20% at this point in time.
 The state MFT turn back is up 10%. So again, we're up 15% for the street fund. That's very good because a lot of our street projects costs are going up.
 parking fund we're up 28 percent uh compared to what i had anticipated the budget to be at this point in time these are up 30 percent and uh the rest are fines but all in all we're up 28 percent now remember we have a significant
 expenditures on the expenditure side as we're replacing the meters they should end up with increased revenue in the long run but but we do have a budget we had a budget about eight hundred thousand dollars for that meter replacement for this year but again parking fees are up roughly 30% at this point in time HMR taxes up 15% over budget for this point in time so they're strong
 Water and sewer fees are up a combination of the two, about 4%. Water sales are up roughly 2%. Sewer sales are up higher than that, roughly 6% at this point in time. I think what we're seeing is reflection of people staying home more, using more water, not traveling long distances as they were back before the COVID hit. Trash and recycling and trash collection.
 It's under just a little bit, about 1%. Again, it's a little soft on the commercial side. Residential side's up about 3%. But you also need to remember that certain of the transfer station was down for a period of time. Both charges were down a little bit. So that's roughly 1% under budget.
 It's pretty well in line with what I had expected at this point in time. Airport sales are up. Sales actually in dollars are about double what they were this time of last year. Again, expenses are up for the sale of gasoline. So Avgas and fuel gas is up.
 It's showing a strong showing at this point in time. That's good because we've got some capital projects that we have to do out at the airport also. So what we're looking at is very strong.
 very strong so far this period on the revenue side. We're going to start seeing some of these increases caused by inflation Over on the expenditure side coming up. I think we'll handle pretty well for most everything but some capital expenditures We're going to have to make some decisions on this year It's going to affect the budget next year. We're going to see increased costs next year So right now
 The revenue increases that we can prepare for next year budget are a good thing and will help us there. So we're doing very well at this point in time. I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this report? Thank you, Paul, very much. Thank you, Mayor. All right. The next order of business tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the June 21st, 2022 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to award bid number 22-36 and to authorize a contract with David's Roofing Company, Inc., in the amount of $95,710.50 for the repair of T-hanger roofs at Drakefield and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $9,571.05. Number three,
 A resolution to authorize acceptance of a grant from the Arkansas Full-Time Law Enforcement Officer Salary Stipend Act of 2022 in the amount of $771,020 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number four, a resolution to approve a memorandum of agreement with Washington County to accept funding from the Gulf Coast high-intensity drug trafficking area in the amount
 of 47 292 dollars for the police department number five a resolution to authorize an application for a 50 50 matching grant for the construction of the yvonne richmond community center expansion
 Number six, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $38,845.40 plus political taxes and freight charges from Electric Motor Center for the repair of a pump used at the Greg Avenue sewer lift station. Number seven, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Friesen Nichols Incorporated pursuant to RFQ
 22-01, section number 6 in the amount not to exceed $131,900 for services associated with the rehabilitation of the Gully Elevated Water Storage Tank. Number 8, a resolution to approve a Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Garver LLC
 in the amount of $255,000 per cent to RFQ 21-01, Selection 6 for design services associated with the replacement of a 24-inch water line from South School Avenue to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. Number 9, a resolution to authorize a contract with Trek Design Group, LLC, per cent to RFQ 22-01,
 Selection number five for a sanitary sewer evaluation survey, any amount not to exceed $428,290.25. Number 10, a resolution to award bid number 22-39 and to authorize the purchase of bulk crushed rock salt from Hudson Salt Company for $33 per ton for materials picked up and $88.40 per ton for materials delivered.
 and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price and availability as needed through July 31, 2023. And number 11, a resolution to award bid number 22-41 and authorize the purchase of truck hauling services from True Love Dirt Works, LLC,
 as a primary supplier and to authorize the use of other bidders based on price availability as needed through december 31st 2022. i'll entertain a motion consent agenda is read so moved second second we have a motion in a second to accept consent agenda is red kim would you please call the roll kirk yes perksburg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes
 Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. All right, thank you all. Under unfinished business number one, a resolution over the raising and removal of a dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Rosemary Austin located at 2141 North Green Acres Road in the city of Federal Arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $33,894.
 Billy, I believe you have this. Thank you, Mayor and City Council. Updates for this property. June 7th, the tarp was attached to the north side of the structure where the fire damage is. The tarp appears to be the only action taken for correction to the structure since this property was brought to Council three months ago. According to Zillow.com, the property has been on the housing market for 218 days. No building permits have been applied for to date.
 We are approaching 15 months of attempting to work with Ms. Austin to remedy this violation since the first violation notice was mailed. Three months since it was first seen by Council. Progress for correction and repair on the structure is moving too slow for any meaningful and impactful work to be done. Removal of the junk and debris around the structure will not make this structure habitable again. Noticeable and extensive repairs to the structure itself will need to be made.
 Staff continues to recommend the raise and removal of the structure at 2141 North Green Acres Road. I'm available for any questions. Okay. What questions does the council have for Bailey on this? Mayor, I have a question. So I think last time we suggested that the attorney that was representing Ms. Austin get in touch with you. Have you all had any contact or communication with?
 the last couple of months no we reached out to him on two separate occasions via email and no response okay thank you any other questions Billy we would plan to get in a new bid given the change of circumstances you can confirm that for us yes
 I have a question. Mike, when you said a new bed, are you talking about for the raise and removal? Okay. Yes, I was kind of presuming it would be lower because of the work that had been done to clean up this surrounding debris. Yes, and we also have another one on our agenda too. Thank you. Okay, well let's take some public comment.
 Everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration Don't engage anyone in the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic Please give us your name and address Those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that Susan Who do we have on zoom? No one on zoom mayor. Okay, who would like to address this? Real quick before we get started. Can we give the applicant a chance to speak? I
 Before we do public comment, can we give her 10 minutes? Okay, sure. Good evening. Since we last met, I still have not been able to totally clean out my structure because my niece has been having to undergo cancer treatments. We've had eight weeks of chemo and 25 weeks of chemotherapy.
 sessions of the exterior treatment and now we're getting ready for interior. This has taken a lot of my time because sometimes when I would have, when I was going to have a day of when I could be cleaning and everything else, we ended up with about four to six hours in somewhere in doctors treatments or traveling to or from
 So it has taken a great toll on us. I do not know what I can say to you to please think about not trying to raise my property at this time. I don't have any place to go. I have no money to do it with if I did.
 I was hoping I could sell it before now, or if I could find something cheaper, I could sell it and buy something cheaper out somewhere else, out of the county, out of the city. I'm totally frustrated. I have been fighting to get this done for several months. I don't know which way to go. I don't feel like it would be easy.
 fair to me to have to pack up and just sit out on the curb with all my stuff. It definitely would not be good, and I have no place to go. It would take me a couple of weeks to get everything packed, bagged, boxed, and moved if I had a place, and I could do it, but I don't have anyone to help me at this time. I would have to hire somebody.
 a professional mover to move the piano and other heavy furniture that I could do that I would be happy, I would get a U-Haul and move all my stuff out to take a few trips out, but I could do that too. But I just don't have any place to go. And I don't know what to do. If anybody has any ideas, I don't want to rent it because I would have to move again.
 I just want to make one move and get it over with. I've done too much moving for other people, and I just don't feel like doing it now. I'm a little up in the senior years. I don't act it all the time. Try not to look it, but there's nothing much I can do about some of it. But still, I'm a senior citizen, yeah, and I'm working hard to keep my head above the water.
 but at this point i just need a place i need i need a place to find if i had some place to go if i could sell my property at a fair price i could do it but i've had one option uh one offer and it was several months ago it was totally un way lower than the what the county had assessed it at so there was no way we were going to take that one but the way it is now
 What do I do? I thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address us? Good evening. I'm Martha Haywood with Lindsay & Associates, and I have Ms. Austin's property listed. And I've been here several times before and have sent you picture updates and information on the property. And we have made considerable movement on the outside. Scott Burnham.
 donated equipment and personnel and he has helped. I personally have paid for dumpsters to be on the property and have had those done and that comes out of my pocket, not my company pocket. John David Lindsay helped us get the side of the house enclosed and what we're asking is, we have the property listed, we are trying to get it sold, but if you raise and remove the house,
 Rosemary and Evelyn are going to be on the street, plain and simple. There's no place for them to go. They have no money to do anything until this property gets sold. So we just need time. And she is hurting no one. She is asking no one for anything. She is simply being asked to be left alone.
 And right now that house that they are living in gives them shelter, it gives them safety, it gives them a place to go home to. If you raise and remove it, you can put them in a tent down in Tent City, you can put them on the street, but there's no other place for them to go. And I think that is very cruel to do that and take that woman's property that she has lived in since 1965.
 She's not asking for anything. She just wants time and wants you to work with us.
 You know, we're founded on life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and her life, her liberty, and her pursuit of happiness is being adversely affected, and she is spending a majority of her time right now trying to care for her niece, as she said, who is undergoing cancer treatment, and that is her priority, and that's what she has to do. So we just need time. We need y'all to work with us.
 Whether we like the way the house looks without electricity or water, that's not our call. But it's their home and it is giving them safety and security. So we just ask that you really give us time to try and continue to get her property sold and continue to provide a roof over their head so they have some place to come home. That's what we're asking for the city of Fayetteville to do. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I'm Scott Berna and I, along with my staff, were the individuals that volunteered to clean up the exterior of the building. I have no knowledge of the interior of the building. I know, though, that we made extensive progress on the exterior of the building. But quite honestly, I did not want to do additional work. We did clearance around the full perimeter of the house
 I believe we took off a couple of dumpsters full of trash and debris. We cut trees. I took over to my cemetery and put on the burn pile and get rid of those. I am willing to do more, but quite honestly, I didn't want to do it. And then y'all...
 go ahead and condemn it anyway and raise it. So obviously if we have a little more time, I'm willing to give you my word. I'll send crews over there. I didn't have to do it before. I did it trying to help the little lady. I'll do it again, but I just need to know that my efforts are not gonna be in vain and you are gonna raise it anyway. I can clear some more and I can improve the value of the property by the appearance.
 to hopefully attract a buyer to give her a little bit of assistance. But I wanted to come before you to give you my word that if we do have a little bit of lead time, I personally will guarantee more work will be done on the exterior of the house. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. We're looking at a matter of time here. I mean, what's – I mean –
 What's the council's wishes? How much time are we... Yeah, sure. I've got some questions probably for Kit on legality. Is there a risk to the city if we take too long and allow somebody to stay kind of in this space? I agree that this house is going to be torn down. The damage is too severe. Yeah.
 trying to bring this thing up to code now would just cost too much. So whether she sells it or not, it's going to get torn down. So I kind of agree with Scott on you don't want to put money into it knowing that it's going to be torn down. But I guess the question would be for Kit is like, is there a risk to the city for letting this stay the way it is?
 I don't think there actually is a legal risk to the city on this. Of course, some of this I'll have to defer to public safety who have been in the house, I think, at least looked inside. If the house was really ready to just fall down, then delay would be something that would be very dangerous, I think. But I think if the city council simply wishes to give the owner permission
 the kind of time she asked for a little bit more time on this. I don't think that that would be something that would in fact cause a liability risk for the city. I think that you all could do that. I'm not saying it's the right thing to do. It's a policy question for you what to do. But I also don't think that you should feel like you're forced to do it for liability reasons. Okay, thanks. And as a general contractor myself,
 The pictures I've seen, I haven't been in it, but the pictures I've seen and kind of what I know, requiring them to dump money into this to give them more time is probably not the best course of action because it will just be gone because I don't see this ever being habitable.
 for any reason a lot of money. It's just a new house needs to be here, or a new whatever after a possible rezone. So hopefully we don't put that over her head that somehow she needs to bring this up to code or something of that nature when I know that that's kind of futile. So I'm good with giving her more time, especially if Kit feels that there isn't a liability to the city.
 I have a question. When we say... Wait a minute, wait a minute. Mark had his hand up a bit ago. Mark, go ahead. I think what we're hearing tonight is a cry for compassion. We can look at this as an opportunity to help someone rather than to make it harder. This property has some guardians on it,
 We've got real estate agents. We've got a person that's willing to help with the outside of it. And maybe the reason that we need to clean up the outside is so it would be easier for the real estate agent to move the property because it would be clean and it would be accessible. Of course, this also helps the owner of the property until the property is sold. There is not an imminent risk right now, apparently, because it's occupied and it has been occupied and it does have people that are looking after it.
 So I think, as a compassionate city, that I would like to extend the time. If, indeed, there was no guardians to help look after the property and the owner of the property, I might feel differently. But we do have a community that is compassionate, and I think that I would like to see this extended for another eight weeks. That's my point on you.
 Mark, thank you so much. I was about to say something very similar. It's good to know that we have citizens who have definitely stepped up to the plate to assist her. My question though is one of time. How much, when we think of time, I'm thinking something that's realistic for her to find a place, because if you haven't noticed, finding a place in Fayetteville is quite difficult.
 And so my question would be, given the circumstances that she told us about, what amount of time do we think is equitable in considering the housing shortage and things of that nature? Well, I think that's what the discussion's about right now. Sarah? Yes. I would be in favor of giving this lady some more time.
 because I think she's just, you know, she's really struggling right now. And, I mean, that's obvious to me. But I also, you know, we are 15 months into this, and it's kind of concerning to me. I do not want this woman spending, you know, we're in the summer right now. I sure don't want her spending another winter in this house. And I don't know that...
 You know, I think we've got a lot of different things at play here, maybe more than just a dilapidated house, and I don't know how to reconcile all of those. But I do feel that it would be in our best interest to give her some more time
 I want to know that this is really, you know, I know the real estate agent is actively marketing it and, you know, it needs to get moving as far as the sale. And because this woman can't go anywhere until she sells the property. We've all been in that position where you've got to have the money from one property to go to the next property. Right.
 But I do feel that there are some challenges that go beyond just cleaning up the yard. And I do appreciate immensely the people that have gone to the effort of trying to clean up so you could get to the house and see the house and everything. So I'm hoping that if we give her two more months that something will be in place. It will either be under contract.
 And maybe the, you know, maybe, I hate to say this, but maybe lowering the price might help move that. But it might be under contract. And in two months, it could come back to us, and we could go, okay, well, it's under contract, and it's moving forward that way. Very catchy, but we need to silence that phone. And anyway, so... Huh. So...
 So that's what I'm thinking. If we give her two more months, we might be able to know that it's moving forward as far as a sale and it's really aggressively priced and moving forward that way because she cannot go anywhere else until she sells this property. But I can't in good conscience let this woman spend another winter in this house. It's not fair. And if something were to happen to her in that house...
 Even though we might not be legally responsible I think it would be it would not look well on us as a city to know that we left someone in a house like That and something happened to them there So but anyway, I think two months is is as very good a good call and I'm willing to do that Am I yes
 I would support extending this two months, but I would ask that the owner correspond with the code compliance and also with other rental assistance and services so that we can actively see that she's engaged in finding another place to live.
 and aggressive marketing of the house. I'm looking at the Zillow listing right now, and it's extremely high. So unless that price is marketed competitively, we could be back here in two months with no movement on the house. So I think we're trying to show some compassion and patience, but we also need to have some good faith effort in trying to resolve this with the owner. So thank you.
 Council Member Kenyon, was that two months? Was that a motion? Or do you all want to discuss some more? I'll make a motion that we hold this for two months, I guess. Is that what you want? And I'll second that. Okay, I've got a motion to second to hold it for two more months. Is that correct, Kit? Well, yes, until the first meeting in September. That would be good, yeah. Okay, any other discussion on that? No.
 Okay. Kim, would you please call the roll? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. We'll revisit this in two months. All right, let's go to number two. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 22-0-1.
 to one located at 248 South Happy Hollow Road in Ward 1 for approximately 3.1 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. This was left on the first reading at the last council meeting. I would entertain a motion to go to the second meeting, I mean the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second meeting. Second.
 Kim, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-021, located at 248 South Happy Hollow Road in Ward 1,
 for approximately 3.1 acres from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to NC neighborhood conservation. Okay, Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. I did just have a brief update on this item for those that were not able to attend agenda session and for the public who may have heard some of the questions that staff was not able or I was not able to answer at the last council meeting. I did want to touch on first there was a question of sidewalk construction along Happy Hollow Low Road where it currently doesn't exist between 5th Street to the south and Sequoia Woods to the north.
 That's currently on the 2022 transportation project list, but it is likely it'll be 2023 before it is built. The second piece of conversation was regarding traffic calming. There are two existing tables along Happy Hollow. There was some concern from residents that when Happy Hollow was recently milled and overlaid with fresh asphalt, it negatively impacted the effectiveness of those tables.
 It feels that it still is effective, but there have been two additional speed cushions also installed. So at this point there's four traffic calming devices on the street and there's also evaluation ongoing of a fifth one.
 Otherwise, there's been no new updates to the request. I think the council may have received a piece of public comment, I believe it was over the weekend from the planning commissioner, Jim Garlock, who was the, as a reminder, one of the dissenting votes from the planning commission on this item. Again, otherwise there's been no changes to the request and I believe Robert Rhodes is here as the applicant for the item and I'm happy to take questions. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Rhodes, you have 10 minutes.
 Thank you, Mayor. I will not take that long. My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Paul Estill and I represent the petitioners in this matter. If you all recall, I gave a presentation two weeks ago and I'm not going to go through that again except try to hit a few high points such as when this originally was put forth by my clients, it was a good bit more dense.
 and it got neither support from staff nor from the planning commission. Clients heard the concerns, and now they've come back with what's before you now, which is a considerably more compatible
 The staff report shows it to be compatible currently and it also shows it to be compatible with the 2040 plan.
 The petitioner does not have any specific plans, so I can't share those with you, but I can tell you that based on the nature of the property, that even though the tree preservation for this would be 20 percent as opposed to 25 percent at the next category, it's quite likely that
 When it's all said and done the tree preservation will exceed 20% again based on topography the I think probably one of the most telling pieces of public comment That you all received two weeks ago or probably about 16 days ago was from I think it was a another elected official here in the county and
 that lives close by. And her comments were, in a nutshell, this is a good project because there is that connectivity, future, present, and future connectivity. It's got the bus route, it's got the closeness to school. It is the building of homes that are so important to our community, the need is so great.
 The questions I thought you that you all had I thought there were good ones in regarding connectivity I believe that Mr. Kurth reported maybe at the last meeting or maybe an agenda session that that Some of the projects as far as sidewalks or streets are already in the works or at least On the drawing boards and so that should happen fairly soon with all that said
 I know when you all look at these, you're mainly looking at compatibility and with the surrounding zonings that are close by with some of the density that's already close by and again with what's going on in the future. I hope you can support this and I hope you can pass it tonight. I stand ready, willing and able to answer any of your questions. Thank you. Okay. What questions does the council have for the applicant or staff on this?
 mr rhodes i have a question when you're looking at this and it was also brought to our attention by commissioner garlock he mentions that there is only one entrance and exit on one side and three sides do not so that is a concern is that right uh as far as the the actual plat of land that we don't have upon we don't have a plan in existence well it's just where the property is located i think in the terrain it looks like to me
 i don't know i mean you're saying you don't know i thought that's what i'm saying well i think we don't have we do not have a plan mayor i may be able to relative to the topography that's what it would seem to me okay jonathan do you have any anything you want to add mark i i think i may be able to clarify from the conversation i heard at the commission and also just what i know about the property there is i think to commissioner garlock's point there's one public street that this property currently accesses which is happy hollow
 The opportunities for connectivity immediately on the property are limited to the north and east by existing development, which if they wanted to tie into existing street, the only option is to the west. We do have block link standards in Fayetteville, which is a way of breaking down our street network so that you make connections where you may not otherwise see them.
 uh it is possible that we may have to uh or the staff may require a street step out to the south which could create cross connectivity in the future but again to the applicant's point we've not seen a development plan at this juncture so it's hard to say whether or not that would be certain um but i do see where commissioner garlock's concern comes from does does my does that context help clarify his point well that's what i think when you look at the location
 Right, just what you said. Correct, yeah. If there's a stub out, is that a guarantee that we have an opportunity? I mean, is it a guarantee for a street to go out that way? Not an immediate guarantee. If you look at subdivisions in other parts of the city, if they're not developing immediately adjacent to another subdivision with existing stub outs, you can see those stub outs going to empty land for, it could be months in some cases, it could be years in others.
 The reality is there are cycles in the economy if you want to get really big picture. I mean, there's some subdivisions that sit with no connections for many, many years, whereas during times of high intensity growth, we can see those connections made.
 within half a year of them already being constructed. So it's not something that I can guarantee the timing on, but if they are stubbed out to a property line, our development code would give us staff latitude and empowerment to require connecting to it as the land, in this case, to the south develops. Thank you. I have a question real quick for Jonathan. How common is it to put in a stub out in a subdivision or a block
 I think very common is probably this overly simplistic answer. Our requirement is every 660 feet, there needs to be an opportunity for a point of connectivity. So you're looking at, if you've done the math backwards, that's an eighth of a mile. It's a very walkable dimension. You can break down the block length.
 there are opportunities to get variances the Planning Commission looks at those on a case-by-case basis Fayetteville's not flat for the entirety of the city so there are opportunities in instances of topography in particular where variances can be sought to not make those connections Okay Mike, you had something? Anything else? Oh no, no, go ahead and finish.
 Jonathan, RSF 8 is in the area as well. It doesn't front Happy Hollow. It's just off. And I think a second commissioner, Madden, had expressed concern about this simply being a deep cul-de-sac. And...
 And that was her concern on the additional potential density. Could you describe briefly the difference in density between the NC and RSF8 forests, please? In density terms, and at its simplest, it's eight units breaker in RSF8 versus 10 units breaker in neighborhood conservation.
 I could get more involved on the differences between their setbacks as opposed to build-to zones. We have seen, and the Commission has seen work increasingly lately where build-to zones are often preferred on sites with topography. It allows units to be built closer to the street rather than having deeper land disturbance from the street. So I believe that's one of the factors and why they're interested in that on this property.
 That's your question. Senator, let's go back to you. I think I cut you off a little short. Oh, no, I'm fine. OK. Anybody else? Anybody by Zoom? Council members by Zoom, do you have any questions?
 And so how many complaints have you had about this? I mean, or comments, and we say public comments. I'm sorry, Mayor, I don't know the exact count. I do know we've received comments from at least one of the nearby residents, it may be two, who had concerns about drainage in particular. There's a resident that the applicant mentioned further to the southwest who spoke in favor of it, and then Commissioner Garlock has emailed the council, I think twice, once before each hearing, expressing his concerns about the request.
 Okay. Is there any other questions from the council? If not, we'll take some public comment. All right. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? No one on Zoom has their hand raised. Okay. Is there anyone here in the chamber who would like to speak on this issue? Okay.
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What other questions or comments might we have? What action would the council like to take or comments or questions? Yes, Tracy. So I drove by there, and I appreciated the council holding this for two weeks, like I requested, so that I could go and take a look at the neighborhood. I've driven by there twice. I appreciate that there are those traffic calming devices on there now. I think that's been very beneficial. Thank you.
 And, you know, but that entire neighborhood is an RSF4 neighborhood. It may not be zoned that way, but the reality of the way it is laid out is these are single-family homes on relatively modest lots, but an RSF4 layout. I am reluctant to do a change to NC. Okay.
 I could maybe entertain RSF aid I read the comments from the Planning Commission and I do appreciate the applicant coming back with something a little bit more reasonable but I I still believe it is too it is too dense for that for that neighborhood for some of the reasons that others have have outlined okay the council members from Ward 1 have you heard anything from anybody on this
 My comments line with what Jonathan has received, I believe 2 or 3 neighbors nearby having concerns about drainage and then a couple 1 or 2 in support for the need for housing. So, it sounds like I have what Jonathan has. Deandre, do you have you heard anything else?
 What I've heard is very similar. Most of the comments have been due to the need for housing. Okay.
 Okay. Yeah, I have a quick question for Teresa. I haven't, I've been out of town and I haven't had a chance to go over there. Teresa, one of the questions I was looking, I was thinking when I would go there, is at the foot, as it is at the foot of that hill and the drainage concerns, what is your thoughts on that as far as how it's the slope meets that property?
 Well, it's really from just my observation from the street, I mean it looks like there is a pretty big dip down there, but from the information that we've been provided, it doesn't look like there is that large of slope. There's nothing close to 15%, which is always a critical number. But I can see where there could be some drainage concerns possibly there.
 Yeah. And I guess what I meant maybe to clarify, and maybe I can ask Jonathan as well, you know, I want to consider just as well, not only just that the property itself is flat, because I think the fact that it would be more flat would actually be worse for them because it's at the foot of that hill. So that's a little bit, that's the part that I'm concerned about for the density. Um,
 Obviously, we have new water standards, so that's good. We need housing. So it's a hard. This is honestly really a tough one for me. You know, so we need housing. We have new water standards. So, yeah.
 I haven't heard an enormous amount of feedback from the neighbors. I'm not sure if it's just because they're, you know, it's just a hard time right now for people. But it's honestly a difficult decision for me. Anybody else have any thoughts? Yeah, the comments. Yeah, I...
 I know this is kind of an unusual area, you know, and it may look like an RSF4 neighborhood, but how many property, how many structures are on this three acres? There's just...
 I believe it's just the single-family home currently. Okay, so technically if we were just to look at it and not consider how it's actually zoned, one house per acre is RA zoning. So I don't want to get hung up on what it looks like. I'd rather focus on what they're asking for and what the neighborhood actually is zoned, the other properties nearby, and not just, oh this looks like an RSF4 neighborhood.
 I think if we look at, if we have new drainage standards, stormwater runoff standards, if we look at connectivity, because there's a large piece of RSF4 kind of open land to, I guess, the south of this, I think this is, you know, we need housing and we need housing in this part of town. So I'm going to be in favor of this.
 Mayor, I'm sorry if I may correct my response to Councilmember Bunch. There was a house on the property that has since been demolished. Okay. I saw something in the aerial there, and I was like, well, okay. So I don't want to get hung up on what the neighborhood looks like because it has a lot of different zoning. Not too far from this, there's –
 PZD back behind it there's you know P1 down to the south or step forward to the south we've got NC and RSF 8 all on this one showing up on this one map that we have in our packet so anyway I'm going to be in favor of it okay well council right now we're on the second reading so this is an ordinance we're on the second reading so I guess we'll continue the discussion and
 And I don't want to leave the council members that is out on zoom either so you'll have to plug in here and there because I can't see you all I just see folks here. I can direct for sure here not as well. So y'all I do. I do have a quick question in city that is, I mean I know it's totally residential does it allow multifamily.
 No, depending on how you define multifamily. It does allow attached residential by conditional use. You can go to the planning commission with your site plan and your building plans and build up to a four-family dwelling. Okay, so without further review, it's basically single-family residential again. So we're not even changing the use, just density. So I'd be for this either tonight or in two weeks.
 So what would you all like to do? We're on the second reading. This is an ordinance card. Mayor Jordan, I just received, and I'm not sure if Sonja received this as well, but some of the residents did say that they would like to request more time.
 They just found out that this item is going to appear and they would like to have a neighborhood meeting to discuss this in more detail. And I just received this several minutes ago. Okay, well, if the council members from that ward would like to hold it two weeks, then it will be up to the council on what they would like to do.
 I would like to make the motion, if I can, if I may, to hold it for two weeks. I mean, DeAndre, you don't really have to make a motion. It just sits there for another two weeks. Leave it on this screen. I mean, you've made a request to the council to leave it another two weeks, I understand. Is that correct? Thank you. And that's about all you need to do. They'll either move it on or not. Whatever you all want to do. DeAndre. I'm just glad to be back. Okay.
 DeAndre, this is Sarah. Are they going to have they indicated when they would have their neighborhood meeting if it's tabled? They didn't say that, but they did say that they were very interested in the rezoning. And so I'm optimistic that they can get things that two weeks should be okay. Okay, all right. That sounds good to me. Okay, so we want to hold it two weeks. Is that what I'm hearing from everybody? All right.
 We'll just hold it right here then. Let's move along to the next one. OK, we have an open hearing, or open, yes, public hearing.
 It's a resolution, the resolution to order the raising and removal of dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Leroy H. Schoffenberg, located at 2860 East Wyman Road in the city of Federal Arkansas, and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $17,800. Billy. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. Just to do a quick recap of our process on raising and removals.
 We receive the complaint via C-Click Fix, email, phone, or walk-in. We perform an inspection on site where photos are taken for documentation. Next, we send a notice of violation. This is to notify the property owner of the violation and ways to correct the violation and how long they have to correct said violation. And next is abatement or correction. Resolving the violation is done
 We open the bid for demo, accept bids from contractors for the removal of the structure. Next, we notify the property owner with certified mail and a posting on the property about the upcoming hearing involving the property. And then it concludes with the hearing with City Council. This is an aerial photo of the property in question, 2860 East Wyman Road. It is located...
 two houses to the east of South Stonebridge Road intersection with East Wyman Road. And next we're going to go into some, the staff is recommending the raise and removal of 2860 East Wyman Road with a budget adjustment of $17,800. Some background on this property, 2860 East Wyman Road was brought to the attention of Code Compliance through an anonymous complaint on July 12th, 2021. The initial complaint was for overgrown grass and junk and debris.
 When code compliance is called to do an inspection on a potential violation, it is normal practice for us to look for not only the reported violation, but all code violations on the property. The code officer for this area, Randy Johnson, observed the overgrown grass and junk and debris, but also noticed the severe dilapidation of the main structure and the accessory structures on the property. A case was made for the grass and junk and debris on this day.
 Randy brought the structures to the attention of myself and Building Safety Director Dennis Sanders. After a review of the structure and its accessory structures, it was determined that the structures are in such a severe state of dilapidation to cause an unsafe and uninhabitable condition.
 Before a raisin removal case was created, staff notified Mr. Scharfenberg of the status of his property. He was informed that serious repair was needed to the structures and he would need a building permit before performing the repairs.
 Mr. Sharpenberg did not correct his overgrown grass and junk and debris violations within the 10-day time frame allowed. On August 26, 2021, Code Compliance sent our cleanup contractors to clean up the junk and debris and mow the grass on the property. It was noted that no work had been started on the structure as well. By October 6, 2021, no building permits were applied for, so a raisin removal case was created and a violation notice was mailed to Mr. Sharpenberg.
 A signed receipt card for that notice was received by Code Compliance on October 18, 2021, signifying Mr. Sharpenberg had received our notice. Mr. Sharpenberg spoke with Building Safety Director Dennis Sanders on the phone and was notified he would need a building permit to do the extensive repairs. On December 3, 2021, a building permit application was submitted by Mr. Sharpenberg. The building permit was approved by the Building Safety Department. The approved building permit came with a $35 fee.
 Mr. Sharpenberg was notified about the fee, but never paid it. Dennis Sanders tried to call Mr. Sharpenberg numerous times, but his phone calls went unanswered. From November of 2021 to May of 2022, monthly inspections were performed showing no repair attempts being made to the structure.
 Continuous attempts to notify Mr. Scharfenberg were unsuccessful. On May 31st, 2021, the building permit was voided due to the fee not being paid and for being unable to contact Mr. Scharfenberg. It was at this time the decision was made to move forward with the raise and removal process.
 Following the process I outlined at the beginning of the presentation, bids for the raise and removal of the structures were sought and the property owner was notified of this hearing. This is done using certified mail and a posting on the property. After notification of the hearing, Mr. Scharfenberg came into Development Services to put in another application for a building permit. He was told at that time he was more than welcome to put in another application, but that we would still be moving forward with our process.
 To date, a building permit application has not been received. With that, it is staff's recommendation to approve a resolution to raise and remove the structures located at 2860 East Wyman Road and approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $17,800.
 Next, we'll go into some of the issues with this structure. This structure is very unsafe for the owner. Everything is rotted top to bottom. The roof is rotted, the floors are rotted, the walls are rotted, your rafters, fascia and soffit, your porches. There are numerous spots in the home that are open to the elements. I have some photos here that I would like to show you. These are also in the packet that you received as well.
 This is the front side of the home. That's the front porch. There's a giant hole in the front porch there and it is leaning somewhat as well and this is just to the right of that. There's a big gap in the foundation down there at the bottom and you can see the wear and tear that's on the siding, the chipping paint. There's a little closer look at the hole. This is on the side of the home. It is
 to be in the state of collapsing. It appears that that tree may be holding up that wall. Just a little closer look at that as to what's going on with the foundation and that wall.
 And so the one on the left is another shot of the foundation of the wall, and then the one on the right, we go to the northeast corner of the house, and this is where we get a really good shot of the roof. The roof is in complete disarray. It will need complete repair. Numerous holes throughout. As far as our knowledge goes, that is open to the elements. Another shot of the roof.
 We've gone to the other side of the house now. Another wall that's collapsing and falling in. More deterioration. The walls are not standing up straight anymore. They're falling in. And we've made a complete round around the house. This is one of the accessory structures that appears to be on its way down. That other accessory structure, here's the roof, has completely collapsed.
 That is why it is our recommendation for a raise and removal of the structure and a budget adjustment for the demo. I am available for any questions. Is the owner here? Would they like to speak before the council? You have ten minutes. My name is Maya Sharpenberg. I'm Leroy Sharpenberg's daughter. We know that the structure needs to be demolished. We have a plan of action to demolish the structure and put a prefabricated home on the land.
 We just need a little bit more time to figure out where my dad's going to go and kind of get all of our ducks in a row on doing that. I don't really have anything planned to say, but we do have a plan of action in place. Okay, how much time do you think you might need? So realistically, I think we need about 60 days to figure out where he's going to go and...
 start the process of applying for financing and everything else that we would have to do to put a Habitable structure on the land. Okay. All right. What questions do we have from council for the staff or the owner? Thank you, is anybody living on the property now? Is he I'm concerned about his safety if he's in the in the in the house itself I
 i think that it would be fine i would definitely not pass this winter absolutely not but i think that if he can give us until the end of the summer we can find a place for him to go and so that you know we can actually demolish the structure and get that process started because right now um he can't really stay with my family i have a two-year-old in a small apartment
 But my brother lives in Colorado and we're going to try and get him out there for a few months before we can get a structure on there. Would you be open to having some of the city staff call you all and communicate and maybe be able to find some assistance to help you with this kind of transition period? What do you mean assistance? Yeah.
 Well, the city has a lot of different opportunities that maybe we could help with because it does look to me like that's really unsafe. It's really hot right now. Gosh, it would be nice to be able to find some alternatives. Okay. I mean, he has air conditioning, the room that there is a livable room in there that he stays in that is.
 i mean would hold us over until we could really figure out what to do so there's still power yeah into that house running water okay all right thank you what other questions do we have sir do you have some questions okay um anybody from council members on zoom do you have any questions for the staff or the owner okay so
 I do have a question. Do you know the acreage, the size of the lot, and is your father hoping to stay there or to sell it? No, we're hoping to stay there. Stay there, okay. Yes, and it's about two acres, I believe. Okay. Maybe a little more, a little less, I'm not sure. Thank you. Okay. Well, if there's not any more questions for the council, I will take some public input.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any councilmen. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? No one, Mayor. Okay, is there anyone in the chamber who would like to speak on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. So...
 The owner has asked for another 60 days, so you all... Mr. Mayor? What do you think? You know, I would be willing to give them a little bit more time, but I share Teresa's concern that with the structure and the condition that it's in, if it still has electric...
 and possibly gas or something like that, other utilities running to this house, I don't see it as being safe at all. And I wonder about the one room that is livable with everything else being in the condition it's in. I don't know what, I'm interested to hear what my other council members are thinking on this. But I'm concerned about the safety of the person staying there. No, that's...
 Yeah, this one is from the picture is different than the last one. I mean, this could collapse.
 And I don't know if the whole thing would collapse or just some of it. Hopefully the room he's apparently staying in wouldn't collapse on him. But I'm good with 60 days so that they have some time to work on it. But I will definitely not want to push this past like the other one just because...
 I mean, that'll make some news, maybe national news, if we let somebody stay there and it falls on them. So hopefully the city can reach out and help them as fast as possible. Interest rates are going up, so if they're looking for financing for another home, that may become even more difficult. So time is of the essence on this one.
 You know, one thing I would kind of like to, if we're giving someone 60 days and they've already, like this started last November, no wait, not last November, let me see here.
 July of last year, so we've been on this almost a year now when the complaint was first filed. You know if we're going to give them 60 days I would kind of like to know what they're doing instead of them just showing up in 60 days and going oh well, we we maybe need some more time. We're really working on it and you know I'd kind of like to have an update if possible. Could we ask for that kit?
 Yes, and I should probably notify the council that building safety actually originally just wanted to raise and remove it on their own. They thought it was so dangerous that they just wanted to go forward immediately, and I asked them to wait and present it to the city council, which I felt was a better procedure, even though I'm sorry it puts a burden on you all.
 But this is different really than the other house, which is less comfortable Maybe but not as likely to fall in on someone so I am concerned about any lengthy delays I Was he actually concerned whether we'd make it to tonight? I felt like we could before the house would collapse But I don't know if it can stand the other 60 days. I don't know if it can either Well
 I don't know, maybe 60 days is too long. I have a question for the applicant, if you could come forward. I saw the other accessory unit in the back. I think there was a car in there. Is there any other habitable area on the property that is not in the house? Not really, no. No.
 No, I don't think so, no. But even if you could just give us 30 days just so that we can get this process started. I didn't really know what I was walking in here today. So, yeah, if you could just give us a little bit of time so that I can kind of jump start everything. I'd be really appreciative. As you can hear, we're, you know, the house looks pretty bad. We're worried about your dad, so.
 Are there any other options that you can think of that where he could stay with a friend or someone else? No, not really. Okay. So do you think he can get out to Colorado in 30 days then? I think so, yeah. I think he can do that. Thank you. And then I'm available for updates if you want updates on the property, you know, past that. I'd be willing to...
 Maybe give them 30 decades then. Really looking back, you know, I keep looking at these pictures and I hope it will hold up for 30 days But it's really bad condition And if we table this for 30 days Yes, we need I don't think there was any okay and that'd be to the first meeting then in August and
 So you want to wait for the first meeting in August. That's correct, Holly? Yes. Okay, that's your motion. I'll second that motion. All right, we have a motion and a second to hold this until the 1st of August.
 Mr. Mayor, I would, with your permission, just want to come in and thank the daughter as a family member. Surprises are always surprises, and it's no easier with family than it is with a neighbor. So I would hope that my children would show up for me on short notice to represent my interests. So I want to commend you for aiding your father. You know, comments.
 Okay. Kim, please call the roll. I'm sorry, as the council members that are on Zoom, do you have any final comments before we vote on this one? All right, Kim, go ahead. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Unch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. All right, let's go on to new business. Number one.
 resolution to of intent to establish a stormwater utility for the purposes of funding needed stormwater and flood management water quality projects through a monthly stormwater fee to be paid by most property owners in federal to request city staff to continue with analysis and supporting activities and to approve the attached
 $199,660 budget adjustment. Allen. Thank you, Mayor. Appreciate you giving me the time and thank you to council members.
 We will not go back through the entire presentation that was given an agenda session, but we did feel like for the benefit of the general public, it might not have been available for that, that it would warrant a little bit of discussion. But essentially, you can see the timeline here. Some of the major floods that we've had in the past, that 2017 flooding event.
 really kicked off this journey for the flood management and water quality funding study that was completed back in October of 2019. Some photos of the flooding that was received during that event at the bottom.
 So we are kind of getting into the details of recommending a level of service. We see LOS there. So really the key points here, extending the city's drainage services to older parts of town, these older parts of town that don't have existing drainage easements where the city is not actively maintaining things just because simply because of the age of the development and it wasn't required at that time.
 Cleaning and inspecting 20% of the city's drainage system. Right now, as we've talked about, we're really pretty reactive rather than proactive. This additional funding would help us to become proactive in that regard. Replacing 2.5% of the city's system annually. We do see more and more failures of our system as our infrastructure ages, and we need to plan for that replacement into the future.
 And then a big thing we heard was maintaining residential detention basins, which right now are kind of hit or miss on whether or not POAs or the owners are maintaining those in perpetuity.
 And just kind of a little history, when we look at around $1.5 million of existing sources, this particular plan is based on 2018 numbers as far as the analysis goes, but would plan to add about $2.4 million or $3.9 million total annual cost for this program to do what we feel like. Our citizens and our council and our staff feels like we need to do on an annual basis as far as that level and extent of service.
 Along with that, we do want to recognize people's efforts to lessen their impacts on our system. So we are looking at finalizing that credit program in this next step of the analysis. But essentially, as we've discussed, there would be avenues for individuals and businesses and industries to
 reduce their overall fee, if you will, by reducing their impact to our system. That could be compliance with our drainage criteria manual. It could be things like providing shared parking, providing educational opportunities, etc. And we talked in great detail about that in agenda session as far as those percentages go. But we would really finalize that program in these next steps.
 And preliminarily, what does that rate look like? I mean, just for the general public and the city refresher for the city council. Anywhere from its monthly bill of $1.45 to $8.41, up to 8,000 square feet of impervious area. Over 8,000 square feet, you would get an individualized bill at $1.60 basically per thousand square feet of impervious area.
 You can see there are some percentages, 30 individuals or lots that fall into these various categories, the vast majority of which are falling either into Tier 2 or Tier 3, which is most of our residential lots and some of our very small commercial would fall into that category.
 So what are the next steps? Really adoption of this resolution that's before you of intent to establish a stormwater utility. So eventually we would look for the adoption of the final flood management and water quality rate, but as you can see that's still a ways out. And then initial billing potentially targeted out at 2025 that would modestly increase over five years. And
 Just to phase that in and not hit people all at once with those fees and allow them an opportunity to really take advantage of that credit program before that full fee goes into effect.
 So one of the next tasks in Jacob's contract amendment that is before you tonight, analyze the latest impervious surface. That's a big one, as we talked about. It's 2018 data that we're using currently. Develop the customer billing database, which is going to be a tremendous amount of work to actually see how we're going to get a bill into individuals' hands.
 Finalize the details of the credit program. Like we talked about, create these interlocal agreements with the University of Arkansas and others. Those are co equal governments, if you will, that we would need to work out to find details of how we interact with 1 another.
 And then launch some new stakeholder engagement and outreach, really just getting us back in front of the public and familiarizing them with what the proposal is so no one is surprised when they get that first bill in the mail. At least that's our goal. We understand that's going to be difficult and impossible, but certainly we want to try to make sure everyone is aware of this before it comes down.
 So a little bit of a time frame here from the next couple of years, really, getting this work done, bringing back for council's consideration and ordinance to implement a stormwater utility. 23 and 24 is probably more likely when that type of discussion is going to happen. Okay.
 that's really in a nutshell um i'm happy to answer any questions that the council may have or if we need to clarify things further certainly happy to do that okay what questions do we have from the council for staff on this any council members by zoom okay well then let's take some public comment everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member please stay on the topic
 please give us your name and address and those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that who do we have on zoom susan no one on zoom has their hand raised mayor okay is there anyone here in the chamber would like to address us on this okay well i'll bring it back to the council and this is a resolution what's what discussion or action would the council like to say
 Mayor, I have a comment. I want to say thank you, Alan, for giving that presentation twice. Last week and then this week, I had a citizen that wanted it on the agenda for tonight. And I guess the presentation was sufficient since he did not participate or ask any questions. So thank you all. And if there's no discussion, I would move that we pass this resolution. Thank you.
 second we have a motion to second to pass resolution any final comments from council on this i'm sorry i missed when would the date this go into effect
 This next step and actually what you're voting on tonight really doesn't take any steps to implement the fee. It's a resolution of intent to implement one in the future. And after this next phase of work is done with Jacobs, we would come back and present that information to you along with a proposed ordinance to implement a fee or do what the council would like at that point.
 All that said, we anticipate that this next phase of work will take us probably into early 23 to be able to get that done. So we'll be back in front of you with some decision points probably around that time. Okay, awesome. Thank you. Anything else from the council? We have a motion and a second. Kim, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Yes. Bunch. Yes. All right. Thank you all. Let's go to number two. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to accept a quote in the amount of $55,334 plus applicable taxes and freight charges.
 from Avivo USA LLC for the purchase of two macerator pumps for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility kit. Whereas the macerator pumps used at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility have been rebuilt multiple times and are nearing the end of their useful lifespans,
 And whereas Ovivo USA Inc. is the sole source provider of the screen handling system in use at the Nolan facility, including the macerator pumps, and the pumps are not commercially available through other vendors. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby fines the above circumstances, make competitive bidding not feasible or practical,
 and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and accepts a quote in the amount of $55,334 plus any applicable taxes and shipping charges from Avivo USA LLC for the purchase of two macerator pumps used at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 As Kit explained, the macerator pumps are located in the influx or the headworks of the Nolan treatment plant. They operate in a very harsh environment. What they do is they break up screen solids into fine particles. After that, they get washed of organics, which goes back into the waste stream, and then the inert material goes into a dumpster to go to the landfill.
 Like he said, these pumps have been rebuilt several times. It costs about $4,000 to $5,000 each time plus 5 to 15 hours of labor. These pumps have reached the end of their useful life and replacement is the most economical option at this point. Avivo USA is the only company that
 that markets this complete inflow screen system that the plant has. And they're the only ones that we can get the pumps from. They're not commercially available anywhere else from any other vendors. And we have received a quote for $55,334 plus taxes and freight for the two pumps.
 funds are available in the plant pumps and equipment capital account within the water sewer fund and this item was presented to the water and sewer committee on june the 14th receiving a four zero vote to afford to the city council for consideration be happy to answer any questions okay what questions do we have tim on this from the council
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on the topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do we have on Zoom? No one there. All right. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to speak on this? Yes.
 okie dokie i'm going to bring it back to the council council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading so what action or discussion would you like to have our take i'm going to please suspend the rules and go to the second reading i'll second that we have a motion the second to go the second read kim would you please call the road turk yes erksberg yes harvey yes jones
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Hunt? Yes. And in order to weigh competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $55,334 plus afro taxes and freight charges from Movivo USA LLC for the purchase of two macerator pumps for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. I move we suspend rules and go to the third final reading.
 second yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Adjourn us to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of $55,334 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from Ovivo USA LLC for the purchase of two macerator pumps for the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Is there any final comments from the council? All right. Kim, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Funch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number three. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition as part of the N22-023 located at 1140 North College Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately .60 acres from CS Community Services to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Kip?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from CS Community Services to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Section 2 that the City Council the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville To reflect the zoning change provided in section 1. Okay Jonathan Thank You mayor as You noted this property is located in Ward 2 We're just northeast of what many would consider central Fayetteville a couple lots north of
 of the intersection of North Street and College Avenue on the east side of the street. As I noted at agenda session, this is most likely familiar to most people in town and to the council as the location of the former highway in and an outbuilding located closer to College where Cafe Rue Orleans is located.
 Otherwise, the majority of the property is impervious surface. It's largely a paved parking lot that runs in a circular route around the Rural Eanes Cafe onto and off of College Avenue.
 The request before the City Council tonight is to rezone the property from CS Community Services, the UT Urban Thoroughfare. This comes after a recent request in 2019 to rezone the property from its C2 Commercial Thoroughfare designation that it had retained for several decades, the CS Community Services.
 At the time, that property owner's intent was to use the existing hotel as apartments, but the property has since changed hands, and the current property owner is interested in, among future plans, also having the ability to use it as a hotel again, which is not a use allowed by right in the Community Services Zoning District, but it is allowed in the Urban Thoroughfare Zoning District.
 Staff finds the request to be compatible with surrounding land uses. The Urban Thoroughfare District is basically programmed specifically for this type of location. The intent is to serve as a place where either commercial or residential or a mix of commercial and residential uses can mix together on a single property or among multiple properties.
 Accordingly, it allows the full spectrum of residential uses from single family homes up to apartments. And on the non-residential sides, it allows everything from a restaurant all the way up to a big box retail store. Also given its intent for being located on major transportation corridors, it does allow more auto-centric uses. So gas stations and drive-thru restaurants and the like. Again, staff finds all of these uses to be compatible at this location.
 Particularly while it may be unusual to see zoning districts of this intensity backing immediately up to a single family neighborhood, the topography in that area affords quite a bit of a transition where you may not expect it to be looking at it from an aerial view where it all appears to be flat.
 And looking at it from a long-range planning perspective, Staff First began looking at it through the lens of our 71B corridor plan, given it's the most recent planning document adopted, or sorry, not adopted, but created or crafted by the city. A big piece of this plan, which you can see includes this property on Bungett's southernmost extent,
 It includes a lot of redevelopment along the corridor. The main goal of this is to start introducing residential uses where they have not been for decades and have led to a separation of land uses that sees a lot of the congestion we're familiar with in that area today.
 Staff feels that when it was rezoned from C2 to or excuse me Yes from C2 to CS in 2019 at that time. We had advised the applicant that we'd be favorable of rezoning it to UT at that time they chose a path of Minimum resistance and only asking for what they wanted which again was to use the hotel as a multifamily apartment So they elected to request CS
 Community services staff does feel as though the request speaks to our 71 D plan. Similarly, our future land use map compliments the request, which designates this area as a city neighborhood area, which is intended for the widest spectrum of uses just about allowed within the city of Fayetteville.
 Similarly, located on a major transportation corridor with access to water and sewer and parks and trail and transit, and in near proximity to fire service, does have a fair number of infill attributes that suggest this site is appropriate for redevelopment from staff's perspective.
 When considering other issues, staff did not identify any. We've not heard any public comment to date. Accordingly, we recommend approval. The Planning Commission felt similarly, voting unanimously 7-0 to forward the request to City Council with their recommendation of approval. Conversation was limited, but largely coalesced around that the proposal is complementary to the 71B plan.
 And with that, I'm happy to take questions. And I believe I have Adam Day available online as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Mr. Day, go ahead. Yes, I appreciate that. And Jonathan, I appreciate your kind of discussion on our property. We are seeking to rezone to kind of align with the city's overall goals.
 for the site and for 71 business we're really excited about the uh street improvements that are coming with the 71b corridor plan to help urbanize the site we are really looking forward to the redevelopment and making this more of a mixed-use property with the existence of cafe orleans to maintain there as well as bringing back some of that motel um um
 That that's always been there on this site. So we're really looking forward to it. We think it'll bring back this property that has been neglected for some time and kind of serve the community. The UAMS and the Veterans Hospital across the street is kind of one of the reasons why this was appealing to us, along with those street improvements put forth by the city. So really looking forward to it. And we feel like we are on board with.
 future goals for the city and so we're excited and i'm happy to answer any other questions related to the property okay what questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant uh what about the council members by zoom do you all have any questions all righty let's take some public comment then everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those in the chamber after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? No one, Mayor. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to speak on this issue? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. It's in Ward 2. Did we have any comments at planning? No.
 No, there were no public comments at the Planning Commission. Any from the owner of the restaurant there? Not that staff has received, no. Okay. I think this is a reasonable place for UT. There's a lot of traffic. This is where you put UT. I don't think it makes sense.
 and a lot of other places, but this is definitely where you put UT. The goal is hopefully you can have the density here so that you can have less density in other places. This would be definitely used to its full extent of a lot of property tax and sales tax revenues. So hopefully we can improve this. Okay. Mark, have you all heard anything? I haven't heard anything. Okay.
 All right. This is on the first reading. Yes. Sorry, Mayor. I just wanted to say if there aren't any more questions, I just wanted to commend Mr. Day. It sounds like he's working with
 both rural lanes and considering the veterans hospital across the street so that that sounds really great to me and it is an urban thoroughfare project and i'd love to see more mixed use like this residential and businesses coming together on 71 so i'm happy to support it and i would like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second okay we've got a motion a second to go to the second reading kim would you please call the roll
 Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Punch? Yes.
 in ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning position rzn 22-023 located at 11 40 north college avenue in ward 2 for approximately three-fifths of an acre from cs community services to ut urban thoroughfare i'd like to move to suspend the rules and go to the third final reading second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading kim would you please call the row kirk yes harpsburg yes harvey
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Hutch? Yes. And an ordinance to rezone that property, described in a rezoning petition, RZN 22-023, located at 1140 North College Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately three-fifths of an acre from CS Community Services to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay, Kim would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Grogan? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property to describe the zoning petition RZN 22-022 located at 3061 East Skiller Road in Ward 3 for approximately 2.99 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 4 Residential Single Family 4 units per acre kit. It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF4 Residential Single Family, four units per acre. In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, John. Thank you, Mayor. This property takes us to East Fayetteville and Ward 3.
 It's about an eighth of a mile east of highway 265 or crossover roads intersection with old wire If you have taken that route before and you imagine where old wire Road peels off to the north skiller and proceeds further to the east along that route and the property the council is considering tonight is immediately south of that location sandwiched roughly equidistant between the the Jackson place and the the Burke very subdivisions
 It is currently developed with a single family home that accesses Skillern directly. As you can see in the aerial, about the northern half of the property has seen some clearing over the years where the southern half of the property remains largely untouched and within canopy.
 The request before council is to rezone the property from its current RA residential agricultural zoning to RSF4, residential single family four units per acre. To date, staff has not received any specific development plans for the project, given it is, on the face of it, a rezoning from RA to RSF4. In evaluating the request from a compatibility standpoint, staff did find it to be compatible.
 There is a singularly single family character to this area. It is true that the lot sizes certainly vary immediately to the west. Lots are anywhere from about a third to half an acre, whereas in the Brookbury subdivision, they're closer to a quarter to a third of an acre. And as you transition north and to the northeast towards unincorporated Washington County, the lots get larger and larger, in many cases two to three to four acres in size.
 Given that and the surrounding zoning and three directions of RSF4, staff found it difficult to argue that any request for RSF4 would not be compatible at this location.
 From a future land use standpoint, staff found it similarly to be consistent with the surrounding area and the future land use map. It is designated as a residential neighborhood area. While this would often support a spectrum of different housing types, staff did note that there are not a lot of attributes associated with what you consider appropriate infill, suggesting that it's not a location that the city would like to see higher intensities and densities.
 The infill attributes that it does have are some of those baseline ones, like water and sewer, the closest fire stations immediately to the west. The parks that are in the area are a little bit further. They are within our infill matrix walking distance, but they would require a bit of meandering paths to get to them.
 Among the issues identified with this, I'll frame them in terms of the public comment we've given, but also in terms of staff's findings here, because a lot of those do align, although the conclusion was somewhat different ultimately. There were a number of issues that I tried to distill here. Of course, I won't capture everybody's comments, but we always try to do our best. The first concern to touch on was a matter of drainage.
 I do want to first say that in discussing this with engineering, we've not received any documented complaints from residents before. That's not to diminish them or say that they've not happened. It is usually planning's first stop when we try to evaluate whether there is a concern in that regard, whether it's flooding or otherwise.
 This property does sheet flow from east to west, which means it doesn't flow to a single point. Just the kind of the entire property flows in a singular way, a wave if you will, across it towards the Jackson Place subdivision. On the other side of which is Flynn Creek and its associated floodplain.
 When it comes to traffic and street infrastructure, there was probably the largest subset of comments that staff heard and was certainly a prominent consideration by staff and the Planning Commission. The property only has access to Skillern and this area of Fayetteville does have fairly limited connectivity. Skillern only feeds to Old Wire to the west and ultimately out to the county to the east.
 Many public comments were made about the amount of congestion and back up traffic that happens at crossover in the morning with assertions that it backs up all the way to Savannah Estates further east. Also concerns about the amount of cut through traffic that comes from 45.
 To the southeast to cross over to the northwest given the lack of overall connectivity in the area. There are also concerns about the state of skill learn. It is still a two lane road with largely without curve and gutter and sidewalks, except for, I believe, one section immediately to the east of this property has some sidewalk.
 It is worth noting, and as 1 of the residents did note, there are plans to add sidewalk as a part of a city project. A side path is planned. I'll be it towards the tail end of our current trail construction program. I believe it's in 2027 is when the skiller inside path is intended.
 There are concerns about additional housing. It was worded in broad terms, but I think it was largely about the impacts that that housing would bring, particularly on traffic and any of the imperviousness that may contribute to drainage issues.
 There's a general request for our development details. Again, this is an on-the-face rezoning. We're not looking at a specific development plan. We don't have a site plan. We don't have a lot and block layout. The request is from RA to RSF4.
 And lastly, many of the public comments that came in today, several of the residents stated that they would have a strong preference for our to residential single family, 2 units breaker and felt that that was a reasonable increase of incremental increase in the zoning entitlement on the property.
 With all these issues in mind and in consideration for many of the items that the public brought forward, staff did feel that the request was compatible and consistent with our long-range plans on the balance of issues, and we did recommend in favor of it. The Planning Commission agreed, forwarding it to Council 7-0. They felt that it was compatible as well. It was difficult to make the argument that,
 RSF4, so much RSF4 was just inherently incompatible. There was an interesting comment, though, however, a desire to see more transparency in the potential development. I think that perhaps stemmed from some of the concerns from residents wanting to know what exactly was happening. Again, more development level questions.
 That said, I'm happy to take any questions. The council house and I believe Daniel Bearden is available online as the applicant for the item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes. Go ahead, Mr. Bearden. Can you hear me now? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, sorry. Good evening. Daniel Bearden, 3061 Skillern Drive. My family and I are currently located in Fort Smith, and after looking in several areas around the country, my wife and I have decided that we want to stay in Arkansas, and we feel that the city of Fayetteville is the perfect place for us to raise our family. To build our home at 3061 Skillern Road,
 A rezone is required due to the current setback footage of RA zoning restrictions. We feel that RSF4 residential district best fits the City of Fayetteville's land use as identified in City Plan 2040 and would allow us to build our home on the property. Although it does allow for more homes per acre to be built, that is not our intention.
 We plan to add 1 home to the property. We were drawn to the property because it allowed. Us to be in the city limits, but with more land than a typical city lot, traffic will not be a concern is this is a single family residence being added to the property. I'm aware of a natural waterway to the South side of the property and will not be disturbing that area.
 Thank you for your time this evening. My wife and I would greatly appreciate your support in our plans to relocate our family to the great city of Fayetteville, Arkansas. What questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? I just have a quick comment. Oh, sorry. Go ahead, Selim.
 Okay, I'm going to direct this to the applicant. We had a lot of emails that wanted RSF2, and I guess that would be to the applicant and or staff, does that work for what you're hoping to do? Because what I can see is this seems we would have less pushback from citizens because we've got, I mean, that was all the emails I got.
 So Daniel on standards answer that. That's kind of hard to go zoom to zoom. Yeah, oh here we go. Yeah, it's I mean RSF2 when switching to that there's only about a five foot difference of setback footage from RA. So that will not be compatible.
 With our plans, and also it will not allow us to do. A lot split of the home currently on the property. And maintaining our. The land and putting the home on a minimum minimum of a. 8000 square foot to be lost.
 Mayor, I can feel the technical side of Council Member Scroggins' question. I think the applicant hit the issue for him on the head, which is if he did want to split the property to build two homes on it.
 The existing home is what creates a conflict there. It straddles. It basically sits in the dead middle of the property and the zoning district requires 100 feet of lot width. And from what I see, which is granted not survey quality, they have about 200 feet of lot width. So there's very little room to play with.
 That said, I think there are opportunities with the recently adopted amendment to the tandem lot ordinance, where under the RSF-4 zoning district, the applicant could administratively create a tandem lot, which would afford them the opportunity to put a house behind this house under the RSF-2 zoning district, which at that point, it's just a matter of getting your lot area. The lot width is not necessarily the determinant.
 I hope that helps Councilmember Scroggins. Please let me know if you have more questions. And Jonathan, is that an administrative decision or is that one that would have to take go to the Planning Commission? Now as of the recent amendment to the Tandem Lot Ordinance, it is administrative. There are a series of qualifications that a Tandem Lot must meet such as adequate access to a street, water, sewer, and meeting zoning setbacks, but that's generally the constraints on it. Okay.
 So long as that answers your question. Yeah. I mean, you know, we've got three readings, so it may make sense to look at RSF 2 in the tandem lock between now and then if we don't vote for it tonight. There's definitely a lot of emails and if we can alleviate citizens' concern and get what he wants, then that's kind of what we hope. So thank you.
 I don't think I'd be in favor of RSF2 just because the surrounding area is mostly RSF4. All of the complaints that I received were, at least in my opinion, alleviated by the applicant's plans that he stated to just put one home on the property. So I don't have any concerns with this and I would be willing to support this. Okay. Anybody else? Questions? Yes.
 I would ask if you've heard anything, but I've heard a few folks here and there the last few days. Does any of the council members on Zoom have any questions? I know Sloan has already asked a question. So this is just confirming then with Jonathan that RSF 2 would allow for –
 tandem lot which would accomplish for the owner what he's hoping to accomplish. He's got plenty of width He just has to determine which side of the existing house to put the driveway on and would probably use the existing curb cut and wouldn't even need to add a curb cut. He could leave a significant amount of tree covered land, tree covered and
 and put his new home in the back where he has access to the greater portion of the lot. He wouldn't have to split them equal sized lots. He can literally draw the tandem wherever he wants. Tentatively, yes. That's a very specific question to what the – and I don't have the detailed answers to know. I did hear the applicant have – it sounded like they stated they have concerns about building setbacks, which they are much higher in the RSF2 zoning district compared to RSF4.
 Based on land area, the tandem lot allowances, it does appear that there is sufficient room to do what you described. Yes. Okay. Any other questions? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 please stay on the topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that susan who do we have on zoom no one has their hand raised mayor okay is anybody in the chamber like to address us yes mr rhodes come on there
 My name is Robert Rhodes and I'm representing some of the neighbors around the area. And on behalf of them, we would ask that you all leave this on the first reading. There has been some communication with Mr. Bearden and there's a desire for a little bit more along the lines of what's been discussed tonight. And that's what I'd ask you to do, please. Thank you. Okay.
 Okay, going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What discussion or actions or what would y'all like to do? I would support leaving this on this rating and just revisiting it. All righty then. Everybody good with that? Any objections out there in the Zoom area? If not, we'll move along to the next one. All right. Mr. Mayor, just one question. We can't ask.
 for a bill of assurance that would be inappropriate, but I believe that that would present the owner with one additional opportunity to Get the setbacks he desires and yet accommodate His neighbors whom he's presumably informed. He only plans to add the one structure So I would just mention that in before we move on to the next item. Thank you. Okay All right, let's go on to number five
 An ordinance to approve Vacation 22-007 property located at 2978 North Old Missouri Road in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of a utility east kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104,
 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of the utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, due each...
 Duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as a giveaway to the planning department's memo Shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk in section 3 this vacation approval subject to the condition That any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities Shall be at the owner developers expense Okay, Jonathan
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in northeast Fayetteville. It's immediately southeast of the intersection of Rolling Hills Drive and Old Missouri Road. If you're familiar with where Butterfield Elementary is, it's just a little bit further south on the street frontage there. The property was rezoned in the last few years, and development proposals have come through since then. As a part of one, the Planning Commission approved townhouses along Old Missouri Road.
 And as a part of that, the developer is requesting to vacate a portion of a utility easement located along that frontage. There are currently no public utilities in it and all our franchise utilities have signed off with their consent of the request. The only conditions of approval or their conditions of their consent are.
 that they want to of course have the standard condition of approval that Mr. Williams read, that any damage or relocation of facilities that are identified there will be at the applicant or the developer's request. I'm happy to take any questions you have, and I believe Blake Jorgensen is online as the applicant for this item. Thank you. Okay, Blake, do you have anything to add to that? You have 10 minutes.
 No, sir, Mayor. I have nothing to add, and I appreciate y'all's time tonight. And hopefully this is straightforward, but if you do have questions, I'm happy to answer them. So thanks a lot for your time tonight. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the staff on the vacation? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. You stay on the topic.
 please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that susan who do we have on zoom no one mayor okay is anyone in the chamber like to speak on this seeing now i'll bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading so what discussion or action would the council like to take have our take
 If there's no comments, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second. I'm a little surprised because I did get a call asking for us to wait a minute that they wanted a little more time, and it was one of the neighbors along the way.
 i thought they would be here tonight that's the next one oh it's the next one i'm sorry yeah i was on a map circling things good well i'm the next one by the way i'm the next one that's what i'm at just be aware duly noted yeah yeah i i did i was looking at maps and so i got a little lost thank you for that warning there is a warning yeah fair warning i get lost all the time well we'll be ready
 just the way i am you're scaring mr jorgensen sorry mr jorgensen okay so we're on the first reading of course and so if it's an ordinance we're probably going to have to go through some
 There's a motion on the floor. Yes. And I second it. Okie doke. All right, Kim, would you please call the roll? May I ask, I have Turk as our motioner, and who was the seconder? Sarah. That's what I have. Thank you so much. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 yes yes and norwich approved vac 22007 for property located at 2978 north old missouri road in ward 3 to vacate a portion of utilities man move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second yes Hertzberg yes Harvey it's Jones yes Kenyon yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In Ordinance to approve VAC 22-007 for property located at 2978 North Old Missouri Road in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of utility easement. Well, do we have any final comments on 007?
 but there's forewarning on the next one i like it oh man can't which police call the row turk yes artsburg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes weedaker yes scroggins yes munch yes okay thank you all
 Number 6, an ordinance to approve Vacation 22-015 property located at 2584 North Candlewood Drive in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of a drainage easement kit. Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds for portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes,
 whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of the drainage easement is not required for corporate purposes now therefore being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of a drainage easement as described in exhibit B attached to the planning department's agenda memo section 2 that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with a map attached as exhibit A to planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk and
 In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense.
 A new drainage pipe shall be installed by the applicant in compliance with city specifications, and the old pipe shall be filled with materials approved by the city. And I should note for the record that the vacation will not be active until both of those things have occurred. So I just want to make that clear on the record because there's a requirement to build a new drainage pipe
 in part of the existing vacated ordinance i mean investing easement that is not going to be vacated so only part of the easement is going to be vacated the one that's underneath the wall of the other house but it won't be vacated until the replacement is in the ground and act and working and certified by the city attorney so i just want to make sure that was part of the record okay
 Thank you, Mayor. I believe Mr. Williams covered about half my presentation, so I'll be a little bit more brief now. The property in question is moving back further towards East Fayetteville. This is in the Candlewood subdivision in Ward 3. We're about halfway between where Candlewood meets Crossover to the northwest and Township to the south.
 The property in question includes a single-family home, whereas a part of the home's construction, an elevated driveway and significant wall were built along the southeast property line you can see here in red, which was not part of the building permit review at that time, so it was not noted that it was conflicting with the drainage easement.
 Unlike drainage easements that are found in a lot of subdivisions, this one is not intended to accommodate a surface flow of drainage. It was meant to accommodate an underground pipe, as Mr. Williams noted, that's currently present. There's an inlet out on the street immediately to the southwest.
 So that brings us to today. That was several years ago, about, I believe it's closing in on about 15 years ago that that happened. The property has changed hands. The current property owner would like to clean their deed or at least address this as an outstanding issue as new property owners. They propose to vacate the easement in red that you see here, which is a portion of the drainage easement. To put that in more visual terms.
 The easement straddles the property line between the applicants and the property to the southeast, which is a undeveloped lot owned by the adjacent property owner further to the southeast. So what will be retained in addition to the blue portion that's not under the driveway is the 10 feet of yellow easement that is on the neighbor's property.
 Which brings us to the main part of the issue that the applicant and the public may speak to, which is there's some concern about relocating that line and it falling on one part of the easement versus the other. As far as the city's concern is, we need to ensure that the drainage functions as it does today and that we can get to it and maintain it.
 That's currently a concern as it exists under the elevated driveway and wall, as Mr. Williams noted. That's why we've included the atypical condition that this vacay should not take effect, especially until a new concrete drainage line is not only approved, but approved, installed, and the existing corrugated metal line is filled in so that it doesn't represent a structural weakness underneath that wall.
 With that I'm happy to take any questions the council has I believe we do have representation here from engineering as well in case there are more detailed questions on that side and Robert Rhodes the applicant on this item who's here in person. Thank you Okay, what questions do we have from the City Council for for staff on this? Okay We don't have any questions. I
 Let's take some public comment. We actually have the applicant here, Mayor. Oh, OK. I'm sorry. Mayor, Robert Rhodes, and I'm with Hall-Estill, and I represent the petitioners. Ryan Timberlake is here via Zoom, and Megan Timberlake is sitting right there. She's the one that has that great ringtone. I kind of like that.
 I had planned on a presentation, however, in meeting with the neighbor, Mr. Delray, and his attorney, Mr. Elrod, literally an hour ago outside.
 We would like to jointly ask this be left on the first reading so we can perhaps work through some issues. And maybe when I come back, I might have a different presentation and make your job a little bit easier. And with that, I will take any questions. Okay, so the request is to hold it on the first reading. Okay, all right. So we've heard from the applicant.
 So let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a minute duration. Don't engage anyone public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, and those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. And the request by the applicant is to hold it.
 and there's no one on zoom nobody owns them all right mr elrod uh mary jordan my name is john elrod i live at 2715 north sherwood in fayetteville arkansas 72703 i'm a partner in the law firm connor and winters and i represent john delery professor john delery and his wife susan shackleford here at the property owners immediately to the south on whose land the 10-foot strip of a 20-foot easement
 is going to be the accepting strip of ground for the new pipe if the ordinance is passed. So we have agreed to enter into some fact-finding, just to be frank with you and to give you an opportunity to let this marinate for a second. I know it's hard to believe, but we're worried about trees and especially two very large trees.
 We've hired an arborist to give advice in terms of what needs to be done in the construction of the new pipeline to assure That the two very large trees that were originally there before the construction of the subdivision candlewood Are protected to the extent that they can possibly be protected and that's the reason that we're asking for the extension of time. Sure Be glad to answer any questions Okay, I have any questions I
 Anyone else in the public like to address this in the chamber? Okay, so let me ask a question. Do you all think two weeks is, can you? We're going to give it a shot. The construction of this new pipe is going to be under contract, not with the City of Fayetteville, but with the property owner. What I'm trying to say is, John, there's two weeks.
 And then if the council wishes they don't have to vote on it in two weeks, they can give it another two weeks. Yes, sir. I hope that we're able to reach an agreement with the Timberlakes between now and two weeks from now. Okay. Well, we'll come back in two weeks and then thrash it. We're always happy to have you here.
 You know, it's always a pleasure to be here. It's rare. Me too. My thoughts exactly. If I may, Mayor. If I may, Mayor. Yes. Two weeks. We agreed to two weeks. However, we are very desirous of moving this quickly so the work can be done and be finished and the city will sign off on it and so my people can enjoy their new home. So thank you. Okay. Okay.
 well let's see where we are too with what questions do we have from the council for anybody i think we're going i'm glad i'm glad to hear that the neighbors are are going to go ahead and try to work on this um you know i had some calls today and it seemed like a dispute between neighbors and not really a government issue um so i i hope that um in two weeks they can come forward with something that works for both of them um and i'm excited for what what i see
 Yeah, I agree with Sloan on that. I talked to one of the people involved, and the other person called me, but I did not have time to get back with them on that. But I think any time we can try and let neighbors work it out together, that's the best thing because they're going to have to live next to each other. So anyway, I'm in favor.
 okay well we'll just leave it on the first rate yes good drainage makes good neighbors my only question is um is this is the is a sale pending this resolution through title or this the sale has already occurred the home is occupied okay thank you very much and we will know more in two weeks so
 I take it we're all in agreement to leave it on the first. All right. Well, we'll just leave that one on the first. Well, that concludes our business tonight. Do we have any announcements? No, sir.
 All right. Anybody got any announcements or anything? Excuse me, Mike. There was a proposed ARPA workshop, work session, something for council. So I hope you all received the email that the proposed date for the ARPA workshop, which will be conducted much like a budget workshop, is Saturday, August 6th from 9 till noon. And then we'll take up the items in regular council meetings after that. Everybody got it?
 All right. All right. If there's nothing else, thank you all. We're adjourned.