The lady and I are going to call the city council meeting. We must get to that in six minutes. Order. Summers, please call the roll. Morris. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Peace. Meeting number one. The proceedings have all the attention of the Supreme Senate candidates. Number one, voting for the Supreme Court of the Supreme House, the Supreme Court of the Constitutional Assembly. Number two.
 Thank you.
 I have received $39,000 for a recruitment plan for the Homeland Security Defense Project and the first project to exceed the amount of $5,000. Number four, the resolution for the amendment of 16-40 which contracts with Stephen Wilkins. She has held up a significant amount of $30,540 for the installation of the new central fire station at the West Center Street.
 Number five, the resolution to approve the election test to recognize the hazmat services to revenue received by the fire department from Washington County. It is an amount of $4,256 and increases the related expense of the budget. Number six, the resolution to approve the election to 16-31 of August 2, 2016 to remove the policy plan in the state of Illinois.
 NWA and Robert Arneson, and a total amount of $42,800 produced by the Water and Studio Operations Division. Second, a resolution to the contract to be able to incorporate the online auction services in June 2017.
 that you will be pursuant to the National Joint Powers of Law in the first three years. And number eight, a resolution to approve an extension of the contract with the Federal Chamber of Commerce for economic development and social services for up to three months that amount not to exceed $41,250 in your approval budget. I'll hold the motion on the consent agenda.
 Sir, I mean we accept the consent agenda as read Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes, okay Okay under unfinished business I
 Number one, a resolution to clarify and extend the time frame to solicit proposals for development of the West Avenue parking lot and to consider parking neutral proposals for sale of smaller parcels on Southern End. I believe, Matthew, this is yours. Do you have anything you? I do have some thoughts to relay. I don't have anything new to add, per se, but I have.
 I've been working on this over the last couple of weeks, and I've heard some points of view that I just wanted to take the time to respond to. First off, let me pass this out. This is, I've got one for each direction. This is a short petition. This hasn't been circulating for very long, but this is signed by downtown business and property owners that are in support of something happening on the south side, and I just wanted to make sure that the council...
 was aware of that. Some of the points I wanted to address, number one, you know, I know that a lot of this is centered on the parking study, and I wanted to clarify again just what exactly is happening with the parking study. Right now, we actually have the draft in hand of the existing and future demand analysis relative to this.
 piece of property i know staff had some questions about it and we've had some staff changes over at our consultant so we're in the process of working through that and staff is going to get it get their questions answered and we'll be ready to discuss that the next time this topic comes forward which i'm going to suggest after public comment that we table this to august 2nd.
 to give everybody time to digest that. But I wanted to make clear that that really is the deliverable that we've been talking about. I also have this relative to that, this is the calendar.
 of the federal water treatment line, that's the piece that we're waiting for here. And what comes next after we get this piece? It's going to be an inventory, what's called a supportive infrastructure, where we need new sidewalks, where we need a new parking lot,
 parking stalls we already have elsewhere in the district more efficient and useful. We also have an inventory of our parking management policies, which is really the biggest part of the study, where we talk about what's different from one part of downtown to the other part of downtown, how we manage one space versus the next, and that's really the bulk of the work. And all that comes later, and all those things are handed out to us.
 It's really on its way, it's already halfway through. It's on its way to the right date for us to have enough time to really have that in hand for us to digest it, for the community to digest it. The other thing, I know we're going to hear some criticism about on-street parking or the proposal, the Randall Sharp proposal and what it suggests for parking.
 I think that there's a discussion to be had there about whether or not on street parking works but I think that we need to be cautious about talking too much about a
 Uh, the proposal that was shown last time because we won't actually be voting on it until and unless we went out to solicit all proposals. Um, so it'd be in that context and especially in the context of development review when the fire department was police department and staff. Has the opportunity to review detailed plans. I think we'd be able to see how much space there is or how much space there isn't.
 But in general, I got to say that I think having on street parking on certain portions of West Avenue is very compelling to me. We know there's a speeding problem on West Avenue because the lanes are as wide as the lanes on an interstate and that should probably be fixed. I think there's some changes to be made that could help West Avenue better conform to current code, both fire code and our minimum street standards. Maybe on street parking is one way to do that.
 I've also heard some criticism, and I think reasonable people can have different opinions about this, and neither is necessarily wrong, but I've heard that some people think it's unfair for us to consider one portion of this lot. I just want to say that if it's the council's desire, if there's a consensus up here to consider the entire lot,
 Hey, that's fine. That's a consensus. That's what we should do. If that's not the council consensus, then we shouldn't do it. Then we should do something else. I do think there are some unique properties about this proposal that is generating this discussion now about whether or not we go out for more proposals, namely that completing Spring Street as detailed in the downtown master plan will require cooperation with
 a private property owner either will have to cooperate in a partnership with with that property owner or somebody else will and so i i think that that is a very compelling reason to consider a smaller piece of the southern portion of this of this lot in advance of of the entire lot not to mention i think it's very important that we maintain a piece of the lot for
 availability for festivals that we consider everything that might happen on the remaining two acres if we were to support this resolution so i want to be clear that the resolution in front of us is to consider all proposals for the parcels identified if it's the council's desire to consider all proposals for proposals for the whole lot you know so be it i think that south edge is unique it's different than the rest of the lot
 And, you know, in terms of the parking study and the way that's coming in, I mean, you only have to read the scope, the official scope that the council adopted and passed in the calendar to know that we're getting the demand analysis this month and should have it by August 2nd if we all agree to table it until that date. So I don't really have anything new to add, but of course, I'm anxious to hear, eager to hear public comments and go from there.
 Any comments or questions from the council before we ask for public comment? Okay, now we're going to take some public comment everybody keep in mind This is going to come back the first City Council meeting of August so You can voice your comments tonight or wait till August or I'm good either way you want to go I'm an agreeable individual Have to have a certain temperament for this job anyway I
 Is there any public comment on this? Yes, certainly. Come up, introduce yourself. Everybody gets one. Turn into the microphone. This council member brings you back up to ask you questions. Name and address, please. And...
 My address is 511 West Fronten Street, this is the Metro District, right across the street from the building, Metro North. Just to go back on the name, I moved here in 1984, went to college, fell in love with Spadeville. I got married 24 years ago. I was starting a new business, my wife and I pulled out a map of the United States when I was starting my business and said, where do we want to live? And of all the places in the country, we chose Spadeville, Arkansas.
 And we just really wanted to put down our roots and raise a family. So I've since sold that business, but that business still employs dozens of people in Fayetteville. So I guess I know there's some people here that are gonna oppose this and I wanna kinda handle a couple misconceptions if I can real quickly. But number one is the support, is I think there's some wide support for the project.
 Even though, you know, there's gonna be people that oppose it. But I've got a list here of 20, 25 different businesses. We had a very limited amount of time, but I was still able to get people like Dead Swanky, Riley, Sideways, Bugsy, Mickey Fins.
 High Roll Recycling, Nightbird Books, Fayette Chill, Clubhouse Fitness, Blackboard Grocery, David Adams Fine Jewelry, Dictionary Bookshop, Good Things Boutique, Sages, Teratops, Block Street Records, Beyond Limited Enterprises, Mustache, Dianne's Goods, LSD, Pork and Keg, as well as Beverly Shaper. So there are people that support it. I know you can email if you go down
 You can probably find a little dump, but I think we can get a lot more people on that list. We just have very limited time. And when I talked to these people, they said things like, everything is so geared towards students, which is great, but we need housing marketed toward adults downtown because students are gone three months of the year. And they said, well, my business is up here, so what am I going to do?
 I like the fact that you're fixing the trail. And I understand that lifting without the trail is a lot of different things than doing it in the country. So also, I get people say stuff like, we're missing the time. We've got to get going and we're not. And I said, and I think the ESPN report kind of lifts these people on that. I don't like the idea of developing that idea of doing it kind of in a space that's accessible, it's a green space.
 possible grass and the blacktop and things like that. We can still be partnering. But, in my opinion, that's the way I'll go outside. It's not going to affect my price or what I do or not. But, I think that's a cool spot right there in the parts that you'll be able to just look for a way. And then, I think that the price is
 you know that I'm offering plus the parking replacement plus fixing the trail it ends up not being a really small amount per square foot if you take out the student housing comps it's actually high I don't think anybody thinks that we really want a big nondescript building with a giant parking garage for students in this really special part of town uh
 One, I'm busy in the drive-by. If you all know, the one-time thing is going to be people in my city that are going to be driving my footpath. Number two, I'm going to have to get my own bathroom to the office this month. I'm going to have to run it myself. I'm going to have my own parking, so there won't be any additional parking burden in the city. This is not student housing. I'll be bringing 100 new professionals or graduates or whatever downtown for businesses, to support the businesses.
 It's parking neutral in regards to the city parking. I have a reputation for building nice things and things are done right. This would be the same way. It'd be a beautiful building, with high quality materials. And I said, like Steve Clark said last week, millennials are figuring out where they wanna live first and then figuring out how to make a living second. And I think that that's the way to the future. I agree that we need to preserve that uniqueness, whatever decisions that we do going forward.
 and keep it being a magnet for graduates and professionals and job creators. For me, the banking environment is light now. When the downtown master plan was done,
 You know, we had a crash not too long after that. And so who knows what's coming later, but I know for me it's the right time. Two last things is that I think that the building fulfills the downtown master plan. It's the same as the other master plan,
 uh once there's a building there a high quality building facing the metro district that says the spring street will be whole again and so uh and then lastly just to say that i think this is going to be a signature building for downtown could be the signature building for all of downtown and so uh so in conclusion if you guys say yes i'd love to build this i think it'd be a huge asset to downtown thank you have any questions
 Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us? Keep in mind we're going to, uh, Councilmember Pettis is going to ask that this be tabled until the first meeting of August. Anybody else? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 Thank you. Mayor, um, there are no council comments on the bill this August 2nd. Sarah. Second, Pat. We have a motion and a second to table to August 3rd. First meeting in August, August 2nd. Right? Okay. Any other comments from the council? All right. So I'm going to please call the roll.
 Thank you.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number two. Thank you all. Number two, an ordinance rezoned lot seven, eight, nine, and ten of the state subdivision of the city of Beverly and promising approximately 16.2 acres located at Mill and Drive on the
 commercial and UT Urban Surfer D1 institutional, subject to the attached bill of assurances. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Mitchell. So moved. Adela. Second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. .
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 From C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and UT Urban Thoroughfare to P1 Institutional, subject to the attached bill of assurances. And I do have a copy of the bill of assurance that has been submitted to you all with an exhibit showing the basic diagram which they say they're going to be substantially compliant with. So that has been furnished now. I thought it was going to be before last meeting and it wasn't.
 Okay. Chairman, you got anything? Sure. Just to remind the council, this consideration has changed considerably from the application of the planning commission.
 staff planning representative indicated that a portion of the applicants had withdrawn the request and so you all amended that request to reflect what's before you now which is about 16 acres it comprises lot 7 8 9 and 10 of the original McMillan state subdivision which essentially if you look on your screen here my mouse cursor here it's this property in this location as well as a portion of property across I think I believe McMillan drive based on the
 the the exhibit here that's shown in the bill of assurance the proposal is to rezone the property i'm sorry it is south just south of mcmillan drive the proposal is to rezone the property to p1 it originally came in as a planned zoning district p1 is our institutional district
 By far and away, the majority of our P1 institutional properties are either university property, Washington County owned property like the jail facility or the county courthouse, and city parks. There are a couple handful of properties that allow for churches. A church is considered a cultural, a youth unit for a cultural and recreational facility. Those are on Mount Comfort Road, I believe, are the ones that we were able to locate in the middle of primarily single family and agricultural properties.
 P1 institutional is a pretty limited district. It only allows for two or three uses, governmental facilities and cultural and recreational facilities. So there are some pretty tight restrictions on that particular use. This applicant has also further restricted the uses with the bill of assurance, essentially limiting the use to a church as well as a conceptual site plan that would go through the planning commission for a large scale development proposal.
 Alderman Marsh asked for a staff to make a recommendation on this particular proposal, so in the last couple of weeks we've taken a look at that.
 We do have concerns with the P1 institutional. We actually feel like it probably further restricts this property more so than our council policies, but also perhaps even more so than an applicant has realized, particularly with regard to signage regulations. Very limited signage is allowed in P1 because primarily they are within or near residential districts. And it's considerably less than what current zoning, for instance, would already allow. It also allows less of the property to be utilized for development.
 With the considerable setbacks in P1, 30 to 50 feet relative to urban thoroughfare, it certainly restricts the use of the property in that way as well. So we did have concerns about that in terms of the planning analysis of the project. We certainly recognize that the intended use here is a church. The applicant stated that clearly we're allowed to consider that because that isn't part of the bill of assurance, and that's the desired development on the subject property as presented
 As I mentioned at the original presentation of this item, the church use is allowed by right, both in the current zoning district of Urban Thoroughfare and also in the P1 zoning district. So I don't believe the use necessarily is a consideration. It's really the ancillary uses that are also allowed in each zoning district that would be proposed.
 We don't have a really specific church zoning district in the city of Fayetteville. Actually, most of our churches are located as a conditional use permit in either residential zones or our largest churches are in zones that are form-based zones. So a brand-new church was recently built.
 and community services off of Highway 112. We also have, of course, the three or four major churches in our downtown area, all of which are in our four base zones as well. So those are all obviously thriving churches for well over 100 years in some cases.
 Places of worship are often staples of a complete neighborhood, so we generally recommend in favor of those where the site can support those. And so for the very same reason, we don't oppose at all a church use on this property. It can be allowed in the current zone today. We do feel like this change in zoning, obviously it's an important intersection. One of our few commercial nodes left should be considered very carefully. Any questions for Jeremy? Okay, what do you need?
 Would the applicant like to address the council? My name is Greg Taylor. I live at 2991 Willow Bend Circle in Springdale, Arkansas. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Mr. Hall was not able to be here tonight, so I've been asked to stand in his place. Mr. Mayor, as you probably already know, in November of 2014, Cross Church acquired approximately 22.2 acres of land
 at the corner of Weddington Drive and Interstate 49, of which approximately 13.17 acres was a gift to the church from the Thomas family. This acquisition was the initial step in relocating the church from its current location on Weddington west of Interstate 49. The church currently occupies over 20,000 square feet of lease space, and uses six different parking lots, some of which are blocks away.
 Needless to say, it's a challenge to go to church there. However, in just a short five years, the church has grown from a few hundred people to now averaging over 2,300 people a week, including 900 college kids on Wednesday evenings. The church has been diligently working over the past year and a half on a new church campus master plan and now have the building designed, the developers selected,
 and the funds secured to allow construction to begin immediately on this new church campus. It's the church's intent to simply comply with the most applicable zoning provided by the city of Fayetteville for a single use church campus and church related activities. Therefore, our request is to rezone approximately 5.69 acres currently zoned C2 and approximately 10.57 acres currently zoned
 urban thoroughfare to P1 institutional for a single-use church campus. This new campus will be a landmark for the city of Fayetteville and will offer a multitude of community services. The church would ask for your support of this rezoning request and I'm available to answer any questions. We also have our engineers here represented tonight as well as representatives from the church. Thank you. Okay what questions do we have Mr. Taylor? Council? Any?
 Okay, thank you, Mr. Tote. Sarah, I believe. I actually have a question for Jeremy, or maybe Kit can help with this. Because the Bill of Assurance references the site plan, does that then tie us to that specific site plan before Planning Commission has had the opportunity to go through large-scale development process? Yes.
 Generally no, so when we see a bill of assurance it would tie you to conceptually you know location building location I think that's the intent here It does not relieve the applicant or the city of following the city's ordinances that we have in place that you all have adopted the Planning Commission Would review it just like any other large-scale development and apply those same standards if it changed dramatically because of those standards I'm sure we would need to bring that back before the council to review that.
 So, but if the Planning Commission decided that they wanted to pull the building to one side of the site or the other, would they be locked or tied in by the site plan attached to the bill of assurance? Generally, the Planning Commission is limited to essentially reviewing a project to meet the minimum standards of the site, so not necessarily recommending a building move around or change in its nature if it meets those minimum requirements. And by law, the Planning Commission is required to approve that. Okay. Thank you.
 Any other questions? Yes, John. Mr. Mayor, my colleagues on the council, I'd like for us to be respectful of the church and their members. Right now they're putting up with parking in various parking lots. When my children walk in parking lots, as I've stated before, I warn them that's one of the most dangerous places they'll walk. When we're crossing streets, we're aware of danger. In parking lots, we take it for granted that no one's going to hit us.
 These church members are risking their lives and their children's lives every Sunday to come and worship as they please. I would like for us to be respectful of that and grant these men who have come before us to ask that we rezone this property for P1, what they have determined by their councils, by their engineers, by their lawyers, that this is best for them. In spite of the fact that it may be more restrictive than C2,
 or some of the other zonings that are currently existing i think we should be respectful of their wishes and not try to second guess their work so i speak in support of p1 zoning i hope you'll join me in going ahead and granting that thank you mayor okay anybody else before we get public comment okay gonna open it up for the public
 And everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Keep your comments directed to me. Don't engage council member or any member of the audience. Give us your name and address. And who would like to be first? I guess that would be me since there's a microphone in front of my face. Kevin Carpenter, currently residing 4506 West Flagstick Drive, western side of Fayetteville. I serve the church in the capacity of volunteer director for
 All things parking. That seems to be the topic of the night here, according to some that have spoken before me. So let me give a little bit more flesh to this parking issue that we deal with each week. We currently do employ six different parking areas, only three of which are contiguous to one another.
 We have roughly 80 parking spaces around the building, at least for the church right now. We then employ Bank of the Ozarks. That's about another 15 or so parking spaces and another 15 parking spaces at Iberia Bank. Then we come to Salem Avenue. Across the street, Salem Avenue, we utilize the Arvest building.
 That's about 140 parking spaces, but almost 20 of those are reserved, set aside for MetaServe. We do that each Sunday out of respect for the service that they provide for the community, and people don't need to be hunting around for a parking space. And trust me, if a Southern Baptist sees a parking space closer to the church, they're going to take it. So we protect those as best we can.
 Once that fills up, then we're relegated across Colorado to the Harps parking lot. Again, we do our best to protect parking spaces closest to the front door of Harps, but human nature takes over, and when you come into a grocery store parking lot, what do you do? You look for the closest one to the grocery store door, regardless of how far you have to walk to the church.
 So my staff is working through all of that stuff each week. We also have one other remote parking area. We utilize airways. That can be up to 100 parking spaces, but there you see the challenge. We're completely on the other side of Weddington, which is quickly becoming one of the busiest roads outside of Joyce Avenue in the city. And we then bus people from there to the parking lot of the church. Here's the other issue we're facing with the development of
 Starbucks and that particular area, the Walmart market behind that, people are electing not to use the controlled intersection at Salem and Weddington, but rather travel further west on Weddington, attempting to turn left into the Starbucks area, which to me makes absolutely no sense, but I'm from New England, what do I know? There we have that almost Mexican standoff sometimes where someone's wanting to turn left.
 South from Weddington, we're needing to turn left into the church parking lot to deliver our worshipers to the front door of the church. And someone inevitably is coming out of the Walmart roadway there wanting to turn left to go west on Weddington. And fortunately, the bus is bigger than all of them, so we usually do win to some degree.
 Pedestrian traffic crossing Salem Avenue at certain times of the day, particularly between our 8.30 and 10 o'clock service and between our 10 o'clock and 11.30 service can get pretty interesting. There is a crosswalk there at the controlled intersection. It is manned by a police officer. He is not in uniform, but it is evident that he is a police officer.
 and yet human nature takes over once again and we have a number of people stepping off the curb thinking of course that the larger vehicle is going to stop for the smaller pedestrian every time and fortunately that is the case thus far but as was as was mentioned a little bit earlier we have a number of people taking their lives into their own hands while either going to or coming from worship there at salem avenue
 My staff does their absolute best to encourage people to use the crosswalk. We have signs posted to use the crosswalk. We try to be kind but firm in requesting people do that, but human nature is what human nature is, and we don't actually have eyes in the back of our heads, so there's a lot of pedestrian traffic across there.
 Additional to that, with Starbucks so tantalizingly right across the road from the front doors of our church, we have a number of people playing what we deem Frogger every Sunday morning as they cross Weddington to go to Starbucks and get their favorite beverage. We again discourage that. The crosswalk is not ideally located at that point. It is at the controlled intersection, but, you know.
 35 steps one way, 35 steps the other. That amounts to far too many calories burned for a lot of people.
 All of this and then add into that the impact to the neighborhoods behind the church campus that gain egress and ingress from Salem Avenue. It's a challenge for them to get out sometimes. I don't know, maybe they're just going to buy a loaf of bread or a gallon of milk, but it can be challenging for them to get out at the intersection there of Salem and Weddington.
 All we ask, again, as has been stated, is your consideration in getting us to a location where those who choose to attend Cross Church here in Fayetteville can do so with assurance of safety. When they get to the parking lot, they don't then have their biggest consideration of the day of how to safely get to church, take a seat, and worship.
 But also the surrounding community as it grows and Weddington only becomes busier and busier That becomes more and more of an issue vehicular traffic pedestrian traffic all forms of transportation Just not it up there I trust that my comments have helped a little bit to paint the picture of the parking Challenges that have been mentioned a couple of times. I will say that my parking team Absolutely loves what they do every Sunday
 They enjoy it. It is an act of worship for us. It is why many of us get there at 730 in the morning to set out cones and signs and be there to greet people with a smile and hopefully, safely, and thus far that's been the case, get them to worship. And we will look forward to continuing to do that. Just please don't make us do it any longer than we have to.
 So trust you'll consider these. I hope my comments have been illuminating, and I welcome any questions that you might have in the interest of parking. Do we have any questions? Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, my name is Phil McMichael. I'm one of the pastors on staff at Cross Church. I live at 4478 Brightwater Circle in Springdale.
 And I've been to the different city council meetings and planning commission meetings that had to do with this property. One thing that I can't remember us bringing up during this process is the way in which we currently are able to serve the city of Fayetteville on our campus.
 And I think that's important because it can give us a glimpse of how we hope to be able to serve the city of Fayetteville at our new campus when we have expanded space. So I wanted to talk a little bit about that for the next few minutes. We have a guy on our team that shot a video once that said, we love Fayetteville. And we do. We love Fayetteville.
 We love the city of Fayetteville. We love the students and the schools of Fayetteville. Over the past couple of years, we've been able to open our doors to different sports teams and clubs from Fayetteville High School. And we've been able to house many of their end-of-the-year students.
 They're in the year of banquets. We've done that for the Fayetteville softball team and volleyball team and the girls basketball team. And we have more teams that have talked to our staff about using our facilities in the coming year. We love our university, of course, and we've had the opportunity.
 Someone mentioned earlier our Wednesday night event, which sometimes up to 1,000 college kids show up for, which we're very thankful for. But also there are times in the year, such as during the –
 during exams where we were able to open up our facilities for late night study sessions for students from NWAC and from the University of Arkansas. And so students have a place where they can come study together or study with their friends. We love our students. We love our schools. We love our businesses.
 just earlier last year we were able to house tacos for life as they were able to come use our facilities for several days to train their employees as they were getting ready for their grand opening and in October of this year we're going to be able to open up our doors to them again as they will bring in hundreds of their and of not only their employees but of of
 of their clientele, the people who eat at Tacos for Life, will be coming onto our campus for three days of packing dry meals. I talked to the owner two days ago, and he said they're planning on packing 270,000 meals over three days.
 that they are going to then take personally the owner and some of his team to a Central American country where they will be feeding needy families there. So we love businesses here. We are for businesses, and we want to do what we can to help businesses as we're able to. We love families.
 We love families. We're so thankful that every year right before Thanksgiving, we're able to open up our doors and serve hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of families the food that they would need to provide a Thanksgiving meal for their family. We're so thankful that right now we're able to, every fall, open up our doors one night a week to teach a class on marriage to whoever from our city would want to come to it.
 we're so thankful that multiple times each semester we're able to open up our doors to young engaged couples to teach them things that I'm still trying to learn how to do with my wife but to teach them how to budget together and how to communicate and how to deal with conflict and just because we love families and we want to help whoever would come into our building to set up a
 a solid foundation for their marriage. And for those whose marriages, for whatever reason, are not able to work, we have classes that are, we call divorce care classes for adults and for their children to help them to heal after a marriage doesn't work the way they thought it would. We love families.
 And we want to do more and more for families and for schools and for businesses and for the people of Fayetteville in the weeks, the months ahead. The biggest thing that holds us back from what we want to do right now is our space. We just don't have enough space to do more. We feel like we look at you and we look at personally. I've lived in five cities since I graduated from college.
 A couple of those cities, Frisco, Texas, and Madison, Mississippi, were towns where the city planners and the city council were able to plan with wisdom and plan well, and their cities are thriving. And I look at, because I've sat in these meetings multiple times now, I look with great admiration for what you do and the way you hold the line to what you think is necessary for our city to succeed.
 Because I've also lived in cities where there was not good planning and some of those cities are imploding. And so we are thankful for you. We feel like the best thing we can do to help this city to strive is to continue to love on families and schools and businesses more and more. And at the same time, help our families, help whoever would come to our building with their own finances.
 We offer, I saw as I came in, Jim Wilson, who is a local businessman who teaches financial peace university once a year. He doesn't do it more than once because we just don't have the space. If I told him, Jim, we want you to do this three times a year, he'd probably do a backflip right now. We believe that the best way we can serve families financially is to help them get out of debt.
 And the best way that we can help our city financially is to help get our families out of debt so they can have more to give to the city. So without belaboring the point, we just want you to know, and part of this comes from my heart of hopefully speaking in front of you today as men and women who would call on us in the future. When you think of things that you need a great building for, things that could help the city.
 We would love to be a part of those solutions. And so we would love your continued consideration to help us to get into this building as soon as possible so that we can continue to love on the city more and more and more in the days ahead and so that college students and younger students and parents and adults and single people who are in the city will continue to more and more think of Fayetteville as a place that they never want to leave.
 Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mr. Mayor, members of the council, my name is Steve Clark. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane. I'm the president and CEO of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. I think we all admire what our faith community, including Gross Church and all the other parts of our faith community in this city, do for our city. And we should have admiration for that because it does make...
 a difference and help define our sense of place but i stand before you tonight to speak in favor of this rezoning request and join in the city staff's recommendation because it's about economic development from my perspective there's been a lot written about whether a church is an economic development tool in some cities and in some states it is the driving economic development tool
 You particularly have seen that in cities that have suffered a huge decline, both in their definition of their sense of place, of who or what they are, some of our major metropolitan areas of our country, but also in even small cities where, because of changes in demographics and because of changes in structure, particularly highways,
 parts of a town that once thrived don't thrive because traffic doesn't go there anymore. And so in looking at those studies, one of the things that we noticed about religious institutions is that they do have a very profound effect on describing a sense of place. Not for the entire community generally, but just in the location where they are. But that could be rather dramatic. Look at this location. It's first against an interstate highway.
 Now, there are other properties around that, some owned by the university, some owned by private landowners, but that interstate highway is about to be significantly changed again with a new interchange, which will significantly change some of the traffic patterns, which have us as a city grappling with how we get those trails connected.
 And I spoke to you a week ago and said that my wife and I are enjoying riding on the trails. So we want those east-west connections. We can go north-south all day long, but we want to go east-west. And so how do you get that? And when you look at this region and you look at this part of our city, Asbell School is there, one of our most diverse schools, a big school.
 A place where we're doing our leader in me training now because we've seen that there are leaders burgeoning there, but they have to have some tools around them. When you look here, Lifestyles is located there. When you look here, the only synagogue in our city is located there. When you look there on that side of the road, you come all the way back to Garland or 112 before you get outside of Food Desert unless you cross over. And so for us, we see it as a tool that does a couple of things.
 We are particularly pleased that the land that's adjacent to it is going to be zoned urban thoroughfare. I think that makes sense. That's consistent with what you have thought of as an important way to develop our city. And so for those regular commercial businesses, they will deal with those zoning requirements, and that seems appropriate to us. For the church as an institution, as it sits there, it has some other means and methods that bring value, I think, to whatever else happens with the property surrounding it.
 The church spoke of their programs. Programs are incredibly important wherever they are in our city. All of you reach out every day to people across our city for the programs that they provide. And I know you all support them. I've seen that on Facebook and other things. So I'm a recovering alcoholic. Most of you all know that. I mean, it's not a secret. It wasn't a secret when I was a drunk, so it ought not be a secret when I'm sober. But they have recovery programs there.
 Recovery people seek recovery don't care what the building says outside, just as long as there's a place to go and have a conversation or have some support. There are programs for families, lots of families over there. There are ways to make that end of town more walkable if we can get better exchanges across Weddington Road.
 There are ways to make sure those trails connect, and there are ways to see that not only at Asbell School and Lifestyles and other places there, but also as it comes up to the University Farm, and certainly that property that we now rent from the university, which they're taking back from us, whatever that development is, this has some impact. The church we see has another impact.
 Churches generally invest in their property heavily, lots of money, and then they maintain it. And so they're pretty careful about who develops around them. They have an opinion, and it's an opinion as a landholder. It's not an opinion about faith. It's an opinion about investment.
 Now, they have opinions about faith, but they have real opinions about the investment, and they have real opinions about how we develop in that part of our community. It's a significant decision. There's lots of land left there to be developed. There are lots of ideas on how that might be developed, all of which you will decide whether are appropriate for our city. You've had other options, and you decide they were not. These that are coming before you, you will have that opportunity again, and if you decide they are not, there will be options behind those.
 but in this instance once if you approve this this decision is made then urban therapy for thorough urban thoroughfare and p1 have a real impact on the rest of what that side of our city looks like and the impression that it gives you drive down the interstate highway and the impression i think is a very positive one so we see this as an economic development opportunity
 that sets the tone for this portion of our city, that sets the tone to continue the message that we have, a really desirable city of which you want to be a part. This sets the tone that in our city we are as concerned as much about the sense of place as we are recruiting talent.
 in this instance talent of all persuasions all face all walks of life those of no faith have an opportunity to have a resource that may be available to them likely will be available to them and yet they also have a place that they'll know that that community is being brought together by more people who live there with a common purpose so i urge you to vote to rezone this property p1 okay thanks steve who else would like to address us on this
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Lorraine O'Neill. I live at 3001 West Weddington, right here in Fayetteville. I've spoken to you all many times. It's been a while, though, and I have attended this church for a number of years now. And the good works that they do for this community, which I have been involved in a number of them, are remarkable. The blessing baskets in the fall is a tremendous thing that we do there. We reach...
 levels of this community socioeconomic age income background ability we do a lot of good things for this community and i am confident that you all will approve this rezoning for us and i would like to extend an invitation to each and every one of you to attend our services next sunday we do a lot of good work over there and i think you'd enjoy it
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would be next? See, now I'll bring it back to the council. Okay. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor. As for City Attorney, we got a memo from you today on this, I think, and I confess that I didn't really have time to review it properly for our meeting. I was hoping you might provide a little summary for us.
 Yeah, I'll be happy to. It's relatively short, but I did a little bit more research to update the research I had for my first memo, which only really involved a case that was in 2002, and I wanted to see what's happened since 2002 and has the Eighth Circuit ever spoken about the rights of churches and religious organizations when it comes to land use decisions. And I was able to find a couple, none in the Eighth Circuit, but there was one in the Seventh Circuit and one in the Ninth Circuit.
 And both of them were, I think, pretty clear about the rights that church organizations have under the First Amendment as well as federal law. For example, in the International Church of the Four Square Gospel versus the City of San Leandro, a 2011 case,
 They said that for a religious institution, having a place of worship is at the very core of the free exercise of religion, and that churches and synagogues cannot function without a physical space adequate to their needs and consistent with their theological requirements. The right to buy, build, or rent such a space is an indispensable adjunct of the core First Amendment right to assemble for religious purposes.
 This carries some legal weight to it, too. I mean, that sounds nice, but what does that mean? And another case, this one out of the Second Circuit, 2012 case, Fortress Bible Church versus town of Greenberg, I think it is.
 He said, the First Amendment generally prohibits government actions that, quote, substantially burden the exercise of sincerely held religious beliefs unless those actions are narrowly tailored to advance a compelling government interest. In other words, such actions are subject to strict scrutiny by reviewing courts.
 Now normally in zoning decisions, you have great discretion is provided to the City Council because these are legislative decisions. There are a few exceptions and I think you all have seen them all this year. Prior to this year, I don't think we saw any of them, but this year there was a contract that we had entered into, then there was substantial investment based upon an approved development,
 And now we have religious organization. Now I can say that religious organizations are not just granted carte blanche to do whatever they want to. They still must generally follow our rules of development and zoning.
 But the courts hold us to a much higher standard when it comes to religious organizations when potentially a rezoning is going to be denied. And in fact, in the town of Greenberg case, the city basically was denying the church on three grounds. One was approval of their plat, and another one was the location of the church on the land.
 And they eventually turned down the church's application to build because of those. And the federal courts found that this was improper, that it substantially burdened their religious belief. They granted injunction against the city, and they granted damages.
 And there could be substantial damages in that case because it went on for a substantial trial. And so I think that their attorney fees charges are going to be very substantial. Now, we've not received any threats from the church here, and I don't think they're going to do that. But we still are charged, each one of us took an oath to follow the Constitution.
 And the Constitution and the First Amendment does grant the free exercise rights to the church, which the courts have interpreted that we need to be very deferential when it comes to churches. Right now, the church can build, as of right, on their zoned land. But their land is split-zoned, some of it C2, some of it urban thoroughfare.
 C2 requires setbacks. Urban thoroughfare requires to build two zones. So you have two zones that are fighting with each other. That makes it pretty difficult to decide where you can put your building when one of them says you're back from the road and the other one says you're up at the road.
 There's also, what they requested is P1 institutional, which is designed expressly in its purpose to protect the rights of religious organizations for their property. And so it's one that the city council years and years ago created for churches and other major organizations. Washington Regional is another organization that their land is on P1.
 So, those are mainly organizations that would have larger buildings and things like that, and governments, obviously, too, have some P1 zone land. So, because of that, I think that in this particular case, there seems to be very strong grounds to allow the church for the institutional zoning which they have requested.
 And if we denied it, then the problem would be is that we must show a compelling state interest, a compelling governmental interest, why we would not allow that. We have our economic development advisor saying this is good for economic development. This church owns the property, and except for the location of the church, the building itself,
 within this property there would be no difference between P1 and then the land as its own right now. So we would have to have a compelling state interest to show why the church should be built up at the road when in fact the road is going to probably change when the highway department comes through and redesigns the intersection. So that's very problematic in itself.
 If, you know, maybe it looks like the church would be in a bad location there, and that would also force the entire parking lot to be behind the church, where in the future, obviously, something else is going to be behind the church, too, and they're probably not going to want to see nothing but a parking lot back there. And it also means that the parishioners would have to watch, walk much farther to the church than they would to the church.
 as opposed to the church being back somewhat more from the road, not terribly far back, not at the back of the property, but more toward the middle third, so that people would not have to walk so far to get to the church. And so we would have to show somehow compelling state interest why that's bad, why we don't want that, why we want to force the church to be up the street. And frankly, I can tell you as a city attorney,
 That's a difficult burden, one that I would, it would be very difficult to prevail in that. And also I think that it's really, I'm looking at this really as a do-right and a constitutional thing. I don't want you doing any votes whether you like or dislike this church. It should be based upon the zoning itself and how that's feasible and
 But I do think that they have presented a good case why P1 could be the proper zoning for this case. And so I will answer any other questions you might have if anybody has any. Mark, do you have a floor? Well, I want to move to go to the second reading. Third and final. Mark, we have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading.
 Shall the motion pass? Marsh? Yes. Gingham? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Chapman? Yes. . Yes. Long? Yes. Wright? Yes.
 And ordinance rezone lot 7, 8, 9, and 10 of the McMillan Estate subdivision of the City of Fayetteville encompassing approximately 16.2 acres located at McMillan Drive from C2 Thoroughfare Commercial and UT Urban Thoroughfare to P1 Institutional subject to the attached bill of assurances. Okay. Mark? Mark?
 i think from what we've heard and what we know about this institution and they want to go to p1 that we should go ahead and approve that this evening so they can get on with their plans okay marty okay okay anybody else okay if there's not any final comments shall the ordinance pass
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Number one, resolution to award bid number 16-38 and to approve a contract with Apex Central Incorporated in the amount of $2,574,815.20 for the construction of improvements to Old Wire Road from Mission Boulevard to Ash Street to approve a project contingency in the amount of $386,222 and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Jeremy? Mayor and Council, this is the second phase of our project on Old Wire Road. First phase involves the intersection reconstruction, the placement of utilities underground, and also signalization. That project is actually being managed by the AETD and is currently under construction. This project, which was recently bid out, is the second phase of the Old Wire Road improvements.
 This would go on Old Wire Road from Mission Boulevard to Ash Street. The design includes two vehicular travel lanes, bike lanes on each side, a 10-12 foot wide trail along the east side, as well as a 5 foot sidewalk on the west side, as well as all storm, sewer, water, and sewer installation improvements.
 There are actually two more phases for this project. The next phase is a sidewalk project along the east and south side of Old Wire Road from the parking lot at Gully Park to Boxwood Drive. And then the last phase is a trail along the east side of Old Wire Road from Ash Street north up to Gully Park. And that would complete one of the primary projects on our bond program for Old Wire Road. As you all know, the primary emphasis on that was intersection improvements, but primarily pedestrian improvements along Old Wire Road.
 On June 10th, the city received four construction bids for this project. APAC Central was the low bid on the project. There are two different funds paying for this particular project, the Transportation Bond Fund and the Water and Sewer Fund. Those are itemized within your staff report and within the budget adjustment attached. So the total bid for this project is $2.5 million. We're recommending approval. This will be a 12-month construction project. What questions do we have from Jeremy on this?
 Okay. Any public comment on this? Okay. Matthew. Here, I move to pass the resolution. Justin. Okay.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Justin? No? Okay. Well, I would like to say real quick that this is a wonderful project. It was one of the first things that people asked about years ago, and it connects many, many neighborhoods now to not only the Gully Park area but all areas around the school, and it's just an excellent project for the city to do, and I'm glad we're doing it. Yep. Thank you very much.
 Anybody else? Okay. Shall the resolution pass? Sorry, did I miss anybody? Marsh? Yes. Kinnan? Yes. Petty? Yes. Timmons? Yes. Chapman? Yes. Matura? Yes. Long? Right. Yes. Okay, number two. An ordinance to approve Vacation 16-5440 submitted by Jorgenson Associates Incorporated, properly located at 2514 North School Place, to vacate portions of a utility easement. Kip?
 Whereas, the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas, the City Council has determined that the following described portions of the utility easement are not required for corporate purposes.
 now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby vacates portions of a utility easement as described in exhibit b attached to the planning department's memo section two that a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as exhibit a to the planning department's memo shall be filed in the office of the washington county circuit clerk
 Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any relocation or damage to utilities and the associated new easement dedication shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number 2, after AEP SWEPCO has located their underground utilities in the areas indicated, these areas shall be surveyed by the applicant.
 And easement shall be enlarged or provided by the applicant for any AEP SWEPCO facilities that are not within the easements. Okay. Chairman.
 This request is part of the new school campus expansion on the south side of Sunbridge Drive. The applicant is proposing vacation of several utility easements that were plated previously that traverse across the property and this would make room for the planned expansions to the new school. The Planning Commission voted seven to zero in support of this request and staff is recommending approval. Okay do we have any questions for Jeremy on this? Okay any public comment on this? Okay bring it back to the council.
 Adele? I move we go to the second reading. Second. Allen? Yes. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. So motion passed. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty?
 tenant yes shop owner yes long yes right yes an ordinance approved vac 16-5440 submitted by jorgensen associates incorporated for property located at 2514 north new school place to vacate portions of the utility easement adela i'm going to wait up the third final reading sarah second if motion second go to the third and final reading shall the motion pass
 Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Kennett? Yes. Stoutmire? Yes. Long? Yes. Wright? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 16-5440, submitted by Jorgensen & Associates, Inc., for property located at 2514 North New School Place to vacate portions of utility easements. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Shall the ordinance pass?
 Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Bennett. Yes. Topmart. Yes. Yes. Long. Yes. Right. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three.
 An Ornistry Zone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 16-5438 for approximately 185 acres located at 1094 East Drake Street from RO Residential Office, RA Residential Agricultural, and C2 Commercial Thoroughfare to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Kit.
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit A and the legal description exhibit B both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from RO residential office, RA residential agricultural and C2 commercial thoroughfare to UT urban thoroughfare.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 okay sure these properties are located between west drake street to the south i-49 to the north north point circle and north garland avenue to the west and north gregg avenue on the east there are nine properties they total approximately 185 acres as you can see here in the aerial photograph the majority of the property is agricultural in nature it has been acquired numerous parcels have been acquired over several years the property owner currently lives on the property
 This request is to rezone the property, which you can see is composed of several different zoning districts, C2, RA, residential office, into one single zoning district at one of our form-based zones, Urban Thoroughfare.
 These properties all came into the city in 1967 before a lot of the interstate was all connected. As you all are well aware, the Fulbright Expressway and this interchange is in design currently to undergo several improvements, and the property owner is requesting a rezoning of the property adjacent to it.
 As noted, the property is located along several locally and regionally significant transportation routes, including the railroad to the east, I-49, of course, arterial and collector streets of Garland, Gregg, and Drake, making this property particularly suited to a more intense type of land use development in the future.
 In addition to the south is the University of Arkansas agricultural facilities, largely institutional and agricultural in nature, and therefore unlikely to undergo private development in the near future. You're also aware of multifamily housing. Our large regional medical facility, Washington Regional Medical Facility and Hospital, are located also to the east. We find this particular site highly compatible to be rezoned urban thoroughfare, which is the applicant's request.
 City Plan 2030 designates this subject property as an urban center area, which is our widest spectrum of both residential and commercial uses, encouraging mixed use and traditional neighborhood design, while also understanding and accommodating the fact that oftentimes there are major transportation corridors that have to be respected in those areas.
 An intensive mixed use and realization of Fayetteville's market potential, we believe, can occur on this property, and staff and the Planning Commission are recommending in support. Okay. Do we have any questions for Jeremy? Is the applicant here? Okay. All right. What public comment do we have on this? Okay.
 Oh, yes. Mayor Gordon, member of the council, I'm Neil Pendergraft. It's our family entities that owns this property, and I appreciate any support you could give us. I have 25 years of cobbing these smaller pieces together, so we'll have what I believe to be Fayetteville's northern front door. I'd be glad to answer any questions that any of you might have. Do you have any questions for Mr. Pendergraft on this? Thank you, Neil. All right, now do we have any public comment? Okay, I'm going to bring him back to the council. Thank you.
 Sarah I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Thank you Motion second to go the second reading shall the motion pass Yes, yes Yes Yes, yes And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-54 38 for approximately 185 acres located at 1094 East Drake Street in
 from residential office residential agricultural and commercial thoroughfare to urban thoroughfare sarah maybe we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading alan i'll second that if motion second to go to the third and final reading shall the motion pass marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes right yes yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 16-5438 for approximately 185 acres located at 1094 East Drake Street from residential office, residential agricultural and commercial thoroughfare to urban thoroughfare. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Shall the ordinance pass?
 marsh yes yes yes yes yes yes yes right yes thank you council all right number four i look forward to this development by the way neil all right number four an ordinance to rezone that property scribe resounding petition rzn 16-5441 for approximately 2.71 acres located
 At the northwest corner of Mount Comfort and Salem Road from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Kip. Kip. Get ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1. At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, I hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services.
 And Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arc are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1 above. Jeremy. This is a request to rezone approximately 2.7 acres of a larger 6-acre parcel located at the northwest corner of Mount Comfort and Salem Roads. As you can see here on the map, this is Caddy Corner to the Pathway Baptist Church. It currently contains an existing single-family home and outbuildings built in the 1920s.
 the request is to rezone from residential agricultural to cs which is our community services district we felt that this was a compatible zoning primarily because of their their primarily single-family residential uses with a smattering of churches schools but we've
 heard from residents for a long time that addition of services out here would be supported this particular zoning district encourages patterns of development that result in realizing that goal including an expectation that non-residential buildings would be located at the corner and as you can see by pathway baptist church that's one example of how that can occur in this in that type of development pattern staff recommended in favor of this request there's a rezoning request and the planning commission voted five to one in favor
 Okay, do we have any questions for Jeremy on this? Okay, seeing none, we'll take public comment. Who would like to be first? I'm Bill Reed. I live at 2555 North Trafalgar Drive in the Salem Heights subdivision. I am president of the Property Owners Association for Salem Heights. I just want to share with you a poll that we took of our members. We have 88 households.
 in our subdivision. We received 69 responses. 65 responses were against the rezoning and four responses were for the rezoning. The primary reasons that, or concerns that I received from our members were in no particular order, property value, traffic and safety, and aesthetics.
 Some of the comments I received were that I have concerns about increased traffic at the already unorthodox Rupel intersection where it joins Mount Comfort from the south. I believe we'd see more traffic on Salem between Mount Comfort and Howard-Nicoll. The morning and evening traffic on Mount Comfort would most assuredly increase with the addition of commercial business lining the street.
 I don't want that, and I like driving home on Mount Comfort and passing homes and churches and not commercial enterprises. Another member stated, we specifically purchased a house away from conveniences so as not to be inconvenienced by traffic noise and unnecessary growth. Another member states that she believes
 purchased in Salem Heights at the time early in its development back in 06 when real estate prices were considerably higher than they are now and our property values have dropped quite a bit and haven't and haven't come back to what they were and many of our members are concerned that property values continue could continue to drop with the commercialization of Mount Comfort and
 west of the Porter Road intersection. Another member states, my wife and I would like to express our opinion that we do not support rezoning the aforementioned land for Dollar General or any other commercial deployment based on the following factors. One, the residents neither desire nor need services due to near proximity to Weddington.
 This area should remain as residential to maintain the aesthetics and continuity with the surrounding neighborhoods. Three, Salem Road is not developed adequately to support the increased traffic expected. And four, the location is too close to schools and could risk the safety of children who walk to and from school and bus stops. Another member stated that convenience isn't an issue for me because it takes less than five minutes to go to the neighborhood market.
 Harps and the several fast food places that are already on Weddington Drive and are close to the corner of Mount Comfort and Salem Road. So I'm just here as a representative of my neighborhood to share with you that we were 94% against and 6% for
 And as an aside, I'd like to take this opportunity as a representative of Salem Heights to thank the city and the council, the city attorney for the work that you guys have done for us in the past with some problems that we've had in our spring fed ponds and the drainage that have been a pretty harrowing issue to deal with. So thank you for the work that you've done for that and I thank you for your consideration
 of our input into your vote. And I please urge you to not rezone that area to allow for more commercial development west of the Porter Road-Mount Comfort intersection. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, I'm Kyle Smith live at 2801 West Dove Drive about a quarter inch off the right edge of your screen up there This property is at a traffic light controlled intersection of a major four-lane street in A developing part of town if that doesn't call for Like commercial development. I don't know what does and
 A lot of the conversation in the neighborhood chat groups have centered around the unnamed, because we're not allowed to consider, probable developer. And I would tend to agree with them that the type of business that goes in here is going to...
 going to set the tone for this corner and the general area i hope that when this is rezoned that we will stick to our form-based build-to requirements and not waiver from that so that we can develop this area with the walkability and the safety and the traffic in mind thank you thank you kyle who else would like to address us okay i'm going to bring it back to the council okay
 Allen. Just in taking the first few looks at this and after talking with quite a few residents in the area, a lot of the feedback I've gotten has taken us all the way back to the rezoning of the come and go that was on Mount Comfort Road. And what we as a council communicated to a lot of the people here that came to speak that night is that when we went forward with that come and go, we didn't want to push commercial development any farther down Mount Comfort at that time.
 I think we're still at that same point in time because we don't have resolution on Ripple Road, at least the portion that goes from Mount Comfort to Weddington. And I think that leaves some uncertainty for us because of traffic patterns as well. But looking at this specific...
 Place in between the come and go and where we're going to be building the road on Rupel. It is all residential There's no commercial Portions there. I just don't think it fits with the neighborhood at this time but I think that it's something that could be revisited years from now when this area does start to develop a Sense of community and does have some more services integrated. I'm just not sure that we're ready for that there yet. John I
 Well, unlike my cohort for Alderman, I think we are ready for development there. I think we need services there in the area. And as Mr. Smith so amply pointed out, this is a major four-lane road. It's a major thoroughfare. And there will always be uncertainty, and I share your concerns, Alderman Long,
 is what will happen and how will the traffic flows go, but somebody has to be first. And we can make this argument 20 years from now that, hey, there's none there now, so let's not put any. And we'll never have any development commercially on that road if we take that tack. Leadership, if it means anything, has got to mean more than holding your finger up to the political winds and seeing which way the wind is blowing.
 We need services in that area, in my opinion. I agree, Weddington is fully developed commercially, and you can hop over to Weddington pretty quickly, but during a high traffic time, it's going to be difficult to get there in five minutes. Services are just that. They're good things for people.
 convenience does play a part in people's purchasing decisions and i realize that traffic is never a good thing i don't like traffic anymore in the next person but if uh if i didn't want to have any traffic i'd move to madison county no offense mayor but uh traffic's a good thing to have and as i've said once before
 uh our chief of staff and i were sitting at the arkansas municipal league's dining area with a thousand other people who are mayors and aldermen from little towns all across eastern and south southwestern southeastern arkansas and don very amply pointed out there are probably thousands of people sitting in this room right now that would love to have a traffic problem you know we do have traffic problems i agree but that's one of the costs we pay to live in a city we're going to have traffic we need to deal with it we need to learn how to
 use that to our advantage but if you don't want traffic you can't live in a city that's that's just part of the facts of life you can't have your cake and eat it too as the old saying goes we want to manage traffic we don't want to just let it go to the wind but I can't see traffic as a valid excuse not to go ahead and grant this request so I would I stand and in support of the request
 okay helen i'll just i'll just add to that and i'm going to support my constituents tonight who don't want this to be developed at this time for the main reason i think we're all in leadership which is public safety um ruple is a two-lane road where there have been more than one traffic death
 on that portion I mentioned, the portion that's two blocks away. It connects Mount Comfort Road to Weddington. It's a very heavily traveled road and we haven't been able to complete that area. Just now in the last few months in transportation we've heard about the plans and when that may move forward. Also in Transportation Committee we've heard from many people in the surrounding neighborhoods who have had large issues with traffic calming in and around the two schools.
 on both Ruppel Road and on Salem. So I think that's another reason to consider holding off for right now. The schools, the two lane roads, and just general public safety in the area. Okay, anybody else? We're on the first reading. What is the wishes of the council? Okay, oh, Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 John, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Shall the motion pass? Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Sinnick? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property is cried a rezoning petition RZN 16-54 41 for approximately 2.7 1 acres located to the northwest corner of Mount Comfort and Salem Road from RA residential agricultural to CS community services Sarah maybe suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading So Second the motion Motion passed
 Yes. Ken? Yes. Eddie? Yes. Kenneth? No. Shotmar? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? No. Gray? Yes. And ordinance to rezone that property ascribed in the rezoning petition RZN 16-5441 for approximately 2.71 acres located at the northwest corner of Mount Comfort and Salem Road from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Final comments from the council?
 Okay. Shall the ordinance pass? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. No. Schottmeyer? Yes. Latour? Yes. Long? No. Grant? Yes. Okay. All right, number five.
 In order to rezone that property, describe rezoning petition RZN 16-5448 for approximately 8.08 acres located at 2050 South School Avenue from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre to C2 commercial thoroughfare to CS community services.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, residential single-family four units per acre and commercial thoroughfare to community services.
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Chair? These properties are located on the east side of Highway 71B or South School Avenue between West Non-Maker Drive and West 22nd Street, directly across from the entrance to the Arkansas Research and Technology Park.
 The two properties total approximately eight acres. The northern one contained about six acres and the southern about two. The zoning of the north property is divided. There's, as you can see in the zoning map here, C2 is part of a portion of the property as well as RSF4 that make up the balance of the property. Both these properties were annexed in 1946 as a larger annexation.
 the proposed zoning is community services or cs cs we believe that this zoning is consistent with the development and zoning in the area the properties along this principal arterial vary significantly in land use ranging from the large tyson food facility and university of arkansas research cluster to also lower intensity commercial and industrial sites located along single-family and multi-family neighborhoods
 there's also a medium density development similar to that proposed by the applicant that we believe is well suited for the area the city plan 2030 indicates this is a city neighborhood area which accommodates a variety of uses both residential and commercial and we believe the proposed community service zoning district facilitates the development of those uses much better than the current proposed c2 and rsf4 the planning commission agreed with that recommendation and also recommends approval of the vote of seven to zero
 is the applicant here oh would you like to speak for that okay you don't have to i'm just giving you okay okay all right any questions from the council on this okay any public comment okay right back to the council sarah
 I'm very excited to see this proposal for the change in zoning to bring more services and housing down to this area, especially with all the new jobs coming to the research and technology park and if for no other reason than so we can get some sidewalk improvements down on that end of South School. So with that, I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. We have a second. Adela. I second that motion. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading.
 So the motion passed.
 March yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 16-54 48 for approximately 8.08 acres located at 2050 South School Avenue from residential single-family four units per acre and commercial thoroughfare to community services Sarah
 I second that motion. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Shall the motion pass? Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Getty? Yes. Kinnock? Yes. Kuttmeyer? Yes.
 an ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 16-5448 for approximately eight acres located at 2050 south school avenue from residential single family four units per acre and community thoroughfare to cs community services any final comment dylan final comments from the council no no okay i'm good all right any other any final comments from the council all right shall the ordinance pass
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Hinnant? Yes. Stottmeyer? Yes. Luthier? Yes. Long? Yes. Wright? Yes. Okay, number six. A resolution to approve change order number 12 of the contract across the construction company incorporated in the amount of $436,555 to add
 and the construction of a parking lot sidewalk associated road improvements as a regional park to approve an additional project contingency in the amount of eighty thousand two hundred and two dollars and to approve a budget adjustment connie good evening connie edmonston parks and recreation director this is a request for change order with crossland construction to construct 84 space park in the area and associated landscaping and road improvements including the curb gutter and sidewalk at the regional park
 It also includes additional funds to undercut a portion of the entry road way where unsuitable soils were encountered. This parking lot is part of the master plan. However, it originally included 32 spaces. The parking lot will serve the extremely popular existing and future Kessler Mountain Trails, as well as the future pavilion and the playground area.
 We're requesting to build the parking lot based upon a couple of reasons. One, the Rotary Club is currently raising funds, which you know they have raised now $100,000, to fund the construction of a playground. ADA parking and access will need to be provided to the playground where it is built, and we anticipate this to hopefully begin in early 2017.
 The amount of usage at Kessler Mountain Trails are getting, it's just unreal how many people are parking in the gravel lot right now. And as we continue to increase, this number will continue to increase as additional trails are developing as the park opens.
 And the other third reason is constructing the parking lot now rather than later would be less expensive since we still have a contractor on site and can utilize existing unit costs. So it should save us hopefully maybe up to 25%, so over $100,000.
 The total cost of the parking area, road improvements and undercut is $466,555. The remaining project balance in addition to the budget adjustment in this request will fund the improvements.
 The budget adjustment included recognizes funds that are available in the fund balance, which can only be used for park purposes, as well as the parkland dedication funds from the Southwest Quadrant. Approximately $80,000 is being requested as project contingency to fund items that will be performed by park staff, because it's much cheaper for us to do it.
 In addition, Crossland is asking for an additional six weeks to construct the parking area. However, the rest of the park is on track for completion of its original end date in August. And the grand opening is set for Saturday, August the 20th. So we'll be sending you a save the date this week. Any questions on this? What questions do we have for Connie on this one?
 i don't have a question mayor but i want to thank you for coming to our rotary club and accepting the 100 000 check and i think thank you for your own rubber club giving me a hundred thousand dollar check and i think approving this parking lot to be built earlier and larger is just going to inspire the rotary club to work even harder we have another 50 000 dollars i think to go but i think this will show the city council is right on board and we're going to get that
 playground done as well as a parking lot thank you any other questions or comments okay any public comment on this
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Don? Mayor, I just want to thank the staff. I know that the council looks for us to bring cost savings opportunities to you, and this is an opportunity for us to build this lot while we are already deployed on site, constructing the park, and so we're able to get this facility at a lower cost. I want to thank them for looking for those opportunities. Okay. Alan? I'd like to make a motion to pass the resolution.
 Yes. I second that. We have a motion to second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council on this? Okay. Shall the resolution pass? Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Petty? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Schottmeyer? Yes. Plachere? Yes. Long? Yes. Gray? Yes.
 I've got several announcements. First, I want to remind folks that the Gully Park Concert Series continues this Thursday, July 7th from 7 to 9 p.m. We will have entertainment by Blues Music Award winner Danielle Nicole. So if you haven't been to one of our Gully Park Concert Series, come out Thursday night.
 Secondly, our greedy goats are back eating invasive plants at Wilson Park, and the public is invited to come watch a munch, I guess, starting July the 6th, which is tomorrow through July the 9th.
 And also remind the public and the council that we opened our new 40 space new trailhead parking lot south of the Botanical Gardens It's access from highway 265 for additional parking for trail users There's also a new trail hydration station at this location. So if you're looking for To be rehydrated you can check out that location as well on your trail ride. Okay All right. Anything else?
 all right thank you all very much good work tonight by the way council real good we're adjourned