Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. The first order of business we have tonight is the Consent Agenda.
 number one approval of the june 19 2018 city council meeting minutes number two a resolution to approve a cost share agreement with beaver watershed alliance for grant funding in the amount of 163 000 and assistance in designing and constructing a green parking lot at kessler mountain regional park with a cash and in-kind match by the city of 140 000 and approved budget
 Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in total amount of $23,000 representing Federal Advertising and Promotion Commission special event funding for Oriole Bench program donations from the Rotary Club of Federal and Jim Garlock and a donation from the Chain Gang Disc Golf Club.
 Number four, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $7,000, recognizing parkland dedication fees from the Southeast Park Quadrant to be used for the Vaughn Richardson Community Center Garden Shelter Project. Number five, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC in the amount not to exceed $154,000 for water tank and water quality evaluations and to approve a budget adjustment
 Number six, a resolution to approve supplemental agreement number one with Algier Martin and Associates Incorporated in the amount not to exceed $46,144 for additional electrical engineering services associated with an assessment of the city's potable water stations.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve change order number one to the contract with Instant Form Technologies Incorporated in the amount of $280,192.55 to add additional pipe segments to the 2018 proposed sewer rehabilitation work plan using the cured-in-place pipe method. Number eight, a resolution to approve task order number seven with the Watershed Conservation Resource Center in the amount of $100,500.00.
 for continuing native vegetation establishment efforts and minor adjustments within streams to ensure the continued success of the completed restoration projects. Number nine, a resolution to authorize the purchase of 2018 Dodge Ram 1500 four-wheel drive quad cab from Lewis Automotive Group of Fayetteville, Arkansas in the amount of $22,767 presented to a state procurement contract for use by the police department.
 Number 10, a resolution to authorize the purchase of a 2019 Kenworth T270 cab chassis with AG&H model 8000 rotating container carrier from MHC Kenworth of Springdale, Arkansas on the amount of $112,313.78 pursuant to the source well cooperative purchasing contract used by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division. Number 11, a resolution to award bid number 18,
 62-123-1802, an authorized contract with Grasshopper Construction LLC in the amount of $22,813.49 for a community development block grant rehabilitation of eligible residents located at 1235 Southwest Avenue.
 Number 12, resolution to approve the 2018 Community Development Block Grant CDBG Action Plan to authorize the mayor to execute the CDBG agreement for 2018 in the amount of $668,915 when received and to approve budget adjustment. And number 13, a resolution to authorize the contract with
 Modern Exteriors of Springfield Incorporated, any amount of $23,830.89 for the purchase and installation of sunroom glazing at the Walker Park Senior Activity and Wellness Center using Community Development Block Grant funds. I move we accept the consent agenda as read. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read.
 Okay. So under which police call? Marsh. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much. Next order of business, unfinished business. It orders to amend 164.19 accessory dwelling units of the Unified Development Code to encourage the construction of more accessory dwelling units in federal. Thank you.
 Mayor, I think this is going to be heard at the Ordinance Review Committee meeting. Unfortunately, it won't be able to be done until after the next meeting. So this ordinance should be tabled. Now, there might be people here to discuss it, but I think rather than just reading it again, we probably ought to wait until after it goes through the Ordinance Review Committee, and that way we can have any potential modifications or amendments to be presented before we read it again. That would be my suggestion.
 Okay, Justin and just for the public that meeting will be Thursday July 19th at 5 p.m. In this chamber in this room Okay, that's the wishes of the council Justin I
 I would make a motion to table. Sarah? I would second that motion on the condition that we allow anyone to come to speak to comment. I'm going to do that. Absolutely. All right, we have a motion to second the table. Before we table it, do we have any public comments? Because we will be looking at this again. Yes, my name is Rob Sharp. I live on Church Street in Fayetteville.
 I'm really excited that you all are looking at the accessory dwelling unit ordinance. Okay, I got it. Go ahead, Rob. You got five minutes. Anyway, we're off. I'll try to keep it under four and a half. But I think this is really important that we're doing this now and dealing with this kind of issue before we have a housing crisis. The
 The things I want to stress are that the demographics that the country is looking at is 70% of households are one or two members. And right now our housing stock is still primarily on the three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath format. And so we have a real mismatch between the households that we have and will have in the future and the housing stock that we have. And it's really important in stable, established neighborhoods that people find a way to live.
 Provide options for housing and the accessory dwelling units are a great way to give people flexibility whether it's empty nester or a
 starter families or any lot of different housing types could really benefit from the option of having accessory dwelling units and I think the ordinance as written does a really good job of dealing with the potential nuisances of an accessory dwelling unit but giving enough flexibility that these can actually get built and I had the experience this fall going to Portland Oregon where they had the build small live large summit meeting with people from all over the country talking about
 accessory dwelling units and one of the most important things they do there is give a tour of accessory dwelling units because most of them are so well hidden people don't know they're there they think that that they're not being built but actually they're happening it's just that most people don't notice it because they're they're in the backyard they're you know in the basement or in the attic or so it's nice to see all the housing being provided that people actually from the street you can't even see that that it's that a change has been made
 So I'm glad that you're taking this on, and I hope that you can get the ordinance into place so you can pass it. Okay. Thank you, Russ. Another question? Yep. Rob, I have a question for you. Okay.
 I read in the last announcement about the Design Excellence Program that the Walton Family Foundation had taken an interest in accessory dwelling units, and you were involved in that award. Can you give us an overview of that program? Yes. I'm not sure anybody's really familiar with it. Very briefly, it's a two-fold project that we're doing. One is we're building four houses in the Briartown neighborhood of Dentonville.
 And they want it not only to be four houses, but they want it to be four small cottages that would be appropriate for accessory dwelling units or backyard cottages. And not only will we build the buildings, but we'll also make the plans and drawings open source. Anybody that wants to use those plans can use them for free. Then the idea is to kind of jumpstart that.
 this accessory dwelling unit process because it's daunting for someone to hire an architect and hire a contractor and go through the permitting process and all that so we're trying to we'll do a little book brochure too which will show people how to start the process and so it's not just while you're fixing your ordinances we're trying to get the designs done okay thank you all right all right who would like to be next okay i'm going to bring it back to the council
 We have a motion and a second to table. Yes, and Mayor, I think the motion was to table the first meeting in August because the ordinance review will be right after our other meeting, the first meeting in August. All right, table to the first meeting in August. All right, any comments from the council on that? All right, Sandra, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Higgins? Yes. Heady? Yes. Sinnott? Yes. Funch? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gray? Yes. All right.
 Be tangled to the first week first of August all right number two an order to rezone that property described And rezoning petition RZN 18-62 06 for approximately point three five acres located at 1760 North Walnut Avenue Who are set for residential single-family for years break to NC neighborhood conservation? I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading sir so moves We have second
 Adele yes, I second thing all right. We have a motion in the second ago the second reading son which please call Yes Yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in Rezoning Petition RZN 18-6206 for approximately .35 acres located at 1760 North Walnut Avenue from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to neighborhood conservation. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I have nothing to add except to briefly go over some information that we handed out on the tour for those who couldn't make the tour.
 and also just describe some of the discussion that took place on the tour. Let me go to my slides. This is a 143-foot lot. It is in a very, very challenging location, as everybody that went on the tour knows. One of the challenges is the existing access. It doesn't meet our requirements for sight distance.
 It is a head in back out and it's steep and all of those would not meet our present requirements for access on this lot. The lot is 143 foot frontage and under the existing RSF4 zoning it would allow a lot split, two lots split.
 under the proposed zoning it would allow a lot split and create three lots as you all know it's in the hill hillside hilltop overlay district which requires quite a bit of additional work for development or redevelopment such as it does require grading permit even for a single-family home of course the tree preservation requirements are higher and retaining walls also
 Wallet Street is a collector street and our requirements actually say that if you're on a collector street and there are problems with safety access, you are to provide a shared access. So whether this were undergo a lot split for two lots or three lots...
 we would request a shared access. So one last point. If the existing access is at the least desirable location, the most desirable location in terms of site distance would be on the other end of the lot. Whether or not if this were redeveloped as a single-family home, that's what it's used for now,
 Could we require the applicant to move that access point? I would hope we could, but I don't know the answer to that question. I am confident that if a lot split comes in, we can then look at the safety of the access and make sure it's done in the safest manner. With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Is the applicant here with the elect safety? Where's the counsel? Then we'll get into the questions.
 Thank you. Zarin Niederman, 849 South Washington Ave. Thanks for your comments, Mr. Garner. Mr. Stoll, excuse me. Just to give you a little background, just for reference. So I bought the property about five years ago. I had looked at renovating it. I knew there were some foundation issues, but I had...
 you know, gotten busy. Um, so I rented it out. I decided that, um, to focus, you know, all my efforts in South Fayetteville. And, um, so I just rented out for a while. I went to put it, uh, up for sale cause I wanted to focus in South Fayetteville. So I put it up for sale, um, earlier this spring and, um, had a contract on it. And, um, the, um,
 A buyer had a foundation specialist come and they said it was not worth fixing. I talked with them and they said it was just cost prohibitive to do that. So then I started looking at what my options would be and I looked at redeveloping it.
 And as I read the code, RSF4, it would actually not be, does not have the lot size to split the lot. It has, I guess, the frontage, but it doesn't have the lot area. So, you know, developing it. So that's when I looked at doing RSF4.
 neighborhood conservation, which has smaller lot requirements. As I looked at it, what I thought would make sense was, you know, it's already been developed. So, you know, a lot of the tree coverage has already been displaced. There's some of the... There is some...
 drainage issues for sure. It is in the hilltop, hillside overlay district. So what that means is that as we go to develop it, there would be, as Mr. Soule said, there would be additional requirements. So
 retaining walls, tree preservation, drainage, et cetera. So a lot of the work that, you know, ideally we could actually make the property more stable with retaining walls. Right now there's just a lot of runoff. So and to take down the tree and also regrade it so we can actually remove some of the, some of the,
 The slope on the front end and get a flatter a flatter driveway so that it's there's better More more visibility or just an easier entry and exit From the property. So all that is going to be You know very expensive. So what that means is, you know either, you know doing a very
 a large expensive house, one single family house, or changing it to two or three. And I don't know if three makes sense, particularly if we have to do a shared drive. It may be that that may not be possible. So two may be what it would end up being. Anyway, I hadn't really gone through the full spectrum of what
 you know, what, what, what all we would have to do. Um, yet I just kind of looked at what, what could we possibly do if we, if we resumed it. Um,
 So, I guess I want to, I think, you know, there's certainly valid points about being on a curve and a slope. And, but before I address those, I wanted to just address some of the other issues. You know, particularly in terms of compatibility, that was a big issue, whether this made sense or not. And I think that as some of you said last time, you know, neighborhood conservation is a single family issue.
 And so it's hard for me to, just like R.S.F. forward, so it's hard for me to say that another single family would not be compatible in this neighborhood.
 I think also if you look at the property as you toured it, it is on a collector street. It's not in a neighborhood. It's not a residential street or a local street. And so it's actually, you know, to say that something more dense is not compatible there, I don't think that's really a fair assessment. Okay.
 So, I mean, I think that it is compatible with that regard. In terms of safety of the turn, you know, it's a two-lane road. There is a curve. It is on a slope, but it's also, you know, it's a curve. The houses are going to be there. It's going to be, I mean, that's...
 I guess I just don't, you know, when we reviewed it, you know, and the planning staff reviewed it and, you know, fire and police, you know, they didn't have an issue with it. So I just it's hard for me to say that that that is an issue. So, you know, I don't know. I guess I guess just going through, you know, the other issues like the land use compatibility and and the city plan 2030, when we look at where where we want development, it is.
 It is actually, there is a sidewalk, as you probably noticed, all the way to College Ave. And so as we're looking to develop College Ave, it's very walkable. It's close to Woodland. It's close to Mediserve Clinic. It's close to the VA hospital. It's close to the...
 the, uh, Evelyn Hill Shopping Center. So it's close to a lot of services. Um, it's, it's, there's, there's a lot there. So, um, I guess as, you know, you think about it, um, you know, and again, come back to the, to hillside, the hill, you know, it's on a hill. And as we go for development permits, that would be, um, you know, the, the engineering staff would have a chance to look at the development. So I don't know, for all those reasons, I, I, I think that, um,
 It seems appropriate, but I appreciate your thoughts and judgments here. Thanks. Thank you. Do we have any questions for the applicant or staff from the council? Okay. We will open it up for some public comment. Everybody gets five minutes at the microphone to get one turn at the mic. Keep your comments directed to me. Stay on topic. Don't engage anybody in the council or in the public. You can get more time at the mic if the council asks you questions. Thank you.
 So, that being said, who would like to be first? Please introduce yourself and your address. Good evening. Kyle Cook, 1848 North Wheeler. Let me first say this project, this rezoning, has no effect on me or where I live. So, I'm not coming at this with a nimby attitude or anything like that. I'm looking at this strictly from planning and also as a 40-year resident of the city. So...
 To address my comments from the previous meeting, this is really about putting neighborhood conservation zoning on one lot in the middle of RSF 4 and allowing potentially three narrow lots on what currently is one lot. And I posed the question last time and I'll pose it again. You know, why do we have RSF 4 if every piece of land available must have density on it? Yeah.
 There was a comment at the last meeting regarding neighborhood conservation was a more traditional pattern of development and represented how Fayetteville was originally built, and I do disagree with that. I think if you look around the old neighborhoods, you'll see there's a mix of housing types and lot sizes. You don't find many three-story houses packed on 40-foot-wide lots. You can find one-story houses on 50-foot deep lots,
 But that's not the current building pattern. The pattern now is really to be efficient use of land, and it's really not about creating place. It's more about packing more people in, quite honestly. And to me, that goes against what Fable's really about. And I'll say it again, like last time, your decision tonight, to me, really says a lot about
 you know, these people that live in the similar established neighborhoods and ours have four neighborhoods. It really sends a signal to them that these lots are up for debate one lot at a time. So I appreciate your time. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address us on this? OK, bring it back to the council. Matthew. Yeah, thank you, Mayor. I think if there's anything to talk about zoning, zoning rules and numbers are probably my absolute favorite. Yeah.
 I think the question about what zoning category RSF4 or NC or something else entirely that maybe we haven't even thought of is more reflective or calibrated to Old Fayetteville is a really interesting one. And one of the things I think we have to remember and remind ourselves over and over again is that whenever we do a zoning code, a zoning code sets minimum standards.
 But what often happens on the ground differs greatly from the numbers that are listed in the code. For example, neighborhood conservation has a hard limit of 10 dwelling units per acre,
 And Roush Coleman Homes bought almost 80 acres in South Fayetteville between MLK and 15th Street on Morningside. And that project got rezoned neighborhood conservation. And I think we can all agree Roush Coleman is driven to maximize their lot efficiency. They're building at about four and a third units per acre. And the lot sizes are not the minimum sizes that are allowed under RSF4.
 When we look at most of Fayetteville, most of the lots are, if they're single lots in the original plats, they're 50 foot wide, and if they're double lots in the original plat, they're 100 foot wide. The land area of a typical lot, 50 foot wide by 100 foot deep is 5,000 square feet. We have some lots that are 150 square feet and some other anomalies, but even a 50 square
 by 150 foot deep lot, which is a very deep lot here, is 7,500 square feet in lot size. RSF4, on the other hand, has a minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet. That's why this parcel can't be lot split under RSF4, is because it's just barely more than 15,000 square feet, so you can't get two lots out of it under RSF4. The standards of RSF4 conform with almost everything in the city that was built in,
 more or less since the mid-70s. But almost everything else that proceeded in the city is not conforming to RSF4. That's just how it is. Now, it doesn't mean that neighborhood conservation is a perfect representation, but at least Old Fayetteville is allowed under neighborhood conservation. Most of it anyway. Neighborhood conservation doesn't allow any kind of commercial businesses, not neighborhood commercial of any sort, of any sort, to
 It hardly allows multifamily. There's some conditional use for some stuff that's more intense than single family, but developers don't go after conditional uses. They go after what's easy. I mean, we all know that. We look around, we see what developers do. They do the easiest thing they can. If you want to know what our rules are encouraging, just go around and see what's getting built today. Most developers are not driven to do anything extra mile. They're driven to the easiest solution, and that's why we see lots of duplexes.
 and lots of tall, skinny townhomes, because that's where our codes make easy. They don't make any of the other stuff, like small pre-war apartment buildings or anything like that easy, so you don't see them. So neighborhood conservation doesn't allow anything like that today, practically. It allows it legally, but not functionally. And it's definitely, at least I think in my review of the old plats, it certainly allows...
 Even if it doesn't require old Fayetteville patterns, but RSF4 just by the numbers Just doesn't even allow old Fayetteville to exist to be rebuilt All that's to say I Wasn't sure I was going to support this I know I said some comments last time that would lead everybody to believe that and I think I will now but I wasn't sure because of the access management issues and
 But whenever we were just told that collectors require shared access and that would give us some negotiating room, that gives me the confidence to be able to support it. Even if this didn't allow three lot splits, even if the point was just to get one lot split out of this, I would support some other zoning category that would just allow one more lot split because this is literally about 800 square feet shy of being able to do a lot split already.
 That doesn't count as a hardship under our rules, so no variance could allow a lot split, but that means that this is the only way that we can allow even one. And I think that's pretty reasonably considering that we're so close already under RSF4 to be able to split it into two. Okay, sure. Thank you.
 Yeah, actually, former Commissioner Cook's statements last time got me thinking about RSF4 a lot. And I determined a long time ago I'm no longer supporting our C-zoning, so C1 and C2, because I don't think we need any more development along the lines of what we see in North College. And I also think that it's time that we shipped away from RSF4.
 It's bad for our economy because the taxable land value does not support the infrastructure required to maintain it. It's bad for our environment from the efficiency of land use standpoint and transportation planning.
 And it's bad for our community because it does not create the kind of community that you know the walkable neighborhoods and it is the antithesis of the vision that our citizens have laid out in the 2030 city plan. So I think neighborhood conservation is definitely a better fit. And I think I'm going to in the future lean far far away from supporting RSF4 zoning. I just don't think it's the right fit for our community moving forward. I think we've learned that lesson now.
 But in regards to this particular lot the existing condition is unacceptable. It's unsafe the Structure is in Unrehabable condition And leaving it as is really just isn't an acceptable solution And if you look at the redevelopment potential, you know, like the applicant said, you know They could put one very large house here and
 But that is not really in keeping with our goals. This project can only get better if we allow it to be redeveloped and the economics are going to require that more than one unit go in there to make this project feasible. There's going to be a lot of expense involved in navigating the steep terrain, the stormwater runoff issues, but we have really good...
 codes in place that will ensure that those standards are met. So I have a lot of confidence that this lot is only going to get better, and especially with it being within walkable distance of our 71 business corridor, which we're trying to redevelop. We need customers to support those businesses. We need homes for the employees that will work there. And so we really need to be putting density closer to that 71 corridor. So with that, I'm going to be supporting this. Thank you. Okay.
 Mark? Well, we've talked a lot about theory and we've talked a lot about history and we've talked a lot about broad-ranging ideology. But what I'm looking at and what we're looking at tonight is a specific lot in a specific situation with specific challenges in a specific neighborhood that has a specific zoning that is currently RSF 4.0.
 And looking at the specifics that I can identify on this property, I think that it is the appropriate zoning that we have in this area. This is what is zoned in the area. And so I think that
 I can't, I don't want to go off on a tangent in looking at all this broad-ranging ideology and what if and wherefores when we know a specific property is currently zoned, RSF4, and the properties around it are RSF4, and this is what the neighborhood is. When you buy the property, that's what is zoned. That's what the neighbors in the area have.
 And so I can't see a compelling argument personally to change it from the RSF-4 because of the specific challenges with this specific piece of property. So I will not be voting unless something compelling comes forward to change a zoning that is already in place.
 Okay. Kyle. I wasn't going to say anything because Sarah pretty much covered it all, but I will add one thing. I wish this were coming up after our 71B corridor plan because I think when we see that, we're going to have a different view of these areas just behind those businesses. And if we're going to look at transit-oriented development, I think those areas,
 The edges of those neighborhoods are probably going to see a more transitional zoning than just commercial to RSF4. And this is right in that sweet spot that's probably going to be a likely candidate. When we went on our tour yesterday, we saw lots of reasons not to build on this specific lot.
 You're right on that one. But I don't want to start a list of criteria that we say, no, don't build here. Because if we say don't build on a hill and don't build in a curve, there's nowhere left in Fayetteville to build.
 We've got the design requirements for those situations, and if he can navigate them, more power to him. I'm a little skeptical myself, but I think the proximity to college and the future of this area means we ought to at least give him a chance to try. Okay. Sarah Blanche. Yes. I have kicked this around a lot, and I've driven by this many times, and after we went and looked at it yesterday...
 I feel very strongly that this is not the right place to rezone Because of what could be allowed on the property once we rezone it I look at each one of these requests on their own merits and I go by and I look at the site And I just view this one. It's not the right place The topography is is very challenging and the site distance between where the driveway might be and where it is now is really really a problem for me and
 It is a really steep street. It is a very tight curve coming right before this property. And what has been described to us, and I know we're supposed to look at just the land issue, but what's been described to us as what might go in there is parking at the street level and backing out for three or more cars. That's what I've heard. Yes, Sarah, that's what I've heard. Last meeting, that's what the applicant mentioned. So...
 I'm not going to be in support of this. So when I think about all the topography, the street, the traffic, I know it's close to college. I know we're going to be having a college plan, but it hasn't happened yet. So I'm not going to be supporting this one. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. This is on the second reading. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Matthew. Thank you.
 Before that I was hoping that our staff could tell us a little bit more about the shared access requirement in light of this Idea that there might be back out parking on the street allowed Yeah, perhaps American read the passage that we were looking at today Individual curb cuts for a long arterial and collector streets shall be discouraged when necessary and
 Curb cuts along arterial and collector streets shall be shared between two or more lots. I talked to planning staff that are charged with interpreting the ordinance. I talked to engineering staff, and there's some consensus that we couldn't administratively approve more than one curb cut because it is a dangerous situation. It's not even ideal for one curb cut. It's a dangerous situation.
 So it would take a variance by somebody above the staff. Okay, thank you. There you go. All right. Sarah, you have something else you want to add? Okay. Yeah. I'll move to go to the third reading. Okay. We have a motion to go to the third. Sarah? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Morris. Yes. Hinton. No. Eddie. Yes. Hinton. Yes. Stuntz. No. Smith. Yes. Gray. No. Well, that fails then, so we'll have to leave it on the second reading. All righty then. Okay. See everybody in two weeks, I guess. All right. Let's move right along to number three.
 I have an ordinance to approve vacation 18-6174 for property located at 237 South Locust Avenue to vacate a portion of a utility easement and a street right-of-way. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Sarah? So moved. Adele? Second. A motion and a second to go to the second reading. Sandra, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Marsh? Yes. Indian? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Bennett? Yes. Batch? Yes. Yes. Gray? Yes. An ordinance to approve BAC 18-6174, a property located at 237 South Locust Avenue, to vacate a portion of a utility easement and street right-of-way. Okay. Go ahead. Mayor, it was also on the tour. It's clear that...
 Okay. What questions do we have from the council? Anybody? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Come on. I just actually have some questions.
 Rebecca LaTouran, and I own property on this street, and I'm just curious about, is this city actually vacating the land, and what exactly does it mean that they're giving permission to do this? Because it might be setting a precedent that I would be interested in knowing about. Okay. Garth, you want to answer that? Could you please repeat the question? Are they vacating...
 the city easement uh it is both a right-of-way and an easement um swept co-ass for a retention of an easement my map is not coming up our technology is not working today but there's a retention of it an easement which is in the ordinance that was requested by one of our responding agencies okay but the other parts were not needed okay and then when the city
 I'm sorry, I have to address you, right? Yes. When the city vacates the easement for this, are they requiring payment for the vacation of this easement?
 No, there's no payment on this. What the city has to do before it vacates an easement or right-of-way is determine there's no corporate purpose or need for that anymore. It's usually a very small thing. I think it is here. And they did require an additional new utility easement to make up for the one that was being vacated. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think this is only to allow someone to put a carport over their driveway that they have right now.
 Yes, it's really not a very significant change in the road, right? Okay, that's all thank you. Thank you anybody else like to dress this on this also I might add just so the public knows it is Excess right away. It is above our local street standards right now. Okay? Bring it back to the council. What's the wishes council? I
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Senator, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Higgins. Yes. Petty. Yes. Sinnott. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gray. Yes. Yes.
 In order to approve the AC 18-61 74 for property located at 237 South Locust Avenue to vacate a portion of a utility Easement and street right-of-way any final comments from the council dealt are we at the third and final reading? Thank you Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes Yes
 All right, that concludes our business for this evening. What announcements do we have? Mayor, we have several announcements tonight. The first, city staff, our urban forestry, urban foresters, are seeking input on the Unified Development Code, Chapter 167, Tree Preservation and Protection Ordinance. There is a meeting that will be held Thursday, July the 12th, 6 p.m. at the Fayetteville Public Library.
 in the Henry boardroom for comments regarding our tree preservation and protection ordinance revisions, items that citizens and design professionals and builders and members of our community would like to see addressed as a part of this ordinance revision. So mark that on your calendars. Secondly, we're amidst fireworks for those who haven't heard them already. Um,
 There are scheduled fireworks today at 9.15 p.m. at Paradise Valley Golf and Athletic Club, which is on Old Missouri Road and Joyce Boulevard. There are fireworks on July 4th at 9.30 p.m. at the Fayetteville Country Club.
 And there will also be fireworks on Saturday, July 21st at the Botanical Gardens of the Ozarks, approximately 9.55 p.m. So in terms of planning for animals and people that might be annoyed, those dates are listed on our website. I also want to remind citizens that the ordinance allows...
 Fireworks can only be discharged during the following days and that's July 1st, July 2nd, July 3rd and that's from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. and tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. that the ordinance allows. It does restrict the firing of bottle rockets and other items so please be aware of what is allowed and not allowed and the times that those are allowed to be utilized.
 Also, the Gully Park concert, our next concert coming up, is on July the 12th. The group is called the Mighty Pines. They're a soul-inspired roots rock band influenced by wide rivers and red brick streets of St. Louis.
 with soaring vocals and thoughtful composition. So come out and hear the Mighty Pines, Gully Park Concert Series. There's only three concerts left in that summer series. This is the third one from the end. Thank you.
 And then lastly, the city has completed our first survey results on Phase 1 of our park strategic planning process and has started Survey 2 on the city's website, www.fayetteville-ir.gov forward slash imagine.
 You can see the results from the first survey. You can see data resources. You can sign up for email notifications. And there's also a link to the second survey, which goes into more depth related to questions about what citizens would like to see in our park system. So we want to encourage citizens who utilize our parks or who would like our Parks and Recreation Division to consider items related to the survey to participate in that.
 Okay, sure. I just wanted to clarify, I get a lot of feedback from citizens about the lack of police going after people who are firing off fireworks outside of appropriate times. Is it true that this is, they're just complaint-based, right? So if you hear someone say,
 Firing off fireworks, it is on you to contact authorities and request enforcement. Is that correct? That's correct. And the chief has just stepped out. But we do log in our dispatch every complaint call that comes in. You can get a record of that.
 It is not uncommon to get numerous complaints this time of year. Also, remember that violations of crimes have to also be occurring in the presence of policemen. So many times we respond to calls and people that might be called about are no longer doing such. And so...
 We're very conscious on the time is probably where we have our street disenforcement and where we see dangerous items being used that are prohibited in the ordinance. But we do record and try to respond. Remember, we have limited officers on the street on any given day, and so...
 We also have other calls coming in that might be of higher priority than a firework, domestic violence calls, DWIs, things of that nature. So it's as staff is allowed to address them. I just wanted to make the point that our officers, they're not going out looking for people shooting off fireworks, but if there's someone creating a nuisance in your neighborhood, it is on you to call up contact FP. That is correct. That's correct. Okay, anything else?
 All right. Thank you all. Have a great Fourth of July.