I'm going to go ahead and call the special city council meeting of July the 14th, 2020 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Or here. Sorry. Gutierrez? Here. Marsh? Here. Kenyon? Here. Petty? Here. Scroggins? Present. Bunch? Here. Turk? Here. Okay.
 Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. Welcome, everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Maple City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. Thank you.
 I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan. I'm present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Kit Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxson, City Clerk Treasurer. Susan Orton, Chief of Staff. Pete Concito, IT Director. Police Chief Mike Reynolds. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker. And two representatives from Federal's IT Department.
 City Council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone. Other than those of us who see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the City of Fetland. We have provided many ways to participate in our view tonight's meeting, including...
 Contacting city council members, city clerk's office, or city staff prior to the meeting. Viewing through federal's government channel online or city's YouTube channel. Joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from doing this until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment.
 i will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized when recognized please state your name and address for the record public comment shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being being open for public comment each speaker has one turn to speak each speaker is allowed five minutes
 to be broken into two segments of two of three and two minutes which staff will monitor amendments may receive public comments only if approved by city council by unanimous consent or majority vote if public comment is allowed for an amendment speakers may only be allowed to speak for three minutes the city council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned
 person to speak by unanimous consent of majority vote. Now let us get to the special city council meeting. We have one item on new business is an ordinance to amend 178.02 sidewalk cafes to remove certain permitting requirements during the period of the COVID-19 pandemic to temporarily authorize the use of paid public parking spaces as appropriate
 As sidewalk cafes by Jason businesses upon payment of the appropriate fees, clarify the authorized areas of operations of businesses in an entertainment district and to declare an emergency kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 17802, Sidewalk Phase, of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code, by enacting a new Subsection D as follows. Subsection D, temporary measures during declared COVID-19 public health emergency. Number one.
 During any period of the COVID-19 public health emergency as declared by the Mayor, Governor, or President, Subsection A, the City shall waive application permit fees and permitting steps described in Subsection B above. Subsection B, the City shall waive that portion of Subsection C-1 requiring a detailed site plan and written description, but all sidewalk cafes shall comply with the remaining requirements of Subsection C.
 Subsection C, the mayor shall be authorized to reserve paid parking places, spaces for the exclusive use by adjacent businesses as sidewalk cafes. Upon payment of the parking fees established in Article 3 parking meters of Chapter 72 parking regulations, the mayor shall be authorized to promulgate any rules or conditions necessary to ensure the safety of customers and staff
 and the equitable use of the city's public parking spaces. Subsection 2, the provisions of this subsection shall expire at the end of the declared COVID-19 public health emergency. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal subsection E of section 111.07, outdoor refreshment area, and enacts a new subsection E as follows, quote,
 Subsection E, sidewalk cafes and outdoor spaces in outdoor refreshment areas. If an owner within an outdoor refreshment area is authorized to operate a sidewalk cafe pursuant to Section 172 of the Unified Development Code,
 or has an outdoor space located on private property, Section 1, the owner may serve and allow the possession and consumption of alcohol beverages in open containers during the hours of operation and in the areas authorized by the sidewalk buffet permit or in the outdoor space during the owner's posted hours of operation, Section 2.
 Glass containers, aluminum cans, and other types of drinkware shall be allowed in sidewalk cafes and outdoor spaces, but shall not be removed from those areas. Subsection 3. No fencing or other enclosures of a permitted sidewalk cafe or outdoor space located within a designated outdoor refreshment area shall be required. Subsection 4.
 Outdoor spaces include, but are not limited to, parking areas, fields, lawns, patios, and gardens, as long as they are located on private property and the owner is authorized to utilize those spaces, unquote.
 Section 3 at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that this ordinance should become effective without delay because it will provide opportunities for Fayetteville dining establishments, residents, and visitors to comply with the directives issued by the Arkansas Department of Health regarding limited occupancy and social distancing.
 which are necessary for the public peace, as well as their health and safety of Fayetteville residents. Therefore, the city council hereby determines and declares an emergency exists such that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage and approval. Okay. So, council, I'm bringing this forward tonight. This is something the staff's been working on. We've been working on this for probably a week.
 And with the situation with our businesses and the businesses we're beginning to lose in the city, I wanted to give them every availability to be able to continue to do business during this pandemic. So I asked the staff to put something together. The last week, I think Garner's got some things. This is going to waive the permitting fees.
 and the application process for sidewalk fees and streamline the process and removing any barriers that they may have it's going to streamline the process for use of parklets within city-owned parking spaces enabling the development of parklets by businesses not any fees or reviews so long as they stay within the guidelines development by city staff and pay the daily rate or
 for space now the reason i'm doing that this continues the paid parking program which allows to help allow us to make the payments on a parking deck on our our bonds in downtown area but if the business wants to participate they will pay the data rate i believe that some things that paul had talked about when i talked to him about that so and it amends that and it also amends the language in the outdoor refreshment area ordinance
 anticipation of other outdoor refreshment areas being developed. I know Matthew was interested in that back in time. So that's some of the things that I wanted them to work on because of the situation we have with COVID-19. And I'm trying to help our businesses survive in the city. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to Garner, who has worked out the plans for this program. Garner? Sure.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. We're really pleased to bring this forward for your consideration today. The goals have been very well explained by the Mayor, and the ordinance itself explains the provisions. But quite simply, it's trying to provide a lifeline to businesses that are struggling, and at the same time, make it safer for their customers,
 to practice social distancing in outdoor spaces, which we hear is the safest way for businesses to operate. It's already been mentioned that the ordinance is temporary. It's highly complementary to the recently approved outdoor recreation area.
 It does basically two things. It takes the regulatory underbrush out of the permitting process for a sidewalk cafe. It keeps the substance. You still have to meet ADA because we were obligated to implement that in the right-of-way. You still have to keep safe passage.
 for pedestrians so circulation can continue. And it also allows businesses to rent spaces as the Mayor mentioned, they could rent parking spaces and expand their service area. One problem with Sidewalk Cafe and the reason we're not seeing a lot of applications is our sidewalks aren't that wide.
 But if you combine it with parking spaces, it opens up a lot more options. But we're bringing this forward for you to consider it today. So it will go into effect if you adopt it as an emergency tomorrow morning. And one goal we wanted is to make sure that we had...
 good advice for businesses that were wanting to take advantage of this emergency ordinance. So I also wanted to introduce a new staff member that has joined the team as of about two weeks ago, Mary McGittrick. She actually took a course in the meantime on this very subject.
 And she's been researching what other cities have done. We're usually ahead of the curve, but a few other cities have already done this. So I'd like to turn it over to Mary. And she's going to go through the design guidelines because those are very important. Tomorrow morning, if a business wants to take advantage of this, they need to know how to do it. So Mary, I think Mary's online. Yep, I'm here. Hi. Hi.
 Good evening, everyone. I'd like to just talk a little bit about the intent of a parklet. So the intent of a parklet is to repurpose part of the public right-of-way next to a sidewalk into a public space. Cities are doing this. I've spent the last week researching this. Cities are doing it from San Marcos, Texas to Somerville, Massachusetts. And I had the opportunity to take a course with and speak with the planning director at Somerville, Massachusetts. And they instituted this.
 back at the beginning kind of of the pandemic, late April, and they've seen such great success with it. And they really attribute saving some of their businesses to allowing these parklets to go in. They said they saw about a 20 to 30% increase in revenue for businesses that were really struggling from COVID. So I think that's really important to consider when we talk about allowing parklets in these spaces.
 I'd like to go through the design guidelines with you. And I've kind of, I've done a lot of research on what other cities have done and also what smart towns and a couple of other organizations have implemented to make sure that when we
 use these when our citizens use these design guidelines that they're getting the best advice from us that they can. So I believe you all have a copy and I'll just go through each one quickly and then I'll let you ask me any questions that you have. These were written in conjunction with our building services department so they have been reviewed and we can make sure that they meet all of our building code requirements and they do not require a building permit at this time. So one of the things we wanted to do was make sure that no business
 over the entire street. Most cities are limiting businesses to parking spaces directly adjacent to the business and then no more than three parking spaces. The proposed parklet site shall be located at least one parking spot from a corner. And this is just for site view reasons. We already have a speed limit in place on Dixon, so we just wanted to make sure that was clear because this may be used in other places.
 One of the things that's really important here is ADA requirements. We want to make sure that we're meeting those requirements. So we have nothing. Can you share your screen? Absolutely. Yeah. And remember, staff, you have a time limit here of 10 minutes total. Yes. Okay. I'm looking up on dual monitor, so give me just a moment. Okay. There we go.
 So again, we've met ADA requirements with these guidelines and you can read those there for yourself and I'll be happy to answer any questions. We wanted to make sure that safety was covered so that includes barriers and up against the seating to protect patrons. We wouldn't allow any kind of parklet over a manhole or directly in front of a fire hydrant.
 Again, we're attempting to meet all ADA requirements with these guidelines. They should be designed for easy removal, so we really want to stress that these are temporary. You can't screw or nail anything into the sidewalk. You can't disturb the streetscape at all.
 There will be no roof, so you can't put an awning up or a permanent awning or anything like that. You can't pour any concrete or pour any kind of base, so this would have to be floated decking if you wanted to add decking. You can see the decking requirements there.
 We also want to make sure that we maintain a visual connection with the street so you can't obstruct any sight lines in the street. We included that and then we included just materials. These can be as temporary as you want them. They can be as basic as you want them. You can see here in the examples to all the way to the right on the top is the park with the University of Arkansas's architecture school set up for parking day.
 So this is their example. But if you look, you can see there's various different types of parklets that can meet our guidelines and doesn't have to cost a business a lot of money to do this. So I'll be happy to take any questions that you have. If you scroll down a little bit further, you can see kind of the parking setup for the parklet. And there's...
 two of those here that kind of help you better understand how it will be set up and how the view shed is set up so i'll be happy to answer any questions that anyone has about those design guidelines or parklets in general okay uh how much time do we have left josh about five minutes devon you want to weigh in on some of this then we'll take questions from the council okay all right let's just take questions from the council then what questions do we have in the council mayor
 Yes. Thank you. Well, I'm thrilled that this is happening. I remember the parklet at the top center of the screen that that took months to pull the permit for that parklet on on Dixon Street. So I think this is a tremendous improvement.
 My only suggestion would be is that we should make it permanent. We should make it permanent as soon as we can, even tonight. These are changes businesses will benefit from even after COVID is over. Thank you for bringing it. You're welcome. Thank you. One of the questions, Sue, we have.
 I don't have any questions. This is Sarah, but I'm just really glad we're doing this. I have not seen the parklet mentioned at the university. I drove by it, but I didn't really get to enjoy it. But I really enjoyed parklets in any city that I've gone to that's had them. I think they're just really a novel approach to using space and they draw people in. And I'm really happy we're doing this. Thank you. Okay.
 any other questions i have a question mayor sure um again i'll just reiterate what everyone else has said very excited about it overall and um the i was wondering on block street where there are meters um i know you mentioned there's a day rate for parking um what would be the what would be the fee there where there's not that okay paul do you have that
 I do not. Justin's going to calculate the exact fees on those based on the usage. And whatever the daily rate is, we'll estimate what that is. That's correct. I'm sorry, I don't have that information tonight. We do have that information, Mayor. Oh, good. The numbers that Justin used yesterday was the Dixon business card.
 is it's approximately $5 per day per space on Dixon Street and half that much for the rest of downtown. Okay. Thank you. There you go. Okay.
 All right. Justin, do you want to weigh in on that a little bit? Sure. That's accurate. The maximum daily rate is $5 in the entertainment district and $2.50 in the downtown business district, which would be the square and the surrounding areas. And those are already set in ordinance. Okay. All right. So what other questions do we have? Okay. Let's take some public comment.
 All right, public comment is, I've already laid the ground rules down for that. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this first? Mayor Molly Rahn is up. Okay, Molly.
 Hello Mr. Mayor, my name is Molly Ron and I am a Fayetteville resident at 2584 North Elizabeth Avenue as well as the CEO of the Fayetteville Advertising and Promotion Commission. I want to thank the city staff, specifically Mary, for bringing this item forward and for doing so quickly.
 As you all know, and as you've stated, businesses are hurting, and I believe it is imperative that the city adapt and do whatever we can to help ease that burden on them. I'm fully supportive of this change and hope that you all will vote for it and support it. Personally, it seems to me that it is...
 And so I don't want to say anything that would halt you all voting for this and us passing it and implementing it quickly. I do. It does seem to me that it is tied very closely to bars and restaurants. And so I'm curious if there can be ways in the future we can look at amending other ordinances to make this more accessible to retail operations.
 if this doesn't already do that. I think that's a different, I think that would be a different ordinance, but that's something that I'm certainly interested in because I think more than our hospitality business. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? I move we adopt the ordinance as amended today.
 Second. It's published. We need to suspend the rules. We need to suspend the rules, Mark, and go to the second reading. I move we suspend the rules. OK. Second. We have a motion to second, suspend the rules, and go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Smith? Yes. Pateras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Tert. Yes.
 In order to amend Section 17802, Sidewalk Cafes, remove certain permitting requirements during the period of the COVID-19 pandemic. To temporarily authorize the use of paid public parking spaces as sidewalk cafes by adjacent businesses upon payment of the appropriate fees. To clarify the authorized areas of operation of businesses in an entertainment district and to declare an emergency. Move we see.
 In the rules and go to the third and final reading? Second. Motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Kerwood, please call the roll. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes.
 In order to amend Section 17802, Sidewalk Cafes, to remove certain permitting requirements during the period of the COVID-19 pandemic, to temporarily authorize the use of paid public parking spaces as sidewalk cafes by adjacent businesses upon payment of the appropriate fees, to clarify the authorized areas of operation of businesses in an entertainment district, and to declare an emergency. Okay. What final comments do we have in the Council?
 One question before we vote. The provision about expiring at the end of the health emergency, was there a specific reason why staff chose to expire this?
 Well, you know, Kyle, right now we're just trying to get through this pandemic. I mean, you know, we could have probably looked at more time, but right now I wanted to get us through the pandemic. We still have not got on the bar end of it. We still got to have a decision from the ABC before they may not allow us to do that. We're just passing something that they may or may not.
 approve and so We're hopeful that they will I have sent a letter to the oldest the only we sent Susan to the economic Stuart Walton and the economic Economic recovery the statewide committee and in fact you received notice today I forgot to tell you that he's underway still with Stacey Hearst the subcommittee chair of the tourism they got the okay from from him and then he is sending that on to the I
 to the group down there i i i'm hoping that they will go ahead and approve it i and you know just be honest with the council i haven't thought much past this pandemic right now i'm just trying to get us through and help all the businesses i can and maybe we want to make it more permanent but right now i'm just trying to the reason that we're doing the time
 With the pandemic is that I feel that we're in an emergency situation and we need to act quickly. If I still had the extraordinary powers, I probably would have tried to move this along. I know that Kit has been instrumental in helping us draw this up. Kit, would you? Well, I think we obviously have a little bit more power than normal under this pandemic emergency, even though the ordinance was not continued.
 State law still gives you further authority during a pandemic emergency declared by the governor. Of course, he continues to extend it. Yes. So this could be, in fact, some sort of like pilot project to see how well something like this works and whether any changes might be needed. But it's much safer right now just to do it during the pandemic when we have additional power.
 Okay, thank you. That's just what I was wondering. I know that there was some talk about the desire to make it permanent. Yes, there was some talk about that. But I'm completely comfortable with the idea that we've got a lot of things still up in the air that are undecided. And like Molly even mentioned, there may be variations and tweaks on it that we want to make when it comes to permanence. So thank you.
 Absolutely, I totally agree with you. I'm not saying this is exactly perfect, but right now I'm just managing this best I can through what we had before. I have a quick question also about the three spaces. Is that just a standard that other cities use? Is it kind of, I mean, why not four spaces, you know?
 Yes, it's a standard that other cities have put into place. And especially like, you know, walking up and down Dixon, there's definitely, you want to make sure that each business gets a fair shot. And some businesses have a little bit more frontage than others. And some businesses split the frontage of the parking space. So you just want to kind of prevent a business from taking up a space that maybe they don't need or that could impact another business. So it's just about equity for the businesses. Yeah.
 But it can also only be like, what is it, a 5%? What's the grade? A 5% grade? Yes. Yeah. So at 5% grade max.
 for 80. So I know there are some issues like right around Gordino's. And so I'm, I'm working with them. I've done some research on various ways to incorporate a parklet on a slope and still meet ADA regulations. So I'm working individually with businesses to help them to meet their needs when it comes to that, because I know we do have some slope areas that that may need a little extra help. So even if the, I guess what I'm hearing is that even if there's a slope for the parking, if the parklet is,
 is more level than it could pack could work i guess absolutely yeah there's ways to make it work yes shims use shims thanks i have a request yes um since we're not going to make it permanent uh tonight uh
 Can we get a commitment that we'll receive a report shortly before or shortly after this expires so that this doesn't fall through the cracks? Absolutely, Matthew. We will do that. Thank you. Anybody else?
 I want to thank the staff. I know that Mary's worked long, hard hours on this. I want to thank her. I want to thank Garner. Devin worked on it. Justin worked on it. Kit worked on it. Blake. Blake worked on it. Blake. Blake worked on it. So it's –
 I really appreciate the staff and all their work on this in the city attorney's office and putting it all together. I know Susan worked real hard on this too. So it's all of us working together, you know, we're going to get to the other side of this thing, council, and uh, we'll be the better for it. So if there's nothing else, Kara, would you please call the roll? Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Thank You council very very much and I know the businesses will certainly appreciate that too. Okay I'm going to call the meeting back to order again. We left a little part out which was passing the emergency clause to let this go into effect tomorrow.
 So I need a motion and a second to pass the emergency clause. So moved. Thank you all very much. Any discussion? Cambridge Police, Colorado. Smith. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Brown.
 Requires six affirmative votes and we got them there. All right. Thank you all very, very much for coming back. I apologize. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.