holy moly carla would you please uh uh call the role here novick here prince here hails fish here uh welcome everybody um mayor hales i believe is in washington dc and sends his regrets um we welcome our friend and colleague dan saltzman back and he has been in our hearts and our prayers
 Today is a big day in our region. The Environmental Protection Agency will finally release a proposed plan for the cleanup of Portland Harbor, and the Court of Appeals this morning issued a decision upholding the constitutionality of the arts tax. With that, I'm going to read some opening comments about decorum at these meetings. The purpose of council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business.
 Preservation of order and decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before council. The public is, as always, welcome to attend council meetings. During the meetings, there will be time-limited opportunities for public comment on various agenda items. Although citizens can sign up for communications, public testimony on a council item must address the matter being considered or you will be ruled out of order. Please state your name for the record, and we do not need your address. Thank you.
 If you are a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you are here representing an organization, I ask that you please disclose that as well. Unless otherwise informed, each community member today will have two minutes to speak in front of the council.
 At one minute and 30 seconds, you'll hear a beep and a light will flash on the box before you. At two minutes, you'll hear four beeps and the lights will flash and you'll be asked to stop so the next person will have a chance to be heard.
 We have a very, very packed agenda today and some important budget items this afternoon. And so I'm going to ask everybody to please respect the time limits, not just for testimony, but we will strictly observe the amount of time set aside for each item on the agenda. Please give handouts to the council clerk, Carla, and she will distribute them to council members. And remember, again, please only testify to the matter at hand.
 Council rules of procedure seek to preserve the public order and to ensure that Council's deliberations proceed efficiently and that all who want to participate get to be heard. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting during testimony or interrupting testimony or interrupting Council deliberations, will not and cannot be allowed. We ask that you show your support or displeasure with your hands, i.e., waving your thumbs up or thumbs down.
 And this is an official warning that anyone who disrupts this proceeding may be escorted from council chambers and excluded from city hall. Lastly, if needed, council will be taking a break at either 12 or 1230, depending on our schedule. And I will be announcing when that will occur and when we reconvene.
 Before we turn to Council Communications, we have a proclamation, and it is my pleasure to recognize Commissioner Fritz, who will be reading a proclamation for the Portland Pickles baseball team this morning at Council. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, President Fish. The proclamation reads, Whereas professional baseball has a long history in Portland dating back to the 1880s, and whereas the departure of the AAA Portland Beavers in 2010
 Since then, Portland has been without a professional team to root for.
 And whereas in March 2015, it was announced that baseball was coming back to Portland with the creation of the Portland Pickles, a Great West League team. And whereas the Great West League is one of the premier summer collegiate wood bat leagues in North America, providing a professional minor league-like atmosphere for top college players seeking professional baseball careers.
 And whereas the Portland Pickles will play, which is very difficult to stop giggling. They're not helping. Whereas the Portland Pickles will play at Portland Parks and Recreation's newly refurbished Walker Stadium at Lentz Park. And whereas the city of Portland is excited that baseball is back in Portland and encourages all Portlanders to get out and play ball or enjoy watching a game.
 Now, therefore, Charlie Hales, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of Roses, does hereby proclaim June 10th, 2016, to be return of baseball to Portland Day in Portland and encourages all residents to observe this day. Do we have anybody from the Pickles here? Mike, why don't you bring any guests forward and we'll extend the courtesy of saying a few words. If you want to take a seat, sir. Thanks. Just tell us your name and you're welcome to City Hall. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. My name is Bill Stewart. I am one of the owners of the Portland Pickles. It's been a pleasure working with the Portland Parks and the city to get this project and public-private partnership completed. And we're very excited with opening night right around the corner. Hopefully weather, knock on wood, holds out and we have a good weekend here playing our first three games. Thank you. Mike, what does this mean for our city and for Portland Parks and Rec?
 Well, in addition to the return of baseball to Portland, what it means is we get an opportunity to come together as a community to celebrate some young athletes and create community in a place that really wants it, and that's Lentz Park. And so the renovation of Walker Stadium is really the culmination of many years of effort and community interest in revitalizing that park.
 And if someone wants to buy season tickets, I know Jim Blackwood in my office has already purchased his, but where do people go and how do they go about that? There are a couple places. You can go to our website to buy individual game tickets, which is www.portlandpicklesbaseball.com. They can come by the office at Lenz Park at Walker Stadium, or they can call us at 503-775-3080. I think I've covered all the bases there.
 And when Commissioner Fritz throws out the first ball, will that go into Cooperstown or to the city's archives? Actually, the mayor is going to throw it out. The mayor is going to throw it out, and I understand Amanda Fritz, Commissioner Fritz, is going to actually say a couple words. Or perhaps both of them could throw out the first pitch. Can we talk about that first? Okay.
 I just want to recognize Trang Lam and also our entire team at Portland Parks and Recreation and thank the Pickles organization for working with us. It was a very tight timeline to get this project finished, and we're very grateful to the community of Lentz as well as to all of our staff and partners for working together to get it done. Commissioner Fritz, can we get a picture with our honored guests? Thank you. Thank you.
 That's a good shot. I think this is the one you're doing. I can see the first thing that will happen. I think this is the first thing that will happen. Okay. We're going to stand here. We're lucky we're not going to be here. You got to take a picture of me. Hold on, Mike. I'm going to need you to sign. No scarf involved today. One more? There we go. All right. We have an order. Yes. Sorry.
 Okay, so now we're going to move to council communications. Everybody who is called will have two minutes to speak on the topic of their choice. Carla, would you please read the first item? Council 603. Two minutes? Two minutes. What is that? Go, please. 603, a request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding outreach. Mr. Walsh, do you? Don't ever call me Joe, I'm not your friend.
 So that's a warning for the next outburst. Don't you call me, you don't call me Joe. Mr. Walsh, that's the last warning I'm going to give you. And you apologize for calling me Joe. I'm a veteran and I earned Mr. Walsh.
 Craig Rogers, you have the floor. Good morning. My name is Craig Rogers. This gives me an opportunity to thank Commissioner Steve Novick for being in the business of saving lives. I've noticed those orange flags up and down the streets, in particular Burnside, bringing attention to the speed limit, and I want to thank you for that. About a year ago, I attended a Vision Zero rollout meeting, and a lot of people there, a lot of words spoken, but...
 They were left with an empty bag. There was no money. That's what they were told. There was no money. And yet, down here on the NATO parkway thing, it's my understanding that's not included in the budget this year. And...
 I think that that's really important that it should be. And, you know, on the other hand, we're paying double the market value for that post office land, $40 million rather than $20. And I think that it's basically priorities versus limited funds. And we need to evaluate what our priorities are here because there's so many things that I feel that people who traverse by feet or bicycle need some help with to be able to move in a safer way.
 So every eight to nine years, the economy goes into a dip. We've got peers coming on. Are we really preparing for that? I often hear that Portland is referred to as becoming the world's greatest city, and I'm thinking on whose dime are we going to do that? Are we looking for new taxes? Do we think this new state tax is going to save us, which is really a sales tax?
 We have a new head of PDC coming on board. I think one of the cornerstones of the interview would be, what are your thoughts on transparent and accountable? Because everywhere you look, you see public agencies falling down on being transparent and accountable. So here's my thought I want you to think about. Do we want to become the world's greatest city, which is kind of an ego-based thing, or do we want to become the world's safest city,
 which is a matter of respect. If I'm given a choice, I want to live in the world's safest city. Thank you. Thank you very much. Carla, could you please read Council Item 604?
 Request of Charles Matuk to address counsel regarding a lack of enforcement of certain laws and city's position on district attorney's office. Work with the police. He sends his apologies. He is not able to make it. All right. If he shows up later, we'll put him on. Could you please read counsel item 605? Request of Brad Perkins to address counsel regarding Sullivan's Gulch Trail funding. Brad Perkins. Yes.
 Hopefully I can have one of the missing persons one minute because I planned for three. Yeah. Is that possible? The mayor's acting chief today reminded me that the two minutes applies to the other items, not to this. So you have a full three minutes. Oh, thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Well, happy Rose Festival season and 109th year, I think, isn't it?
 Yesterday, June 7th, was the 100th anniversary commemorating the completion of the breathtaking Columbia Gorge Highway. Today, imagine a new flat off the street bike corridor from Rose Corridor to Multnomah Falls for the next century. Over 100 years ago, it took citizens, activists like Sam Hill, Sam Lancaster, Simon Benson, John Yeon, Julius Meyer,
 Sam Jackson, Henry Pittock, and Margaret Henderson using their persuasive power, skills, influence, and at times pocketbook to build this great state-of-the-art highway. Though not as connected or financially astute as this former group of activists, we, the Rose Corridor to Gorge Trail Advocates, do represent over 12 northeast neighborhoods,
 We are committed to do our best in working with public officials to formulate and pursue an aggressive path forward to make the 28.5-mile trail happen within the next decade. It took five years to plan and develop the Columbia River Highway. Oregonians are ready for environmentally bold leadership. Last week, our group met with Metros Bob Stacy and Shirley Craddock. Both agreed to do what they could to help us.
 We will continue to work with state parks, ODOT, Union Pacific, Multnomah County, Troutdale, and others. Every one of you guys and woman, excuse me, have a stake in this trail effort. Transportation, parks, BES, housing, public safety.
 And emergency preparedness. Please take a look at our Rose Quarter to Gorge Trail funding plan with our offer to raise $2.5 million for half the engineering costs with the city, metro, and or state committing to the same as an offer that should not be ignored.
 Can we start with the City Council deciding to commit 1.25 million Convention Center urban renewal funds for 25 percent of trail engineering costs? Now I don't expect you guys to say yes at once, okay, but you can set a time in your schedule to discuss this item together in a workshop format. I appreciate the time.
 We look forward to meeting with you informally in the future. What do you say? Let me say, Mr. Perkins, thank you for continuing to be a champion for this project. Thank you. It will happen in your lifetime. Thank you. No, I want to say next decade. Hopefully my life is longer than that. But, no, I mean, if I can get some sort of response, I mean, I'll give you three minutes. Thank you. In regards to a schedule, can we have some sort of –
 A response to that, you know, I've been seeking it for quite a while, especially from Steve Novick's office, but yet. So you get to say whatever you want during the public session, and my colleagues will respond accordingly. So thank you. Okay, great. Thank you, sir. I appreciate that. I look forward to hearing from you. Carla, could you please read Council Communication Item Number 606? Request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address Council regarding Linus Pauling v. Robert Noyce controversy. I'm Mr. Shedrick.
 What I'm trying to talk about is the need for community colleges. Linus Pauling won two unshared Nobel Prizes, one for chemistry, one for peace. He was born in Portland, Oregon. His father died when he was 10 of alcoholism. He worked his way as a waiter through Oregon State College. Oregon was not a university at the time. And he went down to UCLA at Los Angeles and studied the
 x-rays with crystals and and determine the length and the length and the angle of the chemical bond which is what a molecule looks like instead of just ch4 which is natural gas um he won two nobel prizes and then another a piece won in 1962 and the chemistry nobel prize in 1958 he was a very flexible person i'm saying he worked his way through college as a waiter
 Compare that to Robert Noyce, who basically was a straight shooter. I mean, he had a Ph.D. in physics and electrical engineering at the age of 25, and he was one of the founders of Intel. Robert Noyce did not win any Nobel Prizes. So I like the fact that Pauling represents the best in Oregon, a person who looks at a lot of things differently and not necessarily a product of any kind of system. Okay.
 I am pushing community colleges. I want them to be free in Oregon. And also, I do anticipate that the state corporate tax will not pass, and there will be cuts in education. I would prefer that they cut what I call hard sports. That means football and baseball.
 These actually raise the – I've looked at the numbers. There's significant, like one-fourth of the school budget for the Oregon public schools is school insurance. President Obama had a forum at the White House in which two years ago where 10 people in the crowd, it was about school sports, had their necks snapped from playing football from the waist down, permanently crippled from this sport.
 Baseball is pretty rough. The ball goes very fast. I'm only saying these are unsafe sports in schools. I'm not against people playing private football or baseball. I think basketball is a fairly good indoor sport.
 volleyball and this is my what I call the Wilkins plan for the problem we're going to face when when when the school budget is cut I like community colleges and I think we should get rid of hard sports in in the public schools because they just damaged students that's played outdoors in the rain and things like that it's just my plan or the way I want to see education done the most effective way
 Mr. Wilkins, thank you for your testimony. Carla, could you please read Council Item 607? Request of Alexander Crocus to address Council regarding eliminate the use of the herbicide glyphosate in Portland parks. Crocus, welcome. Thank you for hearing me. Thank you, Council. Glyphosate is a non-selective systemic herbicide. It penetrates and encompasses the entire plant that is infecting and will eradicate any additional plants that are not genetically engineered to resist it.
 Glyphosate's chemical effect is primarily to brought enzymes that plants necessitate to exist and also reduces the production of amino acids and vital proteins. Glyphosate was patented by the Monsanto company under the trade name Roundup in 1973. There are currently over 750 products containing glyphosate for sale in the United States. In 1985, acting out of the scientific discoveries of tumor foundations on mice, the EPA originally classified glyphosate as possibly carcinogenic to humans
 placing this chemical into Group C. Six years later, the EPA oddly decided to alter the classification of glyphosate by moving it to Group E, declaring that it is non-carcinogenic to humans. Five years later, in 1996, GMO-resistant crops were introduced extensively into the U.S. agricultural sector by the Monsanto Company. Today, the EPA allows 50 times more glyphosate for agricultural use than in 1996.
 Glyphosate has the highest global production of all herbicides, and the U.S. consumes 25% of the world's supply of glyphosate, despite possessing less than 5% of the world's population. The agricultural use of this product has increased exponentially alongside the introduction of genetically modified crops, which are scientifically formulated to resist the negative effects of this man-made organic toxin. An astounding 50% of American farmlands now contain weeds that actually have become resistant to glyphosate.
 The presence of glyphosate has been detected in air, groundwater, also in food, including non-geomel crops all across the globe. The USDA analyzed glyphosate residues in U.S. soy in 2011 and surprisingly discovered that 90% of the samples provided tested positive for glyphosate and 96% tested positive for AMPA, which is a byproduct of glyphosate breakdown that is equally as toxic.
 In the over 100 listed residues of pesticides listed by the USDA, only 11 other toxins were detected for a combined 2.1% of the time. Studies that demonstrate low toxicity are solely based on the active ingredient glyphosate and not on the other inert ingredients in the formulation. Roundup is 41% glyphosate and 59% inert ingredients. These adjuvant mixtures, which are considered inert by the manufacturer and are protected under proprietary laws as trade secrets,
 have been scientifically confirmed to amplify up to 1,000 times the toxicity of their active principles in 100% of the cases where they're indicated to be present by the manufacturer. All glyphosate formulations are far more toxic than tested when isolated and possess the ability to penetrate all three human cell lines more significantly. Residues of glyphosate are found in a majority of foods contained in the Western diet. The negative impact of the body is insidious and manifests slowly over time as inflammation damages cellular systems throughout the body.
 It leads to disruption of beneficial gut bacteria and produces the chelation of vital minerals such as iron, cobalt, manganese, zinc, vitamin K.
 Is that two minutes? That was three. Three minutes. We have – this is your exhibition. Yes, that's the full version, and there's four scientific studies that have been cited almost 800 times in an international scientific community. There's a USDA chart showing glyphosate residues in soy and also a letter from the chair of the House Committee on Space Science and Technology, Lamar Smith, investigating with the EPA right now.
 Thank you very much for your testimony. If you'd like to contact Pooja Bhatt in my office, she's my senior parks liaison, and we can follow up with you. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you, sir, for your time. Okay, we're going to take up the consent agenda. First, does anyone wish to pull any item from the consent agenda? Carla? Yep, 621 is pulled. 621 has been pulled to the regular agenda by my office. Any others?
 Hearing none, Carla, would you please call the roll to adopt the consent agenda? Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Okay, the consent agenda passes. We have a number of time certainties this morning before we get to our regular agenda, and we're going to start with Travel Portland. And, Commissioner Saltzman, should we read 608, 609, and 610 together? Carla, would you please read 608 through 610? Yes.
 608, Travel Portland 2016 presentation. 609, amend Portland Tourism Improvement District Code to revise the periodic sunset review and administrative cost provisions. Provide a new definition, add appeal procedures, and correct references.
 and 610 authorize an agreement with Travel Portland for the marketing and promotion of convention business, tourism, and overnight lodging using a sole source procurement and provide for payment. Commissioner Dan Salzman. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm pleased to be introducing three related items this morning that tell a great story about four years of double-digit growth in the travel and tourism industry. And this has had huge benefits to the city.
 both in jobs created and in lodging taxes that flow to our general fund, and that needs to be recognized. The lodging industry taxes have been substantial this year. We'll first have an annual presentation by Travel Portland, one of the country's premier destination marketing organizations. Since their inception in 1978, they've been working hard to generate and procure convention, business, and tourism in Portland, and it is obviously working.
 In fact, we will see nearly 3,000 new hotel rooms opening in the next four years. 3,000. That's amazing. It includes the large Hyatt Convention Center Hotel and smaller boutique hotels like the Jupiter Hotels expansion. It's another sign of the health of our city and the new investments that help us grow. So Jeff Miller will talk more about that in a minute. And after Jeff's presentation, Susan Hartnett from the Office of Management and Finance...
 We'll provide a brief overview on items 609 and 610. The first makes some changes in Portland's Tourism Improvement District, and I'm really pleased that the travel industry sees the value in making the code adjustments proposed in item 609 so this great effort can continue to its success long into the future.
 And then the final item, 610, will also continue the mutually beneficial relationship the city has had and continues to have with Travel Portland for another five years.
 And now I'm happy to turn it over to Jeff Miller of Travel Portland. Thank you very much. I'm very excited to be here. I'm also joined by many of our board members, staff, and community partners, which really make it happen. David Pendleton from America's Hub World Tours is our board chair next year, so we're very excited to have him take the reins and guide us into the future.
 The hotel community came forward, asked for the TID. With your permission, you passed it. And as they look to the future in these 3,000 new hotel rooms, they're looking for that stability of funding. So that request is from the hotel community. So we're very excited about that.
 I'll jump right into this. Direct spending, this is from Dean Runyon, who does the three-county region, $4.9 billion in spending, which is a 21% increase from 2010. Incredibly strong numbers, and that's spending in businesses. We've had an increase of over 6,000 jobs since 2010. Okay.
 Pretty phenomenal. And so many of those jobs are from entrepreneurs that create their business and hire people. At our awards breakfast, we had Emma McElroy from Wild Fang, who has two stores in town and a very strong online presence. And she tells us that her downtown store is 50% out-of-towner. So we know that those visitors do spend money when they're here.
 We had over 8.9 million overnight visitors, which is up from 7.5 million in 2010. Again, a new record and one of the reasons so many hotels are being built. When the Tourism Improvement District was being considered, the hotels said to us, we need help in the winter months when it's rainy and cold. And that's exactly what we've done with the Portland is Happening Now campaign.
 January through March this year, we had 5% more rooms and 9% more revenue in those winter months, which is really when the opportunity is there. Last year, 4.7% more rooms, and the ADR, the average daily rate, went up 11.3%, which is phenomenal.
 This year, the campaign was all about zines, which speaks to the maker's culture, and I have a packet of 30 zines for each of you for your offices. They are by local artists, local makers, and it really speaks to the ethos of Portland and what makes it special.
 We were really excited to have people come forward and help us do these. That campaign runs in Seattle, Vancouver, B.C., Bend, and Eugene, and we're looking to expand that into other markets to the future. Part of that campaign was for TV ads, and I'll show one of them to you that played really heavily in those markets. And I think you'll recognize the naked bike rider first off. It is animated, so it's okay.
 A little technical difficulty there. Sorry about that. Played earlier, of course.
 As we looked at the TID, one of the most striking changes is where we've invested internationally, and these are the countries that we were in in 2010. We had a very focused program of work, tour operators, really working with the travel trade to get the word of Portland out. Fast forward to 2015, these are some of the countries that we've added, Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan, Iceland, Brazil, and many, many more.
 Our program of work has also become more nuanced based on the maturity of the market. So in mature markets like Japan, the Netherlands, and British Columbia, where we have direct flights, we're more consumer-focused, but we still work with the travel trade. In the newer markets, we really still focus on travel trade.
 Our New York PR firm, Lane PR, helped get an article on Portland in Skift, which is an industry trend watcher. And they really talked about sort of what we think as we act like a Tier 1 city and promote Portland as a Tier 1 city. We don't want to be San Francisco or L.A., but we do want to act like that in a promotional sense. Okay.
 And here's an excerpt from the writer, which I just love. It says, from a tourism standpoint, Portland is one of the most, one of those emerging U.S. cities hitting above its weight with a very distinct identity and hip character. And we think that's very true, and it's what we've tried to do and stay true to.
 We just launched Adenaro Tube in Japan, a very hot market for us. And we have an album for you that we produced. It's a band ages and ages from Portland. We'll have each one of those for each of you. They wrote a song, and Adenaro Tube is Portland backwards in Japanese.
 and it's all about this great place, Portland. They sang it in Japanese, actually, which for English speakers is a little hard. And I'll show you a little bit of the Giphio that we did there. The person that you see here, this was at the kickoff, at the tea site in Tokyo, which is sort of the Powell's Books of Tokyo. And they sang it in Japanese.
 Takachuro Kobayashi was a student at Oregon State University. He is now Nagoya's number one FM drive-time DJ, so a big influencer for us. He started a farmer's market called Portland Living in Nagoya, too. So all things Portland are very hot in Japan right now. He's a major influencer for us and has been playing a song on his drive-time radio, as well as it being played in Tokyo. So we're excited about that.
 This is some of the folks that came to the launch. And this is some of the product that is featured in Japan of Portland Makers. We happened to be there at the same time that the PDC was there with their PDX pop-up, so we joined them. And while they talk about the goods and services, we talk about the lifestyle of Portland, and we're really excited about that.
 A Giphyo was created, and it's a series of animations, which is very big in Japan, and we hope it goes viral. We've had 9,500 visits to the website and over 2,000 people. You can take your face and put it into the Giphyo and share it on social media. We have over 2,000 people that have done that. I will hope this plays a little better than the last one. ¶¶
 I am a Yasushi Kuhikaru Utsukushi Kawataruhashi Ga bokura Otsunagu Orochu Iwapokura Saisuki na Breakfast Monkey na Ice cream Crazy na Donuts Iwapachi Gabiru Yorishiru Orochu
 You are not a Jew You are not a Jew We sing in the hideout of this city So that we can reach you, who is somewhere in this world If you hear me You are not a Jew You are not a Jew
 Just strange enough for Portland. Keeping it weird. We're really excited about this. The blue Sasquatch, we call him Odnaro Dude.
 And so he will hopefully be the character that we see in Japan. But we're really excited about that, and we're trying to take advantage of all things Japanese right now. It's such a great market for us, both economically and with those tourists. You know, at the center of what we do is really book convention business. And you can see we have over 90 conventions booked into the future with an economic impact of almost $200 million. Wow.
 We have committed an additional $500,000 of TID funds over the next two years as we look to open the headquarters hotel. That's on top of the amount that we get from the convention center plus the TID baseline funding. We know that we have to talk about the package and not just that hotel and how it's grown and how Portland has grown. So we've committed via the TID board those dollars to the future. Thank you.
 Media coverage, you see a lot of Portland in the news just as we do, and we're really excited about that. You can see the growth there, $1.2 billion in circulation, and that's up 78%. Even with TID funding, we couldn't advertise to that level. And, of course, editorial is much more valuable than any ad that we could ever, ever do. So having those travel writers here is amazing for us.
 Diversity and community action, community advocacy. We have a community action committee of the board who focuses on development, redevelopment, transportation, and public safety. And they are very committed to those. We also have developed five equity strategy goals. The first is marketing in a culturally responsive manner. The second, community outreach is a transparent process. Our golf tournament and some of our programs,
 Sponsorship funding is all 50% is focused at communities of color. We're very proud of that and looking to grow that. Third, mapping convention bookings to local business development because at the end of the day, local businesses need to benefit from what we do.
 and a roadmap for staff with tools like bias training uh and advocacy for future workforce with wsus and mount hood's hospitality programs we're supporting those and supporting them with scholarships through the foundation you see at the top there we did a group with the reap students and really trying to introduce those those young people into the hospitality community this year during travel and tourism week
 We had our awards breakfast, but we also went to Pioneer Courthouse Square to show the public how tourism really affects them. And we had Pip's Donuts, Salt and Straw, many of our hotel partners. And we gathered there to talk to the public about tourism and why it's important. We also included many nonprofit partners, the Oregon Food Bank, benefits from Dining Month Portland, Children's Book Bank and transition projects or organizations that we support with time and financial assistance also. Thank you.
 And now to get to those healthy hotels. These are central city numbers. You can see the occupancy has gone up dramatically and the average daily rate at the same time. So much of that increase in occupancy has happened during the winter months when we had the ability to grow. Summer was full at 90% – has been full at 90%, 95%. So there's not much room there to add more folks, but we certainly can add average daily rate.
 and here's the growth in average daily rate you can see for the entire city it's up 11.3 but each part of the city has benefited from this program and that was another part one of our mainstays as we developed the tid program that every part of the city should benefit and we're really proud that both their occupancies and adrs have gone up
 And here's to that lodging tax history that Commissioner Salzman spoke about. This is our 1% from the city, and it has gone up 82% from 2012. Very, very dramatic increase, and that is a product of very healthy hotels. The TID board takes great pride in guiding us on how we spend those funds to make sure that not only are we filling those hotels, but we're filling the tax coffers at the same time.
 You know that on July 1st, the lodging tax will go up 0.8%. That amount will go to Travel Oregon. That puts Portland's taxes and fees at 15.3%. We did work very closely with the city, the county, and metro and the legislature, and that will come down to $1.
 only a 0.5 percent increase in 2020 and that gives us as a community to talk about how could we come forward and talk about funding our venues with perhaps an increase in our lodging tax locally where we can have that control which we think is very very important and we're very committed to the venues expo buttons memorial coliseum and others
 And this is what the hotel pipeline looks like into the future. And you'll see – you've probably seen many of these in the news. But – and some of these won't open. Some of these dates are tentative dates. But we know there are others in the pipeline. It's a huge number of new hotels. And how we look at it at Travel Portland is that each of those hotels –
 like the Hyatt, has 600 rooms, but it's open 365 days a year. So when you look out to 2020 and those 2,800 rooms, we have over a million more hotel rooms per year that need to be filled in Portland. And that, again, is another reason that the hotel community says keep marketing, keep spending those funds significantly to help to benefit us.
 And this is the impact. You'll see that in the total city, it's a 21% increase. And in the central city, it's a 39% increase in the number of rooms, which has never, ever happened in Portland. And so we're gearing up. We're working very closely with our hotels, the Convention Sales and Steering Committee, and certainly international tourism to make sure that those hotels stay full. And with that, I will be happy to take any questions.
 Thank you. I had a question. You earlier had a slide that referred to first tier or tier one cities. What's the dividing line?
 You know, I think most people think about the LAs, the San Francisco's, the New York is tier one cities because they have huge convention centers, massive international tourism. And while we know that we aren't that size of city, we want to really spend time thinking about how do they market both domestically and internationally and how can we emulate some of that. And with this funding that we have, I think we've really changed the face of the way we talk about Portland and then obviously the number of people that are coming here.
 You're forecasting a tremendous growth in new rooms in the market. You also have reported year over year prices have stayed strong, and the rents, the rates that hotel operators are getting are strong. At some point when you have this much new inventory,
 coming online, does it have potentially an impact on the overall market structure, and could it actually bring down rates for consumers? It's potential that it could moderate rates, potentially come down, but our job is to make sure they don't come down and to keep those occupancies certainly as high as we can. We know that this will flatten out, the taxes will flatten out, but there will still be growth over the long term.
 We want to be really careful about making sure that we integrate these new hotels into our marketing programs and that those rates don't moderate too much.
 Not questions, but just a couple of comments, Jeff. That was a terrific presentation, and they loved the video. That was fantastic. Thank you. I want to let you know that the past couple of weeks I've been doing my part. I was in Paris and Barcelona for two weeks, and people in both cities were very concerned that they'd heard that the Heathman restaurant and the Veritable Quantity were closing. So I was relieved to be able to tell them that both restaurants are reopening in different locations, and they were very pleased to hear that. We're excited about that.
 Thank you, Jeff, and Travel Portland. And why don't we bring up Susan Hartnett now to talk about items 609 and 610. Good morning. Susan Hartnett, Office of Management and Finance. I'm going to cover both 609 and 610 in my comments and happy to answer questions at the end. 609 is the amendments to the Tourism Improvement District, which is City Code Chapter 6.05. We're doing this to accomplish several things.
 Probably most significant is adjusting the date for the initial sunset review, which is a review that will occur with council involvement currently set to occur in 2017. The amendments would move that out to 2021. We are also then extending the period between the sunset reviews from a current five years to every ten years.
 This will provide the stability and allow for that longer-term planning that Jeff was talking about, which the hotel and tourism industry feel will be very helpful for them. Another change is to add a definition for the term room. The way the code is written, the Tourism Improvement District fee applies to hotels with 50 or more rooms.
 The new definition clarifies that beds in dormitory or hostel-style rooms will each count for the purposes of determining if that hotel is subject to the fee.
 We've had some interesting new products go on the market with hostel or dormitory style rooms where people are paying $50 or more per night to sleep in a bed, but they are claiming they are under our 50 room count because of that. So we're trying to correct that.
 The amendments also modify the language related to the city's administrative cost recovery. We add appeal provisions, which aren't currently in the code, and make some corrections that reflect the recent opposite management and finance structural reorganization that occurred two years ago.
 Hotels currently subject to the TID fee were notified via a postcard mailing of these proposed changes. The webpage that we set up and directed them to received a total of 53 external hits since it went up in mid-April. And we have received no phone calls, letters, or emails in regards to the proposals, no questions, no feedbacks.
 So moving to item 610, this authorizes a new five-year agreement with Travel Portland for both the TID program services as well as the programs required through the city charter specified 1% transient lodging tax.
 The ordinance also approves a sole source procurement for these services. Both the TID language in the city code and the charter TLT language is very specific about the characteristics of the entity that can provide these services for the city. It must be an Oregon nonprofit organized for the primary purpose of promotion, solicitation, procurement, and servicing of convention business and tourism in Portland.
 The entity must also do this year-round, must also manage a variety of tourism-related plans, programs, and projects, and must represent tourism-related businesses. Travel Portland is essentially the only entity that fits all of those requirements. They also have a wealth of experience in this highly specialized field, many years of demonstrative success, and also
 enjoys strong support from the travel and tourism industry in Portland We did follow the city's procedures for sole source procurement and the chief procurement officer has approved it So it's included as part of your action in this ordinance The agreement was also just so you know this updated. It has not been updated in a long time so that it is now consistent with the city's current standard language in contracts and grants and
 for such things as insurance and indemnification. Item 610 is an emergency ordinance so that the new agreement can be in place by July 1 since the old agreement expires on June 30th, and we're hoping to not have a gap in services. I'm happy to answer any questions, and I'll also mention that Terry Williams from the Revenue Division is here if you have any questions related to the revenue aspects of this. So thank you, Susan, for pointing out we have an emergency.
 Carla, I think we lose one member of council at 1130. So after this presentation, pardon me? I've got to leave at 1130. Dan's got an 1130 absence. So after the Friends of Trees presentation, Carla, let's us go through and identify the emergency items that have to be heard and make sure that we do those before we lose Commissioner. Questions, colleagues? Thank you very much. Jeff, do you have invited testimony or we just open it up to the public? Carla, do we have anyone who's signed up?
 Yes, I have two people, Charles Johnson and Dave Matthews. Please come on up. And if there's anyone else here that would like to speak, you can also come forward. Charles, welcome. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. Lightning, welcome. Go ahead. You know, it's a joy to go in and deal with the volunteers that staff the Travel Portland area inside our soon-to-be-remodeled Pioneer Square.
 But when we talk about this program, we have to remember that we're not really helping Portland when we put a lot of effort into treating others better than we treat ourselves. And when we talk about tourism and image, we need to make sure that in addition to funding services for visitors, we're also funding services for the most distressed people that...
 litter our streets almost. That's not to insult them. That's to insult us for having streets where that's the only shelter we have available for our poorest and neediest citizens. So when we look at tourism-related financing, hotel tax, we also need to remember that we have
 such a severe problem of unsheltered and unassisted people that people with children are dealing heroin out of their baby carriages. So when we talk about being in a financially tight situation, we have to remember that if we're choosing to fund tourism and travel-related services and not able to get a handle on the under-supported, unsheltered people,
 We're probably not going to reach the objective we want to reach. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Lightning, welcome. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog Communications, PDX. Again, I'll commend Travel Portland. A few names I didn't hear today, which I think have changed the market as we have seen happen recently.
 Airbnb, outstanding work. Lyft, outstanding work. Uber, outstanding work. We're going to continue to see record numbers because of these three companies. And we need to understand that we need to utilize them for our benefits pertaining to the tourism industry.
 I would like to see more talks with Airbnb, Lyft, and Uber on working with us to advertise on an international basis. Anybody that gets into an Uber ride, we want to have them also notify the people of how great it is to go to Portland, Oregon also.
 We want to have an understanding that they have the abilities right now to basically bring us more tourism business in the next few years than we've ever seen. Again, I want to see more advertising money going to Uber, Lyft, and Amazon.
 and also Airbnb for their outstanding work, which a lot of critics out there thought that we would not see this type of revenue. I predicted this revenue three years ago. Again, outstanding work, Travel Portland, Airbnb, Lyft, and Uber. Thank you. Thank you very much. Does anyone else wish to be heard on any of these three items? Dan, final word on the presentation, and then we'll go to the ordinance. Yes.
 Yeah, we only need to vote on the emergency ordinance, but I do want to just thank Travel Portland and all their supporters for such an outstanding job. It's really a great organization. I'm privileged to be able to serve on their board and to really learn in depth how hard they work to obtain convention and tourism business for our city. And indeed, for our metropolitan area and for our state. What they do here benefits the entire state of Oregon. So, great job.
 Commissioner Saltzman is the council liaison to Travel Portland. So, Dan, thank you for your leadership. And, Jeff, I was at a local bookstore recently on Alberta Street, and one of the hottest-selling books they had was the Japanese version, in Japanese, of the Portland Travel Guide.
 And it's a beautiful book. Unfortunately, I don't read or speak Japanese, but the pictures are fantastic. And it is a point of great pride for our city that we are a hot destination for lots of Asian countries. And thank you for the great work you're doing, colleagues. So the report, we don't have to. That was a presentation. 609 is an ordinance, which we'll have a second reading next week. 610 is an emergency ordinance. Carla, would you please call the roll? Councilman?
 Again, pleased to enter into a new five-year agreement with Travel Portland. They truly are the only qualified organization to do this great work they do. Hi. Novick. Hi. Well, thank you, everybody, for being here this morning in support and for all the great work that Travel Portland does. I'm privileged to serve on the Business Development Fund Board, which is the only 8 o'clock in the morning meeting I look forward to. In fact, it's the only one I go to, pretty much.
 And I'm always impressed with the level of detail and integrity that the staff puts into making sure that the taxpayers' monies are spent wisely in generating even more taxpayer money through this fund. So thank you. And also thanks to Susan Hartnett for all of your work on facilities in this particular project. Aye. Yes, congratulations. And thank you to the whole Travel Portland family for joining us this morning. Aye. Ordinance passes. Aye.
 We're going to take a two-minute break, and we're going to then take up Friends of Trees. Then we're going to hit as many emergency ordinances and second readings as possible. Thank you all. Council, will you please come back to order? And we're going to take up the next time certain, and this might be a first for this body. It is a 10.30 time certain, and it is now 10.30. Carla, would you please read item number 611? Okay.
 Authorize a contract with Friends of Trees for community tree education, planting, and establishment services in the amount of $5,882,216. Okay. Would our invited guests please come forward, and I'm going to make a few comments. So would the Bureau team. Today we are bringing a new five-year contract with Friends of Trees to Council for review and approval. Okay.
 Investing in planting and establishing trees with a focus on low canopy, low income, racially diverse neighborhoods helps the city meet multiple goals. We increase the urban forestry canopy cover, we improve our stormwater management, and we reduce the urban heat island effect for vulnerable populations.
 Over the past eight years, the Environmental Services Tree Program has helped to plant more than 40,000 trees. More than 30,000 of them have been planted with the help of community volunteers through a contract with Friends of Trees. Eighty percent of the funding for this five-and-a-half-year, $5.8 million contract will come from the general fund, and 20 percent from the sewer system operating fund.
 The result will be just under 12,000 new trees planted, 7,000 trees pruned, and an annual canvas reaching over 80,000 households. Friends of Trees will partner with a number of community organizations to more effectively reach vulnerable populations.
 and its goal is to meet the equity goal of 75 percent service delivery in historically underserved areas. Today I'm pleased to introduce Jane Bakari and Jennifer Karpz from BES who will walk us through the contract before us. Welcome, ladies. Thank you.
 Good morning, and thank you, Commissioner Fish and members of the City Council. My name is Jane Beccari. I'm the Watershed Services Group Manager with the Bureau of Environmental Services. Joining me today is Jennifer Karp from the Environmental Services Tree Program. We're here today to request your authorization of a contract with Friends of Trees for community tree education, planting, and establishment services. Thank you.
 BES has an eight-year history working with Friends of Trees to address citywide urban canopy goals, and we are pleased to have the opportunity to continue this partnership, which results in environmental and human health benefits and improves the livability of our communities. We have a few slides, and Jennifer is going to tell you a little bit more about why BES plants trees and the scope of this contract. Thank you, Jane. Thank you.
 Good morning, Commissioners. Thank you so much for having us today. We're excited to bring our contract to Council. So I'm going to reiterate some of the things you've already heard, but let you know who we are, why we're here, why we're in the tree planting business, and champion some of the success that we've had over the last eight years working
 in this field. So BES is your stormwater and sewer provider here in the city of Portland, as you know, and we use green infrastructure, including trees, to help manage stormwater sustainably in service of clean rivers, healthy watersheds, and livable, sustainable communities. BES enhances the urban forest canopy to provide tree benefits more equitably,
 We'd like to help meet the needs of diverse and traditionally underserved communities to manage stormwater sustainably for everyone, but also to protect human health by reducing the urban heat island. Our activities, as you know, are regulated by federal, state, and local laws. And we've been in the tree planting business since about the mid-90s to help meet the regulatory requirements that we're obliged to under the Clean Water Act.
 we report on our accomplishments through uh from the tree program both the tree planting but also the outreach and education activities for our npdes permit and we also through our activities of tree planting are meeting multiple city goals that are outlined in multiple city plans including the urban forestry management plan the portland watershed management plan etc etc up through the portland plan the comprehensive plan and of course the climate change plan and preparation strategy
 Excited to say that, and this is the most current number we have calculated very recently with a sharp pencil, we've planted 43,276 trees since we got started in fiscal year 08-09. And 75% of those trees, over 32,000, were planted under our current contract with Friends of Trees. For the upcoming contract, we did a competitive solicitation in accordance with City Code Title V. And the evaluation committee selected Friends of Trees proposal.
 Friends of Trees is an established and experienced nonprofit. They've been in the tree planting business in the city of Portland for 26 years. I should say they've been in the community building business through tree planting. And they build community by hosting community tree planting events. I think most of you have been to at least one of those. I know I've seen you there. And also tree care events. In the last few years, we've started to get more into the tree care business.
 where Friends of Trees helps residents to learn how to prune trees correctly so they can take those skills on and prune their trees as needed since, of course, they're responsible to do that for the trees on their property and also in the adjacent right-of-way. And as we've said, Friends of Trees has planted over 30,000 trees in partnership with the city over the past eight years.
 The established cost is just about $5.9 million. It's a five-and-a-half-year contract because we're getting started a little before the fiscal year so that we can fund outreach and education. And then, of course, we've got a few months after the fifth year of planting so that we can do the monitoring work and get the monitoring report so that we make sure that the investment that we've made in trees pays off.
 The cost estimate level of confidence rating is optimal. We've been, as we've said, working with Friends of Trees for eight years, and they have met their targets every year and, in fact, exceeded the targets of the current contract for tree planting. And as the commissioner mentioned, 80% is funded through the general fund, 20% through our sewer system operating fund.
 And just a few more items on the scope of the contract. We will plant just over 10,000 trees, and I put a star next to that, depending on how the budget comes out. This number reflects the 5% reduction in general fund for fiscal year 17. If that reduction is reinstated, then the tree target will get to go up. We will structurally prune, as I mentioned, 7,000 trees, and hopefully incorporate more and more structured pruning as we move through, so that each and every tree gets touched at least once.
 We have outreach and education goals in addition to planting and pruning. Of course, we need to get folks fired up about tree planting and help them to understand their responsibilities with respect to trees, help them to understand their requirements to get permits from urban forestry before they prune them, and that sort of thing.
 And also, I'm very excited about this contract because we intentionally drafted the RFP with an eye to equity, and we would like to very aggressively develop and strengthen relationships with communities with whom we already work, but also new communities. And we've earmarked just over a third of the outreach and education component of the contract to community benefit organizations so that they can help us do that work.
 And as you've also heard, our goal is to provide at least 75% service delivery in historically underserved communities. Over the past two years of planting, we planted trees, excuse me, 87% of the trees that we planted have been in low-canopy, low-income communities and communities of color. And we intend to continue with that work. And I'm ready for questions if you have questions for me. Thank you. Excuse me.
 It's such an excellent presentation, there are no questions. But that's because we're saving our questions for the invited testimony. So it is, thank you ladies. And we're going to, we have one panel that we've set up. And I'll invite our three speakers forward. Luz Maria Vega, Rosemary Anderson High School student working with the Friends of Trees.
 through the POIC Work Opportunity Training Program, Gustavo Rojas, a neighborhood tree assistant, and Scott Fogarty, Executive Director, Friends of Trees. If the three of you would come forward. And, Scott, who would you like to kick things off? I guess I'll go ahead. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. Excuse me. I want to begin by thanking you for your investment in our community, in our green infrastructure, and in our environment.
 It's so great that we live in a place where each one of our city council members have actually come out and planted trees with volunteers with us in their community. And I'm pretty sure this hasn't happened anywhere else, at least that I know of. This contract extends the opportunity for community members to participate in the greening of our city, our neighborhoods, by coming together for a common good and sharing that common good.
 We thank you and the Bureau of Environmental Services for considering this proposal. We thank the community partners for participating in the delivery of an effort to keep our city vibrant and cool, especially in this day and age. We recognize the challenges to reach out, to reach our aspirational goals of equity and inclusion, of being able to provide trees for all residents regardless of the configuration of their yards or the size of their planting strips, and preserving those trees that were planted many years ago for the benefits of us today.
 As our society continues to face pressure from growth, changing temperature, reduced snowpack, and water resources, we recognize that trees, especially in the urban setting, are great multitaskers, doing a variety of jobs that help us find solutions to the problems we face now and in the future. Our collective effort is about growing healthy community, and you should be commended for that. This is about growing a vibrant and diverse urban forest canopy, and you should be commended for that.
 this is about trees and people and people loving trees in portland and it was great to see in the previous uh presentation from travel portland that trees played a prominent role in their in their uh in their presentation and i think that's just a great signal to the rest of the world that we love our trees right here in oregon planners and developers used to cut down all trees in all situations
 Whereas the city was once known as Stumptown, we now recognize the values trees bring, and we strive to protect them and increase their presence in our city as a whole, while striking a balance for the need to accommodate the increased population that's coming. We connect to trees in a way here in Portland that few other places can claim. That's what makes us unique in so many ways. Folks sit in trees to protect them, and children plant trees for their children to enjoy.
 And we don't know exactly why these connections exist. It's really unexplainable, but we do know that they exist. And it's as deep as the roots and as wide as the canopy. And your commitment to invest in healthy communities and a healthy canopy in the neediest parts of our city sends a message that you care about health, you care about our environment, you care about people, and are willing to show you care through your actions.
 The benefits of your actions today for the people of Portland will carry through generations and help us all live in a city that is green, livable, and healthy. We thank you for your thoughtfulness on how we're going to collectively continue to make our city grow and flourish. We appreciate your work and effort to achieve our lofty goals, and together we can accomplish much, one precious tree at a time. So again, I thank you very much.
 Thank you. Shall we go to Ms. Vega? Sure. Hello. I just want to start by saying I'm happy to be here and happy to be here and share a little bit about my experience with Friends of Trees. And I wrote a little speech because if I didn't, we'd be here for hours. So here we go. My name is Luz Maria Vega and I'm 21 years of age.
 I have been involved with Friends of Trees for about three years, although it seems like it has been longer than that. I remember always seeing Friends of Trees signs all over Portland and in my neighborhood, but never really thought about it.
 Until one of my high school teachers, Lee, which is here today somewhere, spoke to me about a job opportunity. And it just happened to be with Friends of Trees. POIC and Friends of Trees have a partnership training for local youth as crew leaders. I started out as an assistant crew leader, then to crew leader. To this year, I was a program assistant for the crew leader training program.
 As a program assistant, it was my role to make sure POIC's assistant crew leaders knew what they were doing to making sure everyone was on task and was going to be present for work. I have several great memories from Friends of Trees, but one that tops it off would be walking, driving through Portland and seeing Friends of Trees stickers, signs. I know, and I would say to myself, I know who planted that because it was us. And it's even more amazing and rewarding to see that it survived. Thank you.
 It lets me know we learned how to properly plant trees and we were able to teach it to someone else. Planting trees in our city creates a healthy and safe environment, and it also brings our community together, which I think is very, very important. Having worked for Friends of Trees created a sense of happiness for me. It allowed me to go out of my circle of friends and create great relationships with my community members. I met people I've never seen before, and that lives just a few blocks away from me.
 One of my goals in life is to become a teacher. Several of the people that I had the opportunity to work with on planning days were teachers. What better way to learn about my future career while planting trees? I was able to talk with them and gain insight of what it's like to be a teacher. I thank Friends of Trees and the partnership with POC for allowing me to teach groups of people of all ages about how to plant trees.
 About trees and how to plant them. What better way to learn how to work with youth than to have fun teaching children of all... Oh, I just read that. I'm sorry. Through this crew leader training partnership, I realized that teaching is exactly what I wanted to do, and I couldn't thank Friends of Trees enough for giving me this opportunity of breaking out of my shell and realizing it.
 and thank you to all the volunteers who motivated me to further my education and teaching because i wasn't sure for a while if i wanted to do that or not and thank you planting trees helps build a stronger community by bringing neighbors neighbors together it helps create relationships with people who you've never met and live minutes away from it creates these unforgettable memories like the tree that took almost five of us to move because the root ball was ginormous or
 or the time we spent talking and eating together after the successful planting and the pouring rain, the partnership between POIC and Friends of Trees has given me unforgettable memories. Again, thank you for your time. Thanks for joining us. And you have a beautiful name. My daughter and my mother-in-law both carry the name Maria. Mr. Rojas, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. This is a very exciting opportunity to be able to speak to the council. Very exciting. I work with Friends of Trees, very happily. Been working there for six years. I have been working with Friends of Trees since 2010. I remember when I was being interviewed for the job, being asked why I wanted to work with them. It was a very special and interesting question for me since my previous jobs have been in government and education.
 Why Friends of Trees? For me it was easy. I wanted to help save the planet. Easy enough, right? Hopefully I'll be able to pay back the damage that I have helped create. And what a better way of doing that than planting trees. But I also wonder why more people weren't as involved, especially our communities of color. It seemed that there was more interest in white communities and less when we looked at areas east of 82nd.
 That was troubling for me, and I wanted to see how that could be improved. I am very happy to say that those areas are beginning to get more involved. I am especially happy and proud to see the increase in participation from areas like David Douglas School District. Having worked in that district as a bilingual liaison for Latinos, Asians, and African groups, I knew that those communities often feel disengaged or not even interested in what white communities consider important.
 But this has gone through an amazing change in the last few years. We have seen hundreds of these kids come out to plantings, finishing up splattered with mud and huge smiles on their faces. They are also involved in saving the planet, not only by planting trees, but also by becoming more engaged in their communities.
 This would not have been possible without the hard work and commitment of Friends of Trees and the Bureau of Environmental Services to bring communities of all colors to participate in making our city a model for what people and trees can do to make our planet whole again. Thank you. Thank you very much. Colleagues, I have a couple questions, and then we'll see if my colleagues have questions, and then we'll take additional testimony. Thank you.
 So the city, Scott, is, as you know, deeply committed to equity and to providing opportunity. And we got a letter, I think each of us got a letter from you updating us on your work and what Friends of Trees is doing. Could you just take a moment to tell us, in terms of your staff, in rough terms, where are you in creating opportunities for people of color?
 your board, and then what are your sort of goals in the years ahead in terms of partnering with community-based organizations and providing opportunity?
 Sure. We have made a concerted effort over the past five, six years, actually more, ten years probably to diversify our staff. We recognized early on that the areas that we were planting in were not necessarily the areas of greatest need but were the areas where folks really wanted our presence there.
 Since that time, we've increased our staff minority rate to about 23 percent, and we're looking to increase that even more in the future. Our board right now is about 15 percent minority. I believe we're 60 percent female on our staff and 50 percent on our board. So that has been a major focus of our organization in the past.
 As this contract goes forward, we have some great aspirational goals. One of our partners is here in the audience today from Verde. We've been working very closely with them over the past eight years, not just on this contract but on other contracts and opportunities that we've had.
 to include communities of color, not just on our board and staff and volunteers, but also with revenues that are going out of our door. So it is a very concerted effort that we have, and we have some high aspirations to increase those numbers.
 And so I look forward to working not just with the community benefit organizations that we've worked with in the past, but also expanding that out to new and creative opportunities. One of those being with Portland Parks and Recreation, where friends of mine are with One World Soccer, which make the indestructible soccer balls, which are actually quite cool,
 like an elephant can stand on it and the ball will come back. And they distributed them across the globe to communities that have been in instances of warfare or where there are refugee situations, and they had 50 extra balls left over. And they called and said, can you guys do something with these? And through the –
 through some and and the uh the world cup local soccer portland parks and recreation group we're donating those to that group and we hope that that will be an inroad to help continue to work uh with them and with erco on some of our um
 recent immigrants and migrants and refugees into the community and introduce them to what we do and hopefully have them participate in our programs. So that's just one example of how we're being creative with what we're doing and how we're being inclusive with equity and diversity in the community. Thank you very much. Colleagues, questions? Can you remind us how long Friends of Trees has been an organization? 26 years. And how long have you been partnering with environmental services? Yes.
 oh that's a very good question um with this contract eight years but prior to that i know with both parks and with uh bes we had a small partnership there were a minimum amount of funds that came to friends of trees through that but not until the gray to green initiative did we really the city invest and double down in their investment in our urban forest canopy and our community building opportunities
 that's that was my recollection too and um do other jurisdictions governments contribute to friends of trees in other places uh we're very pleased to say that in the state of oregon we have contracts with at least four cities oregon city salem eugene and corvallis and outside of here we have a contract with the city of vancouver around the country we are one of the few groups that has
 been able to work with our city government to have city the city itself invest very heavily in the urban forest canopy we're recognized as a model nationally and other cities and organizations have taken up the mantle sacramento is a good example san francisco is a good example atlanta is a good example so we here in portland are definitely on the front end of that curve and
 And, you know, as the country is losing trees due to infestations and diseases, we're not. We're ahead of that curve. But we're seeing that those cities are looking to why we value trees so much here and not just for trees.
 the beautification values of the, of them, but also for the health reasons and for economic reasons. Um, a lot of cities are facing heat Island effect specifically like Chicago, for example, where lots of deaths are attributed to heat waves in the summer. So they have started a million tree campaign, um, because they lost a great portion of their canopy due to, um,
 due to infestation and beetles. So indeed, we are a leader in this front, but we need to keep ahead of that. As development is happening, we're seeing more and more trees come out. We're not going to be able to replace them one-to-one entirely, but we need to strike that balance as we go forward. So indeed, the City of Portland is a leader in this field.
 And is it unusual for environmental services to be contributing to the payment rather than parks or other entities? Not necessarily. Again, this is a trend we've been seeing in the last four to five years, specifically the city of Philadelphia, which has earmarked.
 of dollars of green infrastructure towards urban forest canopy, green space, preservation in and around Philadelphia itself. They've won some national awards for what they've done. The head of their environmental services division has been very specific about what
 The areas where those trees are going, again, they're in mostly minority-populated areas that have very low tree canopy cover, have very little access to parks. And so the trend, I think, that was started here, because I've been asked this question a number of times, has continued to expand around the country. Again, I think we're leaders in the way that we look at trees.
 the reduced costs of, for example, stormwater collection and distribution instead of putting pipes in by looking at green infrastructure. And many, many other jurisdictions are starting to look at this as a way to fund these kinds of campaigns in the future. They're recognizing the value that a healthy urban forest canopy brings
 to the environmental services, to stormwater reduction, to heat island effect reduction. I know one other city, for example, L.A., where – I don't want to edit you, but we're also going to lose Dan at 1130. Oh, that's right. I forgot. I want to make sure we get to it. We get to the vote, yeah. I'm just making some – cut the cheese. Cut the point.
 Other cities also have to comply with the Clean Water Act, have to comply with the Endangered Species Act, and that's therefore why stormwaters and sewer rates are appropriately used. Even though for our ordinance here it's 80 percent general fund and 20 percent in other places, there's even more investment from environmental services like organizations. Yes, that's true. And I can get you a list if you'd like. I have that. I just –
 not right here at my fingertips. You gave me plenty of information. Okay, great. Thank you. Other questions, colleagues? Thank you all very much. Carla, how many people signed up? Just one. Mr. Charles Johnson. All right. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. If anyone else would like to be heard, come forward. Mr. Johnson, Mr. Hippolito, welcome. Alan, welcome. Thank you. Good to be with you all today in the
 As always, in the words of your friend and mine, Ray Espana, it's a blessing to be with you here today. I just wanted, in response to your question, to talk a little bit about the work we have been doing together with Friends of Trees, other community-based organizations in anticipation of this proposal. Oh, sorry. My name is Alan Ippolito. I work for a nonprofit organization named Verde. We serve communities by building environmental wealth through social enterprise outreach and advocacy. Thank you. All right.
 As we know, trees can do more than protect the environment. They can educate our youth. They can create jobs. And as we've seen in the presentation and in the testimony from Friends of Trees, it can build community. So we've been working hard to set a goal about how do we get these resources out into community-based organizations as well. So our pursuit of equity is not just about...
 diversifying our environmental organizations, but it's about building the environmental capacity of our culturally specific organizations
 So I just wanted to share that we've worked really hard to develop some goals about getting roughly 20 percent of this contract value out into the pockets of low-income people and people of color, the businesses they work for or they own, or the community organizations that serve them. We've got some important work ahead, but we have a lot of commitment from all people around the table to make that happen. So I'm excited to share that with you today, and I'm excited about this opportunity. Thank you.
 thank you very much alan welcome good morning for the record my name is charles johnson and uh was very encouraging to uh hear the gentleman from verde uh speak about equity and diversion uh inclusion but uh one thing that i'm greatly concerned when we see an almost six million dollar contract uh around trees i think many people in the community are concerned that uh friends of trees or verde will after receiving this money
 be slightly discouraged from advocating against the killing of heritage trees. We know that this council has struggled with the tree ordinance, but that trees are still being killed, chopped down, so that developers can increase density in sometimes dubious ways.
 So I hope that you as commissioners and your conversations with the people of Friends of Trees and Verde will make clear that they're still encouraged to work with everybody who feels the need to sit in a tree, whether it's in Eastmoreland or North Portland, and to make sure that
 The canopy that's on private property, the canopy that's on lots that developers want to fill from edge to edge with a building by chopping down trees, that everybody who works with Friends of Trees and Verde
 can safely do their job and still engage in frontline activism as people do what's necessary to limit the actions of developers who are overzealous about removing the tree canopy that makes the city a place where people want to come and live. Thank you. Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to be heard? Please, ma'am. By the way, let's acknowledge, I guess these are volunteers or staff members from Friends of Trees who have joined us. Thank you for taking time out to be with us. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, my name's Neva Knott, and I'm a career leader, volunteer for Friends of Trees. I've been planning with them for about five years. I also have a master's in environmental studies, and I run a blog called the Ecotone Exchange, which is focused on presenting positive stories about the environment. And what I want to talk about today is the aspect of tree planting plus community building that creates...
 a situation of empowerment for people in the face of climate change. In my research and in my work as an environmental journalist, I rarely find stories or situations where people feel empowered in fighting climate change. People either are choosing the head in the sand approach or leaving it up to government to find some big fix or...
 Just denying it altogether. But what Friends of Trees does Saturday after Saturday is shows people that there are simple, common sense, everyday, hands-on solutions to fighting climate change. And that putting trees in the ground is one of the easiest ways to empower ourselves in face of this global environmental crisis. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, this is an emergency ordinance. Carla, would you please call the roll?
 Well, it's great to continue this longstanding relationship with Friends of Trees, and they really are demonstrating how important it is to have green infrastructure in addition to pipes and pumps and all those. We need to have trees for all the benefits they provide to all of our residents. Aye. No, thank you.
 Thank you so much. And I appreciated your referring to the fact that we are losing trees to infestation and disease around the country. And that, unfortunately, is going to accelerate as a result of climate change. So it's all the more important that we double our efforts to plant trees that can survive, both to maintain the canopy partly as a way of addressing climate change. Thank you so much. Hi. Hi.
 Well, thank you very much for the presentation, for all of the good work that's been done, and for the partnership with Friends of Trees. I hope that we can soon come to agreement with Environmental Services and Development Services, Parks, Transportation, and the Mayor's Bureau of Planning to look at upgrades
 updates to the tree code and a package of amendments that we could do. And the one that struck me during the presentation was that if we've trained volunteers to be able to prune trees, perhaps those volunteers could be signed off so that they wouldn't need a permit every time they go out and do that. And that's just one of the examples of some common sense things that I think we could do to improve the tree code. And I hope we're going to be able to get to that project in the next fiscal year. Thank you so much for all of your work.
 I want to thank Jane Beccari and Jennifer Karp from BES. I want to thank our good friend Scott Fogarty, the leader of Friends of Trees, and Mr. Rojas and Ms. Vega for taking time to join us. I want to thank the volunteers and staff of Friends of Trees who are here today. And as my colleagues have said, this is a wonderful relationship.
 that does very important work in our community, and I deeply appreciate the engagement with the community to make sure that we're sharing the extended benefits of this contract with everybody. And we look forward to seeing your good work over the years. Aye. Okay. We have a lot to cover in the regular agenda, and we're going to lose the sufficient number to do emergencies. Let me just ask, we've pulled one item off the consent, and is –
 Is Barb Atkins here? Okay. Carla, could you read Item 621? We'll finish up the consent agenda. Then we're going to go through second readings and the emergency items before we lose Dan at 1130. Thank you.
 621, authorize a contract with GSI Water Solutions, Inc. for as-needed services to support implementation of the water pollution control facility and national pollutant discharge elimination system municipal separate storm sewer discharge permits in the amount of $500,000. Thank you.
 Colleagues, this was inadvertently placed on a consent agenda pulled by the Bureau to the regular agenda. The city has a stormwater permit that requires us to protect water quality in rivers and streams, a permit that regulates sumps that manage stormwater runoff in a way that protects groundwater. This ordinance will provide professional services as needed to help environmental services comply with the requirements of the two permits. And here is Barb Atkins from BES to give us a very brief overview. Barb, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you Commissioner Fish and the council for having me to reiterate what Commissioner Fish said this is a city holds two stormwater permits for stormwater discharges to both surface waters and ground waters and and to comply with other state and federal regulations and this contract specifically assists BES who is responsible for the citywide compliance of both permits
 to meet all the requirements within both those permits. It's an on-call contract. So it's an on-call contract that is on a task-based system. And we have been using GSI for the last eight years. They have been a successful bidder. In the last two contracts, they've professionally and successfully performed well in both contracts.
 And they help us with things such as annual reporting and assisting with
 strategic planning and identifying the regulatory issues and how best to address those. And this time it's particularly important because we've had a complete turnover in staff in one of the programs. It is a $500,000 contract over three years. And recently, the most recent three-year contract, we spent about $300,000 of that. So I can take any questions if you want.
 Thank you. And the reason we moved it to the regular is because it met the $500,000 threshold, not because it was a controversial item. Thank you for your excellent overview. Colleagues, any questions? Carla, has anyone signed up to testify on item number 621? This was pooled. We don't have sign-up sheets. Does anyone wish to testify on this matter? Then we're going to a vote. Carla, please call the roll. Hoffman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for all your work and attention to detail. Aye. Nice job. Aye. Aye.
 So, colleagues, can I get some help in how we're going to handle the remaining 20 minutes? Obviously, whatever emergency items we don't get to will either be continued to next week or heard this afternoon. The problem this afternoon is we have an hour to do a hearing followed by a scheduled hearing before the tax supervising district, and that's at 3, so we don't have the luxury of continuing counsel beyond 3 o'clock.
 I can go through the regular order, or I can jump to some second readings and or emergency items to make sure they're heard. Obviously, we've got – and this would bump things out of the regular order, so I want to do this respectfully. We could do 633, 634, 37, 40, 42, 44, and 45 are all emergencies. 49 is an emergency.
 And then 650 is a four-fifths, so we need four. Any guidance? I would suggest we work through and do the second readings and the emergencies in order. Any objections? All right, let's do that. So, Carla, we have – thank you, Commissioner Fritz. 631 would be the first. So if we could – we have a second reading on 631. Carla, would you please call the roll? That is actually adding an emergency clause to that.
 Okay. You got the language from the mayor's office. There's an amendment to add an emergency clause. Do I have a second? Second. Can we have a vote on that? I'm sorry. I should read the title. 631, adopt administrative rules for Chapter 23.10, removing barriers to employment, and authorize the city attorney to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the Bureau of Labor and Industry at an amount not to exceed $25,000. Okay.
 And colleagues, the Council declares an emergency because the public welfare would be harmed if the administrative rules and intergovernmental agreement are not in place when enforcement of Chapter 23.10 commences on July 1, 2016. And that's the purpose of this emergency clause. Could you please call the roll? Thank you.
 saltzman hi novick hi fritz hi fish hi emergency clause passes uh carla would you please before could i just uh clarify for commissioner novick were you comfortable with the amendments that were made last week yes thank you thank you for that carla would you please call the roll on 631 as amended saltzman hi no thank you
 Thanks, Chair Rachel Wiggins and the M.S. staff for their great work on this. Aye. Fish. Yes, I thank the City Attorney's Office and Rachel and the whole team. This is good work, and I'm pleased to support it. Aye. Okay. Do we have folks here for 633 and 634? There's another second reading, sir, 632. 632. I'm sorry? Commissioner Fritz is intent on making me look good today by being my helper. So could you please read 632, Carla? Yes.
 amend the central city plan district to increase the maximum height limit on block 8 Portland addition and support construction of a replacement Multnomah County central courthouse roll call only I know Beautiful design for a much-needed building I matter passes Carla let's go to six council item 633. I
 Authorize application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Statistics for a grant in the amount of $400,337 for the 2016 National Crime Statistics Exchange Implementation Assistance Program for the Regional Justice Information Network to transition to national incident-based reporting systems. Carla, would you please also read in concert Council Item 634? Okay.
 Authorize application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $496,987 for the Encouraging Innovation Field Initiated Programs Fiscal Year 2016 Competitive Grant for Law Enforcement Engagement with Immigrant and Refugee Communities. So I have Captain Elmore presenting, or whoever is here, please come forward. Okay.
 The panel, come forward, introduce yourselves, and we'll kick it off. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. How are you doing? I'm Captain Vince Elmore, and today I would like to talk to you about a federal grant that will impact two of the three divisions that I'm in charge of, one being the Records Division and the other being the Region Sustainment Team.
 To my right, I have the program manager, Tammy Mayer, who is over the region's sustainment team, and also to her right, Kim Wark, who is the global regional administrator, and they are my subject matter experts today.
 We are asking for authorization of U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Program, Bureau of Justice Statistics for a grant in amount of $400,337 for the National Crime Statistics Exchange Implementation Assistance Program. This will impact the Regional Justice Information System, which you know is region, authorization, application, transition to the National Incident-Based Reporting System, which is NIBRS.
 So the discussion, why are we talking about this? The ordinance authorizes the mayor to apply for this grant. The grant will assist the region and 34 Oregon partners that transfer the Oregon National Incident-Based Reporting System to the National Incident-Based Reporting System, which is called NIBRS. So why are we here?
 The Federal Bureau of Investigation announced its intention to establish libraries in the law enforcement crime data reporting standards for the nation. The Department of Justice is making grant funds available for the national project. This is not a competitive grant. It has no financial or budgetary impact on our organization.
 Region Oregon partners, which are 34 of them, have been unable to report their crime data in O'Neillers in accordance with the federal requirements and received permission from the Oregon State Police to transition to Neivers. The region partners voted and are in favor of the transition.
 Reporting crime data will provide more detailed statistics for integral agency decisions, making it easy to enhance our public safety and address the livability issues in our community. Additionally, complying with the federal requirements for crime reporting allows the agency to compete for federal bonds and levies to supplement their budgets and provide more community-related programs.
 The most important part is if you have any concerns about this grant, members of the public may be concerned about the federal government aspect of the grant. However, the FBI and the Bureau of Justice Statistics have been collecting data since 1871. In 1930, the Bureau of Investigation, known to us today as the FBI, has been responsible for collecting national statistics and producing uniform crime reports.
 The Portland Police Bureau already reports this data and crime statistics. The grant will help PBB make the necessary changes so that we can report the new format and make the deadlines. The approval of this grant is a solution to accurate reporting for the national standard and format that the FBI has brought before us. The grant prepares us for success in the 2016-2017 data and will also be prepared to do 2015.
 That's the synopsis of it. Old Nybers has not been very successful at all. Nybers is. Do you have any questions? Colleagues? Seems pretty straightforward. Thank you. Do you ladies have anything to add? No. Okay. Nice job. Carla, has anyone signed up to testify on these items? I did not have a sign-up sheet for this. Does anyone wish to testify? Seeing none, we're going to take a vote on both. We'll start with Council Item 633. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 aye thank you for your work hi thanks thank you captain elmore and team for your testimony aye thank you and carla would you please take uh call the roll on council item 634. hi novi hi and i know that this does have many community partners including erco lutheran community services and others aye yes aye the matter passes um dan 637 is the next
 emergency. Should we go to that? I think, is someone here for the Central City Concern matter? I'm fine if we just go ahead and vote without the presentation. Okay, Carla, would you please read Council Item 637? Okay.
 Amend a contract with Central City Concern to increase the not-to-exceed amount by $572,137 and extend the expiration date until October 31, 2016 to provide additional treatment readiness services, transitional housing, and follow-up retention support services for the city.
 to chemically dependent homeless adult chronic arrestees. Carla, we've already had a hearing on this, correct? Yes, so there's several items that we had to pull over from last week because they were emergencies we didn't have before. Okay, so we've had a hearing, and it's been described to us that this is just an extension of the existing contract. It's not awarding a new contract or new services, and it's a bridge funding until the current RFP process is concluded. I believe that states the case.
 Commissioner Saltzman, do you have anything to add? No, I don't. Carla, would you call the roll, please, on item 637? Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Carla, let's go to 640. Authorize the purchase of the 5E telecom migration system in an amount not to exceed $2,766,000. Welcome. Morning, Commissioners. Jeff Baer, Bureau of Technology Services. I'll keep my remarks brief. This is a...
 to pursue what we call a telephone migration system project, basically moving our analog system over to a voice-over internet protocol. The timing of this project is very well-timed with the Portland Building renovation project so that we can take advantage of being able to
 have a system in place, an infrastructure in place for being able to easily move from an analog system to a VoIP-based system. So the ads, moves, and changes for moving people around once they start migrating away from the Portland building will be very helpful. It's an aging system. It was placed in, installed back in 2001, so we have an aging infrastructure. That was very succinct. Council colleagues, questions? Okay.
 Carla, has anyone signed up to testify on this matter? I do not have a sign-up sheet. Would anyone wish to testify on item 640? Seeing none, we'll take it to a vote. Please call the roll. Holtzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ritz? I appreciate that this will actually save money, even though it's a big number to start off with. Aye. Aye. The matter passes. Thank you.
 Carla, we're going to skip ahead to Council Item 642 and invite Eric Johanson to come forward and present. 642, authorize a borrowing of not more than $34,476,000 in anticipation of the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund levy for fiscal year 2016-2017. Yes.
 Mr. Johanson, that looks like a big number. Yes, it is. We already had the hearing on this, too, though. Pardon me? We had the hearing on this, too, didn't we? Yes, we did have the hearing. So we can just... I just want to make sure that no one had any follow-up questions. Hearing none, Carla, please call the roll. If we were sitting a little closer, she could just pass me notes, but... That's a problem. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fiss. Aye. Aye. I don't think there is...
 I'm positive that 641 was similar. It was just carried over, so we just vote on that one, too. We'll do that, too? Yeah. Okay. Carla, let's read 641 as well. Amend Master First Lean Sewer System Bond Ordinance and Master Second Lean Sewer System Bond Declaration to provide Bureau of Environmental Services greater operational flexibility and clarify provisions of the master documents. Vote only.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. The matter passes. Thank you. Carl, let's skip ahead to 644. Authorize a temporary entertainment event and site preparation work by Cavalia from June 13 to September 19, 2016. The Honorable Matt Grum is with us this morning. Matt, welcome. Mr. Saltzman? Well, we're just pleased that we're helping to
 bring in the Cavalier Horse Show, I believe. And they've been here before, and this gives them a temporary permit to be here for longer than two weeks.
 Matt Grumkin, handle any tough questions. I also have staff from Bureau of Development Services and a representative from Cavalia here as well. Matt, I went to this show a few years ago, and it was actually spectacular. So when I saw it, it was in the River District just past the field. What's this location? The Zydell Yards is their plan right now. The Zydell Yards? Yeah, right at the foot of the bridge. Makes sense. And is there a plan for parking in there? Yes, there is. Alex? I'm very supportive of the ordinance in general. I'm concerned about waiving the sign code. There's a reason that we have a sign code that we don't have.
 larger signs than everybody else's. So is there a reason that this particular entity has to have a bigger sign? Mr. My understanding is that's part of their marketing plan is to have that sign from the, you can see it from the freeway and the bridge. But of course, council can amend anything they wish. Ms. Colleagues, I think this is a slippery slope that the minute we start saying that people can have bigger signs, everybody's going to say, why can't I have a bigger sign? So I'd prefer to slip to amend it so that that particular entity
 Direction is removed. We'll look to you, Matt, and Commissioner Saltzman as to whether that's acceptable. That would be...
 Certainly preserve the requisite quorum for passing the emergency. Yeah, I believe we can just strike item B after now. Therefore, the council directs the provisions of section 32.32.030.k.6 of the sign code of the City of Portland. Oregon is hereby waived to allow a 42.5 foot by 40 foot by eight foot sign. We just strike that provision.
 Dan, you're the sponsor. Is that acceptable? Yes. That's a substantive amendment. Council, is it sufficiently framed? It is. So Carla will vote on the amendment. Seconded by Seltzman. Aye. No, thank you. Aye. Fritz. Thank you. Aye. Aye. The amendment passes. Who's the representative from Cavalia that's here? Welcome. Welcome. And we wish you much success. It's a wonderful show. Would anyone like to testify on this matter? Okay, Carla, let's take it to a vote.
 saltzman aye novick aye fritz thank you for being here and thank you for entertaining the amendment aye aye matter passes uh we're now going to proceed to council item six four five amend contract with cascadia behavioral healthcare inc to add one hundred thousand dollars for the provision of permanent supportive housing for homeless veterans commissioner saltzman
 I don't have any talking points on this, but this is something we have worked with Cascadia, and they're doing a great job providing services for veterans, homeless veterans. I would urge adoption. Any questions from colleagues? Carla, has anyone signed up to testify? Yes. We have two people, Mr. Shedrick Wilkins and Mr. Charles Johnson. Mr. Wilkins, welcome. Mr. Johnson, come up forward. Shedrick Wilkins, and I don't know what this is about, but I was a homeless veteran when
 So maybe I should look into it. I would like to move to Salem, Oregon, and maybe I should look up the Cascadia group or whatever it is. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. I'm pleased that given the scope of our homelessness crisis, we think that this $100,000 for Cascadia will be sufficient. If you have a moment to – I guess it would be Mr. Schaltzman's portfolio. It would be great to know that we really have finally achieved that aspirational objective of 100% housing for –
 the veterans that are in crisis in our city. Thank you. Before we take a vote, we have some special guests here. Where are you from? Well, welcome to Portland City Hall. We're glad you're all here watching Democracy in Action. Okay. Carla, let's call the roll on Council Item 645. Holtzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Holtzman?
 So this is exactly the kind of thing that people are always telling us we should be doing in terms of converting a motel, a former motel, into 32 units for disabled veterans and potentially another 20 units through rent subsidies and services. So actually it's very good use of taxpayers' money. Well done, Commissioner Saltzman. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi.
 So, because I would like to give Commissioner Saltzman the chance to vote on 648, let's go to 648, then we'll do 649, 650, and then we'll go back to the beginning of the agenda. Carla, would you please read Council Item 648? Establish a new Portlanders Policy Commission. Vote only. Saltzman? Aye. Aye.
 Novic? Aye. Fritz? In the interest of time, I won't repeat the long speech I made last week. Just to say I'm overjoyed and I'm very much appreciative of my colleagues' support of establishing the New Portlanders Policy Commission. Aye. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for being a champion of this commission. The hearing last week was very inspiring.
 and i think we are all committed in making sure this commission really has a seat at the table and a long-term substantive role in our policy making so thank you for your leadership aye carla would you please read council item 649 mnc schedules for tree permits commissioner amanda fritz and again we had the hearing on this last week so this is just the vote vote only novick aye and
 Continuing to want to do even more to do good things with trees, this is another good step. Aye. Aye. We have a four-fifths agenda item, and are we teed up to, would you please read Council Item 650? Reappoint eight voting members and appoint one new voting member to the Portland Utility Board for staggered terms. So is Colleen Johnson with us this morning? And Mike, do we have a presentation? Why don't you come forward?
 Why don't you come forward, introduce yourself, and just give us a one-minute overview. Melissa Merrill, City Budget Office, staff for the Portland Utility Board. And I don't have a presentation, but I'm happy to answer any questions that you have with the appointment. So, colleagues, in your packet, you have the reappointment of the existing members with staggered terms, consistent with a request of Commissioner Fritz. And we have – we lost a member, so Colleen Johnson is –
 up for appointment so that we would have a full complement. Any questions from my colleagues? Does anyone wish to testify in this matter? If not, this is a report. Do I have a motion? Move. Is there a part? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Carla, would you please call the roll? Saltzman. Looks like some great members of the Public Utility Board. Aye. Novick.
 continually amazed at how many great busy folks were able to convince to engage in these volunteer activities. Good work, Commissioner Fish. Aye. Aye.
 I had the pleasure of meeting Colleen Johnston when I was in charge of the Office of Cable Communications and Franchise Management, now the Office for Community Technology, when she was the mayor of La Grande. She served on the La Grande City Council for 16 years, for 14 years as mayor, and she's a professor at the Eastern Oregon University in Economics. So another phenomenal appointment, Commissioner Fish, and thank you very much for all of your work. Hi. Fish.
 Thank you, colleagues. We're really proud of the relationship both with the Portland Utility Board and the Citizens Utility Board and the role they're playing as the sort of community watchdog on all the work we do at our public utilities. And they've been helpful in crafting our budgets, in providing policy guidance, and we're just getting started. And we're asking a lot of these citizen volunteers. We're grateful that so many wonderful people have stepped forward and agreed to serve us.
 I'm delighted to support these this appointment today. Aye. Okay, thank you. We're gonna, Commissioner Salzman, we will see you later. Actually, we won't see you later. And colleagues, we're going to go back to the beginning of our agenda and pick up in order starting with Council Item 630. 630, assign certain city-owned property at Swan Island Lagoon from environmental services to parks and recreation. Commissioner Fritz, would you like to kick this off?
 Thank you. Very pleased to be co-introducing this purchase by Portland Parks from the Bureau of Environmental Services. It's another great example of partnership. We are purchasing almost four acres on Swan Island from Environmental Services, including the Swan Island boat ramp. The boat ramp and dock are heavily used and are an integral part of the city's river access infrastructure.
 By accepting this property, Parks will be able to keep this boat ramp available for use by the public and make improvements to it that will increase its capacity.
 While ultimately parks would like to develop the entire site as a park, in the interim this property will allow us to address another important need, which has been to find a suitable place to locate our wood chipping and mulching operations to keep our parks looking good. Until we're able to develop the entire site, we'll be using this property for that purpose. Turn it back to you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much. And just for those history buffs in the audience,
 This is industrial and recreational land that BES acquired in 1996 to possibly construct a wet weather treatment plant as part of the combined sewer overflow system. Construction plans at the site were abandoned when the city decided to send all wet weather flow, talk about a euphemism, to the existing Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant. And this is the first property that the Bureau of Environmental Services has taken through the new city policy for disposing of surplus property.
 and we're pleased that it will be put to good and productive use by Assister Bureau. We welcome our guests who would like to start. We don't actually have presentations down here. We just wanted to come up. Tell us who you are. Eli Callison. I'm the property manager for environmental services. Zelaine Nunn with Portland Parks. Okay, so you're here as a resource to answer any questions, colleagues? Yes. Well, thanks very much. Carla, did anyone sign up to testify? I don't have a sign-up sheet for this. Mr. Lightning would like to speak. Mr. Lightning would. So if you could hang out in case we have questions we need to ask you.
 Just before, while Mr. Lightning comes up, I want to mention that the purchase price is $970,557, which is being paid for by Portland Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Funds. We estimate that the operations and maintenance will cost approximately $60,000 per year. We'll be absorbing it to the extent possible and may need to come with a one-time request in the spring budget adjustment for the year.
 for the 2016-17 budget. The stabilization costs are estimated to be $600,000, which includes securing the dock and the boat ramp, and this also is eligible and will be funded with Park System Development Charge Funds. Mr. Lightning, welcome. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog Communication, PDX. I noticed on this you were talking somewhere around 10 acres, and this transaction will be somewhere around 4. One of the concerns I have on this is that
 I want to make sure that this boat ramp will remain open. I didn't see anything in here on the submersible land lease. Is that going to be renewed? Is there one currently in place? I also would like to look at the Oregon Marine Board on any type of grants for fixing this property up. Again, I understand you're buying this through the SDC funding.
 Again, I just wanted to say this, and you'll probably correct me on this. We cannot use the bond to fund this. I know you just put a new bond into place. Was there a chance to use that in any way on this project? Again, on my information I received, I didn't receive anything on an income pro forma statement.
 I wanted to have a better understanding what type of income is currently being produced on this property. Is it able to cover its own expenses? How much do we have to feed this property? I understand you're talking $600,000 to come in and fix this property up. Again, I look forward to seeing the information on that.
 Again, I was a little concerned on the property not being sold sooner when it was, quote, considered surplus because you said it needed to be divided up. So I was a little concerned on the timing on that issue. Other than that, like I say, I just want to make sure it's very clear that this property will be kept open as a boat ramp.
 And has it been checked if it does need any dredging at this time or in the near future? And do we have a cost estimate on that? Because normally these boat ramps always need dredging every few years, depending upon the rainfall and other factors at play. Thank you.
 All good questions? Would you like to take them? Yes, there's a number of questions there. I wrote some of them down. I'll try to get as many as possible. And if you can't get answers to all of them, we'll just follow up with Mr. Lighteninger.
 Definitely will. It sounds like Mr. Lightning's largest concern was that the boat ramp remain open. This site has an overlay zone, a river recreational, so it would take an act, I mean, development services, I think through council would have to rezone that property for it to not be used as something other than public access to the river.
 The wood shipping operations are going to be operated on a portion of the property that does not have the river recreational overlay zone and can be used for industrial purposes. So it will remain open, and it would take an act of this body to change that, which I think is probably reassuring. And any of the additional technical questions, could you get back to them in writing? Yes, definitely will do. Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Okay, thank you. Would anyone else like to be heard on this matter? This goes to a second reading next week.
 Carla, could you please read Council Item 635? Amend a grant agreement with Central City Concern to extend for four years at a not-to-exceed amount of $8,522,821 to provide services through the Cheers, Van, and Silvering Station. Without objection, this matter will be carried over to the June 15th Council hearing. Thank you.
 Carly, would you please read Council Item 636? Agreement with the Multnomah County District Attorney to reimburse the Police Bureau for overtime costs of officers assigned to the District Attorney's Office as investigators. Is Commander Burke here? Yes, I'm here. Please, I just need your name and welcome. Good morning. I'm Cliff Bocciaglupi. I'm a lieutenant with the Detective Division sitting in place for Commander Burke.
 And would you care to give us any testimony in support of this? Sure. Why should we support this? Why should you support it? Hopefully I can convince you of that. We've had this agreement in place for a while, and basically the Portland Police Bureau has contributed three officers to the position of DA investigators.
 The DA investigators help the district attorneys in preparation for trial investigations, pretrial. They serve subpoenas. They locate and sometimes transport witnesses. And they perform very critical functions before, during, and even sometimes after trial. And so we provide three, and I believe their total number is roughly 10 DA investigators. So we provide about a third of those investigators there.
 Sorry, are you testifying in support of 636? I don't have the exact number, but I... Carla, are they separate or are they joint? I thought they were separate. Yeah, is that before us or did we just read 636? You did read 636. I'm sorry. Go ahead, sir. Am I okay? Yep. Okay. So at any rate, we provide roughly a third of the DA investigators. Okay.
 Those investigators investigate roughly 70% of the investigatory work is done within the city of Portland. So this agreement mutually benefits both the city of Portland and Multnomah County. It's worked quite well for some time.
 And we are essentially force multipliers for each other. And many of these cases are cases that we're bringing to the district attorney in the first place. And so it's simply assistance going forward. And we're simply asking that Multnomah County be allowed to continue to reimburse for overtime expenses up to $33,522. Okay.
 And 23 cents, to be exact, for the upcoming fiscal year. Raise your voice a bit so I can hear you. Commissioner Fritz. So we obviously want Multnomah County DA to pay us for the work that our staff are doing. My question is, given the police bureau's well-known staffing issues, do we have the capacity to have three staff?
 working full-time there? Well, that's an interesting question. That's actually something that we've faced in the last fiscal year. We actually sent one of our investigators back to Canada
 the street, and I don't know exactly the amount of time, but I want to say it's within the last six months or so. That particular officer is slated to go back to the DA investigator position July 1. So we do have the capacity to pull them if operational needs? Yeah, it's capacity and it's also commitment to this particular officer.
 I mean, I guess capacity is an issue of perspective because we are quite sure right now this is such a critical function that we do on the cases that the officers are bringing to the DA's office in the first place that we do feel it is of critical nature that we staff those positions. Thank you. I hope I answered your question. Other questions, colleagues? Carla, has anyone signed up to testify? I do not have a sign-up sheet for this. Would anyone like to be heard on this matter?
 this matter therefore goes to a second reading next week thank you sir thank you um next up is council item 638.
 Accept bid of Cedar Mill Construction Company, LLC, for the Matt Dishman Community Center Pool and Spa Repairs Project for $563,000. Christine Moody, the Chief Procurement Officer of the City of Portland, is here. Welcome. Good morning, Commissioners. Christine Moody. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Cedar Mill Construction, LLC. The engineer's estimate on this project was $430,000. Okay.
 On April 28, 2016, one bid was received and Cedar Mill Construction is the low bidder at $563,000, which is 23% over the estimate. Portland Parks and Recreation has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing as good. The primary cause for the increase in cost over the estimate is the specialty work for the pool and the current high demand on the commercial construction market.
 The city identified three divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. MWESB subcontracting participation is at 2%, with work being performed in concrete and plumbing. The main scope of work is the actual pool repair itself, and there are no certified firms that perform this type of work. I will turn this back over to Council if there's any questions, and Marianne Kasson is here to answer questions about the project.
 I note in the report that it's very specialized work, and therefore that's the challenge. Could you just flesh that out for us so we have a better understanding of it? The effort was made to do outreach and subcontracting opportunities, but the specialized nature of the work is
 creates a barrier could you just flush that for us absolutely marianne cassand with the bond program with portland parks uh thank you for the question it's it is the fact of the pool specialty we've this is the second time we've experienced this it's a limited contractor pool in general there's not that many commercial swimming pools in portland if we were in arizona or california
 The kind of work involved, especially with renovations, is very tricky, and there are no certified contractors doing that kind of work in Portland. Marianne, is that pool still heated by a heater or some piece of equipment that was taken from a Liberty ship?
 Or has that been upgraded? You're thinking very many of our pools are in such condition. This one is not. It's a relative conversion, relatively recent conversion by Portland Park standards. So, no, we don't have any Liberty Ships mechanicals in this case. Very good. Thank you.
 Could you just remind the council and the public about the timing of the repairs here, especially in relation to the timing of the repairs at Grant Pool? Absolutely. Thank you. We are taking advantage of a two-week shutdown of this particular facility in August, so the notice to proceed will be issued in July, but work won't start until August. It's a time that the pool is ordinarily closed.
 And then it will have to stay closed until it reopens in early October. And so we're working with grant to cover that. So the grant pool will be open at the point that this one closes? That is correct. And we'll be more exact about this, but the grant construction is going very well, and we anticipate an earlier than scheduled opening for that. Stay tuned. Okay.
 Well, colleagues, Matt Dishon is very near to my heart for many reasons, including the fact that I believe the longest-serving tenured employee of the city of Portland continues to work there, and that's Chuck Amato, who is now in his 54th year of continuous service to the city. Quite amazing. And I should add that thanks to Assistance Development Charge, we'll be expanding the spa, the whirlpool. So we're combining bond funds with that in order to make the most of leverage. So after Chuck puts you through a vigorous workout, you'll be able to, like –
 you'll need it you'll need it okay thank you uh very much for the presentation carla has anyone signed up to testify i do not have a sign-up sheet would anyone present like to testify on this matter okay this is a procurement report do i have a motion another report second it's been moved and seconded carla please uh call the role novic
 Thank you both for your work. I noticed somebody from Cedar Mill Construction here in the audience, and thank you for being here. I hope that you are looking to diversify your own workforce and will work with us as we look on what kind of trainings do we need to provide to folks so that we have more minority and women-owned firms being able to do this work.
 I want to note for the record that when I visited the Woodlawn Neighborhood Association during the course of campaigning for the bond measure, I promised Shirley Miner and Angela Ulleby that this would be one of the first projects that we got done, and therefore this is one of the first projects that we are getting done. Thank you, Mary Ann Kasson, for all your work. Aye. Aye. Congratulations. Christine, since you're still here, we'll have you do item number 639. Carla? Aye.
 accept bid of R&R General Contractors Inc. for the Northeast Gleason Street at Northeast 90th Avenue project for $586,777. Dean Moody. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner.
 You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to R&R general contractors. The engineer's estimate on this project was $750,000. On May 3, 2016, three bids were received, and R&R is the low bidder at $586,776.89, which is 28% below the estimate. Portland Bureau of Transportation has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing.
 The city identified 11 divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. R&R General Contractors is a certified minority firm, so the combined prime and subcontracting participation on this project is 96%. I'll turn this back over to Council if you have any questions. Thank you.
 Obviously, this is one of the ideals for us, that it's a lower than bid and also is by a minority-owned firm with a lot of subcontracting also going to minority and women. So I appreciate that work very much. Why is this one so much less than the bid, than the estimate? I will ask. I think there is somebody from the Bureau of Transportation here. Sure.
 seems to be going against the trend, and if we could analyze why and how we... It might be the type of work, because it's street work, and there were more bidders. Hi, Kristen. Oh, there you go. David. Good morning. David Olungi, former Bridge Program Manager. I was the project manager for this project. One of the reasons why we are less than the engineers estimate is because we had good competitive bidding, but also we did eliminate some scope of work
 towards the end of the project to make it even cheaper still. So instead of using imported rock as sub-base, we're actually using the rock that's crushed at Sunderland Yard that we buy directly from ourselves at $5 a yard, as opposed to the free market, which is much more expensive. And by using that switch, we actually were able to save a lot of money on rock fill, a substantial amount of money. That's terrific. Thank you for your work saving the taxpayers' money. Yes.
 And David, I'm reminded of how painful it is to lose you to another competing bureau. All right. I miss you, too. Okay. Carla, anyone sign up to testify? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Would anyone like to be heard on this matter? Seeing none, is there a motion to accept the report? So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Carla, please call the roll. No, thank you.
 Great job, Commissioner. Aye. Aye. The matter passes. Congratulations. Carla, let's move to Council Item 643.
 authorize a 1% dedicated fund account, and authorize the chief procurement officer to conduct solicitations and execute agreements in support of the community benefits plan for the Washington Park Reservoir's improvement project not to exceed $1,145,500. We've had a hearing on this, and it was continued until today for a vote only. Please call the roll. Novick. Aye. Aye.
 I don't remember why this one was carried over, but I'm sure...
 at the beginning of last week's council meeting, the mayor said that he had a couple of follow-up questions. And so as a professional courtesy, we continued it so he could get his questions answered. They were answered to his satisfaction, and it's now back for a vote. Great. Thank you for explaining that, because it was answered to my satisfaction last week, and I'm really happy and congratulations, Commissioner Fish, on bringing in a 1% fund account and plan to use it that had significant community support, and I really appreciate your work on that.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. In fact, we borrowed heavily from the experience of the Parks Bureau in crafting this plan. And colleagues, this community benefits plan is the culmination of a lot of work by a lot of dedicated people. As you recall, in 2012, Council made a commitment to invest in opportunities for minorities, women, and other disadvantaged communities on large-scale construction projects.
 The lessons that we have learned to date from two Water Bureau pilot projects inform this plan, we hope making it more efficient and more ambitious than the previous CBA. It was further refined by a group of community leaders and stakeholders. They worked diligently with city staff for several months to finalize the plan that is before us today. With this partnership, we now have some of the most aggressive equity goals in the city.
 I'd like to begin by thanking the city team that led this effort, Christine Moody, Chief Procurement Officer, Tracy Reeves, City Attorney, Mike Stewart, Director, Portland Water Bureau, and Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer, Portland Water Bureau. I'd also like to thank the
 President of O'Neill Electric, Andrew McGaugh, Executive Director of WorkSystems, Inc., Kelly Haynes, Senior Project Manager, WorkSystems, Inc., Willie Myers, Executive Secretary-Treasurer of the Columbia Pacific Building and Construction Trades Council, say that a few times, and Michael Birch, Community Relations and Outreach Representative, Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters.
 Colleagues, this plan represents the city's ongoing commitment to equity, to expanding opportunity for minorities, women, and other disadvantaged communities. It took a lot of hard work to get here, and we have a plan that puts our collective values into action. I'm very proud of this final product and pleased to vote aye. And I want to also close by thanking my team, including Liam Frost and Sonia Schmansky. Aye. Okay, we have two more items.
 We have 646, which is on the consolidated plan. And do we have someone from the Housing Bureau to present on that? Okay. So why don't we hold off on that for a second. And, Steve, are you ready to go forward on 647? I believe Lance is here to take us through it. So, Carla, let's take them out of order, and let's start with Council Item 647. Vacate Northeast Alderwood Drive north of Northeast Alderwood Road, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Novick. Lance Lindahl. Yes.
 Hello, Commission. Before you today is a street vacation of Northeast Alderwood Drive, north of Northeast Alderwood Road. The vacation is proposed in order for the petitioner to consolidate property for future industrial development. The adjacent 47 and one-half acre site is owned by the petitioner and was rezoned for industrial use by unanimous vote of City Council back in 2013.
 The property is one of the largest parcels of vacant industrial land in the region, and it can accommodate up to a million square feet of space for distribution and manufacturing purposes. Northeast Alderwood Drive provides secondary access for the adjacent property owners and does not connect to any other public rights-of-way. A paved asphalt strip was recently removed as a part of site preparation and wetland mitigation work being done by the petitioner for development. Do you have any questions? Okay.
 I can take them. Thank you for a very succinct presentation. Council, colleagues, questions? Is there anyone here who would like to be heard on this matter? No one signed up. All right. The hearing is closed, and the ordinance goes to a second reading next week. Carla, am I right that we have one more matter? Correct. Okay. Would you please read Council Item 646?
 adopt and authorize the submission of the 2016-2020 Consolidated Plan and the fiscal year 2016-2017 Action Plan application for the Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partnership Emergency Solutions Grant, and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Programs to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. For the record, Matthew Schaubel with the Housing Bureau. So I know Kim McCarty, who manages our federal planning process as well as our fair housing programs, has a presentation that she's put together today.
 I don't know. Is there a time concern, Commissioner Fish? Well, that's one of the things that Commissioner Saltzman suggested before he left, is that if we weren't able to get to everything, he's happy having it continued. Is there any reason this could not be continued to next week? I think that there is an interest in having a direction from the council with respect to –
 Really what we're asking for is the council to give authorization to submit
 the plan to the federal government in order to start the process to get the funds allocated with respect to our consolidated planning process. And I do know it's going for a hearing and a vote before the county commission, I believe, next week. And I don't know what the implications of waiting for another council hearing would be. I don't think it would be too much of an issue. Well, we have three options. We can continue this the next week.
 We can continue this to 2 o'clock to see if there are any issues my colleagues have, and if not, we can just adopt it pro forma at 2. Or we can do it now without Kim being here. I think my preference would be to continue it to 2 just to make sure that there's no community objection and my colleagues have no questions, and we could just adopt it prior to our hearing, but I'll follow the lead of my colleagues.
 So 30 minutes was requested for this item and it's over $10 million. And I certainly want us to apply for grants to get over $10 million. It's,
 Feeding into a continuing concern I have that we have large amounts of money that I don't know specifically where they're going to. I'm sure that the Bureau does, somebody does, but I don't know that the public does. So I was hoping that there would be this presentation that would tell us in a little more detail, you know,
 What kinds of things would it be spent on? So let me make a suggestion, because I think it does warrant a longer conversation. And another option that just occurred to me is we could schedule this as a time certain tomorrow at 3.30. Tomorrow we have a 30-minute report at 2. We have votes on the budget stuff. That's pro forma. We just do a roll. We have a 3 o'clock time certain, which is just a first reading where we're taking up the last-minute amendments. Okay.
 pretty confident by 3.30 we would have an available slot, and then we could either take the full 30 minutes or less. How would colleagues feel about that?
 That would be my preference. Yes. And that way we could also have a full presentation, and if anyone in the public wants to comment, does that keep us on track? Sure, I think that would keep us on track. And I'm also happy to kind of go through both the planning process as well as the budget if that's a preference. I think the other virtue of tomorrow is the housing commissioner who is presenting the comp plan will be here to also answer questions. No, he's out from 1232. Well, tomorrow? Tomorrow, yes.
 i think he's here and you wanted to schedule it for when thursday afternoon 3 30 times certain uh the three o'clock is the comp plan for two hours did you want to bump i think it's two hours uh because we're just taking a couple of amendments and the testimony is limited very limited on those matters so so an alternative president fish would be i imagine there is going to be a lot more conversation particularly around the construction exercise text proposal and others about
 How is the $29 million that we allocated in the budget being spent? How is this money going to be spent? As I say, I'm more than happy to apply to the federal government for $10 million or more. I'm wondering, does the council's approval of this submission lock us into how it's going to be used? Sure.
 So the consolidated plan establishes the framework, but Council tends to, as Council did this last budget cycle, to make adjustments to the federal planning process and the Bureau reconciles that with the federal government. I think as we go through this presentation, you'll find that oftentimes as we try to expand some of our homeownership programs in East Portland.
 for the future fiscal year through this budget cycle, we were swapping out some TIF funds for some federal funds to give us geographic flexibility. And so that tends to happen through the budget process on how the federal funds specifically get allocated fiscal year to fiscal year, and this five-year plan is really setting the overall framework, which HUD will accept that that's the framework for how we're
 the city, Multnomah County and the city of Gresham intend to utilize the federal funds. Okay. So thank you. I look forward to having that presentation. So maybe rather than making it a time start and just put it over until after the comp plan hearing, whenever that might be. And the only other thing, I'm just pitching, I'm not dictating, is we could seek a four-fifths following this hearing and put it on for 1.30 Thursday afternoon.
 Oh, I can't do that. This Thursday? Carla, I think we have the solution. This matter, without objection, will be continued until Thursday afternoon and will be taken up after the comp plan hearing. The mayor's assistant here said that you could take it before at 3 o'clock and then bump the comp plan down. Well, if that's okay with Rachel, then we'll take this up tomorrow at 3 o'clock
 it doesn't need to be a forfeits you're just continuing this to continue it and we'll and we'll simply then bump the comp plan until 3 30. without objection thank you thank you uh any other matters for the good of the order well done hearing none we are adjourned until tomorrow thank you that's pretty much very impressive this afternoon superb time management yeah really thanks for my grateful counsel yes
 No, this is going to tomorrow at 3. You're just going to bump by 30 minutes the comp plan. Okay. I'll have that tomorrow evening.
 Oh, okay. It has to be filed by Monday, but all of my relevant staff are going to be filed. We're not dedicating it to a certain group. Yeah. So we have this 2 o'clock hearing on the view, and it can't go past 3 because of the tax supervision. So we'll just have that one-hour hearing. Oh, this afternoon. Right. I'm scheduled to go to the tax supervision. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 We are, but I hope you like it. I'll try to get a half hour discussion with that one for you. Okay. I can't believe we got through all of that. It's been a long day. You're running like that all the time. I might have to support it from Bayer. Although he did have that three-minute versus two-minute mistake that we got. Joe could not let go. Well, the sad part is that he put it out there for everybody, and the only person who didn't hear it was Joe.
 yeah the first time joe didn't catch on yeah but it was uh it was a mistake that he uh to think that people who signed up expecting three minutes three weeks ago would just show up and only get two minutes only they could be perfect like us i'll do it by yourself
 Heltsman? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Fish? Here. The form is present. Probably two of you.
 Agenda item 651, appeal of Keegan Flanderka Works Partnership Architecture against the design commissioner's interpretation and enforcement of section C2, promote quality and permanence in development, specifically in regard to the proposed exterior cladding material located at 910 East Burnside Street. Well, good afternoon, everybody. Good afternoon.
 As you may have already guessed, I am not Mayor Hales. Mayor Hales is in Washington, D.C., doing God's work. As the president of the council, I'm going to be presiding. This is a heavily scripted proceeding because it's a quasi-judicial proceeding. And at times like this, we turn to our esteemed council to make sure that we do it right. And we're going to go through the ground rules. We're going to see if anyone has anything to declare. And then we're going to go right into the hearing, and we'll go through the rules. So we'll start with our esteemed council. Thank you.
 Thank you. Okay. This is an on-the-record hearing. This means that you must limit your testimony to the materials and issues in the record. For an on-the-record appeal hearing, we'll begin with staff report by the Bureau of Development Services staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, the City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first and will have 10 minutes to present its case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next. Each person will have three minutes to speak to Council.
 Council will hear from persons who oppose the appeal. Again, each person will have three minutes. And finally, the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the opponents of the appeal. The council may then close the hearing, deliberate, and take a vote on the appeal. If the vote is a tentative vote, the council will set a future date for the adoption of findings and a final vote on the appeal. I'd like to announce several guidelines for those who will be addressing city council today.
 Evidentiary record is closed. Again, this is an on-the-record hearing. This hearing is to decide only if the design commission made the correct decision based on the evidence that was presented to it. This means you must limit your remarks to the arguments based on the record compiled by the design commission. You may refer to the evidence that was previously submitted to the design commission. You may not submit new evidence today that was not submitted to the design commission.
 If your argument includes new evidence or issues, you may be interrupted and reminded that you must limit your testimony to the record. The council will not consider new information, and it will be rejected in the city council's final decision. Objections to evidence. New evidence. If you believe a person who addressed city council today improperly presented new evidence or presented a legal argument that relies on evidence that is not in the record, you may object to that argument.
 Objections to new issues. Finally, under state law, only issues that were raised before the design commission may be raised in this appeal to city council. If you believe another person has raised issues today that were not raised before the design commission, you may object to city council's consideration of that issue.
 Additionally, if the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing in action for damages in circuit court.
 I will now turn to the presiding officer to see if anyone has any conflicts of interest or ex parte contacts to declare. Thank you. Very nicely done. This is, again, heavily prescribed. There are some ground rules. Thank you for laying it out, and you will keep us on the straight and narrow as we go forward. So there are some preliminary matters which we need to address. The first, do any members of the council wish to declare a conflict of interest?
 I do oversee a bureau that uses a lot of asphalt, but I'm not sure how that cuts. Thank you, Steve. I take it that the answer is no. Ex parte contacts. Do any members of council have ex parte contacts to declare or information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose?
 So I do. On April 15th, I had a meeting with Carrie Strickland, who is here today. Carrie and I discussed lots of things, including homelessness, the state of design in the city, and other issues. In the course of our conversation, she mentioned that she had a matter at Design Review and gave me kind of a general overview of it. I have not talked to her or any party about that since, and that was before any decision was issued by Design Review. Okay.
 So I will disclose that. I haven't had any ex parte in relation to this application. I have, however, spent the last week looking at roofing materials and getting advice on the differences between asphalt and metal and rubber and such. So I think, Commissioner Novick, you have no ex parte contacts to disclose? None. Now what do I have to then ask? Lauren, turn your mic on.
 Sorry. We can go ahead and move forward with the testimony starting with the staff report. I guess I'm supposed to say, does anyone have an objection based on any ex parte contacts that have been disclosed? Hearing none, now we'll go forward and why don't you tee us up? We can go ahead and start with the staff report. Okay. Welcome. Hello. Good afternoon.
 I am Stacey Monroe, representing the Design and Historic Review Team with Land Use Services of BDS, and I'll be doing a brief presentation for the appeal of the Design Commission decision of approval for the Jupiter Hotel expansion. Thank you.
 So just to get you acquainted with the site and the project, the site is located on the screen with the red outline. It's at the southeast corner of the intersection of Southeast 9th and East Burnside. It's about a quarter, a little under a quarter block sized lot, currently developed with a single story building and a surface parking lot. It resides within the Central City Plan District and more specifically the Central Eastside Subdistrict where the East Burnside has the arcaded condition.
 Just briefly here are some images of the site. This is looking from the intersection of 9th and Burnside. This is looking from Burnside to the west of the site in the background. And this is an image on 9th along the western frontage. This is on the right.
 So just briefly, some zoning context for you. The site is zoned central employment with a design overlay. A 6-to-1 FAR is allowed for the base zone with an additional 3-to-1 possible. The height limit is 100 feet with a potential of 145 through bonuses. Thank you.
 So quickly, this is a six-story building with 67 hotel rooms, restaurant, retail and event space, one large loading space, and no parking provided on site. The building tops out about 73 feet in height, and the FAR proposed is under the 6-1 allowed criteria.
 The images on the left-hand side are renderings of the building, both taken from Burnside. And the image on the right-hand side of the screen is the floor plan, which shows the large lobby concentrated at the northwest corner of the building with commercial space on the east end and services and loading at the south end.
 So the building proposed two materials, the asphalt composition shingle on the top of the screen. There's an image of the mock-up provided by the applicant, as well as an option for metal shingle, which was ultimately approved by the design commission by way of a condition of approval. So just to bring you up to speed with the process the project has gone through thus far, it began with the design advice hearing with the design commission back in November of 2015,
 The feedback provided was related to the overall design and the need to respond to the arcaded condition along East Burnside. Asphalt composition shingle was not proposed or discussed at that time. The first formal Type 3 design review hearing occurred in March of this year.
 Staff had highlighted in the staff report, which was not recommending approval, concerns with the asphalt composition shingle, and the commission recommended the applicant explore a more permanent and higher quality finish, and metal shingle was suggested at that hearing. At that time, the applicant requested a continuance to continue to work on the cladding options. The final and second hearing for the design review occurred in April this year, April 21st specifically,
 The applicant came back to the Commission with two exterior options, the asphalt composition shingle originally proposed and the metal shingle option, which was suggested by the Commission to explore. The Commission continued to have reservations and concerns with the asphalt composition shingle and voted to approve the project with a condition for the metal shingle exterior. There were also other conditions added to the project, but they weren't related to the exterior material.
 On May 3rd, the final findings and decision of the design commission was published, and an appeal was received from the applicant on May 13th. The project is subject to a Type 3 design review with a modification. The approval criteria that it was evaluated against were the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines, the Central Eastside Design Guidelines, and the approval criteria of Section 33.825.
 A land use review appeal must find a nexus to relevant design guidelines or modification approval criteria. The source of the appeal today is the Central City Fundamental Design Guideline C2, Promote Quality and Permanence in Development. The applicant states that there was a discrepancy in the Design Commission's interpretation and enforcement of this guideline. I want to provide you a little bit of background on the C2 Quality and Permanence Guideline in the Central City Fundamental.
 Fundamental design guidelines. So the background statement says that the quality of building design and permanence of materials are what helps define Central City's built environment. There are numerous historic buildings within Central City, and the quality and longevity of those buildings contribute to the urban atmosphere and the quality and permanence of the area. Thank you.
 It instructs buildings to successfully incorporate permanent materials and quality construction techniques that are appropriate for Central City's urban setting and that complement the context of the existing buildings. So over the course of the two design review Type 3 hearings, I'm going to summarize the Commission's conclusions at those hearings. At the first hearing, the Commission agreed with staff's concerns about the potential longevity and quality of the material, which was stated in the staff report.
 wherein we stated the material is intended for rooftop applications where replacement is required often. Concerns about the potential maintenance and long-term appearance was unclear. If moss or other greenery grows on this material, how will it be cleaned? How will the material respond? And then there's the natural shedding of the material above the pedestrian environment.
 A couple of statements made by the commission at that hearing. The asphalt composition shingle does not meet the permanence and quality level in this urban environment, and perhaps a residential application of this material may be more appropriate. The intentional building design with joint lines that are not desirable has backed the project into a corner with regard to material choices.
 there was a preference noted by several commissioners for the asphalt composition given the two materials proposed however they could not support it because it did not meet the permanence and quality guidelines well one commissioner had a larger concern with the building's composition and felt that the asphalt composition shingle didn't help resolve that concern and finally there was concern by commissioner that it was setting a precedent for a material
 that future projects perhaps could not detail as well or be as appropriate as this design in this location. So the alternatives before the council today are to deny the appeal and uphold design commission's decision with a condition for the use of the metal shingle.
 or to grant the appeal and modify Condition B to allow the use of asphalt composition shingle as the primary exterior building material, or to allow a choice of either material, the asphalt composition or the metal shingle. And that's the end of my presentation. I have a question for Council and a question for staff. I'll start with Council. Thank you, Council.
 There are only three of us today, and would you remind me what the rules are in terms of how many commissioners have to concur in any recommendation, assuming we get to that point today?
 Yes. So council rules require three affirmative votes to deny or affirm appeal in quasi-judicial. So that means that you all need to vote the same way. If it appears that it needs to be continued to tomorrow, there will be four commissioners present tomorrow. Are we on the clock here in some way?
 In terms of review timeline, yes. The 120-day timeline ends on June 25th, unless further extended by the applicant. And so, again, I'm not prejudging where we land because we haven't discussed it, but if we don't have a consensus today, the options would be to go to tomorrow or to seek an extension of time with the applicant? Okay.
 Yes, although I believe the applicant has already indicated that they are not going to waive the 120 days. MR. Oh, we'll get to that. I just want to make sure I understand the ground rules. And then I want to just ask you this question because I think it's interesting and it was in the bottom of an earlier slide. A Commission member was concerned about setting a precedent for material.
 To what extent does a decision in a discrete case like this set a quote-unquote precedent that might be applicable to other cases that might come before the commissioner or the council? Well, when the building's constructed, it becomes part of the context. And when other buildings start developing around the area and they're supposed to respond to the context, then they could change.
 choose a similar material, and the commissioner was concerned perhaps it couldn't be as well detailed and applied as the confidence that she had in this firm. But I just want to be clear, was we used the term precedent in the legal context where there is an authority and it must be followed. In that sense, it becomes context which is considered by the commission, but it is not binding. Is that correct? Correct. Okay.
 And am I correct in understanding from page 9 of the decision by the commission that staff initially recommended denial on March 24th and the commissioners conferred because of the asphalt? Correct. And then the applicant came back and said, well, we'll use metal instead. And the commission said, yes, that's okay then. The applicant came back with choices. Okay. They didn't say they would use metal. They said these are two choices we have before you. Okay. Correct.
 And then the commission chose the metal. Correct. But the applicant had a preference and a desire for the asphalt composition. Got it. Thank you for clarifying. Steve, any questions? No. No, you can hear from the appellate. Oh, actually, I do have a question, which is, is there – I mean, I think I know the answer, but I assume there's no – I mean, if the concern is about the permanence of the – maybe this is not the appropriate time to ask this, but if the concern is about the permanence of the material, then –
 One theoretical option might be to say, can you insist on some sort of maintenance schedule and you'd have to replace the material if the maintenance schedule wasn't followed. I assume that that's not something that would be an option for us.
 i'm assuming good condition it's not an option the commission likes to take because they're basing it on the foundations of the design as proposed we don't want to rely on some future agreement that is difficult to enforce and to follow we'd like a building to be designed from from the get-go to be a quality building and the commission has seen a lot of materials
 bail over the years. There's one particular that we've seen over the past 10 years just is not wearing as well as originally thought, and I think there's some hesitation to allow a new material in that hasn't been used before, not knowing how it's going to wear in the next couple of years. You just make an interesting point. I'm just playing devil's advocate, but isn't the only way to know whether it holds up and the applicant's claims...
 are supportable to at some point allow a building to have this material so that it can be tested? I mean, I'm assuming at one point in the past people said that a wood sheathing or a certain kind of brick or whatever had a similar limitation. Is it sometimes the best experience, the best evidence experience?
 I do agree with you. I think maybe perhaps the risk on this street and this location and this urban environment was perhaps not one the commission was willing to take. There was a note about it being more appropriate for a residential application. There were no examples shown in a commercial or urban application, so they didn't have much confidence that this was going to be the right place to be the testing ground for that, perhaps. The script allows the appellant 10 minutes, but you can adjust that. Okay.
 I'm Carrie Strickland, one of the principals at Works Partnership Architecture in Portland, also located on Lower Burnside at 6th and Burnside. So a little of the context like Stacey outlined, while we did receive approval from the Design Commission for the Jupiter Hotel expansion, we're here today to appeal one of the conditions of that approval. At the suggestion of commission, we explored an alternate building material and they approved that option.
 We still strongly disagree that that material is the appropriate and best option and maintain that our opinion that the laminated asphalt shingle is the ideal material for this project. As you will hear later in my presentation, many of the design commissioners also agreed that our preferred material is the better option, but they were most fearful of setting a precedent. We are here today to ask you that you allow us to move forward with our preferred material.
 The Jupiter site is sitting on a corner with a fairly eclectic collection of uses and materials that have developed over time. My office has actually done quite a substantial amount of work in the century side. I think we're probably one of the few firms that we've done majority of new buildings and adaptive reuse in the east side, particularly along lower Burnside. We find the district is very unique. It's gritty. It's authentic. There's a lot of things go.
 The site sits along Lower Burnside and sits in the heart of the Arcade District, which is also completely unique within the city of Portland. Those older buildings and now a handful of the new ones stretch out over the right-of-way and create active relationships to the street and provide unique pedestrian experiences that don't compare to any other kind of location or neighborhood in Portland.
 During our design advice request, we were encouraged to reinforce that relationship with the other arcade buildings and the other structures on Burnside. Our design takes a standard building massing and a pretty standard program and allows it to distort to build that relationship with the arcade buildings. The highly regular program of the guest rooms...
 mixed with the larger public event spaces and upper lobby spaces, and those large volumes stretch and distort the building envelope and that creates the form. That distortion creates a strong sighting in the building within the Arcades district itself, and the design and massing of the building is a direct response to that district and its context. It's dynamic, it's funky, and it's gritty, and it upholds the design intent of the program and the brand that it's meant to represent with the Jupiter.
 Stacey hit on the plans a little bit. I'll move this through quickly. This is the ground floor that has the main lobby, retail space, loading. The second floor, which is home to the large event space, upper lobby, and an outdoor courtyard. The standard guest room levels, guest rooms kind of flank that courtyard in front of the street. And there's a deck public amenity space on the fifth floor. So why are we here?
 When the building massing took its shape as a direct response to that arcade overlay, it created a very unusual form for a building. It's progressive and sensual. It's eye-catching and encourages interaction. We studied a lot of building materials before getting to design commission, and we landed on that laminated asphalt shingle because of its ability to support that design direction.
 Its color and texture is soft and it works well with the light in the Pacific Northwest, that kind of subtle gray light. It has the unique ability to mold around the soft angles and corners and is actually a highly durable and easy to maintain material. However, during that design review process, Commission asked us to review an alternative. We looked closely at the metal shingle option that came from their suggestion and created some direct comparisons.
 And we can kind of get into this a little bit later in my presentation. But after all the research, we came back to the asphalt as a clearly superior product, not just for kind of the facts about easy to maintain and its ability to wrap, its texture, its grittiness. It provides a new formal language different than other projects in the area, which is really important to the program and to the brand. It's actually kind of a better – there's less concern about craftsmanship and kind of those details of those transitions.
 The commission concerns were simple, the lack of permanence, the lack of quality, and most importantly, that fear that they had of setting a precedent for other projects. So let's talk a little bit about the permanence. The product that we're proposing is a laminated, fully adhered asphalt shingle. This isn't – yeah. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
 Just a little bigger. Okay. I'm trying to hit most of the words in my… We can follow what you're saying. Okay. This isn't… Put it in the printout. The big one? Or the little… Okay. We have a printout that's slightly easier to read. Okay. Thank you. Go ahead. Yeah. Okay.
 The shingle that we're proposing isn't kind of your everyday roofing shingle that you can kind of go out and get at Lowe's or what most people are putting on their homes. It's actually a very premium product. This product has – and we'll run through some of the warranties. This product has more than a 40-year warranty. It's a good product.
 and you'll hear from a Larky representative later. When compared to other exterior building materials that are being approved through review processes, this actually outperforms all of those materials in comparing warranties, durability, color performance, oil canning, long-term maintenance, ease of care, and the list goes on. So in this slide...
 Our recommended material is on the left. Other typical cladding materials that are being approved are on the right. It includes kind of a backed metal panel, which has a zero right start warranty, a five-year lifetime warranty, limited lifetime warranty, zero scotch guard warranty against moss and algae. Okay.
 Fiber cement board or hardy board, again, it has a 30-year lifetime, limited to lifetime warranty, usually on the paint itself, not as much about the material.
 Zero Scotch-Garred moss resistance and kind of the zero kind of right start warranty for initial installation. Stucco, again, is expected, you know, a five to 12-year limited lifetime warranty. Even brick, which has a 30 to 50-year lifetime warranty, requires a lot of – there's a lot of conditions about those warranties, about tuck pointing and maintenance to joints and connections that become kind of finicky. Again, when compared to that asphalt shingle, it doesn't even come –
 Doesn't it come close? So on top of all those qualities, the product that we are proposing is locally produced by Malarkey. Most of you are probably familiar with them, but Malarkey has operated in Portland since the 50s. They've been at the forefront of innovation for roofing and have led many industry firsts up and down for all kind of warranties, this idea of laminated shingles that kind of reduce the…
 the little bits that Stacy was concerned about kind of falling off the building. They're the ones that invented the Scotchgard application for moss resistant, which is important for a place like Portland. This is not relevant, but the city sells malarkey, some methane gas, that is captured at the Columbia Wastewater Facility, which is then piped to malarkey, which is used, I think, to manufacture some of their product. Yeah, that was actually the very next thing in my presentation. Okay.
 Malarkey has had a partnership with the city and BES for more than 30 years actually and initiated kind of that methane harvesting and they power their plant with that methane
 So not only is it a great product in this application, it's also a really great story. Their commitment to sustainability will play a key role in the promotion of the hotel. We've talked to them about talking about their processes and their partnerships with the city, which, again, when you're marketing a hotel, it becomes pretty important that you have a good story. And it also promotes Portland's reputation for sustainable innovation as a product to hold up.
 To speak briefly about the quality and the design appropriateness, we come back to the material qualities themselves. And I'll read through this list. The laminated asphalt shingles is an off-the-shelf product, but it easily conforms to the faceted nature of the building form. There's no other product that we found that can do that. The fabrication and installation requires a fairly low level of skill, meaning that there's less margin, kind of a minimum margin for error.
 The asphalt shingle provides a consistent pattern and color and depth, again, which is important for us to achieve the soft building form. It absorbs the light, minimizing reflection, and creates a new unique texture. The corner details are clean and precise. It's very easy to accomplish. And the mock-up was actually built by Keegan, who works in our office, not a trained professional, and it went together really well.
 And you can see in this rendering, it talks about the fact that it absorbs that light, which creates that soft form instead of the stiff angles and transitions that happen with the metal panel. So this leads us to the primary concern of setting a precedent. To set a precedent is to make a decision that could be applied to a broad or general body of projects or applications. The type three process is actually a discretionary process, which should allow for approval of items that wouldn't be allowed in a prescriptive process.
 The issue of setting a true precedent actually shouldn't be a concern here in this case. The project is truly unique in every way. To just name a few, its location in the Arcade District, which in turn dictates its form, sites it to a particular site. Its program of a tourist hotel, not a typical apartment building or residential project, and not just any hotel, but the truly innovative and funky Jupiter brand. Even the design commissioners during their deliberations, as you'll hear now as I play a clip,
 can we keep going we're almost running out of town since i asked two questions would you give her an extra minute in the clip here here commissioner commissioner livingston commissioner molyneux and commissioner ballester voiced their support and or clear preference for our proposed material and i have this queued up here in this last words with our uh i know fingers crossed
 Thank you for the voice. But for me, it still comes down to the issue of the statute. It must have been a really tight-knit structure, and so tightly scripted, and so for asphalt shingles, that is not nearly and not as appropriate as it is in this circumstance. So I don't think they will not be able to support the asphalt shingles. I actually prefer the asphalt. It actually accomplishes what we don't want them to accomplish. Well, the asphalt is time to go on with it.
 I like the samples they gave of San Diego. I personally prefer the asphalt. I think it's usually trying to put the asphalt channels in. I think we started the cycle. Yeah.
 So today we're asking that you help us pull off the best version of this project. We need your help to push the envelope and do something a little funky and daring, but something that is still rooted in careful thought and consideration and does meet the true intent of the design guidelines into the city's design review process. We ask that you help us make a statement of support for innovation and that you make a statement for the design community. Thank you. Questions, colleagues? Yeah, I have a question. I don't – where's the arcade system?
 So the arcade is, so if you look at this image, everything that you see kind of on the left side is what's projecting out into the right-of-way on Burnside. So it projects about nine feet over the sidewalk. So the glass line here is the property line, and that building kind of pushes out. So it doesn't have columns, but it's creating that relationship.
 kind of like the b-side six building down the street it creates the pedestrian cover and brings the building faces out in line with the arcade structures without having columns drop down into the on the sidewalk and why was that choice made not to have columns yeah
 I mean, one, architecturally, it's about kind of lifting this very kind of highly regular program off of the street. And so what you're experiencing is this kind of floating pedestrian realm that's kind of the clear inside-outside lobby relationship in retail. And then the building kind of hovers above. So it's basically like an awning? Yeah.
 The whole building is what's kind of projecting out. So this face, and I don't know if I'm doing my mouse, you can see, this whole face is actually the face of the building. So if you're standing under it, you see the soffit. Right, so that person that's walking, not the one that's raising his hand, but the one to the right, that person. Is that person covered or not? Yes, that person is covered by the building. By the...
 It looks like that the wall is very close to where that person is walking. So the wall of this, which is the ground floor, is the property line. And everything out here is a mirrored soffit. So I'm going to get back to one of the early diagrams. So for instance, this line, so this is that glass wall that that person was standing next to. And this line is the line of the building above.
 And so everything out there is part of that arcade relationship that aligns with the building next door, which is kind of the other historic arcade building. I'm asking the question because I'm struggling with that the building doesn't seem to fit in with the character of the district, and I'm wondering whether the metal cladding makes it just a tad less funky, as the word that you said. I'm wondering if that gives the sense of historic permanence
 rather than the asphalt that takes it
 Doesn't look like any of the buildings that are there now. Right. And I think, I mean, none of the arcade buildings in that district have, I mean, I think the shingle or that material isn't what builds its historic relationship to the arcade district. I think it's the experience that you see, one, if you're driving along Burnside and you're seeing the faces of the buildings kind of come out and project, or if you're walking along the right-of-way and that continuance of kind of pedestrian cover
 And that experience is what's building that relationship. Two questions. One is, since quality has been raised as a consideration in this, is there a significant price difference between using the laminated asphalt shingle and the metal siding? The metal shingles are slightly more, but it isn't something that's not playing a role. It's actually a pretty insignificant in the big picture difference. I think it's more about the quality.
 Yeah. And in terms of the district, are there other buildings in the district that are proximate to this building that have the metal shingle? No. In fact, the building right next door, which is the arcade building where Union Jacks is located, actually has an asphalt shingle roof above its masonry line. Commissioner Novick, any questions? No.
 Yeah, it seems – I mean, what the commission said is that they have concerns about permanence and quality, not just about precedence. So you say that the primary concern is our precedence, but it does seem to me that the commission explicitly or implicitly sort of rejected what you say, which is actually that the asphalt material has – will actually hold up better and is subject to better warranties. So can you – I mean –
 Just talk about that a minute. I mean, as I read it, the commission didn't just talk about precedent. They were concerned about permanence. Right. So the commission had, and if we pulled it out, the words that came up a lot were those three primary concerns. It's about the kind of quality of the material. It's the permanence of the material. And it –
 most all of those comments came back to this idea of setting a precedent because it's untested in Portland. Part of our presentation to them, and I think it's in your packet as well, is that
 This material, and again we can pull up and Mark Malarkey can testify today. This material hasn't been used this way in Portland, but we did actually pull precedent projects from around the country and around the world where this product has been used in a vertical application. You heard Commissioner Ballester mention there's a project in San Diego that's a four-story building that was built in 1991 that has –
 composite asphalt shingle siding that's been in place since then and it's it's still kind of holding we just we don't have a good example for Commission to look at and say we agree that this this product has been used in the city and that has proved proven its durability for quality very good thank you very much who's next
 Did you hear me? Pardon me? I didn't have my microphone on, but did you hear me? So now we're going to hear from supporters of the applicant. We have three people signed up. Please come on up. Our Kelsey Bunker, John Rabung, and John Korba. There's two people from Malarkey. Why don't you start with Malarkey? Malarkey.
 I'm John Raybong. I'm the sales manager for Malarkey Roofing. I'm just going to read a letter that was written on behalf of this project for Malarkey and would love to answer any quality questions, any concerns about some of the things that were brought up as far as algae resistance, moss, sustainability. Thank you.
 So Malarkey Ownership has had discussions and personally reviewed the project mock-up and intended use of the Malarkey legacy shingles on this project with Works Partnership Architecture. And excuse me, I just turned 50, and I don't read that well anymore. Aha. So, yeah. Thanks. Malarkey is excited and looks forward to seeing our product used and installed in this innovative application. Thank you.
 Malarkey has discussed and worked with Works Partnership Architecture to determine and ensure the proper installation and application of our product on this project. All standard warranties offered by Malarkey will be valid and honored on the products used on this project and type of installation. Malarkey is a local roofing products manufacturer headquartered in Portland, Oregon. We've been manufacturing asphalt roofing products from the same location since 1956 and have a history of sustainable practices and strong relationships with the City of Portland and BES.
 Malarkey has recently celebrated a 30-year relationship with BES in regards to our methane recovery project in Portland. All Malarkey manufacturing facilities are Green Circle certified. I can get into that if you'd like. Malarkey has accomplished many industry firsts and milestones, which could be found in our history brochure. We're proud to be a local business and provide quality products and innovations to the roofing industry. This letter was written by Pat Redaway, who is our commercial sales representative for the Northwest, and Pat does report to me.
 Greg Malarkey wanted to be here, but he had some other commitments, so I'm his stand-in. So what is the warranty on this product? So it's a 50-year limited warranty with a 15-year right start, which means first 15 years everything's covered 100%, and then it starts to depreciate over the course of the years after that.
 And practically speaking, how often are people replacing roofs with this product on it? This roof, only if they want an aesthetic change. The history we've had with this product has been very positive. It's made from a different asphalt technology than standard asphalt composition shingles. And when it's pressure washed to get rid of the moss, does it...
 have bits coming off it like regular? So pressure washing to get rid of moss is not recommended. What we've done is we've got an algae blocking technology that's used, and it's warranted by 3M for 20 years. So there'll be no algae, and algae is the food source for moss. And so moss has to have something to eat and grow on. And in an application like this, you're not going to get
 you know, deposits from pine tree needles or things like that. And so the only real source would be the algae. And that's warranted for 20 years by 3M. That's why the Scotchgard designation, that's something that 3M has allowed us to use. But then what happens after 20 years? After 20 years, I don't know. We've never had a warranty issue after 20 years with algae or with moss. So...
 At that point, then it would need to be taken care of in whatever standard method that would be in that you can hose it, you can brush it, you can't pressure wash it, though. But it's not something that we've experienced.
 I'm just thinking through my own. Moss needs a food source, and a food source normally comes in the form of algae or in the form of debris such as needles, leaves, and that's really more relevant in a very shaded condition. So what's the green stuff that grows on my vertical vinyl siling? That would be algae, yeah. And how would that?
 How would you get – you're saying that that wouldn't happen because – That's the 20-year Scotchgard warranty that we have from 3M. And then you'd have to put more Scotchgard on it? Then you would have to – if it showed up after 20 years, which we have not experienced, then you would have to either use some – a hose or some sort of bleach compound or something like that. But that's not something that we've experienced. Your vinyl siding doesn't have 3M Scotchgard protection on it. Okay.
 Sorry about that. It sounds like it might need to. You guys might need to actually talk about that. Absolutely. 20 years later, the roof that was replaced is still doing great. Don't have an algae problem. My house has a shingle clad, and there's some shingles in the back that are exposed to the sun that now have gone from brown to silver to black, and they're actually starting to kind of decompose a little bit. And I'm guessing at some point they just have to be replaced. Yes.
 At some point, yeah. But you probably have a shingle that's composed of oxidized asphalt, whereas this is a polymer-modified asphalt, so...
 The UV is what's causing that to happen. These are wood shingles. Oh, okay. So, yes. At some point, they just have to be replaced. Wood's got to be replaced. Yeah, it's got to be replaced. Sorry about that. I misunderstood. Thank you very much. Sir? Oh, go ahead. Well, I was just going to continue in terms of the metal, because you see metal roofs now as well. And I was surprised to see that there was zero –
 The documentation says that there was no warranty on the metal. Why would that be? I don't know, but in my previous history, I dealt with metal roofing manufacturers, and that is the case. It usually has to do with the color. That might not be the case anymore, just based on my research over the last week. Okay, that could be it. I didn't do the research on that shingle product, so I don't know what that manufacturer's warranties are. Thank you. Sir? Sure.
 There's only a couple things that I want to add. We just need your name. Oh, I'm sorry, John Kobo with Malarkey Griffin Products. I was going to mention the polymer modified, which we've been doing since the 70s. There's really no other shingle quite out there like that. And then patented sewn design, which allows for a more accurate installation. So we give the wider nailing area. So a lot of concerns are...
 that shim falling out, which we give almost three times the size of what other manufacturers give to make sure you get a decent installation and you don't have shims falling out. There are applications in a much more limited fashion than siding, and that's where you drive around and you might see mansards, which are near vertical installations that's done, but it's in a much more limited fashion, typically 6 to 15 feet.
 maybe at the top portion of the building before it hits the flat roof. So you're saying this product is absolutely maintenance-free for 20 years? Yep, pretty much. That's the warranty, yes. I would say the other thing is that I would match up our shingle products to any granular adhesion out there in the market. With it being a modified shingle, the standard is –
 one gram of granule loss on basically a two inch by six inch piece. You know, you put it, it scrubs it back and forth 120 times, 60 cycles. We're typically around anywhere from one tenth to three tenths. We actually published that we consistently hit 0.35.
 which is three times better than the standard for asphalt shingles. So there won't be any bits falling off and getting into the stormwater? I'm not saying that. I'm saying it's three times better than what the published standard is. Very, very limited with the adhesion qualities of the asphalt. That's what the polymer modification allows the contraction and expansion to occur. It hangs on to those granules so they don't break loose of their pocket. Very good. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Kelsey Bunker and I'm one of the co-owners of the Jupiter Hotel. And I've been an owner of the hotel since 2002. I was there in the very beginning. I've done everything on the property from hanging toilet paper holders and hauling cement to currently basically just overseeing the operations.
 We have been really successful, which has allowed me to hire maintenance people and other people to take care of the property. But also, as we have been so successful, and we've partnered with the city quite a bit, we've had an opportunity to do this expansion, as everybody knows. And when this opportunity first arose for us, it was really important to me. I talked to my partner and asked him,
 what was important to him in regards to this building. And the building and what it was or what it is or will be is that we wanted it to represent the Jupiter and the Jupiter brand. It was really important for us. And I'm not sure. I think most people have been to the Jupiter. And...
 If you don't know what our branding is, we've really stood for doing stuff outside the box, for challenging the norms that accepted, for being flexible, and also working with our community. That's been a big part of our branding and marketing is working with local vendors and also local charities.
 So with that, we started to look for architects, and we were delighted to find works in our own backyard, literally. And they have been this, as Carrie Strickland mentioned, an architecture firm that is actually, she didn't say this, but they are internationally and nationally awarded for their innovations. Right.
 So we told them that we wanted them to create a building that would be iconic. And we've been working hand in hand, and after the first design advice request, they read
 did the building and they came to us and they were presented the, this beautiful building with the shingles, the asphalt shingles. And I, I do just want to say that I was a little skeptical because it was a little bit outside of my, my kin. And, um, but I am part of the Jupiter. So we kept an open mind and I asked them to do a mock-up, which is what they did here. And when my partner and I went over and took a look at it, we, um,
 We just took one look at it and we realized that was the material for us. And what I saw in that material was basically an ordinary material that was used in an innovative way to create something absolutely extraordinary. And may I continue? You have another minute. And that is the Jupiter Hotel in an essence. And so...
 This is really important to us. I know it could be considered a small issue, just a shingle, but it's really... This small detail is the thing that makes the difference between a building being mediocre and something being really extraordinary. And we have made our business, because we've been extraordinary, dealing with a very ordinary product, which has been our hotel. So we feel that...
 We feel very strongly that this asphalt shingle is the thing that will set us apart. It's the thing that represents Portland in terms of being innovative and creative. It's that thing in Portland that we are not fearful to try things that are new and different. And, Madam Fritz, if...
 In terms of maintenance, that's what we do. We have to take care of our property. And the worst-case scenario, and I think about these things because this is my business, this is my livelihood, my kids. The worst-case scenario is I'm going to have to re-roof that entire building.
 Can I do that? Yes, I can. It is not such an overwhelming cost to do that. Can I come in on that for a second? Yes, you may. Ms. Bunker, one of the things I was – you kind of beat me to the punch on that point because I'm going back to permanence, quality, and precedent. And the thing that's missing for me is that –
 It assumes that the owner is going to allow this to deteriorate or go sideways, and then it becomes a community problem. And it seems to me that you as the owner-operator have the same obligation as anybody that has any kind of siding to maintain it, and you're running a business and it's a hotel. I'm guessing it would not be a selling point to come to a hotel where the siding is falling off or is discolored or whatever. Yeah.
 I appreciate you mentioning that because ultimately the quality of any siding is the responsibility of the owner. And if there's an issue, I assume you'd replace it or make the repairs necessary. And I think that's what you just said. With Mark's support. The other thing I just wanted to observe, and thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for pointing out that we have the PowerPoint in our packet and it's easier for me to read. There's just one thing that strikes me.
 The examples that we're given of mostly residential properties are properties where I would say 90% of the surface is covered by this material. I'm not actually sure those are particularly helpful in this case because unless I'm missing something in looking at your design, glass, yours is basically a very transparent building. It looks like the glass –
 face is 75% of the building, or over 50% of the building. And Kerry can correct me if I'm wrong. But it looks like it comes close to being a glass box that has a checkerboard of siding. And it's one of the things I want to discuss with my colleagues and think about, but I might have a different view if the entire building was clad in a particular material, because then that is very ostentatious. That draws a lot of attention.
 But if I'm not mistaken, looking at this design, the dominant exterior motif is glass. I think Ms. Strickland would have to answer that question to give you an accurate percentage. Okay, we can come back. But anyway, I just want to note that because the examples are residential buildings. The whole thing is clad in this material. But the design here is mostly glass as far as I can tell.
 I do just want to say the last thing on the maintenance, just to come by that again, is that, in fact, I feel like as an owner of a business, as an owner of a hotel, we have a higher standard to keep that in good shape. It's not like an apartment building that can be let run down. So my business will suffer if I have an ugly building.
 Likewise, if people think this building is so cool and they've never seen anything like this and they're taking pictures of it and they're posting it on Instagram, my business succeeds. And when my business succeeds, the city of Portland succeeds, honestly. We had Travel Portland in this morning making that point. Commissioner Nobick? Well, one thing is a timing issue. I think two of us are supposed to be at TechSoup in one minute. Let's see. And also, I mean, I'm...
 I would kind of like to hear what Commissioner Saltzman thinks about this as the BDS commissioner. So I'm wondering if it's possible. Hold that pause for one second. Council, how much more of the formal hearing do we have left? Do we have any opponents? Do we have opponents? Does anyone here raise their hand if they're an opponent? Okay.
 Okay. So after this panel, is that the last formal part? That's right. And then council discussion and future scheduling. Okay. So because, well, we can keep tax conservation waiting two minutes. Let's pause here. Thank you very much. I just have one further question. Is this product, you have multiple products at Malarkey, right? Is this the top of the line? Yes.
 Yes, as far as the asphalt laminated shingle, absolutely, yes. Does it have a name? Legacy. Legacy. So thank you. We're going to excuse you for one moment, and we're going to have council discussion for a moment. So we need three votes to move either way. Commissioner Novick has indicated that he would benefit from...
 having the feedback of one of our colleagues, for that colleague to offer an opinion, he'll have to review the transcript of the proceeding, which can be done quickly, and then weigh in. And Commissioner Novick, my view generally is having more of us engage this is better because each of us brings a unique perspective, and so that's perfectly reasonable. Let me make sure it's feasible. So, yes.
 We have a record. I'm going to give – who gets the – there's no opponents, so I do have one question for Carrie Strickland after we're done, and we're going to close the record for now. The applicant gets five more minutes if they want to. Yeah. So, Steve, can we do five minutes just so we can close the record?
 So the record is actually already closed. It's an on-the-record hearing. So we just have to continue the hearing, and they can still come back. They're supposed to just be speaking about no new evidence. Okay, that's fine. Carrie, can you say whatever you want to say in two minutes? She might want to wait to the five minutes in front of everybody.
 You have that option, too. I mean, I think, again, we all feel very strongly that this is the right decision. I think we're all really excited about it and feel with owner support and manufacturer support that this is what's going to make this project special. So I made a lot of notes, and I have the framework for my decision and the conversation with my colleagues. The question now is...
 When could we continue this hearing, Carla, for the purpose of having at least one more colleague, and where we would extend five minutes to Ms. Drickland to close, and then we would have our discussion. The date we had settled on earlier, was that? I think we can continue until tomorrow for the purpose of council making a tentative decision. The problem tomorrow is we just grafted yet another thing on tomorrow, and we're probably –
 Now going from 2 to 5. 30 already. On 2.30. So if I might make a suggestion to the applicant, I hear you said that they were not willing to extend the timing. But it sounds like you're not getting a direct no at this point. Right. So if you might be willing to extend it so that we could have maybe not only Commissioner Saltzman but also Mayor Hales back because he has a lot of thoughts about planning stuff. I think...
 It's certainly possible that we might be able to get to that. And we might actually be able to stay within a deadline if the question, I guess, for Carla is, do we have an available slot next week? Sure. The 15th is open for the morning, 945. Okay. So you may or may not be able to answer that now. Would you like us to put a soft hold on 945 on the 15th? I'm hearing nodding all around. So, colleagues, is that acceptable? We'll put it down as a time-certained 945.
 Yes, everybody's in. Okay. We'll put it in as a time certain at 945. The ex parte rules still apply, so there can be no contact with any commissioner about the substance of this. We will encourage Mayor Hales and Commissioner Saltzman to review the record. That way they can participate fully. The only formal part of the hearing left is that the applicant will be given a five-minute rebuttal. So you will have five minutes to say whatever you'd like.
 Then we will deliberate and decide where we are at that point. Does that make sense? Counsel, did I get that half right? Yes. Yeah. So, yes, that is right. So I'm going to continue this hearing until 945, time certain, Wednesday, the 15th of June.
 And thank you all for joining us this afternoon for an interesting discussion. Colleagues, we'll take this up next week. If I might, just before you gavel out, I don't know if our friends from Merlaki are going to be here next week, so I just wanted to say on the record that my independent analysis says that you do a fantastic job with your products. And so I just wanted to let you know that I'm very proud that you're a Portland company and that you are providing such good service. Thank you.
 And this is not an ex parte disclosure, but a couple years ago I had the honor of going to see their manufacturing plant, which I think they would be happy to have all of us come visit. And it is actually kind of cool to watch soup to nuts how their product is made. And we appreciate that you purchased methane gas from us. With that, we're finished for today. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you.
 Steve. Be so kind.