Good morning, everybody. This is the regularly scheduled meeting of the Portland City Council Wednesday, June 7, 2017. Please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 Here, and Commissioner Udaly is excused today. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some basic guidelines. There's two opportunities for public participation. The first is communications.
 Those are opportunities for people to talk about whatever they want. Those need to be scheduled in advance with Carla, the clerk, or the clerk's office. Second, people can sign up for public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 Please state your name. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, we need to know that. If you're here representing an organization, that's good to know, too. Typically, people get three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. I want to forewarn people we have a very big agenda today, so we will likely reduce the
 the public testimony time as we get further into the meeting. When you have 30 seconds left, you'll see a yellow light flash. When your time's up, you'll see a red light. It'll beep. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimony or interrupting during council deliberation. Excuse me. Perfect example. This is a disruption that is out of order. Please don't do it again or you will be asked to leave.
 If there is a disruption, you'll be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass. If you'd like to show your support, simple thumbs up is good. If you don't, thumbs down is fine, too. Personal attacks or insults levied against city and city council staff, many of whom are required to testify as a condition of their employment, is not tolerated.
 I'd also like to just state that we received a unanimous proclamation from the Seattle City Council honoring those who were impacted by a week ago Friday's events, Taliesin and Ricky and Micah, and it also acknowledges...
 the impact on the two young women who are subjected to bigotry and hate speech and offers well wishes for them and their families and their communities as well. And it is a statement in support of the entire city of Portland on behalf of the Seattle City Council. I will have that on display in my office if anybody would care to see that kind proclamation. And I want the...
 Seattle City Council to know we were very very grateful for their thoughts at this difficult time Communications, please call the first item item 610 a request of Catherine Smith to address council regarding police issues Good morning. Good morning Can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. Okay, this should go three minutes maybe like ten seconds over or maybe not My name is Catherine Smith
 Mayor Ted Wheeler and commissioners, I'm trying to have a Portland police officer make some Tigard cops stop shooting me and my son with mainly microwave weapons, ultrasound weapons, voice to skull weapons, etc. Some Portland police and Portland police employees illegally take my letters and reports, even certified, I sent to PC Marshman and don't give him the emails except two I sent to him.
 That's why I had to ask you, Mayor Wheeler, to tell him and to have him make a Portland police officer stop these daily crimes and attempted murder to us. The letters, reports I send you, even certified, also don't arrive to you. Same modus operandi as Portland police. It sure looks like some of your employees are in collusion with some Portland police.
 It appears that at least one of your older Portland city attorneys is taking those letters and has directed your email screener to not give you the emails I sent you. It is obstruction of criminal investigation, suppression of evidence, facilitation of attempted murder to me and my son that they are doing.
 It seems that you have been told by someone to not answer my question. What is your legal reason for not talking to PC Marshman about this so he'll transfer my case to another cop? I don't think you have a legal reason. It is a secret reason. Thank you.
 The advisors don't want you to find out they have lied to you. I'm not sure of their motive. Maybe they're being blackmailed by the Tigard cops like the lead investigator of my cases. Maybe they took a bribe. Maybe they are afraid to be targeted.
 Maybe they want to keep these remotely used weapons, satellite tracking technologies, mind control weapons, secret from the public because it is outrageous that cops or anyone shoots, injures, tortures, incriminates, and kills people with these. Yes.
 How is you talking to PC Marshman so that he will have my case transferred to another cop related to you, Mayor, stopping some of these hate crimes, police shootings, stabbings, suicides, and lots of other crimes in Portland? It is related because they are the same perpetrators. Yes.
 some of them, some Tigard cops. They talk to me every day. They say they love to harass and torture people, and they love to taunt people with evidence about these crimes.
 I don't mean that the people charged with or involved in these crimes had any kind of agreement with those cops. I mean that the cops used them, forced them, forces-gulled them to do some of those crimes. Some Tiger cops injure, incriminate lots of people remotely. They give people subliminal orders to do whatever they want them to do, to say whatever they want them to say.
 Cops have had these weapons more than 20 years. They signed a confidentiality agreement to not talk to the public about them, but some do. They're supposed to use them mainly to de-escalate violent behavior. They're very dangerous when used to abuse people. And lastly, there's probable cause to have those eight to ten at least, Tigard cops investigated, put under surveillance and prosecuted for some of these crimes, including murders.
 they will then be less likely to continue to do more or as many crimes. That's all. Thank you. You're welcome. Next item, please. Item 611, request of Danny Robbins to address counsel regarding Portland police reform policy. Morning. Hello. My name is Danny Robbins. Mayor Wheeler, you promised us, promised the city a national search for a reform-experienced police chief.
 You campaigned heavily on this idea of police reform in Portland. It's the reason you got those votes. I understand that the interim police chief, as an interim chief, is not expected or maybe not even allowed to enact serious and changing reforms. But at the very least, we expect him not to push things in a direction that he doesn't want to push.
 towards less accountability. In regards to police killings and overuse of force, excessive use of force by the police, you have the power to change this. Perhaps the sole power rests in your hands. Your legacy, and let me remind you, your political future will rely on how you handle this decision and if you follow through on your promises. When the investigation wasn't even finished and you told us that Marshman was still in the running to be hired as a long-term police chief...
 Everybody he spoke to was flabbergasted, not just radicals, but everybody in the city, everybody. One month before the max stabbings on 82nd Avenue, the murderer, along with a group including open white nationalists, was offered a free shuttle back to their cars after your police force commandeered a TriMet bus for them. If I was going to a climate march or a peace and anti-war march, I would certainly feel empowered and emboldened.
 If the police commandeered a bus for me to ride in, wouldn't you? I'm sorry, but you have to do something to turn this path around, Mr. Mayor, making our community safer. The responsibility will lie on you. Thank you. Could I briefly respond? First of all, there's been lots of discussion about the shuttles around the Montevilla issue.
 One can disagree with whether or not that was the right call at that time. And obviously, as the police commissioner, I don't call tactics. I can tell you why they made the decision, and you can either like it or dislike it, and that's certainly your right.
 They were at the park. There was a group of protesters and a group of counter-protesters. And by the way, I was not shaking hands with either protesters or counter-protesters. I was there... No, you did not. Excuse me, you did not. Hear me out. I was there to shake hands with the police officers. I oversee that bureau. And so what happened was then people started marching down 82nd Avenue.
 They marched a considerable distance away from Montevilla. I was not there at that time, but what I heard was they got quite far from their cars. Willamette Week, I believe, covered that portion of the event, and the decision was made either let them walk back to their cars or get them out of the neighborhood quickly. The
 The decision was made. You can disagree with that. I'm just telling you why the decision was made. The decision was made to get them out of the neighborhood, get them back to their cars, and have them go home. To de-escalate that event. You can disagree with that. But that is fine. That's fine. But that was the decision that was made. With regard to the police chief search, that is still very much underway, and it will be wrapped up in mid-July. We are collecting information.
 we're collecting the application packets now. There is a process that will unfold between now and the end of July. And you can certainly and absolutely should hold me accountable for the choices I make during that process.
 That process, I agree with you, is a seminal decision note for me as mayor. That's why I insisted on it, by the way, against a considerable... I'll undermine when you said that Marshman was still in the running. He has every right to apply for that position, as does anybody else who meets the minimum qualifications under city charter. And that's the fact. So that's it. Okay.
 So all I'm asking you is I'm hearing what you're saying. Give me a chance to actually do these things that I'm in the process of doing. And you can hold me accountable for it after the fact. You haven't held him accountable for the mistakes he's made. You undermine the investigation against him. Thank you. Okay. And I hear what you're saying. I just wanted you to hear my response. Thank you for your testimony. Next item, please.
 Item 612, request of Stan Herman to address counsel regarding getting an answer to a question presented five months ago. Mr. Herman? Next item, please. Item 613, request of Tara Clausen to address counsel regarding pet discrimination in rentals. Is Tara here today? I'm sorry, next item. Item 614, request of Inger to address counsel regarding reverse Polish logic part three.
 Morning. Good morning. My name's injured and pissed off. Again, folks. Of course, I brought this paper. It was printed August 9, 2006. Willamette Week wrote it, and they titled it, As Uninvited Guest, I'm the Reason Why People Have to Wait a Month or More to Sign Up to Speak.
 Willamette week printed the article and it sure had a bunch of bull in it. Everybody speaking here today was called by their first and last name except for myself. And I'll be addressing that July 17th here with papers that I've provided. And Mayor Wheeler, if you recall, I spoke at the county commissioner's
 across the river june first and i wanted to submit this paper uh it's a domestic violence and of course uh as i said at the meeting that after seven dog attacks in my building that the city owns uh that i was attacked since december 3rd of 2004 and this article was written in
 August 9th of 2006, that's 20 months, but that was, they never mentioned the four dog attacks that I had then. And then, of course, you yourself wrote this letter, January 16th of 2007, and that's only five months from this article. And that was the fifth dog attack. And then I had two more dog attacks, and the last one was...
 I broke my left hip and fractured two of my vertebrae and my spinal cord. A whole lot of fun there. And that's animal control. And, of course, I went to court during the sixth dog attack and met with the district attorney that morning, and he dismissed the case saying that, oh, she really didn't mean it. And he was well aware of the facts. They'll never prosecute that person again.
 And I'll never get justice of any type from McDonough County because of the lies and misrepresentation. My service animal was a real service animal, not a pet. And of course I suffered major injuries. Deborah Kifori's uncle, of all things, died.
 was my lawyer, and she wrote the Oregon State Bar, Deborah Caffori, that I was bad-mouthing them, and they agreed to dismiss the case. And a civil liability has no statute of limitations. Yes, sir. Thank you. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda, Carla? Yes. We have 624, 629, 630, 632, and 633. Okay.
 6.32 and 6.33. All right. Two items have been, let's see, 6.33. Let's see. That has been pulled for public discussions. Okay. Very good. Excuse me. Could I ask Carl to just give that list again? Okay.
 Could you just say the numbers again, please? That's 624, 629, 630, 632, and 633. Thank you. Very good. Could you call the roll, please, on the remainder of the consent agenda? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. The first time certain item, please, 615. Aye.
 Establish a Smart Cities Steering Committee to create a citywide governance structure for the city's smart cities work.
 Colleagues, since 2014, the City of Portland has been actively seeking to leverage innovative technologies and the uses of data to meet cities' goals around equity, transportation, sustainability, climate change, and disaster recovery and resiliency. In 2016, Portland was one of seven finalist cities in the United States Department of Transportation's Smart Cities Challenge.
 And that was an effort to mobilize folks from across the city and across the region to pursue so-called smart cities solutions to address some of our most pressing transportation issues. Since that time, we've moved forward on a number of the ideas in the Smart Cities Challenge proposal. We've also started to look at how we can broaden this beyond just transportation and look at emergency management, energy, civic engagement, and other areas of opportunity.
 For these efforts to succeed, we think it's very important that we coordinate this work across different bureaus here at the City of Portland and that we identify our shared goals and our cases for technology, as well as developing centralized systems, managing policy development projects, and looking for joint funding opportunities.
 This resolution seeks to identify a smart city steering committee that would be made up of representatives from multiple bureaus, as well as commissioners' offices, including the mayor's office. The committee will be led by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, in partnership with the Portland Bureau of Transportation, the Bureau of Technology Services, and the Office of Community Technologies.
 Representatives of these three bureaus are here to outline our smart cities work to date as well as talk about how the steering committee could help guide these efforts moving forward. We have Susan Anderson, Leah Treat, Jeff Baer, and Kevin Martin are all going to give us presentations here today.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor, Mayor, Council. Susan is actually out sick today, so I'm going to read her remarks. She wishes she could be here. Thank you. I'm Kevin Martin. I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I manage the technical and smart cities teams there. Thank you for having us.
 So Susan's remarks, so we are here today to establish a smart city steering committee. The mayor asked the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to lead this effort and build on our role as a convener and facilitator for many citywide efforts. In particular, this group will really help us to collaborate and be proactive and help leverage each other's efforts. Thank you.
 There's so many data, technology, and smart cities efforts among the bureaus right now, but also with PSU, other universities, other cities, and the private sector and other organizations. And this is a great opportunity to bring it all together. Over the past couple of years, as we've looked at similar efforts by other communities, we've mostly seen a focus on technology, infrastructure, and some city services. We hope to broaden that perspective to include equity, resiliency, affordability, and the impacts of climate change.
 We all know that technology is changing rapidly. It continues to be transformative. And it's not just our phones and gadgets. Technology is affecting how and where we live. It's affecting how we get around and even where and what kind of work we do.
 So I'm really excited to have this opportunity to work with my colleagues on this. The bureaus have actually been meeting informally for more than a year. I think formalizing the committee will make us more efficient and provide us with more opportunities for partnership with the private sector. With that, I'll turn it over to Director Treat from the Portland Bureau of Transportation for her remarks.
 Great. Thank you so much, Mayor and Commissioners. This resolution is an important step forward in our efforts to take advantage of the most advanced technologies, to make our streets safer, and to make it easier for Portlanders to get from place to place.
 Coordination and collaboration have been key to our success so far. We were a smart city finalist in large part because we assembled a broad coalition of public and private sector partners from across our region. And thanks to this collaboration, we were able to offer a compelling vision of a safer, more efficient, and above all, more equitable transportation future for our city. Since the conclusion of the Smart City Challenge, we have been building on those relationships as we implement central parts of our smart city vision.
 We have, for example, these relationships have been an important source of information and expertise as we have followed the Mayor and Commissioner Saltzman's directive to develop a policy framework for introducing autonomous vehicles into the city. And we are going to be coming to you next week with the key elements of this initiative.
 This truly is a watershed moment for our city. We are continuing to grow at a rapid clip, and while this growth has fueled our local economy, it is also putting significant strains on our system. And we need to ensure that the safety of our consumers and users is adequately protected and a top priority as we integrate the latest innovations into our system.
 No one bureau or office can achieve these goals, and we need to work together. And that's why I'm supportive of the resolution. It puts in place an efficient and effective framework for citywide collaboration, and I believe it will ensure that we innovate faster and better together. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of City Council. I'm Jeff Baer with the Bureau of Technology Services, and we too are here to support the adoption of this resolution and have been actively engaged in these discussions over the past year, as Kevin alluded to, about the Smart Cities initiative. And providing this framework for this will establish the necessary structure to strategically move this forward in a very focused manner. And we in BTS, or Technology Services, have a...
 a large group of very talented individuals who have been working on a number of related Smart City applications and open data initiatives such as Civic Apps, you've probably heard about, or Safe Routes to School, PDX Reporter, Waterworks, just to name a few. And we can leverage that talent to work within this framework and collaborate with a wider spectrum of bureaus.
 And I want to specifically thank Kevin for his leadership and efforts to coordinate this and also Director Treat to support the transportation initiative and also with BPS as well. And we look forward to providing our continued involvement in helping Portland continue to progress on being a smart city, a smart community. And with that, I just want to say thank you for this opportunity and to provide our support for this and look forward to it. Thank you. Thank you. With that, I want to invite up Julie Omelchuk from the Office for Community Technology.
 Good morning. Thank you for being here. Thank you. I'm Julia Melchuk, Program Manager with the Office for Community Technology, and we too are very pleased to be part of this resolution today. As you know, video, Internet of Things, and now Smart Cities applications have all driven the need for robust wireless and broadband infrastructure available to all.
 With Council's leadership, the Office for Community Technology has an extended history and deep knowledge of shepherding use by communications companies of the city's rights-of-way and public access for public good.
 As the lead city office for both the Portland Broadband Strategic Plan and the Digital Equity Action Plan, OCT is pleased to be part of this smart city steering committee and wholeheartedly supports passage of this resolution. We look forward to continue working with other lead city bureaus on the smart city challenges and initiatives. And I, too, would like to thank Kevin Martin for his leadership.
 in this area and councils as well. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for your service. Thank you. With that, I'm going to do a quick presentation, just give a high-level overview of sort of where the city is with smart cities and kind of the role of this steering committee. I'm going to switch seats so I can run the computer over there. Thank you, Carla. Thank you.
 So the first question is, what is a smart city? And the definition we've given people is it's one where data and technology are used to improve people's lives. And really, Portland from the beginning has focused on improving the lives of those in underserved communities. And really starting to think through how we can use these opportunities around technology and data
 to correct some of the inequities that are there now, to even out some of our infrastructure investments, and to really start bringing services and information to the people that need it most, where it will have the most impact on their lives. And I think that's something that's really set Portland apart from other,
 a lot of other cities is that focus on equity and the focus on the community. And that's one of the reasons I'm so excited to be a part of this effort. What types of technology and data are we talking about?
 It's not 100% clear what makes a technology smart, but I think we have a pretty good idea of what that bucket includes. As Director Treat mentioned, autonomous vehicles is obviously a big part of this. It's a very disruptive technology that is coming, whether we want it to or not.
 connected vehicles and the infrastructure that's going to be needed there in terms of connectivity and infrastructure on our streetlights and signals to facilitate those vehicles moving through our right-of-way is a huge component of this work moving forward. We have an open data program now that was adopted here at City Council back on May 5th. We definitely see that as falling under the smart cities umbrella, how we make data more accessible to the public.
 to the community, how we make it more accessible to city staff, how we make it more accessible to you all in terms of informing your decision-making. Internet of Things, they're predicting, I think, 50 billion internet-connected devices by 2030, how we use those as a city, and how we really think through the implications of just a greatly increased system for data collection.
 and protect our residents' privacy and use that information to meet our city goals, I think is obviously a huge part of this conversation. Public Wi-Fi and how we bring connectivity to people that don't have it now, that may have a smartphone but don't have a data plan or don't have Internet access in their home.
 That's a piece of this. Systems and apps to integrate civic services, so things like TriMet's mod sandbox that they're working on that will integrate different transit choices and transportation choices into a single application that people can use to get from point A to point B. Kiosks and street-level engagement with our residents and what kind of services we bring to the street using those kinds of devices.
 tools to integrate and analyze data and inform our decisions. I think all of these things are sort of what we're talking about when we're talking about smart cities. I call this graphic the flower of opportunity. It just sort of indicates that when we're talking about data and technology,
 all these different realms overlap. And there's a lot of shared goals. And as you get to the center of this graphic, you start looking at maybe perhaps a single technology that can meet the goals of
 you know, our transportation goals, our housing goals, our equity goals, our public safety goals. Really finding those synergies is one of the reasons we want to set up the Smart City Steering Committee so that we have a place for that high level coordination. Transportation is driving a lot of things right now for all the reasons that Director Treat mentioned. One of the big ones is that we went after the $50 million U.S. Department of Transportation grant a little over a year ago.
 We didn't end up getting that money. Columbus, Ohio did. We can all theorize as to the reasons why. But I think what's interesting is that Portland continues to be looked at as a leader, including by Columbus. And folks are looking at Portland to kind of guide how other cities govern smart cities and what they do with these technologies and how they prepare for these technologies. Yes.
 Really our goal is ultimately to broaden beyond transportation to housing, land use, emergency management, etc. And when you look at some of the things we're talking about, autonomous vehicles, I'll come back to again and again because I think that's, again, a very disruptive technology. The conversation really isn't about if, but when and how that's going to be implemented.
 It touches on transportation, obviously, but there's huge implications to housing as you start looking at a world where there is greatly fewer parking spaces needed,
 As we look at a world where people are much easily and more cheaply able to get from point A to point B and how that sort of interacts with our transit system, there's land use implications, there's housing implications, there's certainly safety implications, there's emergency management implications. So autonomous vehicles touches on everything. And it's really on us as a city, I think, to figure out how we're going to guide these technologies that are coming, whether we like them to or not,
 to meet our city goals.
 So I'm just wondering, the fact that transportation, land use, and to a separate lesser extent emergency management are all bolded there, but equity, housing, and public safety are kind of pale. Does that reflect the intended direction of this? It doesn't. That's just choices by the graphic designer who made the graphic. There's a couple things that will change about this graphic over time, that being one of them, and also that I think equity, it is sort of a separate piece, but it's also something that
 should be involved with all of these realms. So it's not only... Not only do we have goals that are sort of specific around equity, but we want to look at all of these realms, transportation, land use, through an equity lens. So it's really integrated into everything. And I'm also not seeing anything about community engagement. I'll have some more questions about that later, but it seems like the intent initially is to have just the internal staff working on this. Is that correct? No. Well,
 I think where we have been to date is really focused pretty internally, but we're now starting to pivot to how we bring this to the community and really how do we involve the community in the decisions that we make going forward and really how do we start to get a better handle on what the community needs are. When we start talking about things like autonomous vehicles and first last mile vehicles,
 How do we know that we are really targeting these things to meet the needs of the community? And I think there's a huge community engagement piece around that. Thank you. If I could comment on that. We don't have our internal house in order yet.
 And so the focus of this particular part of the process really is, in my mind, it's internal. It's making sure that we have our bureau infrastructure integrated and working together on the same goals, sharing the opportunities around the technology, identifying the technology and where the opportunities are,
 And so having that platform in place, I think, is an essential ingredient before we even begin to talk about how best to engage the community. That, to me, is, while it is certainly related, and this tees up the beginning of that process, this really is, I believe, the major thrust is internal.
 I think that's exactly right. You're exactly right. It's getting our internal house in order so that we can begin that larger community process. And really by creating this platform and this committee I think we sort of
 you know, solve two problems. We get our internal house in order and we also have a platform for those larger community discussions and for partnerships with the private sector and academia and nonprofits. But this in and of itself is not the community engagement plan around smart cities. It's not. I want to be very clear about that. Yes, the steering committee
 would hopefully be involved with drafting that plan, but yes, this is not the community engagement piece of our Smart Cities work. Well, I would suggest that including at least some of the committees or commissions that we've got early in the start to help figure that out. When we set up the Office of Equity and Human Rights, we started with a huge community engagement process, which then told us focus internally. Okay.
 but that was only once everybody had come to the conclusion of what is the challenges. So, for instance, the Public Engagement and Advisory Committee, the Portland Commission on Disability, the New Portlanders Policy Council, Open Signal. It seems like all those communities, some of those are mixed city staff and community, but all of them I would suggest need to have input into what should we work on, not just on how should we work on it. Yeah, I agree. Thank you.
 So this next graphic sort of starts to get at sort of that outside coordination a little bit. With the city of Portland at the top and academia and nonprofit, other governments, and the private sector, we know that the smart city's work is going to require coordination and partnerships with external entities. We don't build technology in the city. We need the private sector. We need to leverage their technologies. We need to leverage their technologies.
 We don't really have the internal research capacity that they do at, say, Portland State University, who we have a very strong partnership. And so really figuring out how we leverage those partnerships. We need community groups and other nonprofits to engage the community and assess their needs. And everyone sort of needs us, the city. The city has a lot of leverage in these conversations. Right.
 Many of these technologies are emerging, and the private sector is really trying to be first out of the gate. And to be successful in their endeavors, they need access to our city infrastructure. So our streetlights, our signals, our right-of-way. And so the city has really a lot of leverage to drive this conversation forward.
 And ultimately, it's us that represents the community's interests. And I think, you know, again, we have sort of a window of opportunity, I think, over the next three to five years as some of these very quickly changing technologies and very disruptive technologies come online to really be the way that we can do this.
 represent the community's interests and shape these things in a way that meets the community's needs. And so, again, I think the next three to five years is going to be a very exciting time in the city and in this realm. And I look forward to seeing what Portland does to really represent the community's interests.
 This is just a timeline we put together. I think you have a hard copy of it in front of you. I know it's very hard to read on the screen. But just to indicate that we've been doing this since 2014. Really one of the first things the city was involved with was a partnership with the National Institute of Standards and Technology Global Cities Team Challenge, which we are still involved with. We have an expo in Washington, D.C. in August that we're participating in.
 That was way back in 2014, so this is not a really new conversation. Smart Cities has been sort of on our tongues for a long time, and BPS has had a role in that. But everything changed really in December of 2015 with the U.S. DOT Smart Cities Challenge. Putting that proposal together really brought together a whole bunch of pieces, both internally and externally. And really it's that coordination that we want to build on with this steering committee.
 This is just a very partial list of things that are happening as we speak. As Director Treat mentioned, we've got a Smart Autonomous Vehicles Initiative, which will actually be in front of City Council next Wednesday. The work that Pete Bott is doing in this realm, really focusing on it from a policy perspective and how this will impact people's lives rather than looking at it from sort of more of a technical perspective.
 is leading, and other cities are looking to us to see how we sort of roll out autonomous vehicles. So that's very exciting. Open data program I already mentioned. We've got an air quality sensor deployment that BPS is leading, Christine Kendrick on my team,
 who has their PhD out of PSU and had done a lot of air quality work there. Smart connected air quality sensors. We'll be deploying 10 of those throughout the city as sort of a pilot test of that technology. We've got a regional smart cities action plan that we're working on in partnership with PBOT, PSU, Metro, TriMet, and ODOT to sort of set what the regional vision is.
 We've got a partnership with AT&T, GE, and Intel to potentially deploy some sensors to count pedestrians, look at pedestrian where they are and how they're using our infrastructure. We've got a proposal in to develop a centralized data system for managing data that's coming from all these various devices and from autonomous vehicles. That's a partnership with PSU, BTS, and PBOT.
 We've got a pilot of a kiosk system that's meant to assist with folks after a disaster. That's a partnership with PBM, BPS, PSU, and MIT. Which is quite stand-full.
 What's that? What does PREP stand for? I don't know if that's an acronym. That's a good question. I think it's just preparation. Okay. Thank you. It's really interesting. There's a lot of opportunity. MIT is really interested in Portland being one of the first cities to deploy that technology, and they're very interested in our beacon sites, which I can't remember what that acronym stands for off the top of my head, but it's the places where people gather after a natural
 We're looking at a TGM grant, I think that was on consent agenda today, to develop our own City of Portland Smart Cities Plan with PBOT and BPS partnering on that. We're looking at a pilot of a sort of shared economy application in town called Josephine that allows home cooks to basically distribute meals locally.
 that's a partnership between BPS and the mayor's office, and it was really focused on how do we start developing data sharing agreements with these sort of disruptive private technologies that allow the city to evaluate how they're impacting our residents and how the city can capitalize on that information to sort of meet our city goals. So that's all the stuff that's happening now.
 And because of that, we've evolved. So we've been doing this since 2014. We're doing a whole bunch of stuff now. We started uncoordinated and sort of reacting recently.
 I think right now we've gotten a lot more coordinated. We've got the bones of the steering committee together. We're all talking to one another. We've had a great last few months talking with BTS, PBOT, and BPS, really figuring out who's on first, who's leading what. I think we have a pretty admirable collaboration in place. So I think our level of coordination is actually sort of the envy of many other cities today.
 We're still a little bit reactive. We're not really driving the conversation. We're still sort of reacting to it. I think over the next few months that's really what we want to try to do with this committee is really start to get out in front of, again, these disruptive, potentially disruptive technologies. And what does it mean to be proactive? It means, you know, what are our assets? How ready are they for these technologies? How do we evaluate potential partnerships with the private sector and others?
 Using RFIs and other means to gather information from the private sector so we know what's out there and we can sort of guide it into our own city goals. And then prioritizing work based on our city goals. Recognizing all throughout that technology is a means to the end. It's not the end itself. And so the driver in these conversations should be our city goals, not the technology. And really shaping that technology so that it helps us do what we want to do as a city and helps us become a better city.
 Again, we have leverage and I think we have a three to five year window where cities are really going to be able to dictate how these technologies are deployed. And then finally, some of you may have seen this graphic floating around. This is kind of our smart cities governance concept.
 how we're going to organize as a city. The steering committee is at the center, and that steering committee is informed by all our guiding plans. That's the Portland Plan, Comprehensive Plan, Digital Equity Action Plan, Climate Action Plan, Transportation Systems Plan. How we use all those plans and the goals in those plans to inform our smart cities work, which should really be driven by those plans. Smart cities is in and of itself, it's really a means to meet our city goals with technology and data.
 How we interact with- And if I could just interrupt for one second. I'm sorry to do that. But to Commissioner Frisch's suggestion, this is another great way to engage the communities that are already engaged around those plans, to put a ton of work into them and know them inside and out. So that's another good potential overlap with this process. Yeah, really building on the work that we've done already and organizing it is key. Yeah, it's not just the plan, not just what's on paper, but it's-
 I mean, you guys have worked hard for years to build communities around the development of those plans, so let's leverage those communities. Yeah, and that's one of the reasons I think BPS is leading this effort is, you know, the effort that went into, say, the Portland plan and all the relationships that were built there and the community engagement. We want to build on that.
 And then we also have other committees that touch on this stuff in the city, like the Technology Executive Steering Committee. And we will have a strong relationship with that committee to make sure that we are looking at potentially enterprise technology solutions. We have a regional Smart Cities group, which is led by Portland State University that we're involved with.
 There's a private smart cities lab led by the Technology Association of Oregon and Skip Newberry there that represents the local technology firms. We're heavily involved with that. And then we have the beginnings of a bunch of working groups around data analysis, sensors and IoT, AV, autonomous vehicles, energy, public safety, and then civic platforms and apps where all these sort of projects live that will be organized underneath the steering committee.
 I'm also not seeing on there anything about equity. Where would the consideration for people with disabilities, which the working groups, would they be included in? Again, I think equity is sort of an ingrained piece in all of this, and perhaps we need to communicate that a little better in, say, a graphic like this. What we found when we were doing the Portland Plan and the Comprehensive Plan, yes, it's all encompassing. We want people to have it, but unless you've got a specific...
 working group or reminding everybody. That's why we had a separate set of policies on equity as well as it being infused to the rest of the comprehensive plan. Yeah.
 I think we need part of the task we'll have as a steering committee is to figure out how to address equity in our work. And so I don't think we have an answer yet, but I think that we want to make that a core piece of what we do. And how that's sort of implemented, I mean, I've heard two different schools of thought, that by sort of having a separate equity work group, it kind of puts it off on the side.
 We want it to be more ingrained in everything we do. And so, you know, maybe the question is how we engage those who are working on equity in the city in this steering committee, I think, is a good question. Yes, I think so. And you started with especially considering historically underserved communities, knowing that our bureau directors don't reflect the demographics. Our directors don't reflect the city we serve, and in fact, worse than last year, historically.
 How are you going to make sure that there are people from those historically underserved communities actually on the steering committee helping to guide what goes forward? I think that's something that we need to figure out as a committee, how we're going to engage the community and really how we're going to,
 potentially use new forms of data and information to kind of identify where that community is and what their needs are, I think, is part of the conversation as well. Well, I think definitely the New Portlanders and the other communities of color, but also especially for people with disabilities, the transportation aspects as well.
 being at the top and in bold, that clearly affects people with disabilities a lot. And if you... And I don't want to speak on behalf of transportation, but one of the first sort of use cases for autonomous vehicles is looking at paratransit, for example, which is very expensive...
 how we initially address the needs of folks that say the existing bus services don't meet those needs, I think is perhaps one of the first use cases we want to address with things like automated vehicles and first-mile, last-mile solutions that they provide. Well, knowing your director, Leah Treat, and her commitment, which she's demonstrated since she's become the director, I'm curious.
 I know you will continue to do that. I saw on the consent agenda today, I don't know whether it was one of the moments which was pulled, but there's a pilot of providing the bike town program to people with disabilities, and so I was really happy to see that. Again, if we don't call it out, it's liable to get missed or we're liable to include people when it's really too late for them to engage in direct things. Yeah, thank you.
 So that's all I had to say. Commissioner Fish, you bet. Mayor, I have a couple questions. Could we ask Leah to come back? So I have three questions. Thank you for your presentation. Sure. The first is look forward 10 years. And we've talked about getting in front of disruptive technology. We've talked about harnessing new technologies. These are all very high-level concepts. How will any of this benefit the average person living in our community in 10 years?
 Well, you know, there's a lot of different theories. The hope that people are attached to is that, at least from the transportation perspective, if we look at autonomous vehicles, in a 10-year timeframe, perhaps we'll get to congestion relief because it's going to take some time for people to give up their personal vehicles, and that's going to be a generational change. So you'll start seeing that happen over the next 10 years.
 Autonomous vehicles hopefully are going to be safer because they are not impaired, they're not speeding, and they follow all the traffic laws. We also hope that autonomous vehicles are going to be providing mobility solutions for people in underserved areas who have lack of transit-rich environment, et cetera. So that's what we hope to see over the next 10 years and why the private sector is investing so heavily in this is that's,
 the aim. I personally, my sentiment or thought is it's going to take probably 15 years until we hit that tipping point or perhaps more.
 It's also going to greatly impact our infrastructure, transportation. In the next 10 to 20 years, our largest funding source, in addition to the gas tax, is parking revenue. And autonomous vehicles or any kind of autonomous mobility solutions have the possibility to greatly carve into parking revenue because it won't be necessary anymore. So we need to be thinking extensively about how we're going to fund transportation infrastructure as we think about these disruptive changes.
 technologies that are coming. So that's helpful, and I think we ought to continue to work to be able to describe this and the community benefits in plain English, because
 I think when we start using terms like smart cities, I think it excludes most people. And the assumption is that any questions you have about it means you're part of the dumb cities movement, as opposed to understanding what is a smart city and how does it actually benefit a person. Because my prism on all this stuff is how has someone who lives here benefited from this, not how do we leverage technology per se, but how does that improve the quality of life of someone who lives here.
 The second question I have is, because your presentation talks so much about disruptive technology, I'm obliged to just note that the last time someone came into Portland with a so-called disruptive technology, it was Uber. And the track record of Uber is they came in and ran over regulators and ran over consumers. Right.
 What assurances do we have through this process, particularly with companies like Uber and others looking at autonomous vehicles, that we're going to be regulating ahead of the curve and not dealing with rogue actors? Quite frankly, we don't have those assurances in place. Uber and Lyft –
 The TNC market is linked up with the big auto industry. So Ford, GM, and BMW are the three largest financial backers of the autonomous vehicle initiative, and they are linked up with Uber and Lyft. And they are working very hard at the federal level to get federal preemption so even states could not regulate their own markets, much less they're also working at the state level to try to preempt
 at the state level for localities to have local regulations. So it's something that we really need to stay on top of and be mindful of. So since you mentioned that, we did as a council oppose Uber's effort to preempt all local regulations of TNCs. Is there something in this legislative session that has been filed which would preempt cities and localities from regulating autonomous vehicles? Yes, there has, and it failed. Okay, good. Thank you.
 So when you say that there will be an effort to preempt at the federal and state level, we know these large companies are very successful at doing that. And we also know that one of the primary drivers that we're hearing about with this technology is that by taking a driver out of the car, they lower their costs. That's not just disruptive. That may actually be catastrophic to the workplace, and there also raises, in my mind, safety issues.
 Do we have the authority to mandate that even with autonomous vehicles there be a driver? There's nothing, to my knowledge, there's nothing that precludes a local government to stipulate that in our code. I think that's a question for the attorneys that can tell you it doesn't exist now. So, Mayor, I'm looking at what is happening in Singapore and other places where these companies have come in on a very aggressive timeline to put autonomous in and then promptly move to driverless vehicles.
 I think, and given our experience with Uber and the way they push the envelope, I think I would ask that that be addressed at the front end of this process. And my sense is that if we're very assertive and aggressive about requiring a driver in an autonomous vehicle early on, at least we have the leverage to make sure that we get it right as it unfolds. And so that's my third point. And my final point I just want to acknowledge is that –
 Your steering committee contains government agencies, utilities companies. I know it has TriMet. It makes sense. PGE, Daimler. That makes sense. I'm assuming they're going to be doing autonomous trucks. Uber. Is our Lyft and taxis on that steering committee? Yes.
 No. So why have we chosen the worst actor in the industry to be on the steering committee and not Lyft or Taxis? So the steering committee is just made up of internal staff. We have relationships with outsized committees like the Regional Smart Cities Group and the Private Smart Cities Lab where those folks are participating. But our steering committee is really meant to be an internal place for coordination. And so currently it involves BPS, PBOT,
 Uh, PBM, uh, OCT, BTS, uh, the prosper port, Portland, um, the Portland housing bureau, uh,
 Representatives from the mayor's office, representatives from Commissioner Saltzman's office, and representatives from Commissioner Udaly's office. And we hope to expand that to include other folks in the city as well. But for now, the steering committee is internal. Okay, so we're doing this in phases. Do I have your assurance that when you are engaging external stakeholders, both Lyft and traditional taxis will be given the same standing as Uber as part of a stakeholder process? Yes.
 I think that's the intention. But, sir, it's an easy question. Yes. Good intentions. Is that a yes or a no? That's a yes. Okay. And so, Mayor, I'll be looking to see. I would hope we would publish a list at the appropriate time that has all the stakeholders. And I would like to see the taxi industry given full standing. And I would also, frankly, I don't use Uber for all the obvious reasons. I have started using Lyft.
 particularly when I have no other option. And I have found them reliable and professional. And frankly, their business practices, to me, are discernibly different than Uber. But I think they all need to be at the table if we're going to get this right. Yeah, and I think just...
 briefly. One of the first tasks of the steering committee is to lay out sort of what we're calling a playbook. Other cities have done this as well and that's really how do we lay out sort of the lanes for the private sector to engage with the city and how do we make it consistent and vendor agnostic so that everybody has the same opportunity and
 we're consistent with our engagement with the various private sector players. And we've let them know, okay, if you want to work with the city, here's what our goals are. Here's what we want to accomplish. Here's how you engage with us. And I also think, just wanted to reiterate your point, these technologies, again, are coming whether we want them to or not.
 if we do nothing, there are potentially very negative implications to some of these technologies, like autonomous vehicles. We could see significant increases in vehicle trips, and we could see significant decreases in transit ridership, for example, and how we as a city really lay down the policies, and that's where I think PBOT is doing such innovative work to sort of prevent the dystopian future that could be a possibility if we do nothing. So I think...
 Looking at this from some of these outcomes can be negative. The city is not proactive is a place that we're really wanting the steering committee to come from. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Fisher, Fritz. Thank you. And I want to pick up on one of Commissioner Fisher's first points, which was about the value to the community member. Okay.
 Commissioner Udaly is out of the country on city business, but if she was here, I'm sure she would express concern about the capacity of the one city staff person who is responsible for talking to people in the community about equity, which is Ashley Horne, in her leadership staffing of the Public Involvement Advisory Committee. So I'm concerned about – I didn't see either the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement or the Office of Equity and Human Rights on any of those – here's the projects we're doing.
 And I also, so I know. Yeah, no, I think that's really good feedback. I think our intentions are there and we have failed to communicate it in our graphics and our presentation. So thank you. And we will expand upon that. Well, if it is supposed to be just city staff, I guess my point is I don't think Ashley has any more capacity to attend to another major project. So I would encourage you to broaden the steering committee, to include community members who can provide a perspective that to
 to my knowledge there aren't people in the city and if there are they're already overtaxed and can't possibly add this major thing. The other thing I wanted to pick up from what Commissioner Fish talked about was just considering what are the long-term impacts and I'm thinking particularly of isolation where I can foresee if some of this technology keeps coming down the line a person won't be able to talk to another person all day unless they happen to have a cell phone and they want to engage because it's all on Facebook and you know order your
 or your autonomous vehicle remotely or do your groceries delivered to your door by somebody or maybe even by a robot. We've got to be thinking about how we're going to keep a sense of community and how, while we want to broaden the folks who give us input and are involved in our community decisions, how do we make sure that there's occasionally time for people to interact with another human being? So I'd urge you to make sure that that is...
 part of the steering committee's charge and then secondly again from Commissioner Fish looking at the jobs that could be lost and how are we going to make sure that like clean energy there are more jobs in clean energy than there are in coal for example how can we make how do we address the fact that some of these proposals will put people out of work and what are they going to do especially if they're in a more practical hands on job rather than something that requires a four year degree
 Agreed. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Great. Any further questions? And you don't have any other invited panel guests, is that my understanding? Correct. How many people are signed up for public testimony, Carla? We have eight. We have eight. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. The first three, please come on up, are Samuel Pastrick, Leif Hansen, and Carol Studemund. Thank you.
 Good morning, and just to review, three minutes, two and a half in, the yellow light blinks, three minutes in, the red light goes crazy. All testimony must be related to the matter before us. Thank you. I should be able to hit two minutes on the head. Perfect. Go for it. And in for the record, sorry. My name is Sam Patrick. I'm a consumer advocate with Oregon Citizens Utility Board, and I'm here today to encourage adoption of the resolution to establish a smart city steering committee. Okay.
 CUB is a utility customer advocate that works in the utility regulation arena and at federal, state, and local legislative levels on energy and telecom issues. Also, as you folks know, in 2014, Council invited CUB to serve as an independent and outside advocate for the city's public utility customers. Thank you.
 CUB is also an active player in the Digital Inclusion Network, which is housed at the Office for Community Technology. I actually testified before Council in support of the Digital Equity Action Plan, or the DEEP, and pushed for open data language in the latest COMP plan. On this, we were certainly heartened and pleased to see last month's open data ordinance.
 Last November, I presented an analysis expressing our concern, CUB's concern, with the city's approach to information and communications technology policy development, implementation, and oversight within the current governance structure. Among other options, that report suggested moving the non-revenue collection functions of OCT, that's the Office for Community Technology, into the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 This is why I'm so eager to convey our support for today's resolution, because it really speaks to BPS's unique expertise within the city and their commitment to reasserting Portland as a national leader in developing good public interest policy to underpin innovative or cutting-edge smart cities' work.
 I want to make three additional points. The first is that I'm, of course, pleased to see that OCT has a role on the steering committee and that Julie Olmachuk was included this morning on the presenting panel. Their involvement, OCT's involvement, really, in CUB's opinion, is imperative.
 I am, however, still deeply concerned with their low standing within the city's current governance structure. In fact, this point is the central thesis of our November paper and a forthcoming memo that we are preparing with our friends at the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission, or MHCRC.
 So you folks should look for that memo soon. Finally, I also urge Council and BPS to consider input from MHCRC on the proposed steering committee and any future smart cities work. In closing, really, CUB does applaud BPS's leadership and supports the committee approach because we believe that it will provide a sorely needed forum to facilitate governance structure decisions aimed at building the best team possible to ensure future policy advances in this area.
 Thank you for your time and consideration, and, of course, I'm happy to answer any clarifying questions. Thank you. I'll just make a statement. I welcome your recommendations with regard to OCT. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you for doing that. I appreciate it very much. Commissioner Fritz? I do believe we'll have Council's agreement with my amendment to have a budget note to say that there's not going to be an external evaluation of where it best resides. So I appreciate your support for that.
 Good morning. Good morning. Leif Hansen from the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission, MACRC. Along with our colleagues at CUB, we're excited about and encourage the council to adopt the resolution to establish a smart cities steering committee. As you know, the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission negotiates and enforces cable franchise agreements, manages the public benefit resources and assets derived from the franchises.
 and advocates on behalf of the public interest on communication issues at local, state, and federal levels. We serve the communities, residents, and local governments of Fairview, Gresham, Portland, Troutdale, and Wood Village, and Multnomah County. We contract with the City of Portland for our administrative and technical staff in the Office of Community Technology. That office also houses Portland's energy and utility franchising.
 We manage a considerable asset base on behalf of our jurisdictions, including the cable franchises, contracts with community access providers, and a 321-site institutional network that supports low-cost, high-capacity network services for public buildings and other technical functions throughout Multnomah County. Our team members at the Office for Community Technology manage a similarly valuable asset base via the energy and other utility franchises that they negotiate.
 As the policy and technology landscape rapidly evolves, it's clear to us at MHCRC that the role and interaction between us and other city functions is increasingly critical. It's hard to imagine a smart cities initiative that does not integrate all of these functions, including those supported by MHCRC. And we're gratified that OCT is included as a key partner in the resolution. Thank you.
 As Sam indicated, we will be following up with a joint CUB MHCRC memo outlining our mutual and strongly felt concerns about OCT's structural placement within the city, particularly in light of the centrality of the assets.
 that they manage, and the expertise and experience they bring to the Smart Cities Initiative. We hope to engage in further discussion with Council on this topic. And again, thank you for the foresight in adopting the resolution that anticipates the convergence of urban planning, energy, transportation, and technology. Thank you. Appreciate your being here. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Carol Studentman. I'm currently the chair of the MHCRC, and I'm also the Multnomah County representative on the commission.
 The one thing I would like to add to Leif's comments is that the full membership of the MHCRC has expressed their support for this Smart Cities Initiative. And the full membership is in agreement with CUB and our MHCRC colleagues representing Portland that the placement of OCT is not conducive to OCT's current work or the kind of creative, collaborative effort that will be essential to the Smart Cities Initiative. We look forward to your thoughts on the forthcoming memo.
 referenced by Sam and Leif. Thank you. And I'm sorry, when can we look forward to receiving that? I would say by early next week at the latest. Very good. Excellent. Thank you. I appreciate that. Perhaps earlier. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please. Our Shedrick Wilkins, Mimi Gurman, and Star Stauffer. Morning. Good morning. Again, I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and about Intel and self-driving cars, I think computers should assist your driving but not control your driving. Right.
 I like Multnomah County. When I graduated from PSU, the Internet hadn't gone, but I liked the Internet. Comcast, high-speed stuff. Wikipedia is an updated encyclopedia system. Everything I say is printed out there. I don't know if that's voice recognition, but that's great stuff. This is a smart city. If Washington County wants to have self-driving cars fly around hitting people, that's their problem, not my problem.
 And, you know, if you're driving a car, you're held responsible. So you want to be kind of safe. So it's all right if these things are used to, like, slow the car down, but I'm not here to have cars driven. The airline industry and in the military, they have smart bombs that fly. You know, they're the ones that pioneered this kind of stuff. But there's no planes flying around here without a pilot. Right.
 Pilots have to deal with sick passengers. They have to deal with fuel consumption. They have to do some pilot's gun the runway. Air traffic controllers have to deal with people and stuff like that. Senator, can I just make a comment? In planes that have...
 technology, a pilot can put it on automatic pilot, but you still have a pilot in the cockpit getting ready to override if necessary or make adjustments. So you keep the human element, which is why, after all, a certain United Airplane landed safely in the Hudson River. Without the human element, the plane cannot actually manage those kinds of challenges. There was a 1993 experience. In 1993, IBM in the early 70s designed an air traffic control system that basically just sets off an alarm
 with basic computer chips at the time and said two planes are getting close to one another, and IBM insisted that there be an air traffic controller there. In 1993, Intel put one in Denver, Colorado that talks and stuff. The thing went down for five minutes, and because of Intel, there was no air traffic control system over Denver, Colorado. Thank you. Can I take his remaining time? No. Okay.
 My name is Mimi Gurman, and I would like to say that I find the name of this offensive, and I find it something to elevate Portland as a place that has a smart city, when in fact our city lobbed this at kids' heads on Sunday. This hit this child's head by the police on Sunday, but we're promoting a smart city.
 I take issue with the name. I think it's propaganda. We need to stop with the propaganda in our city. Portland has a lot of problems. Racism at its front end. This is for racism. It hit a black child in the face. Twice. Two of these. There's still black dust from these. What the hell is this?
 In a smart city. This has to do with smart cities. Are you going to respond to what I'm saying? It's not about policing. There will be a time and a place for that. Right now we're talking about the Smart Cities Initiative. I will go to screen one. And the name came from the federal government. It came from Transportation Secretary Fox, who created the program under the Obama administration. A smart city is one where data and technology are used to improve people's lives, especially those in historically underserved communities. Yes.
 This is propaganda. I won't have it in this city without at least being able, like I am right now, to stand up against this. My friend got shot in the mouth on Sunday with a tear gas canister from the police in this smart city. This is propaganda. All I'm saying is I'm addressing the title, I'm addressing the name of this entire program, Smart City, the city that works. Propaganda. Propaganda.
 Enough with the propaganda. If you guys really want to get real about being a smart city, you'll start to accept what we're saying. Until you deal with getting rid of Chief Marshman, who lied on OPB yesterday for 15 minutes, and the cops came out and said, hey, we decided not to talk to you about what we did because there's chaos in the police ranks because you're in charge and you don't know.
 This happens. What would you, where would you be today if this little girl who got hit with two of these was killed on Sunday? We wouldn't be talking about a smart city today or the need for $4 million more in target practice worth of bullets for the police. Amy, I have questions about Sunday, but again, this is not the time. Smart city. It's propaganda. It has nothing to do with
 do with the technology. What it does have to do with is, like Amanda Fritz said, where is the community involvement in this? Where's the black community involvement with this? Where are they saying, well, underserved neighborhoods? Who is representative of that? Propaganda needs to stop in Portland. We're going to become a good place to live or we're not. Stop lying about it. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 I have something extremely important. This is, I'm star staffer. In regards to technology and the way that we use it for public safety, I want to let you in on a little something that came upon me Sunday morning when Sergeant Nia texted me at home to tell me that his commitment was to arrest any alt-righters that tried to cross into Chapman. Then I watched as the Portland police, who clearly disobeyed the orders or pretended they had no knowledge, said,
 allowed these people into the park where we were anyway. I saw them abuse, scream, and shove women and young people who were trying to say, these people shouldn't be over here, they're dangerous. If we're going to talk about smart cities and technology and historically underserved communities,
 A.K.A. black people, A.K.A. brown people, A.K.A. Muslim people, A.K.A. women, A.K.A. disabled, A.K.A. houseless. You absolutely have to talk about all aspects of the safety that you're speaking about in regards to those communities. You don't get to cherry pick which things you speak about in regards to safety for those communities.
 On Sunday, one of your police officers shot me in the face with a little tear gas bullet. I have it. It is intact. That thing had gone into my throat. If I didn't have a bandana and a gas mask shielding my mouth, I would be dead right now. I'm proud of the Portland police. I watched officers with no change of facial expression shoot in the back. Children that were trying to climb out of the parking garage, one of them had urinated himself. He was so afraid.
 And they shot him multiple times in the back until they fell.
 So don't sit up here with all your whiteness and all your privilege and your removed sense of self and relationship to this community and tell me or her or anybody sitting in the back that what we're talking about is something you have interest in. If you have interest in it, then you should set some time aside right now. Quit playing us with your words and do something meaningful. If you're interested, we're all sitting right here. What the hell's stopping you?
 This just happened. You don't get to determine as the aggressor when the victims of that aggression speak out against it. Oh, listen, as the presiding. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. This is not the time or the place. My job is. Excuse me. Yeah, give me my fucking exclusion paper then. Let her get her backpack. Next three, please. The next two are Lenita James and Stan Schaefer.
 Shame on all of you. You're all fucking cowards. Good morning. And listen, folks, as the presiding officer, it is my responsibility. It is my responsibility to enforce council rules. Fuck you, Wheeler! You don't have to agree, but that is what it is. Nazi cops! Fire them! Shot me in the fucking face! He didn't throw me out yet. Fire Captain Kriegerton! He didn't throw me out yet. Let them stay. Fire!
 All right, folks, we're going to take a recess. We're going to take a recess. We are going to take a resource. We will be reconvening in ten minutes. Thank you. No, I'm not running away. I'm de-escalating. Do you want us to go? Yeah. Yeah.
 Unless, are people ready to hear? Are people ready to hear? Okay, let's sit down. Let's reconvene. Folks, we will reconvene, but listen. It's my job to enforce the council rules to ensure that everybody gets an opportunity to be heard. If people shout out and disrupt, people can't be heard.
 And my responsibility is to make sure, listen, this is where we conduct the city's business. If you're here to testify on the matter before the city council, this is the time to do it. If you're not, then let's find a different time and a different place to have that conversation. Good morning. Please, yes. Thank you. So.
 I probably just represent the marginalized community in Portland when we say that that is not going to help us in any way, shape, form, or fashion. We need boots on the ground. I'm not going to sit here and say this whole speech was about the smart city thing because I really wanted to know why it was that you felt not compelled to come out and lace your Nikes up and stand on the front lines with the rest of us and say not in our city. We all grew up here, and we were there peacefully.
 peacefully. I spent 24 hours at OHSU hospital with my sister that you had ejected from from chambers. She's paralyzed on the left side and might not ever walk again but I came down off that hill so I could stand with the rest of Portland because most of us as black community members were scared to show up and I could not allow myself or my sister's voice to go unheard and we
 The question we had the most was, why weren't you out there? There was a rally, a peaceful rally, right outside of City Hall. You could have laced up your Nikes, brought your wife and your daughter, and said, not in our town. Because you have a child. You have a duty as a parent, as a participant in the future of our, you know, whatever.
 to stand up and let your daughter see that you took a stand and you just did it. You guys let us fall flat. And then the officers that you sent out with their technology, that you guys are calling them the safe cities, that officer was so disrespectful to me. I got caught in the kettle, and I didn't do anything because I was exhausted from being at OHSU for 24 hours.
 He asked me for everything under the sun. When I saw white people give a debit card, take a picture, and keep going. That man wanted a social security number, date of birth, phone number. And when I forgot my phone number because he's standing there threatening me, he told me I was going to be arrested. That's your technology that you guys are wanting for a safe city? It's not safe for people like me. It's not safe for people like Star or Standard who's standing up for people like me.
 We need resolutions that's going to affect the city right now. We can't wait for two months to come and testify. We don't have time for that. I've never been violent. I've never been outspoken in city council. I've never been disrespectful. But I was basically billy clubbed and bombed at the park just for standing up because a lot of the black people in Portland are scared to death to come out and say anything.
 We would appreciate it if you'd like your Nikes up and come out and say, we're not having that. We're not tolerating those things in Portland because that's what we need you to do. All this other stuff is irrelevant at this point.
 Thank you. And just for the record, as I said earlier, this conversation is most certainly not over. I have questions, and I'm going to formulate those questions properly. If I've learned one thing in politics, it's not just asking the question, but knowing which questions to ask and how to ask those questions. So I am doing that.
 And I also did speak out very, very forcefully all last week on the issue of what was taking place in this city. And so I reject the notion that I was not present, that I was not heard. If you check the record, I was in the operations center as the police commissioner.
 watching and observing. And that is the right place. That is the right place. No, as the police commissioner, that is my responsibility to be in that center. Thank you.
 No, excuse me. In arrest. Excuse me. Listen. What? I have already called that out, and I support the U.S. Attorney's investigation of that incident, and that was not a Portland police officer. That was a Federal Protective Services officer who reports to Homeland Security. And as you will recall, they are the ones who issued the permit for Shrunk Plaza, right?
 That was not a Portland Police Bureau action, and I do not support it, to be clear. Fair enough. Well, I answered your question, and you can take it or leave it. Sorry. Good morning. I don't make those calls. Sorry. Go ahead. If you'd like to testify, now's your chance. Please do not disrupt, or I will have you removed. Very disruptive.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Stan Schaefer. This techno-utopian vision sure sounds appealing, but maybe I keep hearing this word deployed.
 I don't know that I want militarized language attached to it, since we have problems with surveillance and militarization with profound impacts for people of color and other vulnerable groups. Activists have been targeted. Footage hasn't been shared with the police. We have police co-opting and asking for private citizens' access to their cameras.
 We need to know that their rights aren't going to be violated. I want to make a modest proposal. Police should be fully automated. The robocops I envision would be more like R2-D2 and less like Terminator or killer cyborgs. They would be programmed to not throw flashbangs directly at people or gas elderly and the disabled. They wouldn't gas people who have already been detained.
 Think about cops now. Currently, there is no human element. Instead of just being dressed as Robocops, these real Robocops can be programmed to tell the truth and share it with other officers so guys like Marshman aren't caught off guard not knowing that police illegally detained and ID'd people or that they got gassed after they were detained. Robocops, I imagine, would be able to recognize a real Molotov cocktail and not overreact when they're being thrown.
 They could be programmed to actually inform the public about police activity instead of lie. The RoboCop version of the public information for the PBB could really be different. They could actually show the footage. They need to say, if there's criminal activity in Chapman Square, we want to know. We want to see that criminal activity. Because those bricks, they're not missing from the building like the police said.
 The Robocops, I envision, would actually be neutral. We have evidence from the white supremacists that were here this week. They were really proud that the police didn't face them, but faced Antifa, anarchists, peaceful protesters such as myself. They were really encouraged by that. I can provide this for you.
 But anyway, we don't even know if the retraining that police officers get when they get out of line, we don't keep data on that. We need to keep data on that. We need this data accessed by the people. People could be crowdsourcing this stuff, analyzing this data, and looking for real innovations. Right?
 We could be using cameras on these new robocops that I envision, cameras that are on all the time and that use algorithms like the Seattle Police Department has experimented with, which block out faces until there's actually probable cause. These are the kinds of things that a smart city would start looking at. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X.
 Originally, when you applied for that $50 million grant transportation, the city of Portland was in the forefront to get that money. I sat up here and I said, if you mess around with the Kevin J. Duckworth Memorial, I don't want to see you get that $50 million. As you know, Paul Allen put up $10 million of that $50 million. My suggestion to the city of Portland is,
 Do not mess around with the Kevin J. Duckworth Memorial. Come up with the maintenance money to maintain it. Karma just cost you $50 million, and I can assure you the people involved in this will cost you a lot more. Now, as far as autonomous vehicles, massive unemployment to this city that we've never seen at the scale we'll see.
 We will have an anti-technology autonomous vehicle revolution. Unless you project out and understand we will need a universal basic income for all the people that will be unemployed because of technology in the autonomous vehicles.
 You have to implement that. You have to deal with the labor force out there or this city will be turned upside down.
 You cannot take away their incomes, have them lose their homes, have them lose their cars, have them lose everything else, and go, well, it's in the name of technology. We've got five big corporations. They're going to be making all the money. And guess what? The city is going to be run over like Uber and Lyft did and take away half the other taxi drivers' income and jobs. Again, it is the city's responsibility to talk to them straight up
 to their face and say, what are we going to do about all the unemployed people in this city?
 Yes, your incomes are going to go through the ceiling. You're going to make a tremendous amount of money. But how are you going to take care of the locals in this city? I didn't hear one speaker from transportation have any concerns on that whatsoever. We will have the largest mass unemployment created by autonomous vehicles that we've ever seen in this city. And it is your responsibility to take care of it.
 to put things in place and let the technology companies understand it is your responsibility now to step up and explain what you're gonna do or you're not coming into the city.
 Take your autonomous vehicles, take them somewhere else. Do not create massive unemployment. That is your main concern right now. How are you going to prevent that? Thank you. Yeah, thank you. And that is an important subject, and I'll just shout out Elon Musk. I don't know if you've been reading some of the things he's been publishing on this subject. He's sort of an interesting guy because he's one of the leading proponents of
 of both automation and a universal wage, because he agrees with you that increasing automation in many ways will lead to unemployment in traditional arenas and therefore has also advocated for this universal wage. I find his writings worth – I think you'd find them interesting if you haven't already read. If I may respond real fast. Yes, certainly. Elon Musk does look at things from a different position than a lot of the technology companies. Yes.
 He looks at benefiting the people first. He creates things that will do that, and we need to keep that in consideration when we're talking these autonomous vehicles. It must benefit the people first. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Next three. That was all he signed up for. Very good. Any further questions, colleagues, follow-ups, please call the roll. Fish. Thank you, Mayor, for bringing this forward and to the staff that presented it.
 and I thought we had a good discussion. For me, when we look at these kinds of technologies and so-called disruptions, the question that I will come back to is how does this technology serve people? And our world is becoming more complicated. We're getting these technological advances that no one ever contemplated. But are they really improving our quality of life, or are they just adding a dimension of technological change to our world?
 benefiting a few and not the many. And so having lived through the Uber experience, when I hear about disruptive technologies, I think we have to double down and be vigilant that we are protecting the interests of consumers and that we are not allowing people to come in and do an end run around regulators. And we have that experience, and we need to learn from it. So I'm grateful for the assurances we've received that there will be a level playing field in terms of our stakeholders.
 and I'll be interested in how this comes forward. I will say one thing as a cautionary note. We have places in our community that don't have built-up infrastructure because we haven't gotten around to putting in lights, traffic signals, or safety devices. We are now talking about adding a layer over our technology to allow autonomous vehicles to operate, which will likely be in the central city mostly.
 That's an additional level of investment in technology in terms of our physical infrastructure at a time when we really don't have an equitable distribution of infrastructure citywide. And so I'll be looking at that very closely in terms of where we spend our money. But I appreciate we're getting in front of this so that we can dictate our terms as this technology moves forward. Aye. Saltra? Aye.
 Well, thank you, Mayor, for bringing this forward. It sometimes can be a challenge in our form of government to really focus a coordinated effort across bureaus and offices, and I'm confident that with the structure that was outlined to us today, we will be successful in overcoming that challenge and continue Portland's leadership role as an innovator. More importantly, our smart city efforts have the potential to improve our government operations, enhance Portlanders' access to city services, and improve our government operations.
 and provide greater transparency to the public. My office has been involved in this effort and will continue to be involved in this governance structure and will play an active role in its implementation. And I am in particular excited about the potential of our smart city programs to produce what they can produce with regard to safety and mobility in our transportation system.
 So I'd like to thank the bureaus involved and also particularly the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and in particular Kevin Martin for convening this effort and providing the leadership necessary, as well as Portland Bureau of Transportation Director Leah Treat. So I'm pleased to vote aye. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioner Saltzman, for bringing this forward. I appreciate the leadership of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. The resolution names...
 not only the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, but also the Bureau of Transportation, the Bureau of Technology Services, the Office for Community Technology, and of course I support all of those. It then says, and other city bureaus and commissioners' offices. So I'm certainly looking forward to having a representative from my office on this committee. Thank you, Mayor. Absolutely.
 I would also, I know that you have heard and Director Treat also has heard, I would encourage you to particularly involve the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement, the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And then in terms of the leadership within our community that can provide expertise that works,
 A lot of that just does not exist within our city structure. The Commission on Disability and the New Portland Policy Commission, I think, can be very helpful in structuring this. And as I mentioned, the Public Involvement Advisory Council. So we have these wealth of volunteers who work as hard as city staff without getting paid. And so I'm sure that they would be happy to help with you. And I'm glad you're nodding and acknowledging that too. Happy to. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 So this turned out to be much better and more provocative than even I had hoped it would. This isn't just about leveraging technology, as somebody said during testimony. Technology is changing at a rapid clip, and it is changing the way we work, the way we interact as a community, as individuals.
 I'm mindful of what was just said with regard to the implications of increased automation on our basic understandings about economic prosperity, about employment.
 And I'm also mindful of the fact that one of the co-founders of Twitter two weeks ago basically conceded that the Internet is broken. It really didn't turn out the way they expected. So here we have these huge trends. And I agree with those who say autonomous and linked vehicles represent one of the most significant technological shifts that have, I think, the most profound impact on our economy today.
 And there's two ways to approach this, because we know it's coming. It is definitely coming. We can either wait for it to happen, and I would argue that in the case of –
 the ride-sharing programs, Uber and whatnot, the technology was developed, it was rolled out, it was broadly adapted, and then governments all over the world tried to catch up from a policy perspective. And the reality is the results have been very mixed at best with regard to protecting the interests of the broader community. On this issue of things like autonomous vehicles, I want to get ahead of the curve.
 And programs like this give us an opportunity as a community, rather than letting technology happen to us, it gives us an opportunity to shape the arena. It gives us an opportunity to shape the playing field before the technologies are completely rolled out and already broadly adopted. So I think this is not only a good idea, I think this is an essential idea today.
 And as I agree with everything Commissioner Fritz said about let's go broad, let's include people, let's have the conversation community-wide.
 That's great, but I want to also put the marker out there, and my bureau directors, all of our bureau directors understand this. We have to figure out how internally in a fairly fragmented city structure we're going to work together and identify the priorities, communicate directly, identify the technologies, figure out how collectively we're engaging the community and actually achieving the goals, the lofty goals that are stated in this program.
 I'm going to agree with Mimi and Star on an important point. This can't just be talking points. This can't just be PR. This actually has to work. I would say this is one of the most critical things that we're doing with an eye to the future. So let's put some meat on the bones and do our level best to prove them wrong, and I'm sure they'd be appreciative if we could. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted.
 I'm going to try and catch us up a bit. Could we read the next two items together, please, 616 and 617? Okay.
 616, amend the boundary of the Northwest 20th Avenue local improvement district and include traffic signal replacement in the scope of improvements authorized for the Northwest 23rd Avenue and Northwest Vaughn Street and US Highway 30 intersection and 617. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Northwest 20th Avenue LID project.
 through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority.
 Andrew Abbey is here and I'll let you direct the presentation today on both items. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. I'm Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. I'm joined today by Marty Maloney, who is the right-of-way agent for PBOT, and Andy Sullivan, who is the traffic engineer for PBOT. I'm going to ask for Carla's assistance to switch over to the presentation. And I also just handed out an amendment for Agenda Item 616,
 Marty also handed out an amendment for 617. So maybe before we get started on the presentation, if we could go ahead and make those amendments. The amendment to 616 is for the purpose of withdrawing a remonstrance from XPO, which is withdrawing contingent upon council adoption of the amendment. The amendment to 617 is to add additional five additional right-of-way exhibits.
 So I move the amendment to 616. Second. Fish moves for its seconds. The amendment to 616. Those that is now on the table. I'll move the amendments to 617. Commissioner Saltzman moves. Second. Commissioner Fritz seconds the amendment to item 617. So we now have amendments on the table for both items. And for those of you who are interested in testifying, we have 14 more items this morning. Uh,
 And so I'm going to have to cut public testimony down to two minutes. So if you're thinking of testifying, think about how to shorten your remarks a little bit. Thank you. All right. Well, I will move very quickly through the presentation. I know you have a busy morning. So this is the boundary amendment that is in the underlying ordinance for 616. We're adding the property at 1825 Northwest 18th Avenue into the LID boundary for the purposes of building a curb ramp there.
 The property owner there is very cooperative and in a moment I'll hand you out some testimony, but the property owner is actually interested in donating that right-of-way without compensation to aid the cause of building the new traffic signal, which I'll get to in a minute.
 So why are we looking at rebuilding the traffic signal at 23rd and Vaughan? Well, on August 24th, 2016, I got a letter from XPO. They were concerned that the planned improvements for 23rd and Vaughan were not as robust as they would like to deal with the congestion that will come with future development.
 And so I'll pass out a copy of that letter in a minute. Ironically, on the very same day, August 24th of last year, TriMet sent an email to PBOT identifying problematic intersections around the city where traffic congestion was delaying their route. So this is a picture of Northwest 23rd Avenue, two blocks south of Thurman Northbound. You can see the delays. You can see that car there hanging out into the intersection. So what we want to do is to flush out this traffic on 23rd Avenue.
 So Andy Sullivan is going to just briefly tell you a little bit more about what it is we're proposing for 23rd and Vaughn. Sure. So at this slide, Andrew Sullivan, PBOT Traffic Design. So at this slide, you're looking at here is a screenshot from our traffic modeling software. It's called SimTraffic. And basically what we use this as a tool to...
 look at an intersection, input the existing conditions in terms of lane assignments, signal timing, how much traffic volume, pedestrian volume, and so forth. So this slide here shows...
 The existing condition, if nothing were to change, I apologize if it's a little bit difficult to see, but what the model is showing is if we do nothing at the intersection of 23rd and Vaughn, the 20 acres or so of basically vacant land that's part of this development today, when that does fully develop, so these are future volumes that we're dealing with here, this is what we would expect to see in that area today. It's already backing up today, as we know, but...
 It's obviously just going to make things much worse if we new to things. So we've highlighted backups on 23rd there, that pink box, and also backups on Thurman. This is all traffic trying to get to the US-30 on-ramp towards the Fremont Bridge, I-405 South. Thank you.
 So if we go forward, here is a screenshot from a model with the proposed condition with some upgrades to the intersection of 23rd and Vaughn. So what we're talking is significantly altering how that intersection is going to operate. Yeah, that's a good point.
 And those alterations, basically, we're going to have to rebuild the traffic signal, and so that's why we're talking about it. So I've highlighted the same areas with the pink box, and you can see with the future volumes and the proposed condition of the intersection, 23rd Avenue flushes out a whole lot better. There's no backups on Thurman Street.
 So we really anticipate that this is going to be a big improvement for traffic flow and livability within the Northwest neighborhood. Thank you, Andy. On just the map that you see over to the right are the other nearby arterials in the area of Vaughan and Nikolai Streets, and so we also are looking for options to more evenly distribute that traffic. This is my favorite slide in the whole presentation. I think this really shows how pedestrians are currently an afterthought at this intersection. So...
 If you're walking from XPO and you want to go to the Dutch Brothers coffee shop on the north side of Vaughan Street, when you come up to 23rd and Vaughan, you have to cross over to the west side of the intersection. You have to cross north and then cross back over. So it's a very circuitous route for pedestrians. The arrows in green show that by collaborating with ODOT and replacing the signal, we can also restore the pedestrian connection at the other leg of the intersection. Okay.
 These improvements also set up TriMet for potential improvements to bus service in the intersection. This is my last slide, and I just wanted to show this. There's almost 5,000 bus stops in the city of Portland. The bus stop pair for line number 15 going through the congested area you just saw is the 19th worst in terms of delay in the city of Portland, and that information was...
 provided to me by TriMet. And, you know, this is really an equity issue because as TriMet is thinking about allocating their service hours, we would rather have them allocate it to new service, like in underserved areas like, say, Arnold Creek, Maplewood, East Portland. We'd rather see those hours go to new service as opposed to just simply throwing more buses and operators to maintain service on congested routes.
 So that is pretty much the extent of my presentation. Marty is just going to talk briefly about the property rights, and then I think we can take a roll call on the two amendments and then move on to property owner testimony. Very good. And if I could just do a housekeeping item. For the people waiting for 635 and 636, we're going to do those next because I understand there's some people from the county on a very tight timeline. Sorry. Okay.
 Mayor, commissioners, my name is Marty Maloney with P.O.R.T. Right-of-Way. Order 617 is to authorize them in a domain authority as well as to offer the ability to offer just compensation for the needed permanent and temporary rights associated with Northwest 20th Avenue LID. The property rights in question are needed for construction of bike, pedestrian, stormwater, and roadway facilities within the project area.
 I would also like to add that all affected property owners have been informed about the city's need for certain property rights and were invited to attend the reading of this agenda item. May I ask how many people attended? We've made outreach to all the property owners over the last couple of years. So no particular objections? This has all been baked into the cake for a very long time. Great. Cool. Thanks.
 And then the only thing I would add before we turn it over to testimony, just really important to note that the funding for this new signal comes from the LID meeting, that it comes from private property owners. This does not come out of the general fund. These are not discretionary funds that we can use for other purposes. Thank you. Thank you. Any further questions before we turn it over to public testimony? How many people do we have signed up? One. Just one. Okay, great. Two minutes, please. Jean Harrison. Thank you for coming. Good morning.
 Let's see if I can get a little closer. There we go. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jean Harrison. I'm Chair of the Northwest District Association Transportation Committee. I'd like to thank Andrew and Andy Sullivan for the time they have dedicated to the Northwest 20th LID process. Both of them have been present at several of our committee meetings to explain both the process and the design for the Northwest 20th extension and the Northwest 23rd and Vaughan intersection extension.
 I'd also like to thank staff and XPO Logistics for quickly moving forward with the LID formation. I know it usually takes a lot more time, and I've really appreciated what they've done. Development already completed and under construction right now, along with future projects currently under review in the master plan area, will benefit greatly from these changes. We look forward to seeing Northwest 20th and the intersection improvements implemented next year. That's what I've been told.
 As background, before the master plan was approved, our committee worked with Conway and other neighborhood leaders to make sure that development in the master plan would create a dense and exciting neighborhood that fits into the larger neighborhood fabric. We also worked to make sure that the transportation system would be able to support the new development envisioned in the master plan.
 One of our committee members was instrumental in identifying the Northwest 20th extension as a way to alleviate traffic at this failing intersection. We have frequently stated that both the 20th extension and changes to 23rd and Vaughan intersection are necessary to improve access and flow and need to be done at the same time. The projects are linked and dependent on each other to succeed. This ordinance will help make sure that happens.
 Our committee feels that Andy has substantially improved on the previous design of Northwest 23rd and Vaughan Intersection that was submitted during the master plan process by the consultants. His design substantially improves pedestrian movement and also reduces congestion on Northwest 23rd, which, as Andrew showed you, frequently stretches many blocks to the south during the afternoon rush hour period.
 As an aside, I'd like to say that we know that the changes that are part of the LID will not be enough to adequately deal with travel demand now and in the future. The neighborhood is working with PBOT through the Northwest Parking Stakeholders Advisory Committee and with TriMet on a number of measures to reduce travel demand and improve transit service. Thank you. Thank you for being here. I wanted to also thank you after your long distinguished career with the city. It's so heartwarming to see how much volunteer time you're putting into things that used to get paid for. Thank you. I love it. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and council members. My name is Carrie Ayers-Palinuk, and I am the service planning manager at TriMet. TriMet and the City of Portland have a long history of working together, and we value this collaboration. In this vein, I am here this morning to lend TriMet's support to the City's proposal for the Northwest 20th Local Improvement District and specifically for the proposed changes to the Northwest 23rd and Vaughan intersection.
 We have two bus lines that travel through this intersection seven days a week, one of which is a frequent service bus line, and we are looking at bringing another bus line into northwest Portland from northeast Portland. We have a few details to work through with PBOT and ODOT prior to that implementation.
 TriMet recently did a study of frequent service bus delays throughout the city of Portland, and as Andrew mentioned earlier, we found that this northbound, northwest 23rd to westbound Vaughan area to be the 19th worst bus stop pair for delay or variability of bus time.
 Our buses turn westbound at this intersection and therefore need to use the left lane. Our findings pointed to long queues waiting to get onto the freeway as the major reason our buses and passengers are delayed. Based on this analysis, we believe that having a free right turn will substantially reduce the queuing that is contributing to the delay that we are experiencing.
 Thank you for your consideration. Thank you very much. Could we please, unless there's other questions on the part of the council, can we take a vote on the amendment, please, to item 616? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is adopted. Commissioner Fish? I have just a question. Are we going to now move to a vote?
 It's not emergency, but is there any reason that we should? No, we're moving it to second. We took a vote on the amendment, so I'm going to move it to second as amended. Okay, so Andrew, can I just? I was just wondering why we wouldn't do this as an emergency. Is there a reason to deny it? It's not an emergency. Just move to a second reading next week. Sorry? Yeah, nobody's moved to an emergency. So, Andrew, can I just ask a question? Okay, so this is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second as amended. Sorry. Go ahead. Okay. Commissioner Fish, I have a question for you. I was just going to ask him a question about this, Mayor, but if you want to move on.
 Go ahead. It's still in process. Okay. So, Andrew, we heard some testimony about the queuing up that occurs on 23rd, and it's a no turn on red when you get to the road. So has PBOT weighed in on that question? Absolutely. We've been working very closely with ODOT, and the design that we have is to channelize that right turn movement. And part of what the funding for the signal does is to put a traffic signal in,
 that would only stop the right-turning traffic when they're the pedestrian crossing, that new connection that I pointed out in the presentation. I should add that no right turn is more honored in the breach than the observance. I mean, we could put a traffic control person around the corner and make a lot of money, but it is odd, and that is, I think, one of the reasons that we get backed up. So that will be resolved in the overall fix? Yes, you brought that up at the formation hearing, and we've been diligently working on a solution for that.
 Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions or comments? Can we please take a vote on the amendment to item 617? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for all your work on this. This is one of the projects that I was part of when I was on the planning commission, so I kind of feel like it's coming of age and going off to college now. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Aye.
 And due to the – Andrew, is this the June 28th one or is that – No, that's the other one. Okay, thanks. Very good. Due to time constraints, if we could please move to items 635 and 636, if you could read those items together, please. Thank you.
 635, direct the Bureau of Emergency Communications to work in consultation with partner agencies to review standards for all call answering based upon national best practices. And 636, support robust medical dispatch triage to improve outcomes and more effectively deploy emergency response resources. Very good. And Commissioner Saltzman has to leave, so he asked if he could say something up front. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have to go fulfill my Rose Festival responsibilities and be in the junior parade. But I did want to commend Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Fritz for bringing forward both of these items. And certainly with respect to item 636, improving the 911 system for medical calls.
 would allow the Fire Bureau to better meet the growing demand for increasing medical calls and would likely lead to decreased response times in the case of medical emergencies. Faster response times are absolutely key to increasing the Fire Bureau's ability to save lives and improve the outcomes in the case of medical emergencies. A robust and cutting-edge medical triage system would allow us to explore further innovations like telemedicine or nurse triage.
 Fire Chief Myers has been laser-focused on improving and innovating the medical triage system, and I know he and the entire team at the Fire Bureau will be an essential and collaborative partner in the implementation. Dan, before you leave, can I just do a housekeeping matter? You'll be back at 2? No, I won't. So we have six matters, Mayor, on the agenda that have an emergency clause. Can I have a minute? Ma'am, just once, if we could, we have six emergency items. So when do you do back this afternoon? I will not be back this afternoon.
 Right. Well, almost half of our agenda has an emergency clause. And, well, I'll just point that out. Yeah. No, it's a problem. We'll have to sort it out. And if I might just comment, Commissioner Salson, before you leave, I had the honor of sitting at a table with firefighters at the gathering in North Portland last night. So we had a really robust discussion about some of the things that –
 I would hope to be involved in working with ongoing in terms of the fire bureau's response, particularly to mental health challenges in the community. So I'd be interested to see how quickly it bubbles up to your level. Okay. The items before the council are about resiliency and innovation of the public safety system, as you just heard.
 I've certainly made resiliency and innovation one of the cornerstones of the budget process to ensure that we can effectively deploy our public safety resources to respond to a community-wide crisis if and when it happens. One addresses the findings of the Oedman's...
 Ombudsman's report. 9-11 is a vital service and it must be evaluated accurately if the city is going to be able to make good decisions. Best practices and good data should drive our decision making and I believe it's the city's responsibility to address issues completely transparently.
 The other item will direct the city to broadly engage the leadership of our public safety bureaus, first responders, and other jurisdictional partners to ensure that Portland is providing the best service possible to the community. I don't see improved medical triage causing the city to cut first responders.
 Improving the 9-11 system will allow both the fire bureau and 9-11 to respond to increasing medical calls and focus on decreasing response time in medical emergencies. Both items are about responding to crisis more quickly, resulting in better outcomes in medical emergencies and effective deployment of public safety resources to save lives. Faster response times are key to improving our public safety system.
 Since taking all the bureaus back, I've become involved in these issues, and I'm committed to working with my colleagues to addressing these issues fully, engaging our partners and employees, and supporting work to make our public safety system respond to the broader needs of our community.
 I'd like to allow Commissioner Fritz to give her own introduction and call up Margie Solinger, Joanne Fuller, and Lisa St. Helen to give the City Council an overview of the proposal. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, for partnering with me on this proposal.
 These two resolutions, I appreciate that your office accepted several of our amendments to it. I think we all agree that the primary responsibility of the 911 Centre, the Bureau of Emergency Communications, maybe hereafter called BOEC,
 The primary responsibility is to get help in the community as quickly as possible. And so that's what we're all talking about today. We're all in agreement with that. We also all, I believe, agree that we would be horrified if a pocket dial on a cell phone...
 impacted call takers' ability to respond to an actual help call. So that is something that needs to be addressed, particularly in a bureau that has been understaffed since the recession. And we certainly all agree we're very appreciative of all the staff in the 911 Centre for the very stressful work that you do and the wonderful service you provide to our community.
 I was in charge of the Bureau of Emergency Communications in my first term from 9 to 12. As somebody who had previously then worked in hospitals for 27 years, I was fascinated to see the other side of the patients that we would receive on Northwest at OHSU, for example. And I appreciate the ombudsman calling attention to the issue of cell phone handling and data reporting, both of which are extremely important, I agree with Mayor Wheeler.
 The work that we've been doing since January, when I was assigned the Bureau, has come, as I said, at a very difficult time. We've had a Bureau Director transition, the ongoing staffing shortage, and the catastrophic failure of the Bureau's primary power supply unit in early April, something that's never happened before. So all of those issues have been primary, urgent issues to take care of, and they're all very important.
 The budget which we are poised to adopt tomorrow includes 11 new dispatch positions as well as support for a replacement power supply unit. And again, thank you Mayor for including that in your proposal and colleagues for supporting it for the vote tomorrow. And the resolutions before us today are an opportunity to formalise the city's commitment to addressing shortages in our system.
 I'm also fascinated and I'm very much appreciative of the Ombudsman pointing out that there isn't any enabling legislation in City Code. And so should I be assigned the Bureau ongoing, I'm going to be very interested in leading that discussion. Just so everybody knows, though, the Bureau responds to all Montlomer County calls. So not only the county, ably represented by Joanne Fuller today, but the cities of Fairview, Wood Village, Gresham and Troutdale, as well as the unincorporated area.
 So we have a user board, several of the members are here today.
 And many of the delegates are police chiefs, fire chiefs from those jurisdictions. And that's the policy guidance that guides decisions in the Bureau of Emergency Communication. I also have to say right up at the beginning how appreciative I am of the way that the Bureau steps up in emergencies. And just to give you an example, for the MAX attack, we had 51 calls in 10 minutes.
 And so I know from attending some of the memorials that people were frustrated that their call was not picked up right away. When something like this happens, now that everybody carries their cell phone, the Bureau is completely flooded with reports of the same incident. And so that's something that, as we look to the future, how do we make sure that we let people know that the concern is being taken care of at the same time as continuing to look at how quickly can we get help in a situation like that.
 So thank you to everybody here for working on these issues. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And Margie, Madam Ombudsman, I don't know why I struggle to pronounce that. Why don't you go ahead and tee us up? Swedish. Sure. Thank you. Good morning. For the record, I'm Margie Sollinger, Ombudsman for the City of Portland. I will do my best to get through this without coughing, but just fair warning. Thank you.
 The first resolution before you is responsive to a pair of reports that my office issued about the city's 911 system. The first report came out last December, and the second report was publicly released today. Mayor Wheeler has been so quick to address the concerns raised in the second report that I barely was able to issue it in time for this hearing. But that's a really good problem to have.
 My goal is to give you a quick overview of the problems identified in the reports so that council and the public have some context for why this first resolution is being brought forward and what it's seeking to address. I first started looking into the 911 system last year when my office received a complaint alleging that the city took too long to respond to a fatal house fire. Although the allegations in the complaint were not substantiated, in the course of that inquiry I discovered a problem with the screening device that the 911 center uses for accidental cell phone calls.
 The screening device, sometimes referred to as the Reno solution, was installed in 2004 because the 911 center was receiving an influx of accidental cell phone calls that were diverting operators from handling callers with real emergencies. The idea is pretty simple. Cell phone callers must prove that they are not a mistake. When you call 911 from a cell phone, recording tells you to press a key or say 911. Only callers who take one of these steps will be transferred to an operator or placed on hold.
 if one is not available. The Reno Solution accomplishes what it's designed to do. In fiscal year 1516, for example, it screened out around 144,000 accidental calls. Unfortunately, the Reno Solution also resulted in unintended consequences that have compromised the 911 Center's operations and, by extension, public safety. My first report focused on one of the unintended consequences. That report detailed how the Reno Solution prevents the 911 Center from calling people back
 who successfully make it past the screening system, but who hang up or get disconnected before speaking to an operator. 911 policy requires operators to call these people back in order to determine if an emergency exists. Operators are unable to do so because the Reno solution prevents the system from retaining the caller's phone number, and operators are not apprised that the call occurred in the first place. In fiscal year 15-16, the number of 911 calls affected by this flaw was around 20,000.
 The report I publicly released today focuses on the Reno Solution's other unintended consequence. This latest report details how the Reno Solution prevented the Bureau from tracking hold times for cell phone calls that actually made it through to an operator. As a result, the answer times that the Bureau reported publicly for more than a decade have overstated, sometimes drastically, how well our 911 system is actually performing.
 Instead of exceeding performance measures as reported, answer times are actually well below accepted standards. And I'll walk you through some of those details. The problem stems from measuring different intervals to calculate landline and cell phone call answer times. For landlines, the calculation is just what you would expect. The length of time it takes to answer a call is from the moment a call is received by the 911 center until an operator gets on the line. Okay.
 This is not the way it works with cell phone calls. And again, the Reno solution created the problem. Not only does it lose track of abandoned cell phone calls, but it also results in all successful cell phone calls being treated as if they have almost no hold times. Only the ring time interval, which is one to two seconds, has been counted toward the answer time for cell phone calls. When 75% of your calls are from cell phones, you can see how that skews the numbers.
 And here's an example of how this plays out. You've got two calls, both on hold for identical amounts of time. One is from a landline and one is from a cell phone. As you can see at the top, the landline call is accurately counted as being answered in 8 minutes and 17 seconds. Contrast that to the cell phone call below. Neither the 29 seconds getting through the Reno Solution screening system nor the time spent on hold are counted accurately.
 Excuse me, just one second. May I just ask a clarifying question? I know that some of the calls on 911 are from security systems, like alarms, home security and such. Is that counted under the landlines or under the cell phone lines? Neither. I understand that those are other emergency calls in a separate category. So a call that took nearly nine minutes to reach an operator is counted as being answered in one second.
 Every cell phone call has been counted this way, and as a result, the Bureau of Emergency Communications has inaccurately reported its performance to a significant degree. This misreporting was on display during the most recent budget process. The Bureau's goal is to answer 90% of 911 calls within 20 seconds. Despite chronic staffing shortages, the Bureau reported surpassing this goal by answering more than 99% of all emergency calls within 20 seconds. Thank you.
 The Bureau also reported averaging one second to answer 911 calls. After discovering the undercounting problem associated with the Reno solution, I asked technology services to run the numbers using the actual cell phone call hold times. Instead of answering 99.6% of all calls within 20 seconds, the 911 center is actually answering closer to 68% within 20 seconds, well below its target service level.
 The Bureau's underperformance is compounded by its selection of a modest target service level. The National Industry Standard is that 90% of all emergency calls should be answered within 10 seconds during the busy hour. Against the National Standard for any hour, the 911 Center's performance is even worse. Less than 30% of 911 calls are answered within 10 seconds.
 As you all know, the 911 Center has faced staffing problems for years, and I think the underreporting has exacerbated the problem by removing the sense of urgency. The message the council and the public have been receiving is that the 911 Center has managed to provide top performance despite chronic staffing shortages. Instead, it is now clear that it is performing well below accepted standards. People's lives are at stake.
 And our system for responding to individual emergencies and large-scale disasters is not working very well. And at least in part, it is likely because of the inability to resolve the staffing problems. I made several recommendations in the report about ensuring accurate reporting going forward. And I'm encouraged that the resolution before you today is a concrete step toward implementing those recommendations. I'd also like to note in closing...
 that it was through the work of now interim director Lisa St. Helen that the 911 Center is able to more accurately track whole-time data. Director St. Helen was also critical in discovering the problem addressed in the first report. She has been receptive to the recommendations I make in the report, and she is unquestionably dedicated to getting the Bureau back on track.
 Thank you for your time. I almost made it, and I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Why don't we let her recover a bit. Let's go ahead and just hear the whole panel. Margie, can we get you an aspirin or a lozenge or something? All of the above, yeah. Good. Thank you. I'm not seeking to curry favor with the ombudsman. I just want to make sure that we have a medical. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm next? You're next. Thank you. First, thank you for the opportunity to be able to come and speak regarding both of these resolutions. Can you put your name in the record? I'm sorry. For the record, my name is Lisa St. Helen, and I am the Interim Director for the Bureau of Emergency Communications. I appreciate the opportunity to be able to come and speak about the resolutions and about the ombudsman's report.
 I do look at this as an opportunity to solidify our Bureau's commitment to doing exactly as the Mayor said, and that is ensuring that we are providing the best service possible to the community and to our partner service agencies. Although I have been the Interim Director for two months, that obviously is not a very long time, I am still able to sit here confident before you and affirm that our Bureau is absolutely committed
 willing and on board to ensure that we are operating with full transparency and probably more importantly with statistical clarity about what's happening within our bureau. As the interim director and simply as a City of Portland employee, I look at myself as a public servant. I know it's a word that gets tossed around a lot, but I take that sense of obligation very seriously.
 The Ombudsman's report offers many recommendations, of which I am very grateful for. I believe that those recommendations, when enacted, will ensure that we are moving towards our goal of providing the best service and getting ourselves back on track. And ultimately, my hope is that in a few months, BOEC will be invited back to this table. And whoever is representing BOEC at that time, my hope is that the narrative will be different. And the narrative will be that we didn't come today and talk about –
 cliches or talk about wanting to do better or getting back on track. The narrative will be that we did get back on track and that we recognized the errors of the past, we had a sincere desire to fix them, and that we have, in fact, moved forward. So thank you. Well, thank you. And your leadership of the Bureau in addressing this, and even before you were the interim director, has been exemplary, and I really appreciate working with you. Thank you. The question I asked the ombudsman in terms of the alarm system calls
 I think we were going to finish out the testimony and then come back. We were going to hear from all three, and that was what the mayor requested.
 Well, do you agree with that? I apologize. I didn't hear your question. I'm sorry. About the alarm system calls, that they're not, the ombudsman said those aren't counted anywhere? The alarm system calls actually come in on the 911 line, on the 911 trunk. They are prioritized below the 911 calls themselves. So anytime a 911 call comes in, it will jump ahead of any alarm call that is waiting. But that is included in the time, the average time?
 The response to those? My belief is the answer is yes. I would have to clarify with the technological person that provided that report to Margie. Thank you. And just one other question of clarity. Does the caller on the cell phone have to actually say 911, or would any loud noise be enough to trigger it to becoming a live call? Yeah, it actually doesn't even have to be a loud noise. We still get pocket dials that come through. It can be any noise. It can be a button push. It can be any sound. It can be 911. Yeah.
 the sensitivity is set at a point where any type of audible noise will push it through the system. So in an incident like the Max attack, the amount of noise that was going on there would certainly have got through to the 911 operator? Yes, yes, I believe so. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. It's great to see you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. Joanne Fuller, I'm your health department director at Multnomah County, and I'm here today to talk about Resolution 636. So you all know that by law counties are required to develop an emergency medical plan.
 and a contract for ambulance services. We do this in deep collaboration with all of the cities within our jurisdiction and with your emergency responders and the emergency responders from other cities and with BOEC.
 So, and this year in developing, well, actually in 2016, as we developed the plan that our board adopted in December of 2016, we also, for the first time, deeply engaged communities, both using an equity lens, communities of color, and also users of the ambulance service system to try to get their perspective as well as the perspective of responders and the agencies that we work with.
 Our board, as I said, adopted our new plan in December of this last year. That plan calls for one ambulance provider across the county, which is what we have today. And when that change went into effect many years ago, that was really to –
 and what people termed the ambulance wars, which was different ambulances racing to the same scene to try to pick up a victim. And we believe deeply that one plan with one service that works with all of the different other first responders will create the best service possible for our community. Thank you.
 In addition to that, the plan also calls for us to implement a more modern, robust system for discriminating between the urgency and acuity of different calls. This is a technology that's used in the U.S.
 in cities across the country, and it will really allow us to dispatch resources in a much more refined way, which means that our most urgent, our
 which are needed for most urgent situations will be dispatched to those and will be able to, as Commissioner Salsman was saying, create additional refinements where we're responding to emergencies in a much more granular and differential way. We believe that this is critical because we're seeing an unending increase in the demand for response in the
 As we continue to deploy technology and make it easier and easier for people to call 911, we expect that that demand is going to increase. And so we need to adopt this technology that will allow us to make a more discriminated choice about how we deploy the resources. And I'll answer any questions that I can. Thank you. I have two questions. Please. I think we've lost the ombudsman.
 And I wanted to just tell her, and I'm sorry she's not here, that one of the reasons that I strongly supported Measure 26-189 is we put her office into the charter and ensured that she would have independence and be able to precisely perform this function. And I did not expect so shortly after the election would we have such a clear indication of the benefits of an independent ombudsman embedded in our charter. So, yes.
 Ms. St. Helen, I know you're the interim director, and so there may or may not be questions that you can answer, but I read your response to this report, and you say, quote, Bureau decision-making has been transparent.
 But isn't precisely the thrust of this report that it has not been transparent? In other words, how can bureau decision-making be transparent if the central claim of the ombudsman is that both the public and the council have been provided with inaccurate information? How does that meet – what's the transparency standard that you're referring to?
 I believe that my response to that statement was in reference to articles that are brought forward or implementation of new technology and things that go into BOEC, new programs and such. And those items have always been brought to our user board and vetted through our city commissioner. At no point have I stated that the fact that...
 provided in the past decade of statistics to city council and to anywhere has been incorrect. It has. It has absolutely been incorrect. But as far as that statement that I made, it was really pointed more towards the vetting of any new programs or technology that goes into our building. The ombudsman says at page five the Bureau of Leadership has known for at least 18 months that the information was incorrect. Yes, sir. As part of your investigation,
 initial review of this matter, have you been able to make any preliminary determinations as to why that information was not corrected in a more timely manner? The information, the fact that we had a significant issue with our statistics was identified in the mid-portion of November. I met with our Bureau of Technology Services the following day
 And I have met with them until the fix that we're currently utilizing was implemented in November of 2016. And I met with them on a regular basis multiple times every month.
 to keep track of what was happening to rectify the situation. No, and I applaud that in that in page two of your June 2nd response, you allude to the fix that was put into place immediately, and you're to be applauded for that. But the question that I have is that the ombudsman says in her report that the Bureau was aware of the fact that incomplete information had been provided to the council and the public for almost two years. Okay.
 Have you been able to determine why that was the case? The answer is no. If I could help out here. I'd like to first ask the interim director. I believe that there's two parts to this problem that we recognized. And the first part was the fact that we recognized that there was a technological problem that had provided us incorrect statistics for a decade, and then we had to get that fixed again.
 There was another issue that had to deal with how do we address this issue. As the operations manager at the time, I was responsible for ensuring that a fix was found, for working with our BTS services and ensuring that a fix was found. I was not responsible for addressing this in a...
 public forum or in a city council forum? No, I appreciate that. And I did not mean to imply that you were, but you're the most senior official here to help us understand it. And if what you're asking is whether or not I know why those decisions were made or why they were reported that way, the answer is no, I do not know. Okay. Just in plain English so that I can understand it, what was the fix that you implemented in November? There is no plain English for this. As simple as possible, just so we get the gist.
 BTS is now able... They have implemented some type of a script...
 a computer script that allows them to pull data from one entity, which is called a CDR. I don't know what that is. It's a data receptacle. And they are able to take that information, which contains the cell phone callers, and they take the information that comes in from our landline callers, and they are able to manually, and I believe that they have this automated now as well, but combine those numbers, which is supposed to give us reliable data now.
 And from the moment you became aware of the problem to when the fix was implemented, how long did that take you? Almost one full year. Took you a year? Took us a year, yes. There was an attempt at a fix in February of 2016, and the data that came out of that fix was clearly not accurate either, and so they continued to work on another fix. How much of this problem would you attribute to the short staffing at the Bureau?
 The problem with the incorrect statistics, none of it. This is simply an issue that came with the implementation of the XMU system. It does not have anything to do with the short staffing. The short staffing is absolutely, and the chronic short staffing is an issue, but it is not, in my view, directly related to this problem.
 One last question. The ombudsman said that as a result of her findings, she concluded that public safety had been compromised.
 Now, any time there's a delay in addressing a call, there's the risk of some compromise to public safety. It could be a longer period of time until an ambulance or fire truck reaches an emergency. It could be a longer period of time until a police officer is dispatched to an incident. But that's an abstraction unless we quantify it. Do we have some way of determining whether, in fact, there was an actual delay?
 compromise the public safety on a human scale? I do not. And Ombudsman, is there some way for us to determine whether as a result of any kind of delay something bad happened that was otherwise preventable? No.
 That's not something I tried to determine, but as you said, there's a delay in answering. There's a delay in dispatching that results in a delay in responding and providing the care that's needed. And in an industry where it's a matter of seconds instead of minutes that matter,
 it was meant as the objection that you described. So I appreciate that this report has a series of what seemed to me to be very bold and clear recommendations, and I appreciate that the resolutions before us essentially embrace them, and we're going to move forward. I'll have a question for the mayor in a moment about timeline, because I think it's very important we set public expectation about when these things are going to happen and when we'll have code language come back and the like. But –
 Ms. Salinger, a question I have for you is that you've identified something very, very serious, and that is incomplete or inaccurate information coming to decision makers. We are free to make bad decisions. Our system allows us to make bad decisions. But we rely on having good data upon which to make good or bad decisions.
 As you step back and look at this particular case that you've investigated, any lessons learned about steps that we can take in the future to ensure the public and our process that we have good data? Were there any flaws in our system on our side of the table in terms of getting good information when we needed it? I don't think you paid me enough to answer that question. Do we pay or does the ombudsman pay? I mean, does the auditor pay? I don't want to run afoul of the charter here.
 I think there are systems. I guess I would say what are lessons learned for you about in terms of this question about making sure the public and the council has reliable information? I didn't try to do a full postmortem on this one. It was more important to kind of just get the information out there. I do think you have a number of processes already in place, which the recommendations suggest making use of, like the Technology Oversight Committee recommendations.
 The City Budget Office provides a monitoring role for these key performance measures, so I think they have a role to play in terms of making sure that the information that Council is getting is accurate and fully accounts for the situation. Did you get full cooperation in the course of your investigation from the Bureau? Absolutely. So you got what you needed? I did. Director St. Helen in particular has always been very forthcoming. Okay.
 Okay, thank you very much.
 may may commissioner fritz i just want to thank again commission lisa st helen who was one of the key leaders in bringing this attention to light 18 months ago um so i appreciate that i also remind you commissioner fish that at no time that i can remember over the last nine budgets has the council made decisions based on oh the call time is fine um we don't need to worry what we've been looking at is the staffing matrix and the extreme shortage and
 also the mandatory overtime in order just to cover minimum staffing. And we have, when possible, given, approved more staff for BOAC. You'll remember that Commissioner Novick was very insistent on that and we, to the extent we could, approved his requests. So there's a shared...
 Acknowledgements of the problem, and we appreciate the Ombudsman bringing this forward, there's a shared embracing of we need to address both the data and the staffing issue and that the council under Mayor Wheeler's leadership has allocated more resources to work and I appreciate that.
 Well, I appreciate that comment, but I don't know how the council would have reacted one way or another based on getting accurate information about call times. And at the very least, it would have allowed other third parties to come to us, raise a flag, and say this either falls below or above an industry standard. So I don't know how we would have acted differently. But...
 In my nine years on the council, this is one of the most sharp reviews by an independent body on the question of the quality of the information that the public and the council receives. So I'll just leave it at that. And so what we would have done with it, I think the council, my sense is that we have not put adequate resources into this bureau, and we'll correct that in part in this budget. I think there are going to be more resources. I am...
 I am actually shocked that there isn't the code structure around this. I think another great benefit of your report is that we have to create the legal code structure for this, and we have a chance to get it right now. To me, I'm not looking at this in terms of looking for scapegoats right away. I'm looking for how we can make sure that...
 our role as an oversight body, that we get the information we need to do our job. And when I read in a report that we're getting inaccurate information, I have no idea how we would have acted one way or another. But at the very least, someone might have said that we were falling below a standard that we should be adhering to. May I speak just to that point? You had asked me earlier if I understood why the council was given inaccurate data, specifically, I believe, in the last budget cycle. Okay.
 It is perplexing to me, and I have to assume, I can only assume, that it had to have been gross oversight.
 in that had we reported the actual data, the actual data that the ombudsman has taken the time to present today, that would have solidified what we have been talking about for years, stating that we need more people to help answer the calls in a timely manner, which frankly doesn't just serve the public. It serves our bureau and the city as well because our folks are not getting burnt out taking call to call to call.
 So why it wasn't addressed, I don't know, but I am equally concerned. I just want to say, Mayor, I'm glad you said that because the Mayor and I had a similar conversation recently with our friends at the Regional Arts and Culture Council, which for the first time is going to be the beneficiary of a performance audit. It's in the queue, it's funded, and an independent team of auditors are going to come in and look at how they spend their money.
 And that understandably has caused some anxiety. And what Ted and I have said to our friends at RAC is that facts are friendly. If the audit determines that all your systems are working just fine, then congratulations. If the audit says that there are things where you need to tighten the bolts or do things differently, then better now than later. And I think the point you just made is –
 I must say I compliment you for adding that to the record. Had we had accurate information, it would have underscored in red underliner the fact that the staffing issues needed more of our attention, and I appreciate you calling that out. Commissioner, if I could say so. Again, I'm glad the frame of this discussion is not piling on Lisa, and I want to second what the ombudsman said. I believe Lisa has been completely forthright.
 in my conversations with her and has been aggressively pushing for and supporting the reforms that are encapsulated in these resolutions. So I want to thank you for that. And I know you're feeling the heat at the moment. A little bit. And that's okay. That's leadership. We all inherit things, and we own them, and that's what leadership is all about. So thank you for that. I think it is more serious. Yes.
 than the way it has just been characterized. I do not believe it is accurate to say that this was a staffing problem. I believe this was a failure of leadership, and I believe it was a failure of accountability, and I believe the city council was misled when the –
 Plea was made for additional staffing. That plea was actually, I believe, severely undercut by repeated statements that the data was favorable in terms of the response time to 911 calls. And in fact, what the ombudsman has uncovered is that sometimes a call that took nine minutes to get through was counted as a one-second call.
 And it defies the common sense test. When somebody says, how long did it take for your call to go through, what they mean is from the time that they dial to the time somebody on the other end of the phone picks up and says, hello, how can I help you?
 And to have that interpreted as one second, I don't know what planet you have to be from to assume that that is the right answer to the question about how long did it take to answer the call. It defies common sense. And so, Lisa, I want to thank you for your frankness and your willingness to push hard and work on addressing these issues. And I want to thank the ombudsman.
 She had to explain this to me. I mean, I think the report is excellent because it doesn't delve into the details. The details are mind-numbing in terms of the different switching mechanisms and communication channels and interrelationships of different data centers. It is very complicated.
 And I don't want to in any way understate the importance of the work ahead. The answer to Commissioner Fish's question to me, what is the time frame here and how do we set public expectations? The time frame is this. However long it takes to do it right is how long it's going to take. I don't think we have a clear sense right at this moment, Commissioner Fish, about exactly what it is going to take to be able to correct this serious problem. But these resolutions set the table.
 for us to be able to do that in an open and accountable way, working with the right people to help us address this problem. I mean, there are a few services the city provides, but
 where life and death is literally on the line, and this is certainly one of them. So it's got to be a top priority, and I'm glad I'm hearing strong support from all members of the city council to pursue this. And, Lisa, thank you again for stepping into the breach and working with us on this. I'm very appreciative of the partnership with other jurisdictions. Joanne, it's always a pleasure to see you in any context.
 And the auditor is trying not to be recognized today. She's hiding behind a column so I won't see her. But thank you. That's it. That's my tirade. That was the whole thing. May I just ask one thing? There are some technology solutions coming. I don't want to leave the hearing with the public concerned that it's going to take months to get there.
 We're not trying to address it. So would you just go into the new phone system that's going to come into play later in the year? Sure. So every five years, the state of Oregon Office of Emergency Management is responsible for upgrading the phone systems within the entire state of Oregon for all the PSAPs or all the 911 centers.
 Most, if not all, I think there might be two or three left, have transitioned to the upgraded phone system, BOEC being the largest in the state. Generally we go last. We wait until all the bugs have been worked out. And we are slated for that implementation in November of this year. We will start doing training on that in October of this year. With that upgrade, we'll bring a fix. We will be able to eliminate this problem
 pseudo-manual fix that we have in place and all data that we get, regardless of where a call comes from, whether it be landline, VoIP, or cell phone,
 the data will be collected to one portal. So we'll be able to take all of that information from one place, and we will be assured that we are reporting clear data. Additionally, it also provides us with better ways to divide out calls, and we're able to look at clusters of calls ahead of time. So say, for example, on the... I don't want to use the max stabbings. If we were to have a large-scale event...
 and it resulted in multiple phone calls. Say, for example, a car accident on a freeway, and we get a spike of 27 calls. We will have the ability, I am told that we will have the ability, to look at that and realize 24 of those are coming from that sector.
 we'll be able to pick the one that's coming from over here. Because we've already got the information and we're heading that way, we're still going to get to those. But we're going to get to the one over here that might be a different emergency. And so when this new phone system comes in, we'll have that capability as well. Thank you. And what's happening about the staffing issue that we're all concerned about?
 The staffing issue, last year in order to address the staffing issue, our training department has implemented three academies as opposed to two academies. This year we are doing the same, and we have slated the same for next year. We will be...
 I have our training manager here. I believe we have something close to 30 people in the training pipelines right now at different phases. Looking at the numbers that we have right now, my best guess, and it is a guess but it's an educated guess, is probably by mid of next year we're going to see significant improvement. Probably within two years, I believe that we could be –
 well over the 100 staffing mark, which is where we've not been in longer than I can imagine. And how long does it take a trainee from the first day to when they can operate by themselves? On average, anywhere from about 14 to 18 months. Thank you. I want to come back to the ombudsman for a second. I'm just going to quickly tick through your recommendations. Ensure performance data collection and reporting is accurate.
 So that's an ongoing process, correct? And it may very well include a follow-up investigation as to why information was not corrected. It seems to me, Mayor, that this is an additional inquiry that has to be conducted here. And then stress testing the systems to make sure that this and other bureaus are giving accurate information. Is that fair? Yes, yes.
 The Gator system, I'm a little, help me understand this. You've recommended that either there be a government accountability transparency results session to address 9-11 or a legislative oversight hearing, or both, I suppose. But a legislative oversight hearing would be us holding a hearing for the purpose of doing what? My sense is that the two reports that I did are just scratching the surface.
 of the issues that are going on at the 911 Center. I don't profess to have uncovered all of the problems, and so...
 Rather than stopping short here with just what I've been able to figure out, it struck me that it would make sense to do a full airing conversation, pointed questions of everyone involved, to just make sure that the system is working properly, that the problems are identified, and that whatever steps that need to be taken going forward are addressed.
 That could be a council work session, right? Sure. In fact, Mayor, my own experience is the council work sessions, because you can schedule who is speaking and structure it in a more formal way is actually sometimes more helpful in terms of doing oversight. Even though we can't make a decision, I think as an information-gathering tool, it can be more helpful. And it's also out of sequence. You do it on a Tuesday and not jammed into a –
 busy schedule on Wednesday or Thursday. Tasking the city's technology oversight committee, that's straightforward. Reassessing staffing needs, that's an ongoing question. And then codifying BOAC as a standalone bureau. That seems to me to be something the city attorney is tasked with doing, and that comes back. So, Mayor, I would just want to add one thing to your excellent resolution, which is
 that in the early fall we schedule a council work session to have you update us on the progress towards the various recommendations and with an opportunity for the council to go a little deeper into this. Sounds good. I'll work with staff to do that. So, Commissioner Fritz, and then let's see, how many people do we have signed up for public testimony? I believe it's possibly about eight.
 I think a lot of people have left. OK. Before getting that, I just wanted to note and reminder that it does serve the whole of Multnomah County. So in terms of the city attorney coming up with enacting legislation, I think it would need to be more of a
 potentially commissioner-led collaborative partnership rather than just our shop bringing it. So thank you, Director Fuller, for your willingness to do that. We appreciate it. Thank you. Very good. And colleagues, while we are waiting for public testimony, I want you to think about something. I would like us to adjourn about one because I'd like to give us a break before the lengthy afternoon session.
 Uh, we do not have enough of a quorum to be able to entertain emergency items, resolutions, or ordinances. We could, however, still hear the presentations on those commissioner Saltzman has already agreed through his staff to review the video of those options. And then we could just vote on them quickly tomorrow afternoon. So we could do the, the hearing and the testimony on those items today, take the vote tomorrow. So think about that, uh,
 I have been pinged that we have one individual, uh,
 waiting very eagerly for a pulled consent agenda item 624 on the Albertina Kerr and the different spokes to acquire bicycles and operate adaptive bicycle rentals. We also have an issue with regard to item number, hang on, the last time certain,
 we are going to lose Andrew Abbey soon. Andrew, how long can you stay? I would need to leave at 2 o'clock. Great. So I think we can do it in that order. Mayor, I support that. Can I just make another suggestion? If we're going to set over the emergency items for vote until tomorrow at 2, we're losing our quorum tomorrow at 3.
 That is correct. And so could your office let us know this afternoon at 2 which of the items scheduled for tomorrow afternoon are to be sent over? So I was going to keep this secret until I was far away from the building. Our staff is already working with your staff to see if we can start early tomorrow.
 That's fine. I knew you wouldn't like that. But, for example, we're not going to get to the 330 times certain. That's correct. So, I mean, we can just know what's going to be pushed off altogether. Very good. Happy to do that. All right. Why don't you guys, to the degree you want to stick around or take a seat, we'll take some public testimony. Again, two minutes each, please. Is there a Red Hamilton? Alan Fershawler? Alan? Fershawler. Oh, thank you. Sorry. Oh, that's a W. Becky Smithson? Grace Hipp? Or Phoenix Hipp?
 Rob Wheaton. Yes, Rob. How about Brighton West? I think some of me have made their commentary on the way out of the door. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Okay, great. Well, my name is Brighton West. Do you need to address 3741? No? Okay, perfect. Thank you.
 So I'm here as one of those dropped callers. I'm here because in January of last year and December of last year, I made 911 calls, once for an impaired driver that nearly hit me and once for a fight breaking out in the middle of the street. And the calls were...
 One was dropped, and the other was not – this stayed on hold to the point where it was no longer an emergency. I did notify the mayor's office at the time, who then notified Steve's office, who then notified the bureau, which I got some, you know, sorry, sometimes we get busy. And then the second time, I notified Steve's office directly and never heard back.
 So I guess the point I want to make, and I hate to rely on the Oregonian, especially when there's negative information, but I get here from the Oregonian this morning, let's see here, until this week, Bureau leaders ignored the ombudsman's advice that the propning of Commissioner Fish, Turley, and St. Helens dismissed the ombudsman December findings in a March budget session before the council. I hate to, and then actually it goes on, and...
 Commissioner Fish says if we would have dropped 18,000 people, we would have certainly heard about it. I was telling city council multiple times, multiple councillors about this problem. And this seems to have happened months ago, not years ago. So I guess I do want to say that the city council needs to hold some responsibility for not listening to the Amos Budman the way she should have been listened to.
 I would like to comment that I did talk with the reporter for 12 minutes yesterday and nothing that I said appeared in the article. Also that under my, now that, well previously when it was under my leadership we do investigate every concern that's brought to us and get back to the community member. So I'm sorry that didn't happen previously but if I'm assigned the Bureau then it certainly will be and we acknowledge there's been a
 been many problems and that we are committed to fixing them. I support all of the directions in this resolution, which is why I put my name on it. So thank you. Rob?
 Rob Wheaton, Oregon AFSCME. Of course, you know I represent the employees at the Bureau of Emergency Communications, the 911 dispatchers. I want to say that at this moment I have never been more appreciative of the OMS Budman as I am right now. My members at BOEC have been complaining for years that this data seems to be inaccurate. We've been told that they've cut off the top 1%. It's statistically irrelevant.
 You know, we've been given a variety of stories that some of these longer hold times aren't really 911 calls. They're, you know, they're alarm companies calling in, which, you know, by the way, is still an emergency. I mean, that could be a crime in progress.
 We have, we started notifying you guys through social media of long hold times that we've seen up to 25 minutes. And this is something that we found absolutely unacceptable. So we're happy to hear that something is being done today. I appreciate the remarks that you made about let's move some things forward. I also agree with Yam Spudsman that this is just a scratch of the surface of the issues that exist.
 at that center. It seems that, you know, we just went through a long bargaining process that resulted in arbitration where we ultimately lost, but we were trying to secure wages because we can't control how this place is managed. And what we can really do to increase staffing here is change the way this place is managed, change the culture of management there, and start, you know,
 really, really making a difference within this system. So, I mean, I would encourage the city council to restart the national search for a bureau director. And, yeah, I'm just happy to see that you're passing this resolution today. Thank you. And I want to thank you and I want to thank your colleagues. And I appreciate the conversations that we've had on this, and I definitely look forward to engaging you going forward. Thank you for your good work. And I'd like to...
 I agree with that, and also to stress that I think all of us really appreciate the work that's being done to the best of anybody's ability in the Bureau, given the staffing situation. So thank you. Please thank you, members. Yeah, I'll pass that on for sure.
 Thank you. Thank you. For the record, Alan Frischwald, I'm president of the Portland Firefighters Association. Commissioner Frisch, thank you for the help on my last name. I appreciate that. And just the other day I was working, and I work out of the PSU fire station, and a perfect call came in that you want to address. And Rescue 24 went from North Portland over to Terwilliger Terrace, and the call was to help move a patient from one bed to another. And it really does show...
 that we go on calls that we don't need to go on. So I want to be really, really upfront that we are supportive in looking at that. One of the things that was surprising is to hear about this resolution on the news and not be pulled into part of the resolution and looking at something that would be such a drastic change.
 And so that's really the basis of what I wanted to talk about is that as we look at trying to change a system that has been in place, when I was hired in 2001, I think we went on 50,000 calls or 55,000 calls, and now we're going on 90,000 calls.
 And so it has increased a lot. My fear is that if we put the, if we haven't engaged the union and really the fire bureau yet on this issue, my fear is that we don't continue to be engaged and not put as a key partner. Our fire chief isn't even here right now. You know, this is a resolution that he should be a part of.
 You know, when you look at it, one of the things in 635, it has BOAC, BTS, OMF, CBO, but there's nothing for the fire bureau in there. On 636, it talks about labor relations working with BOAC management, but it doesn't put the firefighters in there as well. And so –
 If we are going to get involved, which I think we should, then what we need to do is get involved with everybody. And so where we have talked about GMT and ambulance service area, we really haven't had a lot of cohesive support from council to be able to push a lot of those issues. And so in summary, if we are going to do it, let's do it all together and go all in, but let's all be partners to do it.
 Yeah, Alan, thank you for that admonishment, and I'll take responsibility for that. We did engage at the management level. We should have engaged you. It was wrong not to, and I apologize to you personally. We'd absolutely love to have your engagement in this process.
 So no disrespect intended. That was an oversight on my part. So thank you for the offer. We don't need to amend the resolution. That's the legislative intent. And I also want to thank you back when the county was passing their resolution that you brought that to my concern. Your commissioner at the time was involved in negotiations that I wasn't part of. So, yes, I'm very glad that you'll be involved moving forward and with AFSCME as well and the other unions like the Portland Police Association. Thank you. Thank you.
 I believe that's all who signed up. That is all. Very good. Commissioner Fish, did you have an additional question or comment? Nope. Just look forward to voting on both. Me too. So with that, please call the roll on 635. Fish? Again, let me begin by thanking the ombudsman who works in the auditor's office and is now embedded in the city charter for taking on this issue and releasing this report.
 I believe that an independent auditor is crucial to good government, and I think this report once again underscores the need to have an ombudsman that's protected in the charter, and I was pleased to support that effort. Mayor, I appreciate the diligence and, frankly, lightning speed in which you brought this forward. This is one of those times where, while I agree with what you said to Alan in terms of engaging our partners,
 I'm glad you acted promptly and expeditiously. And there's quite a lot of reference to our friends at Portland Fire and Rescue in Resolution Number 36, and I know that we won't move forward without fully engaging our friends at the Fire Bureau. So I'm glad that Alan framed that. I made a note as the testimony was going forward about the challenges the Bureau faces, staff shortages, transition and leadership, not being in the charter.
 communication with council, history, regulatory issues. That's a lot. And so let's take one moment to, again, thank the dedicated employees of the Bureau for the service they give to our city. And as someone who uses the system from time to time when I see something that's problematic, I've always gotten a prompt response and dealt with a courteous and well-trained and professional person. So I want to acknowledge that, the folks who are providing public service.
 This issue, though, about the information flow to this council as a decision-maker is fundamental to how our government operates.
 And I don't know that in my nine years I've read a report quite as scathing as this. The question is not now just dwelling on the past. It's making sure that this doesn't happen again. And so I think it is now our job to dig a little deeper, Mayor, to understand how this happened, and then to support you as you implement a series of reforms to provide this Bureau with even more strength going forward.
 And I do think it has been chronically understaffed, and I welcome, and not in the fall bump or whatever appropriate time, but in the time here, an ongoing conversation about what is the right size in terms of staffing of this bureau. We ask an awful lot of these folks. They do very stressful work, and we should be proud of the work they do. Thank you for bringing this forward. Excellent discussion. Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Thank you. Thanks to the auditor and the ombudsman for bringing this forward. It's really evidence that as we move to more performance-based decision-making, sometimes even the City Budget Office, which I know Commissioner Fish shares my pride in having helped create,
 They also missed this issue when we were evaluating whether performance measures were met. And so, as I say, I think good-hearted people and very earnestly trying to provide the best services, that's something that we all share. And we need to figure out...
 And as was also noticed, as more and more people would call for things that they might not previously have called for, we are going to continue to have more and more calls. And so there's going to need to be some community education about some things being higher priority than others.
 I will, of course, beat my usual drum that when we have a 311 system, it will be much easier for community members to get a quick response on issues that maybe a 911 dispatcher doesn't need to take care of, and so I'm looking forward to that. I appreciate all of the recommendations and joining the mayor in...
 firm resolve to address, in particular the issue of having a government accountability transparency and results session. I think that's a good approach.
 We do need to make sure that all of our partner agencies are involved, not only Portland Fire and Rescue and the Police Association, but Gresham Fire and Police, Multnomah County, the Sheriff's Parole and Probation folks, the Port of Portland, the Airport Fire and Police, Fairview, Corbett Fire and Police, and Sylvie Island Fire and Police. These are some of the partners that we work with, and it's going to be very important to make sure that everybody's at the table and figuring out...
 what goes into the code, what goes into policies, and how we're going to work with the county as the emergency medical system request for proposals goes out so that we're sure that what's in that request speaks to the needs of the staff providing the service as well as the community members. And so I know I have the commitment of staff in the Bureau of Emergency Communications. And again, thank you to Directors Lisa St. Helen. In just two months, you've...
 Already brought some remarkable transformations within the Bureau, and your willingness to address this issue leading back two years ago is exemplary, and I very much appreciate everybody's participation. I look forward to working on it as we move forward. Aye. Wheeler. I'll let my previous comments stand. Aye. Resolution is adopted. Please call 636. Fish. Aye. Fritz.
 The only people I forgot to thank were Claire Adamsick and Tim Crail in my office. Tim was my liaison for four years in my first term, and Claire has been a remarkably quick study in the second. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted. Please call item 624. Authorized grant agreements not to exceed $28,000 with Albertina Kerr Centers and different spokes to acquire bicycles and operate an adaptive bicycle rental pilot project.
 There was public, did you want to come up and just give one minute? Yeah. You were the one who asked for public testimony on this item? Yeah, great. Please have a seat. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you for your patience. I need to request an accommodation, especially with the time. Part of my disability is my ability to articulate and present something. And you can either honor that or not. I honor you. Please have a seat. But I am requesting it. Very good.
 Request accepted. Thank you for being here, and thank you for your patience. A housekeeping matter. You did ask Commissioner Salzman whether he was returning, and you said no, because in that chaos I was told by his office on Monday that he would be here because he was the overseer of PBOT and this issue. Ma'am, let me just say I will apologize to you on behalf of the council. Mayor and I have already had a conversation about –
 having a more reliable system for ensuring that we have a quorum and that we have people here to listen to the public testimony. And, frankly, I think we've gotten a little casual, and I think that's something for the council and the execs to resolve. And I apologize on behalf of the council. You're entitled to be heard by us. That has great meaning to me, great meaning, because I love my city and I respect all of you. I have a difference with this, and that's why I called this item.
 disagreement does not mean that we do not have civil discourse. It's how I've stayed married for 25 years, so thank you. Could you please just tell us your name for the record? My name is Perla Stillwater. Thank you.
 And with a heavy heart, I'm going to make this presentation, and I'll make it as brief as I can. As I stated earlier, sometimes my disability impedes my ability to speak. If I feel like I cannot present it, I'll just have to excuse myself because it's been a very long day.
 I think it's very important. One other housekeeping detail. Did I understand you correctly, Mayor, that you have all the bureaus still? Correct. Okay. For a very brief period of time. Yeah, I try to be a good citizen and I keep abreast of changes, but I just needed to make sure because the Solstice Office confused me. Okay. I think it's very important for the city to consider and include all populations when rolling out programs
 programs funded by our city. This issue with this bike adaptive program to these two businesses has both a general and a very direct question and challenge to the business at hand and the program overall because it's a very limited address to accommodate and modify for providing accessibility to adaptive cyclers.
 The group in general is historically marginalized both by the set of factors, their economic issues, their vulnerabilities. And so the whole time that I attended these meetings and workshops and open house for this program, my focus was on cost and accessibility. And each time I was looking at equitable issues. There was solution. Okay.
 I heard Commissioner Fritz earlier state when you were doing the Smart Issues program about how does this help or change the lives and it is equitable for people who are disabled. I heard Commissioner Fish earlier say, how does someone who lives here benefit from this program? Those are focal points.
 The question, which I just got a couple of answers to on Monday, but they're still not agreeable to me, is this is a 30-day, another emergency thing. They wanted a 30-day, waive the 30 days, and it's also a three-month pilot program. So I had to search my conscience and say, whoa, if one person can get access to one adaptable bike that,
 Under this program, don't hold it up. But then I balanced those different issues because this is the only thing we get for the year. And I thought, I think that the selection process was flawed. I was there from the beginning. Like you, Mayor, I asked the critical questions. How was it going to be selected? How was it going to be implemented? What was going to happen to the bikes? And who's doling out the money and who ends up with the products?
 Just on Monday, if I understand correctly, these two bike shops were not in a competitive process. They were selected from the beginning, and even at the open house, I asked, will there be some type of bidding process because I was looking at the cost ratio? And if I read the information that PBOT sent me saying that the –
 bikes will stay with these bike shops. At the end, I thought, oh, those dollar bills could maybe be better spent getting a greater cross-section of Portland by putting bikes throughout the city and allowing people where you get a greater cross-section to use adaptable bikes. The three-month pilot program has always been a little bit of...
 A dismay, and how I will, the best I can state it right now, is when you rolled out the Biketown program, there wasn't one consideration. There is not one bike in the city of Portland. PSU students and PCC students I mentor, there are Biketown bike racks out in both of their facilities, and not one of those students...
 or their support staff or caregivers can use, have had access to anything. And we rolled this out. And so I'm asking, when you roll out an adaptive bike cycle system this time, make it equitable. Thank you. Good testimony. Appreciate it. Is there anybody from, if you want to come up and maybe remark on some of those comments? They're good comments. And thank you for your patience today. Hello. Hello. Hello.
 You know the drill. Name for the record, please. Sure. My name is Steve McBeth. I'm with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. And I'm Nicole Schroen. I'm with the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I know the council is pressed for time, but I think it might be helpful if I provided a little background on the program at the council's pleasure. Certainly.
 So I want to speak to one of the last things that Perla Stillwater said, which is absolutely true, which is that this project is a product of us not incorporating access to people with disabilities at the onset of the launch of Byte Town, and I failed to say that I'm the Byte Town project manager. So that is absolutely true. The genesis for this program grew out of requests for accommodation that we heard earlier
 last May and June when we were getting ready to launch the Biketown program, both in terms of specific requests for accommodation and also community advocacy around that. And so the development of the program was kind of based on us learning from what we could from other community groups. So at the national level, there's no one right now that is doing an adaptive bike program that's kind of,
 connected with bike share as we're proposing doing it. So we're trying something new in Portland. It's very rare to have bicycle accommodation for people with disabilities within bike share programs. So we're really doing something new here. And so that was part of the reason for the pilot was not to try to over design something when we didn't have a lot of good best practices or places within the city, excuse me, within the country to look or within the country. So I
 In general, the purpose of this program is to increase bicycling based on our climate goals, to increase access to people with disabilities to bicycles along with seniors, and to look long-term at how we incorporate adaptive bicycles, which are bicycles designed for people with disabilities, to be able to use as part of our bike share program and a potential further integration program.
 We spoke to a lot of people. I would certainly say that there are a lot more folks that we need to speak to, but we had in our mind a fairly robust process.
 We, last summer, we began about a year ago going to a number of people and organizations, the Adaptive Bike Clinic, the Hand Cycle Summer Series, Wheel Connect, Elders in Action. We had an online survey with over 200 responses. Our Adaptive Bike Work Group, which occurred this spring, and actually this spring, was composed of...
 75% of our work group was composed of people with disabilities. It was a decision-making process that was really driven by people that would be future customers or would represent future customers to our program. And then we had our open house, which was very well attended, and a number of our work group members were very committed on how it was one of the better attended open houses from the Portlanders with Disabilities community.
 So there's some things that we learned when we asked people what they wanted. And I think what I would say is that this concept has been developed with the customer in mind as opposed to starting with bike share as the kind of developmental starting point. It was really about what does our customer want and what they need. And what they told us was very distinct from how we operate bike share in North America. People said they wanted a staff service.
 People who had a mobility device wanted to have storage of that, to have storage available for that service, excuse me, for their device, and they wanted to bike, a number of them, a vast majority said they wanted to bike on multi-use trails. They weren't interested in biking in traffic. So that's very different than how Bike Share operates, and so we came up with this design of working with
 businesses that provide the type of service that our customers were telling us that they wanted. And that brought us to this model of a pilot project with bike rental shops and bike shops. So can I interrupt you for a second? Absolutely. Because we're about to run out the clock, and I want to steer this a little bit. Number one, if we choose not to approve this ordinance today or tomorrow, does that effectively mean there would be no summer pilot? No.
 No, it would just mean, I mean, the reason for the emergency ordinance was so that we could place, so that the bike shops could place the order and that we could get something up by late June, early July. But it's now June, so we're talking about a summer pilot. So if this is not the acceptable mechanism, essentially we'll do a pilot some other time than this summer. Is that fair? Sure.
 Yes. That's number one. Number two, do you intend, subsequent to this pilot, to publish the results of the pilot and engage the community in those results? Thank you, yes. In fact, the intent of this being an emergency consent was that I thought it would be better use of the council's time to come back with the results and talk about where we go from there. So earlier the mayor said that because we don't have a requisite number of commissioners to vote on any item like this,
 that what we're going to do is have a hearing, and then this will be brought back tomorrow, Thursday at 2 o'clock, for a vote.
 Would it be possible for you to follow up with the person who testified, just to take a few more minutes to understand her concerns? And if there's any follow-up information you think we need, send us an email between now and next Thursday. Sure, yes. I would just say that there was a selection process. I just wanted to clarify on that. No, I understand, but we're not going to resolve that here. And I think, in fairness, since we're not going to decide the question today, we could have an opportunity to have a discussion.
 And then if there's any remaining issue, you can let us know that between now and Thursday at 2 o'clock. Nicole, does that make sense? Yes. Except that I would like she, since Nicole has sat through this whole morning, I'd like to hear your comments.
 Briefly now. Thank you. I mean, for me, I think the disconnect is it is a pilot program. So it's not the same thing as when we're launching a huge big program and we're doing a huge RFP and we put it out to anybody who wants to bid. Basically, Steve contacted organizations who he knew did adaptive bike processes.
 processes. And these were the only two that said, yeah, we have an interest in even being at the table, let alone agreeing to do it. So it's a challenge. It's a challenge to, and I think Parilla has a very good point that we did not engage the university students in the first go around because we really did focus on the disability community that were known bike users.
 And so we're hoping that the next time around, we're gonna really make sure that we're engaging at the university level as well. And of course, if it's successful, we will definitely be able to put out a bigger, broader and say, hey, who wants to be at the table? So I don't know if that gives you guys a little better context of
 why I think we're here. I'll just say that I, speaking for myself, when you say it's a limited pilot for the purpose of learning more through doing, I think my inclination is to give you more flexibility to do that and then to come back and fine-tune it before we go with the all-in. So I appreciate your comments, Jim.
 The challenge, though, as Ms. Stilwell said, is that with such a limited program, it's not really like the bike town where you can take it one place, drop it off another. And then if we are going to get some more information before tomorrow, I'm looking at the insurance requirements and can't remember what we required for bike town, but I want to make sure that people who use the bikes are properly covered in the event that there's a crash. Thank you.
 So just to be clear, could you send us a follow-up email between now and tomorrow at 2 o'clock, just with whatever follow-up information you'd like us to have? And this would be otherwise scheduled for a vote tomorrow, too. Thank you very much. Very good. So this item is continued until tomorrow afternoon. Did anybody else want to testify? Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, yes, sir. I'm sorry. I apologize. I didn't realize we were signed up. Very good. Come on up.
 For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs and as my disability progressed, one of the most heartbreaking things I had to give up was my ability to ride a bike. The disabled people are often on very limited incomes because of inability to hold jobs dependent on say Social Security disability.
 look at those orange bike share bikes and fight hard not to cry because it reminds me constantly of what I have lost.
 because of my disability. I had no idea there was even a discussion about doing a disability-accessible bike share program because I would have been like, yay, count me in on the discussion because literally I ended up very... There's a lot of things I have lost because of my disability and my ability to ride a bike was at the top of the list.
 So I feel her concerns were all extremely valid. It broadened the discussion. Remember, we're out there in places you might not even think age-wise in ways you would not think with disabilities you could not imagine.
 to broaden the scope of who you include in these discussions. And let's make it happen because I want to ride a bike again. Thank you. Thank you for being here. So the item is continued until tomorrow afternoon. And then here's the remainder of our few minutes together. Why don't we get to the last time certain. Andrew has been waiting here patiently. And then if you wouldn't mind, colleagues, we'll blast through the second readings.
 Call it a morning. 618, create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the North Burlington Avenue and Edison Street local improvement district. Good morning. Or afternoon, sorry. That train sale. Never mind. You know what I meant.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. Thank you very much for allowing this item to come up for your adjourn. Carla is switching over to the presentation. I want to be respectful of the Council's time, but we did have some important changes to the cell ID, so I just want to make sure that they're covered. So thanks to Carla, we now are switching over to the presentation.
 So there's a few folks that are here today that were not here on May 3rd when council approved the resolution of intent. You'll recall this picture of Edison Street, very poor condition, no stormwater management, et cetera. This is the current parking along North Edison Street. This is the area of the LID that was originally petitioned.
 You will recall that we had testimony on May 3rd about dealing with the storm water problems on North John Avenue. And I think we lost some of the folks that were going to testify on this. There was interest at the council level in exploring a street vacation. And I did some research after council approved the resolution and confirmed that we could not do a street vacation because of a water main in the North John Avenue right of way.
 So wanting to deal with the stormwater problem, I reached out to property owners east of North John Avenue and had very significant interest to expand this LID to go from the west right-of-way line of John Avenue to 100 feet west of Richmond Avenue. And so I did a notification process to all of those property owners that if council approved the amendment today, could potentially expand this LID.
 And we got a pretty positive response. And as noted on this slide here, we got no objections or remonstrances. We got no remonstrances against the LID from anybody. And we only got 2.3% objection to expanding this LID. So the recommendation that I am making to council is to adopt the June 6th amendment that
 which would increase the scope of this project and deal with the stormwater issues. Have we put this on the table yet? I think we would need a motion to do so. Mayor, I move the proposed amendment. Commissioner Fish moves the June 6th amendment. Commissioner Fritz seconds the motion on the amendment. Why don't we go ahead and take a vote on the amendment? Okay.
 Fish? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is now adopted. Thank you, Mayor. So I drew a circle here around the area that is added to the LID. And just to kind of wrap this up, this is sort of the sense of urgency that I found after Council approved the resolution. So I talked to the first property owner to the east of North John Avenue. He owns this apartment complex here.
 What he said in written testimony to me is he said, In June 2012, rainwater and debris flooding from the street overwhelmed the 36-inch storm drain in the middle of our parking lot. The rising water overwhelmed the 6-inch drain at the bottom of the laundry room stairs, continued into the laundry room,
 overwhelmed the laundry room drain, and then flooded the lower dwelling unit. Over 500 square feet of laminate flooring installed three months earlier were destroyed. Replacement cost was roughly $2,000. That incident has made me very cautious about making improvement to the lower apartments in the future. So what you have here is you have a property owner who's been subjected to damage to his properties due to the failure to manage a stormwater runoff.
 And in addition to that, I learned that there's two mobility impaired residents here. He mentioned that he's owned this apartment building since 1997. He has very long-term tenants, as long as 32, 20, and 10 years, who have a variety of disabilities that make walking difficult. We have two tenants in this apartment complex that cannot go to the grocery store three blocks away. They have to have somebody come pick them up and drive them in a vehicle to go shop for groceries.
 So it just seemed, that's the end of the presentation, so it just seemed that there was a very compelling case to deal with stormwater management and provide pedestrian access to the folks living on the street. So we have a couple folks here to testify, and I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Thank you. And then one other quick thing. I was hoping that we could postpone the second reading to June 28th to allow for additional questions.
 testimony on the written record. The idea is not to have another hearing or have in-person testimony on the 28th, but just simply to hold the record open until June 28th to provide some additional time for testimony. Very good. Thank you. Legal counsel, given that this is technically an ordinance but it is also a hearing, does it require a motion to leave the record open until June 28th, or can we just do that by agreement? Technically you can just do it by agreement. Very good. Thank you.
 Any further testimony on this item? I don't know if they're still all here. Helen Ost, Barbara Adamski, or Frank McMurray. And then we have one more after that. Thank you all for your patience. Thank you. I second what Commissioner Fish just said. Who would like to start? Please start. Go ahead. I'm Helen Ost. I'm the volunteer co-manager at the Johns Community Garden.
 And I walk down there a lot to the garden because I live on Willamette. When I come across Edison, I'm on the sidewalk almost all the way until I get to Richmond. And then I should walk on – because there's a sidewalk there too, but it's hard to get on the sidewalk and off and stuff. And so I, along with a lot of other people, have a tendency to walk in the middle of the street. Not a very good idea. Okay.
 But that's the way a lot of people do it. So I'm really looking forward to seeing a road improvement there with the sidewalks. I can walk on the sidewalk and parking areas. The two things that are important to me, we have sidewalks along both sides of the street, and we have 81 families that garden there. And so they're getting out of their cars with their children and with supplies and
 and that kind of thing, and walking across the street, so it would really be helpful. In fact, there is a sidewalk area along some of the older houses there. I've never figured out why we have sidewalks in some areas and not in others. And because of the drainage being so bad, the water actually runs down and puts mud on the sidewalk, so it's actually slippery and actually a better idea to walk on the street than on the sidewalk.
 the other thing is the improvements to the drainage right now I don't think he showed the picture today but the North Johns Street has a big gully down it because of the drainage issues and that means that we can't have a truck bring our compost and our wood chips down to the lower garden we have to actually do it with wheelbarrows and
 I'm to the point now where I can't really use the large wheelbarrow. I'm getting older. So, oh, I'm sorry. That's it. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Bab Sadamski and I live on North Edison Street. And I live in a section that was part of the initial improvement district. But I garden with Helen and I advocate for pedestrian improvements whenever possible.
 I'm also a stormwater steward in my paid employment, and I look at what happens on my street, and I see residue from the street going into vegetation. So I'm very happy for this improvement, and I want to support it.
 I also wanted to encourage Council and PBOT to look holistically at improvement districts in our neighborhood, which is Cathedral Park portion of St. John's, because there's a number of developments that are going in. There will be another improvement district. I think it may have already come before you. I'm not certain. Richmond and...
 And as someone who sees resources, our opportunities when resources are being spent to share capital cost, I'm hoping that some of this work can be done together.
 One other thing that I'm particularly interested in is a development that's going in at North Edison in Burlington across the street from where I live. Our home, which I know that you've heard about during the initial meeting.
 discussion on the Improvement District is putting in a co-housing, or there will be, Community Vision is putting in a co-housing community that will be called our home, and my husband and I intend to live there. But some of our neighbors are identified as those with disabilities.
 And I really want to advocate for additional capital improvements when possible to improve pedestrian access. So that's me. Excellent. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Frank McMurray, and I'm a 20-year resident along Edison Street, and I'm fully in support of the proposed LID and its extension.
 I call to your attention, however, the fact that I think that the mud that these eloquent ladies have spoken about is largely generated from Charleston Avenue. And if you look at your presentation item number six, which Andrew presented to you, you'll see Charleston is to the far right.
 and it is, with the exception of one narrow strip, essentially unpaved, and it is the Colorado River every winter for about six months, generating the very mud and gravel that the system just cannot handle. So if you really want to fix the problem up there, it needs to include Charleston in some form or fashion, and whether that's including it,
 extending yet further the LID, I would be in favor of that. That would be the full fix. But the full problem will not be fixed until something is done on Charleston.
 Thank you. Yeah, thanks a lot. Good. I just want to comment to the neighborhood folks that in response to a request at the last hearing, I did ask Parks about the improvements in Cathedral Park for the transition plan for Americans with disabilities. There's several on each year. The bulk of them are going to be done a little later, like in 2021, something like that. But we certainly have identified them all and are planning to take care of them. So thank you. Thank you. And the last person is Sydney Callison.
 Thank you for the chance to speak with you. I'm Sidney Callison. I live on Edison Street. And there's been a tremendous amount of building and growth in the St. John's area. Traffic is increasing. The cars are closing.
 attempting to not use the main street by going in the neighborhood streets. And that's really a big concern, or I notice it a lot. So most of the people that live in our little section have a garage, and they use the garage for storage purposes.
 Consequently, most people park in the driveway. And my hope is that we can allow enough room in the driveways to get two cars for some facility for not taking away the available parking. The Charleston...
 The situation that Frank mentioned is absolutely true, that it washes the rocks off of Charleston down the street, and that's where the water comes from. I like living where I live. I love it. And I like the city. And that's all I have to say. We appreciate that. Thank you for being here, and thank you for your patience. Is there any further public testimony? That's all I'm saying. Colleagues, any other questions on this item?
 If not, this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance and hearing. It will move to June 28th as amended. The written record will remain open for further information. Nice job, Andrew.
 All right, so let's try and do this. We're going to move some stuff along here in the next five minutes. First of all, item 629, which was pulled from the consent agenda due to a lack of forum, is being moved to tomorrow afternoon. Item 630, is there anybody here to testify on item 630? Please read the item. Thank you.
 630, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro to provide funding in the amount of $50,000 for the regional construction workforce market study. Colleagues, any more comments or questions on this item?
 Hearing none, this is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading. Item 632, due to lack of quorum, as an emergency item, is moved to tomorrow afternoon. Same with item 633. Is there...
 Okay, 634 was not pulled, so we will move to item 637. That is the second reading. If you can read item 637. Was 632 also pulled, Carla? I have 629. Oh, you did have 629. Yeah, 629 is moved to tomorrow afternoon as a result of a lack of quorum. Was 632 pulled, Carla? Okay, 632 has to be moved then to tomorrow afternoon.
 Could you read Item 637, please? And then fee schedules for land use services and code enforcement. Any other questions or comments on this item, colleagues? Please call the roll. Does anybody want to testify on that? Sorry, is there any public testimony? It's a second reading. Yeah, it's a second reading.
 Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Fritz. Thanks to Deborah Seabert-Morris who sat there all morning. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Thank you for your patience. Sorry. Item 638, I have made a decision to refer that back to my office. So item 638 will be pulled back to the Mayor's office for further conversation. Okay.
 I don't believe Captain Graham is here for 639, so that item will be moved to... We have someone here who did want to testify. We don't have time. Okay. Who is here? Dan Handelman. Dan, I am sorry. Do you want to... Mayor, he was here at 930. Yeah, you know what? Let's do this. Read the item. Let's take his testimony. We'll do this in a really unconventional way. You've been very patient. So read the item. Let's take Dan's testimony. We'll have the presentation and the vote later.
 tomorrow. Come on up Dan. 639, amend an agreement with the Portland Business Alliance to provide policing services for the Clean and Safe Program. Thanks Dan. I appreciate that very much Mayor Wheeler. It has been a long morning and afternoon. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch and this is our concerns about this item which you may know is about taking money from the Portland Business Alliance to hire four police officers to patrol downtown on their behalf.
 I had to check our records from five years ago because the full contract wasn't included with the agenda item.
 And this used to be just three officers, and now it's going up to four officers. And some of you weren't here five years ago when this came up last time, and we testified then and we continue to testify now that the way tax money is supposed to work is that everybody pays in and everybody gets the same services. And it seems to me it's an equity issue, which we've been focusing on a lot more since 2012, last time this passed, that downtown gets more police officers because they can afford it.
 And there are lots of neighborhoods, I think, that want more police. You know, that's not for us to decide as Portland Cop Watch, but they're not getting extra police protection because they don't have the same money that the business alliance does. So we're hoping that you reconsider just renewing this contract without putting more thought into it. We've often raised the question, if Portland Cop Watch had enough money, could we hire our own police officer? Maybe have them walk around in a clown outfit. But we don't have the money for that.
 You know, we're very, you know, again, I think you really should look at this as an equity issue and whether or not this is the best way for us to, you know, when you do public-private partnerships, it shouldn't be that the private partners get to have the most protection and decide who's going to get prosecuted. I'm pretty sure that if you look at who these four officers are ticketing and going after more often, it's probably houseless people in the downtown core, which is not equitable. Okay.
 So hopefully you'll reconsider signing this new contract. All right. Thank you, Dan. I appreciate your testimony and that item. With that testimony, and I'm looking at legal counsel to make sure I'm doing this right. We're moving it.
 But we're also taking on the record. So I guess what we'll say is we're keeping the record open on this particular item. Since Dan has testified, I don't want that testimony lost inadvertently. Am I doing that correctly? Yes, Mr. Mayor. It's a nice day when I get that. Okay. 6.40 being moved to tomorrow afternoon. Christine's going to hate me. She will never come back. 6.41. Okay.
 I'm sorry, Mayor. Commissioner Saltzman's office asked that 640 be rescheduled to the 14th, June 14th. Thank you. 640 is being rescheduled to June 14th. And I'm sorry, I don't know if my calendar is out of... That's next Wednesday. That is next Wednesday morning or afternoon session, or do we know? Morning session. Morning session. Item 640 is being moved to June 14th morning session.
 641 and 642 will be moved to tomorrow afternoon. Please read 643. 643, approve rental rehabilitation conditional grant product guidelines. Mayor, we have a staff person present. Andrea, could you come forward for a second?
 I was not here for the second half of the first reading, and Andrea Mathiason is here from the Housing Bureau. Andrea, I had flagged some concerns about the way this is crafted and the way it would be implemented. Has the Housing Bureau proposed any changes to the original draft? No.
 We haven't proposed any changes, Commissioner Fish, Andrea Mathias, and Portland Housing Bureau. But we did prepare a brief FAQ that we hope provided additional clarification on how the program would be implemented. I think your offices received that early last week.
 I'm happy to resend it if you need that and answer any questions. I'm sure you did send it, and unfortunately I haven't seen it. So, Mayor, if you could set this over. It's for vote only. Set this tomorrow afternoon. I'd appreciate it. Happy to do that. Any without objection. Item 643 will be set over until tomorrow afternoon. And if you two could...
 Have a chit-chat. That would be helpful. Thank you. Great. And with that, folks, we are adjourned until 2 p.m., where we take up this fun and excitement and intrigue all over again. Thank you. Nice to see you. It's all right. They're yours. Mine is fine. You do? No. Oh, thanks, but I'm doing it for illustrious purposes. It was good. It was well. Carla, are you ready? Yes. Yes.
 Good afternoon. This is the Wednesday, June 7th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Seltzman. Udaly. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. I'll just skip to the chase on the usual message. Thank you.
 People are certainly welcome to testify. Please be respectful of other people who are testifying. Please don't interrupt either during people's testimony or council deliberations. We want to make sure everybody feels heard, that people feel like it's a respectable environment for everybody. If you're a lobbyist, please state that for a record. If you're here representing an organization, that's often helpful as well. Okay.
 Thumbs up if you like something, thumbs down if you don't. That's usually sufficient. It helps keep things moving along. So thank you, everybody. Please read the first item. Actually, why don't you read 644 and 645 together, please. 644, accept the Central City Potential Swimming Beach Sites Study, and 645, accept the East Bank Crescent Riverfront Plan as a guide for redevelopment of the East Bank Crescent.
 Colleagues, this afternoon we are going to discuss, as Carla just mentioned, the East Bank Crescent Riverfront Plan and the Central City Potential Swimming Beaches Study. These are two planning efforts that seek to, at a high level, bring people to, and for those who are into that like me, into the river, in addition to improve the river habitat there.
 As somebody who occasionally enjoys jumping into the Willamette River, I am excited to see that the city, with assistance from the Human Access Project, is moving forward to offer more river swimming opportunities.
 That said, I know how important other forms of recreation are beyond swimming, and I know that habitat conservation and rehabilitation is critically important to the river, and I look forward to hearing about all of these things today from all of you. So the order of events today...
 We're going to start with some brief presentations from the city bureau directors and staff on these two interrelated efforts that we're here to discuss today. And then we have...
 We have a number of invited panels of testimony who represent broad interests, property owners, swimmers, people who are interested in boating and other recreational activities on the river. Certainly we're going to hear today for some environmental interests as well. And then we will open the conversation up to anybody else who'd like to have the opportunity to speak.
 see how many people that is, and it'll either be two or three minutes of testimony, just depending upon how many people we have interested in speaking. Then the council will have its discussion, probably ask a number of questions, and then we'll take action.
 So with that, I'd like to begin with Sally Edmonds, who is the planning manager for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, whose bureau has coordinated this planning effort with other bureaus, agencies, and the public. And then we're going to hear from Michael Jordan as well from BES and Mike Abate from the parks. Good afternoon and welcome, and thank you all for being here.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. We are pleased to be here today to provide you with an overview of two reports that are the result of some collaboration amongst the Bureaus of Planning and Sustainability, Parks Recreation, Environmental Services, and Prosper Portland. This group grew out of the development of the Central City 2035 plan, which you'll be hearing more about this summer and fall.
 Throughout that process, we heard members of the public express diverse desires to expand river recreation, both for swimming and for boating activities.
 to restore the Willamette River and its riverfront for fish and wildlife habitat, provide more places along the river to walk, bike, and enjoy the view of the river. And the trouble is that people often wanted to do all of the same things in much of the same place. So a team of city staff set out to design some concepts for how we could meet all of these objectives in the same place, and we chose to focus on the central east bank crescent.
 So today we have two resolutions for you to consider. One, a concept-level plan. It's not a final plan for the East Bank Crescent Riverfront. And the other, the Swimming Beach Study, a project we launched so we could compare the beach at the Central East Side with beaches elsewhere in the Central City. Neither of these documents are intended to be the final word on these areas, but rather an input into future planning efforts.
 So I want to thank our partner bureaus and their staff for their leadership and commitment to this work. Planning and Sustainability, Debbie Bischoff, Mindy Brooks, Lori Grant, BES, Caitlin Lovell, Lisa Harrington, Parks, Brett Horner, Maya Agarwal, and Irene Bowers from Prosper Portland. We also had a number of consultants to help us, Mayor Reed, Flowing Solutions, Greenworks, and Interfluve. So thanks very much, and I appreciate it.
 Look to Director Jordan. Thanks, Sally. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the Commission. For the record, my name is Mike Jordan. I'm the Director of the Bureau of Environmental Services. In the face of climate change, we're beginning to understand that the forces that shape the river will become more volatile over time.
 To adapt to this volatility, we must restore the river's edge by adding greater flood storage, establishing native vegetation, and keeping infrastructure and private property out of harm's way. When we do this thoughtfully, we can improve habitat for fish and wildlife and enhance recreational opportunities for people. In the 1940s, Oregon State University filmed an experiment in the Willamette River.
 They put a handful of fish into the river in a number of places, starting at the headwaters, working their way down the valley, and ultimately getting to the city of Portland. They wanted to see how the fish did, spending some time in the river. In every place that they ran the experiment, the fish survived, until they got to downtown Portland. When you look at this film, we thought about showing it today, but it quite frankly is not something you want to see right after lunch. Okay.
 The downtown reach of the Willamette River in the 1940s, the film shows, was filled with sewage, trash, dead fish, and dead rats floating in the river. The experimenters put the fish into the river in multiple locations in downtown Portland, and in every location, within minutes, all the fish were dead.
 Now, we've come a long way since the 1940s. The city built its first wastewater treatment facility in 1952. We've expanded its capacity multiple times over the decades. And most recently, BES made a significant effort to clean up the Willamette through the Big Pipe Project. As a result, the water quality has improved dramatically, and now it is safe to swim in the Willamette River, as you've seen, Mr. Mayor. Um...
 But as recently as two summers ago, we saw salmon dead along the shorelines of the Willamette River. In this case, the primary cause was summertime river temperatures, which can reach lethal levels for fish. It was an unwelcome reminder that although we've come far, we still have a long way to go. And with climate change already here, we can't afford to take another 75 years to do it.
 So today we come before you with our partner bureaus and the community to take the next big step in improving the Willamette. We know that keeping raw sewage out of the Willamette isn't enough to recover the river. The big pipe was just the first of many steps that it will take to restore habitat for fish and for people.
 The next steps are going to require also multiple bureaus, not just BES, and strong leadership from the city. That's why today the East Bank Crescent Restoration Plan represents all the elements necessary to make the river a great place, not just a safe place for people and fish and businesses. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Appreciate it, Michael.
 Mr. Mayor, Mike Abate, Portland Parks and Recreation. We are absolutely thrilled to support both the East Bank Crescent plan and also the Central City potential swimming beach study. And we're really excited to see the attention and the focus on looking at recreation opportunities in tandem with restoration opportunities.
 We know that active recreation keeps our citizens healthy, socially connected and engaged in their communities. And increased water access will do that in the form of swimming and boating, reconnecting people to the river, as you said, Mr. Mayor, in a way that's fun and educational and highlights the great progress that we've made in cleaning up the river, as Director Jordan just stated. Thank you.
 We're also, our primary concern is public safety. And so we recognize that both in the central city but in other places around town, we as Portland Parks and Recreation have a responsibility to help educate people and ensure that our residents are water safe. We know that many Portlanders do not swim. So Portland Parks and Recreation is looking for opportunities to expand and promote swimming lessons in our pools.
 We're very interested in providing increased river access opportunities for all ages, all cultures, and all swim proficiency levels with a particular focus on youth. That's all of our programs really look at youth.
 And we think that the SWIM study took a really clear and unbiased look at both safety and the site characteristics at five key locations along the river. And so in terms of safety, we know that you will continue to keep that as a key priority as we move ahead.
 As we think about the way that this clean river could transform our city, Mr. Mayor, you've mentioned that thinking about the river as a park, as a space that can bring people together, and I think around the issues of restoration and habitat value that Director Jordan referred to, it is our natural gathering place. And as a city, we have the opportunity to show people
 the world a way of accomplishing both restoration and recreation simultaneously. However, these plans, though you're accepting them now, are going to take some resources because to build, maintain, and manage a river swimming program as a new initiative for the city, that's going to take new resources. Things like changing rooms and toilets and clean beaches, separation from watercraft,
 All of those things that will help provide safety are down the line. And there's multiple state, federal, and municipal agencies that we'll need to coordinate with as they own or manage different points. So it's a complicated puzzle, but we're excited about taking this step forward.
 And as a matter of fact, we're working closely with BPS and many other partners to access, to look to make sure that access to the Willamette and Columbia River are increased in many different ways, and to make sure that our river investments are identified and prioritized.
 We're really pleased that this summer we get to be the implementer, Mr. Mayor, of your pilot initiative at Poets Beach. We'll be installing a float line to delineate a swimming area and keeping it free from boat traffic, installing trash receptacles, portable toilets, and other facilities that we'll need. And as you know, we'll also have lifeguards this summer in the afternoon.
 The Beaches study highlighted that Hawthorne Bowl in Tomahawk Hall Waterfront Park had the highest overall cumulative score in the ranking process. And Portland Parks and Recreation strongly supports more work at the Hawthorne Bowl as we move ahead into the future. And we believe that that's a great place to accomplish several objectives simultaneously.
 And the Central City Plan captures that. The ability for it to serve as a major swimming access point, expand its effectiveness as a civic venue, and maximize its function as a citywide recreation and leisure space.
 So thank you for this opportunity. We're very enthusiastic supporters of these two plans. Thank you, and I appreciate your hard work on all of this. Commissioner Fritz? I'd just like to put out a question. I know you've got lots of staff here, so this is just generally. You mentioned that the water temperature was lethal for fish. What is that temperature that is too hot for fish? And I know there's people there. And then the second question is, how warm do we keep the Portland Parks and Recreation swimming pools?
 So both of those things are, I think, pertinent to this discussion that they see coming right up. We'll find out. But, you know, there's more to safety. As we know, every year people get into trouble in waters because they don't factor in the coldness of the water. So that's something that I would want to have part of the discussion today. Thank you. So, Commissioner, to your first question, 22 degrees Celsius. Yes.
 And that in real money is about 75? In real money. I don't know the conversion. I think it's about, well, 20 is 70. So that's how I remember it. Thank you. Swimming pool is about 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Yes. I don't know what that is in Celsius. Too warm. Too warm. It's too warm for fish, but potentially too cold for people to swim in. Good. Thank you. And my understanding is we have Debbie Bischoff here from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to tee up our next panel. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. How are you doing? I'm great. How are you? So far, so good. Excellent. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Debbie Bischoff, Senior Planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. With me here is Brett Horner and Caitlin Lovell. Brett is from Parks and Recreation, and Caitlin's from the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 So the reports before you today are a result of collaboration, research, discussions, and public input. The information and recommendations offered can be a guide for future planning, public investments, and public-private partnerships. The Willamette River, including the riverfront, is a significant feature in the Central City Plan with multiple purposes and functions. We received a lot of public comments. Thank you.
 on how to improve the riverfront for people, fish, and wildlife. The documents before you today address numerous city mandates, planning goals, policies, and actions for activating the riverfront, connecting people to the river, protecting federally listed endangered fish, and restoring fish and wildlife habitat in and along this urban stretch of our river.
 As Sally mentioned, shallow water areas are particularly desirable places for recreation and swimming, including swimming and boating. Shallow water areas, which are limited in number in the urbanized central city, are key resting and rearing locations for juvenile salmon.
 So now I'm going to move on to a very quick overview of the Central City Potential Swimming Beach Site Study. Who's that cat on the cover? Yeah, who is that cat? Somebody needs to suck his gut in more, apparently. Good diving form, Mayor.
 So the intent of this study is to learn from other places and from Portlanders about what makes for safe, family-friendly swimming beaches. The study looked at five sites, then developed and evaluated these sites based on safety and site criteria that came out of research and public input.
 The sites are McCormick Pier, Hawthorne Bowl, Poetry at the Beach, and the Zydell property on the west side and East Bank Crescent on the east side of the river.
 Outreach included surveying, sounds funny, surveying. We surveyed families and individuals at Dishman and East Portland Community Centers, at two Portland Community College campuses, and at OMSI, along with an online survey hosted by Parks and Rec. The public reviewed the study results at an open house that coincided with East Bank Crescent planning. There we go. So the public safety criteria that were developed included
 and evaluated are site visibility, gradual banked slopes for wading, access, distance from outfalls, site remediation, limited user conflicts, and river characteristics such as turbidity. The site that scored best for a criterion received five points, the next best four points, and down to one point for the most problematic site.
 Site rankings are based on data and observations. Overall, Poetry at the Beach, or also known as Poets Beach, scored the highest on safety characteristics, followed by the Hawthorne Bowl.
 Site criteria developed and evaluated are limited ambient sound, beach surface materials, available parking and transportation, available upland area, length of shoreline, gentle beach slope, and sun exposure. The Hawthorne Bowl site ranked the highest overall for site characteristics, followed by the Zydell property and Poetry at the Beach. Thank you.
 When combining both safety and site characteristics, the Hawthorne Bowl and Waterfront Park at Waterfront Park scored the highest, closely followed by Poetry at the Beach. McCormick Pier, which had public access issues, was rated the least attractive potential beach site. The beach site at East Bank Crescent ranked lower than the three west side beach areas.
 Conclusions from this study are that safety and site considerations are key for selecting and investing in a public swimming beach, that site improvements and programming can help mitigate site-specific issues, and as Director Abate said, funding is needed for implementation.
 And I won't go into detail since Director Abate mentioned the summer swimming program at Poets Beach. But just in addition to lifeguards, there will also be a life jacket booth, a swimming area boundary, and safety signage. So now on to the East Bank Crescent Riverfront Plan. The East Bank Crescent area was selected as the first central riverfront planning study because of a number of independent activities that are underway.
 for recreation, site planning, and environmental improvements. As you know, Bureau of Environmental Services, Parks, Prosper Portland, and Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff coordinated the project work with a consultant team. Other city bureaus, interested property owners, organizations, and the general public participated in meetings and at a public open house. The intent of the plan is to provide a realistic, feasible blueprint for redevelopment of the site.
 And the goals of the project you can see listed on the slide. Again, the importance of providing safe public recreation, improving habitat both in the water and on the land, incorporating environmental education, integrating multiple uses while minimizing the conflicts, and creating a practical design that can be built, operated, and maintained. So this is a very complex site. Okay.
 And first let me describe where it is. It's approximately 1,100 square feet of shoreline between the Hawthorne and Markham bridges in the central east side. Historically, it's an industrial area where PGE transmitted electricity until 1975. OMSI, the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry, is now the primary property owner along with the state of Oregon and the city.
 Current activities in the area include a PGE in-water pollution capping project between the Holman Dock and Hawthorne Bridge, future site master planning by OMSI, advocacy for river swimming improvements by the Human Access Project.
 Partial renovation of the Holman Dock by Prosper Portland and the Portland Boathouse, whose boating groups use the Holman Dock and lease space in Central Eastside, is actively looking at a new boating facility nearby and improvements to the dock. Numerous challenges exist for this site. You have Interstate 5, you have underground utilities, and you have a steep riverbank with unknown levels of contamination.
 The project team compiled existing conditions and consulted with property owners and stakeholders about site opportunities and constraints. Different concepts merged for how to make public access and habitat improvements while addressing existing and potential conflicts. Two alternative concepts were created that were reviewed and commented on by bureaus, property owners, and the public.
 Design concept one, which you see in front of you, maximizes habitat improvements. The key element is laying back the riverbank to provide shallow water habitat. This concept does include some public access improvements. Design concept two prioritizes public access.
 for the Greenway Trail, Holman Dock, and the swimming beach area. A new grade-separated dock minimizes conflicts with the trail. A delineated summer swimming beach area includes improved access to the beach, a temporary floating dock, and platforms to make the swimming beach most appealing to sunbathers and swimmers. Some habitat improvements are included in this concept, but the river layback is minimized.
 The recommendation of the East Bank Crescent Riverfront Plan is to start with Concept 1, but incorporate the public access elements of Concept 2 where practical and feasible. And it's really important to note here that ongoing coordination with OMSI and their future plans is critical and will shape the refined design of the East Bank Crescent, as will additional site work and analysis.
 Staff requests that City Council accept these documents as stated in the slide with one amendment to the East Bank Crescent Riverfront Plan action. It's in bold. And again, Brett Horner and Caitlin Lovell and I are here to answer any questions you have. We have a couple of our team consultants in the audience also. So thank you.
 Very good. And before we move on, I have a question of legal counsel. Is that substantive enough to require a formal amendment to Item 645? Commissioner Fish. So, Caitlin, are you testifying separately or just here as a resource? Just here as a resource, sir. So...
 So on behalf of the Bureau of Environmental Services, which has the lead responsibility for cleaning up the river and is primarily focused on the habitat side, because we're not in the recreation business, do the two options that Debbie – and, Debbie, it's nice to have you back presenting. Thank you. Mayor –
 Debbie Bischoff has been always in the midst of the best community planning exercises that I think we've done as a city over my nine years on the council, so I just have to say that. Thank you very much. And she has helped bring the community together around some of the thorniest issues, so she's a council favorite. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. But, Caitlin, on the two options, habitat and the public access,
 are, in your judgment, are both compatible with the regulatory concerns that primarily drive BES's approach to this issue? Yes. So we were very intentional about making sure that the overall site goes from its current condition to an improved state from a habitat perspective. And that way,
 the regulatory issues essentially go away. There will be permitting that will be required, but because there's what we call a net lift in habitat function, it will be something that will be favorable.
 Am I understanding your question? Yeah, so that's the reassurance I need, that you've scrubbed both and they don't raise any red flags on the regulatory side. There are signs just to the north warning people not to swim in the water if there is a CSO event. Is there anything particular to this location that potentially puts people at greater risk than any other location in the event of a CSO event? No.
 Not in the event of a CSO. I think depending on where the CSO is, whether it's downstream or upstream, we would put out the same notification. There was a stormwater pipe that bisected the property. And, in fact, we deliberately delayed both PGE's cleanup and the development of this plan in order to allow BEF to decommission that pipe. So our stormwater pipe is no longer flowing through this site, which helps to make it a little bit safer for us.
 Makes the site a little more attractive. Yes. Thank you. And, Brett, I have a question for you. Assuming we adopt this today, we're then directing that parks look over time at where this fits into its overall planning and then come up with some budgets and come back to council periodically.
 Have you done back-of-the-envelope estimates about what the potential costs are of different options here? I know there's some numbers in the earlier report, but has Parks estimated what kind of resources they would need to set aside over time to fulfill this vision?
 We have not done detailed estimating. We would have to do more work in that regard. We would like some direction from Council today about the sites that are identified in the plan to see where priorities are on which sites are the most appropriate to proceed with.
 As you'll see in the study, the beach study, there are a number of issues that we have some concerns about for the East Bank Esplanade site. We don't think it's a deal killer, but we need a lot more work done on resolving some of those issues. And then finally, with respect to the resources that may be available to drive this vision,
 Is there any reason that systems development charge funds cannot be used to advance any portion of this vision? Well, we have looked into this. As you might imagine, a lot of beach improvements are not really capitalizable. They're bringing in sand and other amenities that aren't really necessarily a capital project. So we would have to look very closely at what is eligible to be used in that regard, against all of our other priorities as well.
 for areas that don't have parks. We've been working very diligently in East Portland on areas that don't have park service. So without going into any great detail, what are the potential eligible sources of funding for this vision? Well, the East Bank, again, if it prioritizes...
 player twice's habitat enhancement we would be looking for funds that are directly related to that and one idea is to actually use it as a mitigation area so that other developers along the river can pay into improvements that may happen at the site but in terms of the recreation improvements there are not a lot of sources that uh
 that we could pursue. There are funds around boating from the Oregon State Marine Board, but there are not a lot of swimming-specific funding sources. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Legal counsel. So whether or not you need to take an action to add that language depends on whether you really want it in the resolution or you simply want it to be direction to staff. So if you want it in the resolution, it's significant enough that you would just make an amendment or...
 And these are your staff. You can say come back in the fall and bring us a funding proposal. Colleagues, do you have any preference? Your call. We'll see you in the fall.
 Great. Thank you. Thank you. And so we have invited testimony at this point from key stakeholder groups, unless there are any questions right at the moment. We'll just keep moving along. First of all, we have some representatives of property owners, and it's my understanding we have Allen Park, ZRZ, and potentially OMSI. I know they've provided written testimony, but they may have representatives here as well. And feel free to yell if you're upstairs. Allen's coming from upstairs. He's coming from upstairs. Very good.
 And then next up, just so people are aware, we'll hear from some of our esteemed swimmers. We've all wanted to know, who are the swimmers? And so we're going to hear from them next. We'll have Willie Levenson and Lauren Schmidt. And I believe we're also going to have a consultant from MIG here. So you're on deck. Very good. Come on up. Thank you. How are you today? I'm good, thanks. Excellent. Thank you.
 You took the stairs, obviously. I did. Down even and look at that. Yeah, it's good. I need to swim more. It's good, yeah. Mr. Mayor, counselors, we're here today in support of... And I'm sorry, you have to state your name. Oh, Alan Park with the Zydel Companies. We're here today in support of the study that was done and access to the river. The Zydel family and...
 He's a large owner of the property in the south waterfront. We have completed a master plan process that includes water access for the public. We just got out of a meeting with the Corps of Engineers. We're actively pursuing a permit for a dock in the river that would allow public access that much like you would see at the Portland breakwater. We are looking...
 It's part of our master plan to activate what is the barge slipway into an area that would be privately developed but publicly accessible, open space that would allow for people to engage with the river, whether it's swim, picnic, program that space for potential shows, that kind of thing. We're very excited about the...
 the potential for doing that. We hope to have all of that work underway under construction in July of 2020. So by the summer of 2021, that vision would be completed and we would all be moving forward. As we read and participated in the study that is before you today, we scored
 pretty well as a swim site in that, not that we're terribly competitive, but as we looked at our master plan and the elements that we considered in that process and what we have for vision in that area, I think we would have scored a lot higher. We understand the nature of the environmental remediation that we completed and what needs to be done there to make that better. Of course, public access is going to do nothing but improve the
 We have worked in partnership with the Parks Department on all of these plans because everything we do in that area is part of the Greenway. We've just completed about an eight-month process of public involvement, working with Brett Horner and other staff. Alan Schmidt and Elizabeth Kennedy Wong have just done a great job that has given us vision for the Greenway. Stakeholders from all communities in the city, we've presented that to the Design Commission.
 we are moving forward with that wholeheartedly. So we're here today in support of the study and in support of connection to the river. So could I ask you a question? You showed us some extremely impressive schematics of what conceptually you're planning for the waterfront, and it shows...
 a historic treatment of your current... What's the term? It's not a spillway. The slipway. We call it the slipway. Thank you. Slipway, potentially preserving the crane to reflect on the history and the traditions of that part of our community, which I think is very important. So I strongly support that vision. And then actually having potentially a swimming dock or a pier with a swimming dock at the end, which I thought for people who...
 are familiar with some of the ones that are in Europe. I thought it was a really good opportunity for this city. And I don't know if you've had a chance yet to put that out to the public, whether the public seems very reminiscent of Copenhagen in the bath there. It's an impressive vision. Well, we have put it out to the public. We've seen those images in the paper as we went through the presentation of our master plan to a design review commission in Copenhagen.
 February of last year and again just last week, we presented those images to the public advisory committee that we were a part of that went through the Greenway process to update the 2004 Greenway development plan. And we put those out to the agencies as well. We've been through the streamlining committee arm-in-arm with Parks.
 trying to get the DSL, the Corps, and the other agencies, NIMS, that are involved in that with the help of the city. And what was the reaction? Well, the reaction is varied, but overall positive. Technically, the vision that we show is,
 likely won't come to fruition. Showing a pier coming out of the slipway may not be the best and highest use of that little piece of real estate, and it offers some technical challenges in terms of maintenance and operation.
 So we're studying now shifting that dock a little bit to the north, maybe accessing it off of the greenway just down past where the existing barge building is now, running that dock in parallel with the beach in deeper water, therefore making that work better for habitat.
 allowing us to get pretty creative in the slipway in terms of what that access can look like, other features, programming that space. Again, working with our partners at parks pretty well with that. So a bridge potentially going over that area to increase the multimodal transportation of the greenway.
 There's just a lot of the interaction of that with the potential building site behind it. You know, there's just a lot of moving pieces in that area that are going to be a very unique place in our city. Well, I want to compliment you, and I want to compliment, obviously, those who you're working with as IDELs.
 Because it is complex. Anytime you're talking about any structure in a waterway, particularly in the center of Portland, Oregon, you're talking about complexities inside of complexities.
 And I think it's uniquely Portland to try and combine both that desire to bring people into the river and closer to the river with our very real commitment to the environment and our commitment to urban habitat. So thank you for that. Thank you for the opportunity, Mayor. Thank you. Alan, when is the last barge being launched? The 16th, Friday.
 And that will be it. That will be the end of the line. And that will be it. And, yeah, we'll have that barge launch. That will go down the river, and then we're all of a sudden developers. So we are in the real estate business. Very good. Thank you. We appreciate it. I don't know if there's anybody here from OMSI who wanted to testify. I think they just submitted written testimony. Okay.
 Ah, very good. Okay, thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for being here today. So Willie Levinson and Lauren Schmidt, you're up next. Everybody, Amanda, I see you. Good to see you again. How are you doing? I see you there. Excellent, thanks.
 giving us the whole spectrum of clothing choices for today. Thank you. Yeah, I got my clothes done in two different colors. Just goes to show, guys aren't restricted anymore. We've got options now. Yeah, absolutely. It's a great way to express yourself. I encourage it.
 Thanks. Names for the record, gentlemen. Willie Levinson, ringleader of Human Access Project. And also for the record, people sometimes say I refer to myself as that. That is actually my legal title for Human Access Project. I am technically the ringleader, legally. We're very serious about having fun. Thank you. So I have a presentation that I believe Carla is going to queue up, hopefully. Carla's over here. Carla, great. Oh, great. Thank you.
 And for the record, I'm Ryan Mattow with MIG. I'm standing in for Lauren Schmidt, who couldn't be here today. Appreciate it. Thanks. Thanks, Ryan.
 And thanks for the opportunity to come. I'm very grateful for the working relationship with Debbie Bischoff, Sally Edmonds. They've done a great job working together through this plan. They've done an amazing job with the 2035 plan. Brett Horner has just done an amazing job bringing Poets Beach along. Caitlin, we've started working together with BES. But really, this is something that crosses all agencies. So...
 Very simply, people protect what we love. That is from Jacques Cousteau, and I would argue, just for consideration, I don't even need to argue, but just for consideration, Commissioner Fish, I do actually believe that BES is in the business of recreation because there's a nexus between recreation and stewardship. If we can get people in the water, they will naturally care more about the outcomes of how they're acting in the watershed. So that's something to consider.
 Since we're being sued for how we use repair dollars, we just have to be careful about how we slice it. Language. Yeah, no, absolutely. Language is important. Yeah, I agree. I agree, but I would still say that it's okay and within the mission to say that if people are in the water, they're going to care more about it, and it will make the work of BES easier. If you're willing to keep that between us in this setting, I think we're fine. Absolutely. Thank you.
 So I think a lot of people take for granted their relationship with the Willamette River. This is a scene that we see in downtown Portland driving over a bridge, but imagine if the Willamette River wasn't there. The therapeutic value of the Willamette River cannot be understated, and certainly the vision of Portland, Oregon, of this versus this is dramatically different. We will never apologize for the therapeutic benefits the Willamette River provides. There was a time in Portland's past that we did have an excellent relationship with the Willamette River. This is an auditorium at Oaks Park.
 This is a swimming club that actually took place in downtown Portland. That is the historical Morrison Bridge. In 1938, we started seeing things were changing. This activist is right from my own heart, utilizing the power of cute to bring out kids with their band instruments to say the youth of Portland demand clean rivers right here in front of City Hall.
 Our first advocacy movement with Human Access Project, we've been doing our work for seven years, was working with Parks and Recreation jointly to develop these Swim at Your Own Risk signs. The smaller sign over my head was approved in 2013. After a year as a pilot, Parks and Recreation gave us the permission to purchase larger signs. Human Access Project purchased the signs of the Swim at Your Own Risk signs for the benefit of the city. Thank you.
 This is us, Human Access Project. Our vision is simply a city in love with its river. And when I say that, I've lived in communities that have pride around their river, they love their river, and the community is river stewards and fight for it. That's what we want to see. Our mission is to transform Portland's relationship with the Willamette River, and we do that by building it, using it, and loving it.
 Here's scenes of downtown Portland. Swimming is clearly occurring in downtown Portland. I would just put forward that as a city, we have a moral obligation to provide safe places for our people to swim. All of these ideas I'm speaking about, none of them are creative. They're in our DNA. People are drawn to weavers.
 All living creatures are drawn to rivers. Morally, all we can do is recognize that people will swim rivers, direct them to the least risky places to get into the water, and engineer those spots to be as safe as possible. That is our moral obligation. Again, the firehouse talk. I'm here to tell city council we cannot pretend swimming is not occurring in downtown Portland anymore.
 This is the lower Willamette River management plan that DSL put together. They own the bed and banks of all water bodies in the state of Oregon. The Willamette River is owned by the citizens of Oregon. It's our largest public open space, and by Parks and Recreation estimates, only 5% has access to the river's edge. Here's a blow-up. Here's downtown Portland. DSL wants greater public access to downtown Portland, so they are not stopping us. They want us to utilize this public space.
 Presently, Parks and Recreation provides zero direction about where to get into the least brisky places in the river. BES has been successful with the Big Pipe project. In fact, a lot of people in our community might be surprised to know that we just had the wettest March and April in Portland's history. Any guess to how many CSOs we had? The Big Pipe worked pretty well. The answer is zero. There were zero CSOs the entire March and April of this year. Let's hear it! River lovers, it's awesome!
 Because we have been leading the way to get people in the river, we took it upon ourselves to develop our own river safety policy. This policy is now on our website and it was vetted by US Coast Guard, Multnomah County River Patrol, Portland Fire, and AMR River Rescue. That is on our site and ready to go and Parks is welcome to use it. I know Parks is working on their own. We're working in conjunction with Brett and he's welcome to borrow any part of this and we see Portland Parks and Recreation as partners.
 We're successful in the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Mike Lindberg is on our board of directors, former city councilman, and other board members such as John O. Strander came out and Tom Vandell. We successfully petitioned that Portland Parks and Recreation needs to put basic safety swimming guidelines on their website, which we understand will happen by the opening of Poets Beach, and to do basic wayfinding to direct people to the least risky places to get in the water. Again, people will do this whether we want them to or not. We need to direct them to where we want them to go.
 Here's an interesting fact. Leonardo da Vinci, the man is obviously a genius and an artist,
 530 years to go to the day he created a life ring, sewn out of leather, filled with air. 530 years later, we do not have any life rings in downtown Portland. This is a basic life-saving device. Human Access Project today will commit to purchasing 25 life safety rings to put in downtown Portland. Esplanade is owned by PBOT. I had a good conversation with Brendan Finn from Salzen's office this morning, and I would like to propose that
 There's some discretion from council to allow interagency bureaus to work with Portland Fire, US Coast Guard, Marine Patrol to, before this summer, get at least 25 up. And I'd ask council to match the 25 put up by Human Access Project. The MIG study, which we'll be talking about, points out that there's basically absolutely no safety guidelines in Portland right now, either by education or infrastructure.
 In June 2015, in conjunction with Portland Fire, Human Access Project, like we bought swimming safety signs, we bought a ladder for the firehouse dock. Portland Fire agrees. We need to have safe ways for people to get out of the river. This is the one dock in downtown Portland that has a way for people to get out of the river. All docks in downtown Portland should have ladders on them. This is basic safety. Also talked about in the MIG study.
 this is some context about audrey mccall beach and human access project project's contribution after the first big float it occurred to me that i need to swim in the willamette more if i'm going to be an honest advocate i thought i discovered the place it appears that in 94 98 the site was
 plan just like it was again imagine half a million dollars are spent for a plan to collect the dust on a shelf they'll not happen as long as human access project is out here this Audrey McCall Beach plan will happen if we have anything to do with it and I'm very happy to see that it has the support of Council
 Before we started doing our work, this was a scene. Cluttered with concrete chunks, so I started swimming and I made a pile of concrete hoping that somebody would care. Guess what? Nobody did. I then got permission from eight different agencies simply to remove concrete chunks. Got approval from all eight. What with the stipulation that we cannot use heavy mechanized equipment, which for all intents and purposes is availed, no.
 But serendipity happens constantly with Human Access Project. I connected with the invertebrates inmate work crews. They volunteered to help us start removing concrete. Here are some scenes of concrete. Took us two days with jackhammers to get rid of that.
 This 150 foot long steel cable presented itself. Fred Devine Diving and Salvage came out in between jobs pro bono. Asking the right people for the right things in the right way and the look of pride on their faces for unscrewing up nature is priceless. Columbus Boat Tour came out, a sponsor of the Big Float. We removed so much concrete we had to queue up to get rid of more of it.
 2015 we got permission from DEQ to remove 30 pilings because we want to create human habitat where people hang out. Travel Oregon came out and helped us organize a loose collection of rip rap rock to make this area beachier. In total we removed 19 tons of concrete over four years. Before and after. What inspired us to start this work? It is very hard to honestly advocate that this is a beach. That is a beach. Before, after.
 And no access, no signage. Somehow people find this place. And you know why? You want to attract birds to your yard, you put up bird feeders, bird baths, native plantings, and birds start showing up. You want humans to show up in a place, you create a human habitat. That's what that is. Last summer. Got to tell you, it feels very prideful to basically unearth the beach and to see people use it.
 Then Mike Lindberg comes along. He says, you know what? The mayor has surplus money in his budget. We should put some money together for Roger McCall Beach, which incidentally, that's our nickname, Tad McCall.
 The son of Audrey and Tom is in full support of this and he's an advisor to Human Access Project. So Mike Fay, in the crowd, board member of Human Access Project, principal of GreenWorks, put this together pro-vono, made a presentation to the mayor, and boom, $300,000 for public access. Good part of the reason we're here today, and I'd like to acknowledge Charlie Hales for his leadership in funding this. Here's the plan that has been presented, which we think is great. Wouldn't it be great to have this in downtown Portland?
 It costs millions of dollars. Impossible. We already have it. It's the Kenham Duckworth River Recreation Dock.
 completely underutilized, currently tied up by an Oregon State Marine Board encumbrance. Three years were just added to it. We would like to see that activated as soon as possible because there's clearly a latent demand for dock space. And our poor boaters who are this floating wood dock right now, there's way too much conflict. We need more dock space so we can accommodate boaters. Can I just ask you a question? Can we go back one? Yes. When you say there's an encumbrance, is that because the State Marine Board put money into it?
 That is correct. Richard Gray from PBOT is in the crowd too. If you have any specific questions, he manages it. So we're either bound by the terms of whatever we entered into with the money or we can, I know this from another project, we can back out of it if we reimburse the money, right? There's another option. What's that?
 And I'd say it's hard. We're running out of time. Can I... The mayor will give you extra time. So this is what I would propose for consideration for city council, is that there's three years left on the encumbrance. This is a negotiation. There's no one way this can happen. My approach would be to go to the Marine Board, and three years they will get nothing. And I have to say, I am
 We empathize with the Marine Board's frustration. Human Access Project does not work in a silo. Our principal constituency is swimmers, but we want to see people connected to the Willamette. We want to see people boating. I have no problem with motor boaters. And I have to say, there is a complete inadequate lack of facilities for motorized boaters in downtown Portland. This is not a good placement for a motorized boating dock. It's an excellent place for a non-motorized boating dock. So to get to your question.
 I view this like an expiring contract to professional athlete. You have three years left on a contract. In three years they might go to another team and exercise the best option. So here's your deal, Marine Board. You have three years to make a deal. Three years from now you get nothing. You make a deal with us sooner, try to work with Parks and Recreation on things you want for facilities, which I again empathize with, and maybe there's somewhere in between.
 Because right now it's not serving the public to have nobody use that dock, and that's what's been happening for the last 20 years. There's an opportunity for negotiation, I believe. Thank you. So going back here, this, this, this.
 This. It will virtually cost nothing to convert this to a non-motorized boating dock. I took the rock myself from Rose Garden Transit Center the other week. Five minutes from Rose Garden Transit Center to this spot. The MIG study, which I hope you guys have a chance to look at, talks about the increased density on the east side and how this can serve the northeast part of town. Now, let me say also,
 that when you consider how we're going to relate to the river, it's really important to view it maybe in the context of parks. For example, in Portland parks, there's baseball fields and football fields, and there's places where you just sit and chill. In the same way with rivers, parks have splash pads that are designed for children. Then there's baseball fields where you wouldn't want a two-year-old crawling out in the middle of a soccer field or a baseball field.
 This dock is in a deep space. It is designed for adults. Beaches are more suitable for kids. There's not going to be one beach that does everything for everybody. We need to have options just like parks. That's an adult swimming area. Riverhugger swim team, this is another thing that we do and of course,
 Ted, Mayor Wheeler, we're very grateful for you taking your platform, running for office, to bring attention to our work and for joining us. And I hate to outstage you with my dive, but that's also, you know, yeah. You did. You're totally showing me up there. Sorry. Totally showing you up there. I didn't know you thought I was going to be there. Yeah, I was trying to protect you. So at the end of the day, I am a volunteer. I do all of this for free. And I'm happy to do it.
 And at the end of the day, when I do have my hard days, and ultimately as activists, for any activist out there, we're gluttons for disappointment. But we're also eternal optimists. And when I kind of take a look back, the reason I do this is because the city I want to live in is a city that loves its river and has access to its river. And at the end of the day, the Willamette River creates joy. That's why I'm doing this. Excellent. Thank you. There it is.
 That's it? Yes. Okay. Thank you again. My name is Ryan Mattau. I'm with MIG. We're a multidisciplinary planning design firm that specializes in parks and recreation. We have 14 offices across the country. One of the practices that we really are engaged in throughout is recreation planning.
 Proud to partner with the Human Access Project to help round out the overall information about the infrastructure that already exists in this community. And I want to just run through really quickly the dock swimming potential in the Portland Center for the City report, which I believe you all have a copy of. For all of those in the audience, this is available through the Human Access Project. We're going to leave it open for comment for the rest of the month. Make sure that we get the best information. We've only got about so much more time we can throw at this, but we're going to do our
 We are definitely looking to refine this as much as possible, thinking about those docks that already exist in the central reach here on the river and thinking about the ways that they could be used, as Willie said, for the variety of swimming expertise and opportunity here.
 I think the really important thing is that we are seeing increasing use. This isn't just about increasing use of RDoCS. It's increasing swimming across the state, across the region, across the country, and really an interest in this very gender-balanced activity. It's a very high physical level of activity that ties into a lot of health issues
 and, of course, safety considerations. Looking in this report at the policy concerns, the city really has not kept up with this increase in use and the recognition by the public that this river is ready for human use.
 I think that the lack of city options has really drawn a pent-up demand, and we see out at Broughton Beach that little improvements have made a huge splash. As we go forward, we really want to see how we can tap into that potential, and there is potential here. We have warmer, slower-moving water than they have at Broughton Beach, than we have in a lot of other parts of this river. We have a lot of accessible opportunities here.
 Again, looking at the east side, looking at increased density, places that people can walk to, that they can bike to along existing infrastructure. These existing docks also don't impact the existing habitat because of the already established piers and docks. We're talking about walking right over that shallow water habitat.
 We really want to see a culture forming here where we can share these existing assets and expand, and from there expand on them. That we don't need to spend millions of dollars in order to create some opportunities across this city.
 And really the key recommendations, the key conclusions of this report is, again, reinforcing the safety policy. The water safety policy is one of the critical and easiest and lowest cost opportunities to make happen here. We also need to...
 continue to make use of those existing infrastructure opportunities, get those best practices of safety in place. The best practices really include, and are laid out in this report, a ladder, a life ring, a life jacket station. All of these things are being tried out. Let's keep expanding those attempts and see what we can make work.
 looking at all the public docks downtown, but also all of that stretch of the river. The life rings that Human Access Project is talking about aren't just for docks. The East Bank Esplanade, as well as the waterfront seawall, are both places where the opportunity exists to save a life. In the moments when fire and rescue can't get to somebody in the water, if there's a life ring there, there's an opportunity to save lives.
 And really, we need to direct people to the safest possible places for people to swim. We're recognizing this isn't necessarily the be-all and end-all solution, but we're really trying to round out the overall package of what opportunities exist here in Portland and making use of these great assets across the community.
 I want to make sure that all of you get a chance to look at the information in this report because it does include case studies from other communities that we're aware of and have worked in, thinking about places that are providing swimming with and without lifeguarding, thinking about places that are changing their policies to make swimming more viable, such as Seattle, and really thinking about
 reconnecting people to rivers that have been even more damaged than ours. And I think that the Pittsburgh experience definitely shows that people will immediately reconnect with those rivers, with the right programming, with the right access opportunities.
 And with that, I'm going to acknowledge that we've run over our time a little bit, but I really would be happy to answer any questions about this study or looking at other opportunities. Thanks, Ryan. Colleagues? Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. I'm just wondering, how did you incorporate the input of both motorized and non-motorized boats?
 The – yeah, I'll take that. People in the boat, sorry, not just the boat. Yeah, this was really – this is a study that we did commission to specifically look at swimming use. But what I would say is that our – we're looking at non-motorized, so this is more geared towards, I'd say, kayakers, stand-up paddle boards would be able to use some of these places as rest areas. We did not do outreach to the motorized boating community as part of this. And –
 Yeah, there was really no input actually in this draft part from paddlers. There's lots of paddlers in this room, and this study we're going to put on our website. So we'd welcome feedback. Now, keep in mind, too, MIG did this largely out of community service. We paid them, Human Access Project, paid $5,000 for this study. This is a $50,000 study that they basically did to improve and move along this conversation. So that's a lot of money.
 to some degree, we'll be able to make modifications, but my view of why we did this is that I wanted this to be a compliment to the beach study that was done by Parks to be a tool to allow Parks to have the information to help move forward on some of these ideas. And the one other thing I want to make sure to mention
 Human Access Project has $25,000 we would like to contribute to the Audre McCall Beach restoration. That needs to be spent by the end of this year. So I will be communicating with Caitlin Lovell and BES folks just to make sure that there's some way we can get them money. But it has to be spent by this year. Yikes, that's quite a tall order. Okay.
 In your experience, what ways have you seen effective for minimizing conflicts between swimmers, motorized boaters, and non-motorized boaters? I think the biggest part of this is much like the conflicts that we see between cyclists, equestrians, hikers. It's about education. It's about creating a culture where we are all using a limited resource. And it's...
 It's not foolproof. It's not easy. You may have picked on an analogy. Let me add, too, that honestly, from this perspective...
 I view when we are, in a perfect world we'll have that conversation before it happens, but when this conversation organically surfaces about how are we going to share the river, that's going to be significant progress on us activating the river. My last question is do you have any experience with immigrant refugee communities, communities of color, people who might not have had access to swimming lessons, and what are some of the things that you're seeing?
 we all remember the two tragedies we had at Kelly Point Park last year, so it does underscore your point to do it where it's safe. But then we put out the notices in 15 different languages, and we're still not entirely sure that we're going to be able to communicate with people. If I could, let me take that. So, again, what I would say about, unfortunately, I just want to put out to Parks and Recreation that Human Access Project is always going to be available to help –
 consult in these challenging situations because we give a lot of thought to this. I wouldn't have necessarily recommended putting up signs that say, do not swim. There's a lot of psychology. I just consider signage all the time in terms of curbing public behavior. Fundamentally humans do not like being told what to do. And ultimately if you put up a sign that says do not swim and you see other people swimming, the sign will effectively do nothing. The strategy is to acknowledge that people will swim whether you like it or not and rather than saying do not do this,
 create amenities that draw people to a different area. So that's what I'd kind of say. But in terms of education, yeah. I mean, it's a fundamental thing that hopefully, considering that the Willamette River is our largest public open space, it would be a good idea to start developing programs to educate kids at a really young age. So I was just asking from a consultant's basis. You've had some experience in other cities. What's worked? What has not worked? The...
 Specifically on this topic, it really is about building the educational programming. And I think that that's about a life around the water. And it's a life that I'm familiar with growing up on the coast here as well as in our practice in parks and recreation. It's a regular...
 interaction, it's a regular conversation, it's not going to be something that you interact with once that's really going to make that difference. I think that we need to look at swimming programs. We need to look at the opportunities that we have already connected through parks to understand that people...
 People are looking for those opportunities to swim. We know this. And finding the places to give that constant interaction of what is safe, where is safe, and how can we push that forward. I think that specific...
 examples are going to come down to the particular communities because culturally we're seeing very different responses from different cultural groups. You're not going to see a one-size-fits-all solution, but I do think that there are education programs that can be drawn from places. Some of them that I mentioned, Seattle is dealing with a lot of the same immigrant populations that we see here, as is Pittsburgh, and I think that they're both doing a really good job of educating across the board.
 So I have just one question, which is in the report that we have, it has sort of case studies or interviews with folks in Lake Oswego, Vancouver, Bend, Boise, and Hood River. And so there are examples of other jurisdictions. If you were to look at just our peer cities across the country, what are cities that are ahead of us in providing public access to their rivers? Thank you.
 or they're doing things that you think are interesting? Boise is a great example and is one that's profiled in this report as well, where they are already... They're actively promoting the opportunities to swim and creating the safe environments to do so. I think that the... Just kind of looking out, I would say that pretty much every city that has a river is engaging with it in more direct ways than...
 I see in my life here in Portland, people in Portland doing. And I think that that is a lot about the programming and the access points that exist there. And it's a little bit
 It was amazing to me to go to Pittsburgh and see a river that I would have just instinctively thought of as an industrial wasteland be so lively on a daily basis. And to see the level of activity both in and on top of the water and around the water's edge.
 And all of that was driven largely by a coalition of groups not unlike the Human Access Project, the City of Pittsburgh, and a lot of private property owners along the riverfront as it was redeveloping. And I think that your conversations with Zydel and the folks that are actively looking at those riverfront properties right now on the west side are going to be another opportunity for that kind of advancement. Thank you.
 Great. And colleagues, just a reality check. We have tax supervising commission at 4 p.m., and we have 27 people signed up for public testimony, and I want to respect that, but we still have a number of panels left as well. So maybe I'll do this. Let's consider this a speed date. And so let's try and get everybody to get their say in, but if everybody could really condense, consolidate, find somebody you don't know who agrees with you and team up,
 So let's see if we can be as efficient as possible with this. So next up, and thank you, Willie, for your continued enthusiasm and your leadership and your vision, time, sweat, blood, tears, all the rest. Thank you. Ryan, excellent to know that somebody in this world found the most amazing job ever. Thank you.
 That's great. Thank you. So next up we have a panel from the boating community, and I think we've got Bernie, Kathy, and Connie. Is that correct? Great. Come on up. Thanks so much for being here. And, again, if you could just state your name for the record. Appreciate it. Bernie, you're starting, are you not? I am. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today and to share the story of the Portland Boathouse and the longstanding community of light watercraft users in this city. My name is Bernie Thurber. I have been the president of the Portland Boathouse since its inception in 2004.
 The Boathouse is a 501c3 nonprofit organization that provides facilities for each of our six organizational members, which are also, each of them, nonprofits. Briefly, they are the Rose City Rowing Club, which teaches competitive rowing to high school students from throughout the city, Stationelle Rowing Club, which teaches adults competitive and recreational rowing from throughout the city,
 Wasabi Paddling Club, which teaches recreational and competitive dragon boating and outrigger canoe racing, Portland State University Crew, the University of Portland Crew, and Willamette Riverkeeper, which engages in advocacy to support the health of the river. I'm aware that there are a number of supporters of the boathouse here in the audience. Some...
 Are you sure? I was going to ask them to stand, but I don't think that's necessary. Collectively, the Boathouse and our member organizations have over 1,000 individual active members and well over 100 years of experience in providing opportunities to Portlanders to access the Willamette River in all forms of human-powered craft.
 racing shelves, dragon boats, canoes, kayaks, outrigger canoes, stand-up paddle boards, and to engage in advocacy to support and improve the health of the river. In a minute, you will hear from two representatives of those organizations who will share some of their experiences. On behalf of the Portland Boathouse, I'd like to thank the staff from BPS and all of the other city bureaus for studying opportunities to improve the East Bank Crescent and for producing the plan. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and the Council, for supporting improved access to the river and for this opportunity to support the plan. We believe that both concepts in the plan have merit and support a balanced approach that draws on elements from each. We would welcome the opportunity to work with the city to achieve tailored access for both boaters and swimmers while still addressing the clear need for habitat restoration.
 The Boathouse, in conjunction with the Wyndon Ore Boat School, is currently planning to raise and invest over $3 million on a new river center to be located on the OMSI campus just south of the East Bank Crescent. And I believe there is a two-page fact sheet that outlines our vision for that river center that has been just submitted to you.
 Such a river center would become a powerful magnet for all Portlanders with an interest in the river and light watercraft and would enable us to increase programming and dramatically grow the number of river users and increase public awareness of issues related to the river's health. In addition, the river center would be a unique partner with OMSI to expand its educational programs to include direct interactions with the river, further enhancing community stewardship of it.
 If successful, this investment would also provide significant leverage for whatever investment the City is able to make in the Crescent in the future. The willingness of the Boathouse and its member organizations and the Windenore Boat School to remain on the East Bank Crescent will depend largely on the presence of a dedicated dock designed specifically for light watercraft use, as is the Holman dock, which we currently use.
 However, the Holman dock was built in 2004 as a temporary dock, and it's approaching the end of its useful life. We are extremely grateful that both concepts in the plan recognize that a new dock should be created to serve the light watercraft community and that additional facilities are also necessary to support the increasing needs of swimmers.
 We hope that this plan marks the beginning of a new era in which expanded access for all Willamette River users will be maximized in the future. Thanks again for your time. I'm happy to answer any questions now or after my companions speak. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. You're very welcome. Hi, Kathy Frederick. I am a member of Station L Rowing Club and founder of the Row for the Cure. Thank you.
 I'm a native Portlander, born and bred here, and I'm pre-Title IX, which affected my rowing career. 30 years ago, I set foot for the first time in a racing shell and absolutely fell in love. It's like dancing on water in a chorus line. There's nothing like it. I took rowing lessons from Stationel Rowing Club when it was tiny. We had the oldest whistler,
 functional wooden barge on the Willamette River topped by a pole barn. Our boats were heavy, heavy wooden shells, eights and fours, and the oars were huge. My hands are small, so I had some challenges there, but I didn't want to give up.
 and we were located at that time temporarily under the Fremont Bridge, which is at the south edge of the active port of Portland. So during that time, during my career with Stationel, I've learned to navigate
 I've learned a lot about hydraulics. I've learned about our connection with the world through our active port. I've watched tugs and grain barges and ships come and go, shepherded crews. I learned to row. I learned to cox. I took a class and became certified as an instructor there.
 and was able to introduce more people to the delights of dawn on the river when it turns gold, when the sun comes up and you're just floating along there. And there's just nothing like that sweet cream row of dancing together in that line on that water. In 1993, I lost a friend, a very generous friend, to cancer.
 and with my rowing being my favorite sport, I wanted to do something to raise some funds to honor her memory. I looked around, and in Portland, the only organization that I saw dealing with women's cancers and working locally was the Oregon Southwest Washington affiliate of Susan G. Komen.
 So I went to them and said, you know, we'd like to do a little fundraiser. And our rowing club station now would like to host it. And this was after, of course, I talked to the club first. And they said, sure. And it was back in the days when we were handshaking. I mean, we didn't have a big formula or format or anything like that. But that idea took hold. And.
 And now, 24 years later, we are hosting our 24th annual Portland Role for the Cure. And what was the name of your friend? I'm sorry? What was the name of your friend that you upstand? It was Bobby Cooper. Thank you. Thank you. So we... I lost my place. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry.
 No, that's okay. So over this period of time, over this course of 24 years, Portland Road for the Cure has raised over $450,000 to support the cause of breast cancer research, public education, and support for families and their...
 and breast cancer patients. Fantastic. And a lot of the grant money that comes through Komen ends up up here at the medical school. The idea for Row for the Cure grew, and part of that came from people coming to participate from other parts of the country. We've had rowers from as far away as Alaska and Canada.
 Washington and California and Idaho. And occasionally we'll get somebody out from the East Coast who's on vacation out here and steps in to participate as well. But the idea grew and took hold. And in 2011, we...
 arranged, we finally got organized enough to start a national non-profit. So we received our 501 C3 and we are now the national headquarters for Row for the Cure. And in partnership with U.S. Rowing, Row for the Cure has raised just shy of $3 million across the country. Great. Well done. Thank you. The rowing community has not
 previously done much in the way of community service like the runs do. I grew up in a family where track and field was my family background. I hate running. It hurts.
 Found the rowing, and it was a done deal. So when I wanted to do something and saw that there was an opportunity here, then rowing was a perfect match for it. So I wanted to thank the city for their work on the riverfront and the changes there. I really, really appreciated the new access ramp.
 for our boats because that was pretty ticklish getting down there, ramped to the water. And we all love Portland, and we love our Willamette River, and we just appreciate so much what you've been doing. And thank you so much for letting me tell you my story. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well told. And thank you for all the great work you and your colleagues have been doing. It's very, very impressive what you've done. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Connie Flusser is for Wasabi Paddling Club. We are a dragon boat and outrigger canoe club founded in 1993. We have approximately 350 active members.
 And we have great diversity of membership that we're very proud of. We host Team Kraken, our high school division team, hosting sometimes up to 50 athletes, youth athletes at a time. We host a special Dragons.
 Once again, just about 40 athletes from the special community. Very proudly, by the way. We have paddlers, our Blind Start team, which includes paddlers that are visually impaired,
 We also have a cancer survivor team and teams of pre-Title IX people like Kathy and I, as well as single gender crews and mixed crews. We are a very proud member and founding member of the Portland Boathouse as well.
 Thank you for the opportunity to represent a community of paddling that not everybody is particularly aware of as you go across the country. But Portland is particularly gifted because we had a strong community.
 dragon boating community with the Kaohsiung Sister City Association. So for the size of our city, we have a lot of dragon boaters. Our dragon boaters from Wasabi Paddling Club and the clubs that have formed subsequently across the city have had the opportunity to compete across the world in international competitions and take the city proudly with them everywhere we go.
 I, like Kathy, the pre-Title IX girl who never had any sports in my life, have competed on every continent in the world except Antarctica, and I'm just waiting for a race. We really take seriously our stewardship of the river. We are a year-round paddling organization, as are the rowing clubs. So we are out there running.
 360 probably days a year. There's five when the river doesn't let us get on. But otherwise, we are out there in the community. Our use is certainly higher in summer because that's our competitive season, so our numbers do go up there. But we take our stewardship very seriously, have worked on river cleanups and community activities as part of our 5013C, as all of the boathouse group has done.
 We really appreciate the opportunity to have given our story to you today. And I stand ready. I did a condense, Mr. Wheeler, to answer any questions that I might about Wasabi. Well, the mayor said speed dating, so I'm going to ask my question quickly. By the way, my older sister, Alexa, was a pre-Title IX student. And I remember in middle school, she and the other girls changed in the bathroom.
 and I think about all the opportunities she was denied because she didn't get equity in sports. Exactly. Here's my question. I've read your excellent materials, so we don't have to go into them in any great length. You're working with OMSI as part of the master plan for your new boathouse. That's great. You're concerned about maintaining a dock. The Holman dock has some complications. So the successor dock in a perfect world
 would be paid for by whom? Well, that's to be determined. The Holman dock was paid for by PDC. We would certainly hope that the city would want to participate in the funding for a replacement dock. So this would be a kind of a public-private partnership for that dock, and you like the location that's proposed in this plan? The location is an excellent one for mass transit, for access for a number of reasons. The existing dock was built as a light watercraft dock.
 We have an agreement with PDC whereby we manage it for all light watercraft users, not just those who are part of the Portland Boathouse. And it seems like from your materials we're on the clock. So when do we have to get this sorted out on the dock side, not on your new home?
 When is the home and dock no longer functional, or do you lose access to it? Well, we'd have to ask Andy Jansky exactly when it would fall apart. But we believe that our current lease runs out at our current location in 2019. We believe shortly after that. So there's an urgency about that.
 this, figuring out that piece. There is some urgency, yes. Thank you very much. Very good. And I just want to thank you all for your testimony. And it's my belief, frankly, that if these plans are adopted, that actually helps lead to the siting of more facilities that could address some of the problems that you've identified today. And I've got to believe, just based on what I've seen in the numbers that you've reflected, the interest in these kinds of activities on the river is only going to continue to grow. Okay.
 and I see it as a huge opportunity by the way for this city Thank you, I agree completely Thank you
 If I may make one final point, I would be remiss if I didn't say that, believe it or not, our numbers here today would be greater, but for the fact that the Rose City Rowing Club varsity men's and women's crews and the head coach are currently in Sarasota, Florida, preparing to race to represent Portland in the Junior Masters Nationals Championship. Excellent. Fantastic. We have one more panel. Is that correct, Nathan?
 One more panel, and that is our panel of distinguished environmental leaders. And I have the list in front of me. Oh, it's in my other hand. Apparently I have two of those now. We've got a gym rep. I don't see Mike here today or Bob Salinger. Mike? Oh, there's Bob. You want to? Okay, cool. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Oh, okay. You have a plan. I'll let you just go with the plan. Good. Thank you. Mayor and Council, Jim Rapp. I'm here representing the Urban Green Spaces Institute. Thanks, Jim. And I believe, Mayor, that you've already received a letter from Mike Houck, our Executive Director. Yes. And just to demonstrate that I'm not just repeating what Mike told me to say, I'm a former Port Director. I was an Oregon City Manager who originated the Tualatin River National Wildlife Refuge. Yes.
 and I was five years as a salmon recovery executive director, and last but not least, four terms as president of Audubon. But you have Mike's letter. Out of respect for those who said, Mayor, the 27 people who are now going to try to fit their testimony into 10 minutes, I think. They'll do it. They'll do it. I've seen them do it. I'm going to just really quickly summarize Mr. Houck's letter and leave it at that.
 The Green Spaces Institute is in support of the East Bank Crescent Riverfront Plan, strongly supportive. We do note that the swimming options, that the particular site on the east side is ranked fourth out of fifth.
 And we feel that for these reasons, it makes more sense to do more emphasis, basically concept number one in the city's plan on that site, and look to swimming opportunities elsewhere, the more higher-rated ones. Mike had a lot more to say, as you know. At least I assume you know.
 And I will just leave it at that. We urge you to adopt, to accept both the Crescent Riverfront Plan and the swimming study as presented. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Travis Williams. I'm Executive Director of Willamette Riverkeeper. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Councilors, for this opportunity to talk a little bit about river habitat and access today. I'm in a little bit of a unique role in that I'm on the Portland Boathouse Board as a forming member of that organization, Willamette Riverkeeper. But of course, first and foremost, we work on water quality and habitat
 A big principle of what we're about is getting people to the river to see it and experience it, whether that's in an urban area like Portland or far upstream.
 When I look at and when we evaluated the draft concept plan, we were really drawn to the balance of concept number one, which does a good job of providing access at that particular area, but also provides more robust habitat improvement over time. I think when you look at the constrained area as it goes through the central city, that one really jumps out because of the ability to lay the bank back
 to create more wildlife habitat, both shallow water habitat and riparian habitat. And then on top of that, you've got a unique opportunity to really weave people into that picture in terms of educating them, providing opportunities for them to see what does this whole habitat restoration thing really mean. And that would be Exhibit A in the core of the city.
 I think access for rowing, canoeing, kayaking, swimming...
 is exceedingly important and frankly we have not capitalized if you will on what Portland and the Willamette River in particular really offers. It's always been my dream that we would have some kind of a stair step from the Tom McCall Waterfront Park through the seawall to get people down to the water. A series of low stairs coming up is just one of many parks amenities to allow that access for people for them to see and touch the river.
 So I guess I would leave it at that with the idea of brevity. But again, concept number one really jumps out. It does provide a balance. And I would also say as we move forward as the Portland Boathouse creating this new river center, I look forward to more opportunity for dialogue with you and the rest of the city. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. I'm Jeannie Galick. I'm a longtime Greenway advocate. You've seen me here before.
 As you know, I've worked very hard to get the trail completed on both sides of the river, and of key importance to the Greenway is the reestablishment of a healthy riverine environment that is good not just for people, but supportive of wildlife and fish.
 I was a member of the Zydel Greenway Committee, as you've heard, and it's just wrapped up their concept plan, and we approved it. And what's interesting is the consensus of both the committee and public outreach is for habitat to be a priority along the new stretch of the greenway. The process found that people want more than just access to the river. They want a healthy river ecosystem.
 As others will point out, very few opportunities remain along the river for shallow water habitat. The East Bank Crescent is one of these. Enhancing and restoring habitat should be and needs to be the primary focus. Fish don't have a lot of other options. They can't jump off of docks, and they can't just use floats. They have to have shallow water habitat, and we need to help them and enhance that.
 I strongly support concept number one. It has more emphasis on habitat, and it will also, because it's next to OMSI, be a wonderful educational opportunity and a showcase for showing what we can do to restore the river while still allowing for active recreation. So let's make this happen, and please fund it appropriately. Thank you. Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Thanks, Bob, for your patience.
 Good afternoon. My name is Bob Sollinger. I'm the Conservation Director for the Portland Audubon Society. First off, I want to express appreciation to the city and city staff for the work they've done on this. They've done a very good job. I'm here today to support option number one. As you've already heard, that is the one that has more habitat in it. We think it does a good job of balancing both access and habitat, and we think it's really important when we introduce people to the river and these sites to introduce them to a place that represents a healthy river
 not a denuded river, and that's what we have for the most part. So when we provide this access, let's do it in a way that inspires people and teaches them what it means to have a healthy river and that gets them involved in the stewardship of that site. Both can be done. I think option one is the better balance of the two options before you. I think it's important to remember that every salmon that uses the Willamette River system has to pass through downtown Portland.
 And study after study shows that one of the limiting factors for salmon recovery in the Willamette River system is downtown Portland. We have very, very little habitat once you get to the central and north reaches of Portland. The river's been hardened, steepened, dredged, and there's virtually no shallow water habitat, which is what young salmon need when they go to the ocean. It's an oversimplification, but really about every quarter mile, a juvenile salmon needs to get off the main channel
 into shallow water habitat, rest, forage, and get away from predators. Right now they go miles without having that. I've heard some people suggest that, well, you know, we can separate the beach access and the habitat. The fact is there are very, very few sites left where we can separate
 that are available for either right now. In the Central City Plan, which will be coming before you in the fall, you'll see that we were only able to identify six or seven sites in the entire central reach that are restorable. So we're going to have to do both and find a way to balance them but find a way to restore.
 So, again, option one, we also encourage the city to start looking at the North Reach again. The Central Reach plan is coming before you in the fall. North Reach was suspended pending the end of the Comprehensive Plan and the Economic Opportunities Analysis. We have to replicate this. Not only do we have to do it in the East Bank Crescent, but we need to do it up and down the river. There are some sites in the Central Reach. There are more in the North Reach. But this is exciting to see us getting started.
 And if we're serious about salmon, we talk a lot about salmon in this city. This is really where the rubber hits the road is on these restoration sites on the main stem. So thank you. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. All right. So we're down to public testimony. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a comment? We're down to public testimony, and here's how we can economize. We'll just say a minute. I won't be draconian about it. But if you team up with other people who are already on the list, we'll give you extra time. How's that? Thank you.
 Go ahead. We'll call three names, and then Carla will also call the next three just so you know who's on deck. First three, please come on up, are Susan West, Dennis Shore, and Joshua Ochis. And they'll be followed by Casper Murr, Keith Jones, and Fran Sumida-Park. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hi. I'm Susan West from Friends of River Place, and we're a Spirit of Portland award-winning group. We spent the last two years and hundreds of hours getting ready for what's happening now. We are so thrilled and supportive that we can see the vision of the future. We have been dreaming about an open, free access to the Willamette River all this time. I put out some pictures of Firmoy, Ireland, and what they did along the river. Yes.
 We would like to see Portland's waterfront as a destination, and this was what the city council had in mind when they planned River Place and pushed through the big pipe project. The beach and swim access will make it more of a destination. We envision the Willamette River to be as widely known as the Danube River. Somebody needs to write a waltz.
 And really, how can we have a river without kids swimming, fun, and lemonade? So we think that every decision we make is not about what we do but who we are. We are a city that loves our river, loves our parks, loves nature. We're supportive and will help in any way as we open up the river access. Yes.
 Thank you, and please let your group know we really appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz. This visual aid is really helpful, showing the multiple purposes, taking rain equals taking light, so making sure that people don't just walk off with them, and then also having the sticker on it for talk to us if things seem too much. Isn't that great? So I love the multi-placid. All up and down the river. Yeah, thank you. That's very helpful. And Willie's already got that going. Thank you. Commissioner Fish, did you have a comment? Great. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Dennis Schur. I'm fortunate to live not far from here where I can get on the river whenever I choose.
 I look across the river and see people using every patch of shoreline to be in or near a river. On nearly every sunny day, every shoreline where people have access fills up with sunbathers and swimmers, floaters and paddlers of all kinds. And if it floats, you'll see it on this river. Yes, sir. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Joshua Ochis, and I'm representing Wasabi Paddling Club. And I have been in multiple accidents, and the paddling exercise has helped me be who I am right now. And having access to the club for everybody and the river is very important.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you. I appreciate your being here. Next three, please. Our Casper Muir, Keith Jones, and Fran Sumita-Polk, and they'll be followed by Demetrius Harrison, Laura Freeman, and Bill Bergel. Good afternoon. I'll give a minute of mine to Casper. He's the president. Thank you. You're very kind. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm Casper Moorer. I'm the president of Wasabi Paddling Club since January of this year. So I represent about 350 or so active paddlers on that club. And I've got to say a lot of what I was going to say has already been shared. Thank you.
 And so I want to add, I think, two things. One of them is dragon boating is one of the fastest growing sports in the world today. And it's virtually done everywhere. And so people come here to Portland, friends of our paddlers that say, we want to get on the water with you because we hear you have such a great reputation here in Portland for that. Right.
 The second thing is that the special teams that we have, aside from the competitive paddlers,
 We're very, very proud of that, the ability to be able to do that. And the big reason why we are able to do that is our location at the Portland Boathouse. Because one of the things that's really important for people like Josh, who was just speaking here, and the visually impaired paddlers and the high school paddlers, is public transportation to get there so they can actually participate. Okay.
 And with that, I would just like to say thank you to all of you for working on all of what we heard today. And we're very much in support of the Crescent Park plan. Thanks, Kasper. We appreciate you and your group being here today. Thank you. And you were very polite, so why don't you say a few words?
 Thank you. Thank you so much for the city council supporting this issue, and it's one that's really, really needed. My name is Fran Polk, and I have been a member, I have been part of Wasabi for the last 15 years since they transferred over to the,
 the east side. And I've also been a member of SOAR, the breast cancer team. And I am now a member of the GM, which is the grandmasters team. And I believe I'm the eldest of the Wasabi group right now. You know, so anyway, I'm kind of proud of that because I've been paddling for so long. Yeah. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. But our dock is so worn out that part of it is ready to sink, and half the time when the water is high, it's over the actual wooden part that's left. The rest of it has been restored, but we really need a new dock. Absolutely. So thank you very much for your support. Thank you for being here. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you.
 KEITH JONES, Good afternoon. My name is Keith Jones. I'm the chair of Louisville-Lloyd, which represents the residents of the Lloyd neighborhood. The Lloyd neighborhood is primarily known as a business district, I think, to most people, with three primary destinations, the Moda, the Convention Center, and the Lloyd Center Mall. But in recent years, we're seeing a resurgence of residents returning to the area, and it's growing rapidly. Haslow and 8th alone has doubled the population there. And there are at least three more developments in the works.
 Since moving to Lloyd, I find that I use my car like a lot less, maybe once every three months. And within the Lloyd, I have easy access to the streetcar, all of the MAX lines, bike infrastructure, and walkable locations. However, what I don't have easy access to is the water. The Willamette River is mere blocks from where I live, but I don't feel connected to it. I can get there easily, and I can only really view it from the sidewalk.
 A resident of my committee recently brought the Duckworth docks to my attention and asked me to look into opening it back up. He wanted a place to swim, and my other residents love the idea. So I understand that there's an encumbrance on it, and we fully support the plan put forth by Willie. I'd like to ask for your help to restore that access to us. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you very much.
 The next three are Demetrius Harrison, Laura Freeman, and Bill Burgle, and they'll be followed by Dan Rolfe, Kerry Morris, and Daniel Ellis. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Do I have to leave? Maybe. You can go ahead and start, and we'll see if he's left. Okay, so you can call somebody else up. I'm going with Dan Rolfe.
 There's Dan. All right. You can go ahead and start. My name is Demetrius Harrison. I am a resident of Northeast Portland. My mother was born and raised here in Portland. As a little girl, we used to come here and drive over these bridges. I used to think this river was the most beautiful thing in the city, coming from Los Angeles, California. Very familiar with the water. I want to read something that someone wrote. This is a man by the name of Deshaun Crawford who lost his life at Kelly Point Park.
 It says, life is something that I think about too much. I try harder and harder to see where it takes me. It took him to his death at Kelly Point Park. We need public access into the rivers. I'm also a board member of HAP Human Access Project. Excellent. Thank you. Well said.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Laura Freeman. I am the club secretary for Wasabi Paddling Club. I paddle on the Dragon Boat Team SOAR, which stands for Cancer Survivors and Supporters on a River. I grew up in Portland. My family were members of the Willamette Sailing Club, so I spent a lot of my childhood in that water back in the 70s and the 80s. I've seen our river go through major transformations. It's cleaner now than it's been in decades.
 If you paddle with us, you get to see the deer on the Ross Island. You get to see the bald eagles in the lagoon and the rookery of the blue heron. This is the river that we see. Most people don't get to see that. They just drive over on a bridge, look down. They go to a lookout point, look down. But this dock space, this east side dock, is one of the few touch points where people can actually access the river. There's not a lot of that around.
 So for that reason, I fully support the plan. Obviously, the adoption of the Crescent plan is beneficial to Wasabi Paddling Club, the Portland Boathouse, and the whole community. But this little strip of the Willamette is such a unique spot that it would be sad if people couldn't get to it.
 The new vision of the boathouse shows lots of community access, hopefully some river education and a community space. All those things are important to this community. Without that ability to get to the river, without that space, our whole future at the boathouse trajectory completely changes.
 So with that, I'd like to thank you for your time and invite you to come out with us. If you ever want a life jacket and a paddle, we'll take you out and give you a chance to see what we see. Sounds excellent. I appreciate that opportunity. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Fritz. My name is Dan Rolfe. I'm here today wearing three different hats.
 My first hat is as an environmental attorney. I'm the co-founder of Earthrise Law Center, which is the environmental law clinic at Lewis and Clark. My other co-founder was instrumental in filing the litigation that ultimately led to the big pipe and cleaning up the Willamette River. I've been involved for over 25 years in efforts to restore salmon and steelhead in the Columbia and Willamette Rivers.
 Wearing that first hat, as you know, the city has obligations under the Endangered Species Act to avoid jeopardy to listed salmonids and to minimize their incidental take. In my view, concept one in the East Bank plan is an excellent and necessary step in the city's compliance with its legal obligations to protect salmon and steelhead.
 I also wear the hat or actually the uniform of the Wasabi Paddling Club, and I'm on the board of the Portland Boathouse. You've heard about both of those organizations and how they are instrumental in connecting hundreds of paddlers and rowers from a diverse and growing array of people and citizens of Portland to the river. And I encourage...
 adoption of this plan, and provision of a dock to enable those people to continue to be ambassadors to the river and continue to experience and enjoy the river and its amenities. Finally, as a longtime member of the Natural Resources Faculty at Lewis and Clark Law School, I'm an environmental educator.
 And wearing that hat, I would really appreciate the city's support as we go forward with efforts to try to construct a new river center, which in addition to providing a home for the Portland Boathouse, which is soon to lose its lease in a couple of years, will also provide educational opportunities, interpretive opportunities for everyone in the city. Thank you.
 Thank you. To learn more about the river. Commissioner Fish. Just wanted to observe that the newest member of my team, who is focused on the river, Superfund, and other things, I think is a graduate of your program, Amira Streeter, who has her law degree from Lewis and Clark in environmental law. Yeah, of course. I know Amira. That's terrific. Thank you, sir. Great. Thank you both. We appreciate it. Next three, please. Are Kerry Morris, Daniel Ellis, and Leslie Walker?
 And they'll be followed by Quincy, Cassandra Schumer, and Rick Gebe. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thanks for giving me a moment, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Kerry Morris. I am a board member at Wasabi Paddling Club. I've been a member of that club since 2005, so for the past 12 to 13 years. And today I just testify as from a person that's on the river personally
 multiple, really five to six days out of the week in some capacity with paddling and just kind of express my real love affair with the river and what it really means to me. In addition to paddling dragon boats and what I've done that for the past 12 years, I've recently done outrigger canoeing.
 And one big issue that has really been recent and as more people come to the river is safely being able to get yourself and a craft to the river and be able to get on the river. I own an outrigger canoe that's 20 feet long. I have to carry it down the dock by myself as one person.
 and try to maneuver between all sorts of people that may be on that dock and around the area. And it becomes extremely tricky during this time of year. And I'm just here to give my support for concept one and of the East Bank Crescent plan. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Daniel Ellis. I'm a coach for the Rose City Rowing Club. This past year, we had nearly 200 athletes from 36 different area schools come through our program. And for the athletes and parents and coaches, races and results are the very kind of tangible goal. They're easy to see and plan for. But as coaches and parents in the room will tell you,
 Along their journey, we see our athletes develop the intangibles, confidence, courage. They become leaders. They become compassionate teammates, all through the vehicle of our program. And rowing requires a lot of things. It requires equipment, coaches, commitment, time, energy, but chief of which is access. If we can't get to the river, we can't row.
 And so whatever the future holds for Crescent Park and its development, we just ask that you consider access for light watercraft and programs such as our own. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Leslie Walker, also a coach at Rose City. So I'm mostly here to emphasize what Daniel said, but also wanted to say a little bit more about high school rowing as a part of Portland's program.
 Willamette River Connection landscape. High school rowing is a unique way for kids to get opportunities into college. It's one of the fastest growing sports in terms of amount of money and amount of scholarships that go to high school athletes compared to other high school sports. We
 With the scholarship programs that Rose City has for low-income kids and the outreach that we're doing into Portland public schools, it's actually a really good way for Portland to get kids who are of color or low-income or who wouldn't otherwise have access to the river onto the river. And as a coach, I can say that it's really amazing to see kids go from...
 square one, which is like kind of afraid to touch the water because they think it's toxic, to being really proud of our river and our bridges and our whole landscape that we have in downtown. So I'm mostly here to say thank you for keeping us in mind when you're considering all the options and helping us to continue to spread rowing to as many different populations as we can. Excellent. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. The next three, Gene Quincy, Cassandra Schumann, and Rick Gieb.
 And they'll be followed by Owen O'Brien Powers, Denise Shirk-Kronkowski, and Malka Marin-Kronkowski. Very good. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, ma'am. My name is Richard Guy, and I want to respond to Commissioner Fish's question about other jurisdictions or cities that are having success. Coincidentally, I'm from Cleveland, Ohio, and there was just a newspaper article, a full one-and-a-half-page article in the Cleveland Plain Dealer just published two weeks ago,
 about an abandoned warehouse that was turned into a state-of-the-art rowing facility. I'm a former rower, and my son is at the National Youth Championships in Sarasota. I'll be leaving tomorrow morning for that. Excellent. And so what I want to say and encourage you, and not to criticize my hometown...
 But just a minute, sorry. I have a picture I want to show you. Cleveland is the home of the Cuyahoga River, the original burning river, which is actually part of what started the EPA, the same EPA that's responsible for helping us clean up the Willamette River.
 And so the Cuyahoga River is the crooked river, yet in Cleveland they are celebrating the opening of a building called the Foundry, which is going to become the home of the Youth Rowing Association in Cleveland. And so this year their goal is to have, well not this particular year, but their goal is to bring 10,000 youths in Cleveland down to the river to learn to do all kinds, it's not just rowing, it's light watercraft, it's paddle boarding, it's kayaking. And so all
 although I love my hometown, when you look at the river, it's the Crooked River. My phone's not going to work now, of course. But it's the Crooked River. I don't want to criticize my hometown, but it's not a good piece of water compared to the Willamette. And so I'm here today to support the inclusion of the Portland Boathouse in the final plan so that we can have light watercraft access because I don't think we can predict –
 how popular it will become. And my final comment is that my son actually tried a lot of different sports, and he didn't do well at them. I know that one of the other parents submitted some testimony to you saying that her son, too, who's on this championship team that's down in Florida, also tried many sports and didn't do well.
 But rowing lifts the spirit, and it is a sport that anyone can do. As Ms. Walker just said, one of the coaches, that anybody can get in a boat, and it will lift their spirit. And we cannot predict how popular the Portland Boathouse will be in five or ten years. And I think 10,000 is a conservative number for a great city like Portland. Thank you. Appreciate it very much.
 Mayor and Commissioners, Jean Quincy, member of Wasabi Paddling Club. I also am a private boat owner over at River Place and a former member of the Oregon State Marine Board. It's apparent today from everybody talking that we don't really need to activate the waterfront. It's already quite active.
 The plan is great. We can't wait. It will provide better and safer access, but in the meantime, we need some law enforcement down there. There are some really unsafe and unsavory behaviors and activities taking place.
 You know, we've seen even plantings that have been put in previously that have been camped on and destroyed. You know, we've got inebriated individuals jumping off the top of fire docks and so forth. So including it in the plan needs to be a way to not only give them safe access, but to keep them safe from their own behaviors and for everybody else to enjoy that area. So...
 Thanks again for the plan. Looking forward to it. But in the meantime, we need to keep it safe for those of us that are there. Excellent. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you. I am representing Station L Rowing Club, and I've also coached with Leslie and Daniel, who are up here under them for Row City. But mostly I just want to present to you...
 From our archives, an article from 2008 touting the magic that our club brings to participants throughout the city. As Leslie stated, different representatives from all neighborhoods come together.
 We have articles dating back to the 70s, also touting the community that our club creates. So thank you so much for, again, you've been thanked many times. But we appreciate you considering the rowing community when you consider the plan. Absolutely. Thank you. Could you just tell us your name, please? I'm Cassandra Schumann. Thank you. Yeah. She just goes by Coach. Okay.
 The next three are Owen O'Brien Powers, Denise Shirk-Krankowski, and Malka Marin-Krankowski. And they'll be followed by Juliet Hotchman, Joaquin Vonding, and Amy Johnson. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Owen O'Brien Powers, and I row at Rose City Rowing Club. I would just like to briefly articulate three reasons that I think demonstrate the importance of including the Portland Boathouse and a light water launching point in the plan for Crescent Park. Number one is at Rose City Rowing Club and the clubs that operate.
 operate out of the Portland Boathouse, I see a tremendous amount of fortitude and work ethic fostered within the kids that come in, and my teammates, and within myself. Secondly, I think the clubs at the Portland Boathouse and the dock in general.
 It fosters a certain amount of community because just at Rose City, people from different high schools come and interact with each other. And I think that cultivates a certain amount of community in the Portland area. And finally, I think including the Portland Boathouse and a light water launching point in the plan promotes a certain amount of health and commitment to the health of the citizens of the city. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon.
 My name is Malka Kronowski, I'm 10 years old and I'm a fourth grader at Hope Chinese Charter School.
 Summer is my favorite season because the river is finally warm enough for swimming. I began learning to swim when I was seven months old at Children of the Sea Swimming School. My swim teachers taught me how to hold my breath, how to float on my back to rest, and how to climb up out of the water. Later on, I learned different kinds of swimming strokes. When I was about two years old, I started swimming in the river and going in the canoe with my mom and grandpa. They always made sure I wore my life jacket in the canoe and when I went swimming in the river. Because my parents and grandpa encouraged me to swim and play in the river as a baby, I've grown to love the Willamette River.
 In summer when it's really hot, I go down to the river with my parents
 to swim and cool off. When my friends are over on days such as those, we all like to hang out on our dock, and we usually swim. There's an event each summer at Tom McCall Park downtown called the Big Float, hosted by Human Access Project. I've gone every year that I can remember, and I've always had fun inner tubing, swimming, or canoeing in the river. On Independence Day, I go over to my grandpa's house where we celebrate and watch fireworks. We always invite friends and go swimming in the Willamette River. Every year, I have lots of fun experiences...
 at the Willamette River. I go swimming, antitubing, and I canoe and ride in motorboats. Because of my enthusiasm, I have encouraged many of my friends to swim in the Willamette River, many of them for the first time. I think the river is clean and should stay clean for the benefit of Portland and the city's wildlife. If we can keep the river clean, we will encourage more people to come to the river and swim and help us keep the beaches and water healthy. Excellent. Good testimony. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Denise Scherka. I'm a color consultant and a social media volunteer for Human Access Project.
 My main gig as a mom to my 10-year-old daughter, Malka, and my four-year-old son, Solomon. I enjoy canoeing and I try to get on the water as often as I can manage. As a water lover, I enrolled my kids in swimming lessons as babies, and I just always felt the earlier the better. I wanted them to learn to enjoy and find comfort in the water as much as I do. My dad, Dennis, who spoke earlier, was very into canoeing when I was young, and my mom was adamant I learned to swim and be safe in our various trips.
 Through the years, Dad became an expert in water safety for the Red Cross in Southern California. And as a side benefit of that, I spent countless weekends observing water workshops on lakes and rivers. Dad instilled in me a respect for moving water. It's deeply fortunate that I've had the early experiences I did in the outdoors and doubly so as my young family can share the beauty of Portland.
 The kids adore going down to the river and playing. Malka and Solomon know what my rules are. If we're near water, be it lakes or rivers, they must have their life jackets on. I want those rules to be instinctual, not only for my kids, but also for their friends who join us. Water safety rules allow us to have a really fun day on the river or at the beach.
 A personal dream of mine is for all of Oregon's elementary-age children to have the opportunity to learn about their local waterways. We need to think about water safety as a valuable subject in our schools.
 It's a vitally important life skill, the value of always wearing your life jacket and to not ever feel ashamed to wear one. It's the really cool science of learning how to read a river and to gauge how fast it's moving. It's understanding how cold the water might be, learning what cold water does to our body. I want kids to be water-wise, and through that knowledge, their resulting enjoyment. They'll be water lovers.
 and future stewards of our rivers. It's a set of skills that will flow from one generation to the next. We can create the kind of flow of knowledge here in Portland, and we can lead the way for our youth and for our beautiful Willamette River. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your testimony. Appreciate it. The next three are Juliet Hochman, Wochim Vonding, and Amy Johnson.
 And they'll be followed by Craig Mosbeck, Sonia Matabano, and Dina Marshall. And how many more do we have after that? There's one more after that last person, I think. Okay, great. And for those of you who are waiting for the Tax Supervision and Conservation Commission, better known as Tax Soup, that is going to be at about 4.15 is my prediction. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jock von Delling. Yes, we will take a break.
 My name is Jock Von Delling, and I'm a parent of – father of Ainsley Von Delling, who's a freshman at Lincoln High School and rows for Rose City Rowing Club. I just want to put my support in for the Crescent Plan and hopefully a watercraft dock there that they can access the river. I think it's important to have that central location because Ainsley actually takes public transportation from Lincoln every day down to the dock so she can get to practice, and I know that other kids –
 from all around the city do the same thing, so it is important to have and maintain that central location. And I just lastly want to say that this Rose City Rowing Program is just a really, really transformative thing for the kids. I mean, it's a life-changing event for my daughter to be a part of that program, and I just really want to give our support to the program and to this plan, so thank you. Wonderful. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it. Was there an Amy Johnson or a Craig Mossback?
 We'll go with Sonia Montalbano and Dena Marshall and Andrea Milano. Yes, she's here. Good afternoon. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners.
 My name is Craig Mosbach, and when my two friends and I started the Portland Farmer's Market 25 years ago, our goals were to create a community gathering place in the center of the city where everyone could enjoy the surroundings with the friendly activity of farmers selling local produce to customers who wanted to buy fresh, healthy foods. We can further accomplish these same basic goals by creating swimming beaches on the Willamette as it flows through the river.
 Everyone will have access to the beach, the community will gather, enjoying the city and its natural surroundings. Thinking about swimming on a sandy beach just sparks the image of smiling faces, friendly play, and fun. And swimming is a physical activity that can help young and old remain healthy. For many years to come, the swimming area on the Willamette will nourish our bodies, our hearts, and our collective soul. Creating a swimming beach would be one of this City Council's longest-lasting legacies.
 I appreciate your time and efforts to establish a swimming beach in downtown Portland. The investment in the beach will yield many happy returns. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Sonia Montalbano. And to briefly summarize, I came to Portland 24 years ago as a law student, and I'm a law student.
 studying environmental law. And I grew up on the water and was thrilled to see this beautiful river in the middle of the city. And then as my education at Lewis and Clark proceeded, was disgusted to find out that I couldn't actually touch the water. And then I was thrilled to work with my professors on the lawsuit that helped bring the big pipe to fruition. And it has been my joy to see more and more people swimming in Willamette as time has gone on.
 But as the summer is approaching, the city needs to take a proactive role with respect to protecting those citizens that are swimming now. Summer is here, and the city needs to take immediate steps. You have several options in the reports that have been prepared, and you can talk about which site to develop when. But when you do so, the price tag is going to be significant and delay development in other sites.
 Those sites will continue to be less safe than they can be, and I suggest in light of the city's awareness of people swimming at these sites now, there are simple, affordable steps that can be taken at all of these sites to reduce the risk of injuries or worse. I urge you to prioritize funding for installing ladders where people are swimming, having access to life rings and other flotation safety devices, sign-in warning of dangers,
 boundaries such as swimming ropes or lines, and information on park websites directing people to safe sites to swim. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Andrea Milano. I'm a librarian. I love to swim, and in respect of all the time that's left, I just want to say, for the record, I'd love to share the river with some young salmon.
 Well said. Thank you. I had more to say. That was well said, though. That was perfect. Way to go. Thank you. Thank you. Was there any other testimony? I think I've called all the names unless someone didn't hear their names. Did we miss anybody? No. Good. Yes. Come on up. Kate Lincoln. So if I could just frame this, my understanding is the recommendation that you started with is to adopt a
 effectively number one with the inclusion of those aspects of number two that are also compatible. Is that a fair statement? Yes. Just so we have this properly framed. So we're interested in that balance between the habitat restoration and the recreational opportunities. And I'll just sort of start with my speech before I even get to any further questions.
 I think it's imperative that we find that balance because as many people testified in
 conceptually we could just close off the whole riverfront, but people are still going to make their way to the water. And therefore, I'm compelled by the testimony that says if you really want to protect that critical habitat, then take those opportunities that are truly the best for access and recreation and make those the points to which you direct people so that they're not trampling through the most critical habitat.
 And I love the testimony. That was actually a great end point. I want to be in the river, and I want to be in there with the salmon. I think that's sort of a good frame for this whole issue. Commissioner Fish? So, Debbie, that was very helpful. And let me ask you the follow-up question, which is, what is our role today with respect to the testimony we've heard about the Holman dock and the proposed river center? Is that –
 Is that connected to our decision? Do we need to bring that into our decision? It seems like PDC needs to be at the table. What are our options around those two issues? That's an excellent question. I think that in general...
 The plan identified a new dock again and potentially a supportive location. It didn't go into detail, and it was also on OMSI property. So I think that council would need to take an action to further engage with the Portland Boathouse and with Prosper Portland, who is running, you know, has the jurisdiction over the Holman dock, to continue the work.
 toward a new dock and a new river center. But also, OMSI very much needs to be, and our city staff has an ongoing relationship with OMSI.
 following up on both the East Bank Crescent recommendation, but also weaving their master plan with our plan to make it all work. From the letter that we got from OMSI, it's clear there's still work we have to do on that. Can we simply say in our vote to you to engage Prosper Portland in evaluating the various pieces, or do we have to take this up as a separate matter to see if there's council support for doing something? Okay.
 I'm not sure. Yeah, yeah. It seems all connected, and you're doing a big look there. I mean, if it's the will of the council, can we ask you just to see how it fits and give us a menu of options? Sure. I mean, in the resolution, we talk about city staff continuing work.
 to coordinate with the property owners and the other interests. So I think we're there, and you're giving us specific... It's a very constrained area. And, I mean, my favorite bike route is coming from, you know, Goose Hollow, Salmon, over. And I know the stretch intimately. And if there's a few tents there, it's even more constrained. But it's a very constrained area up against a parking lot and then with a steep grade. So if we're going to try to fit all these pieces in, it does seem like we have to be very intentional. Right.
 And, Commissioner, if I could just add, I think the five sites that were considered, I think that's a very important document. And one of the things you could do is specifically about the issue of swimming, you could give us direction to look at the top two rated sites. We'll do something at Poets Beach as a pilot this year, but also look at the Hawthorne Bowl as the preferred places for swimming.
 looking at the East Bank Crescent as a dock that's for light watercraft and habitat enhancement. So that might just sort of clarify, because one of the challenges, even in option one on the crescent, is just so many things, like you said, Commissioner, trying to put habitat, boating. You heard some testimony about conflicts between folks trying to put boats in the water and swimmers that are using the dock. So that's some other clarification you could give us.
 Well, if I may say, I don't think the adoption of the plan today precludes any of those. I definitely – my priorities would definitely be the East Bank Crescent. It would be Poets Beach. It would be continuing to look at how you can improve infrastructure that is already there, and we had a couple of comments with regard to that. Some of these other conversations around the boathouse, around matching grants for life rings, things like that –
 Those are conversations, I think, that continue forward in the context of the adoption of these plans. So I'm not sure how further action is required today with regard to the adoption of the plans, unless I'm mistaken, and maybe I am.
 No, I think, Mr. Mayor, it's just about what direction do you want to give us to do further work. You said come back in the fall. So it's just sort of clarifying those kinds of things. So I am concerned that there's not as much focus in the whereases or in the be it resolves for the issue of boaters, and that's what we heard the vast majority of the testimony about today. So I'm wondering if in the second be it further resolve that the council directs staff to continue that.
 Then at the end, say, integrate habitat restoration with public recreational elements, including facilities for non-boaterized boaters. And then continue for the rest of the... Which resolution are we on? This is on the... East Bank present. East Bank present. The very... There's only two resolves saying basically we accept the exhibit A. So that's 645. 645.
 And then that we direct staff to continue to seek funds and coordinate. I think we need to add including facilities for non-motorized boaters. I will second. I'll take that as a motion for an amendment. Second. To 645, Commissioner Fish seconds that. Any further discussion on that amendment? Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. Thank you.
 So it sounds like the recommendation to us, and I wish we had more than three, three members of council here, because you might get three slightly, you're going to get, I think, three different votes with slightly different focuses in terms of direction. So you're going to have to sort that out. But it sounds like you're looking for the broader direction. You want us to, today, we're going to adopt the two resolutions, and then we have an opportunity to come back and sharpen our focus at some later date. Is that fair? Yes.
 I think that's a very good summary. So we're going to get sideways with the text, supervision, conservation. Yes. Okay. So let's jump to the chase here since we're still speed dating. Any further revisions, questions, thoughts, ideas? With that, Carla, call the roll on 644. Fish. Well, first of all, to Sally Edmonds, Debbie Bischoff, and Caitlin Lovell at the staff level, they're here. Thank you.
 Thank you for your great work, and I'm glad we had a full house of people that got to see what you do regularly. Nothing unusual about your work today, but most people don't get a chance to see it at this kind of level. So thank you very much for your work, and Mike, thanks for joining us.
 And to the BES Director. I'm very pleased to support item 644, and I probably have my own ranking of what I think is my preferred option on this, but we don't have the time to go through that, and I have a couple more discreet comments on 645. So I'll just say thank you and thanks to everyone who came out and testified.
 We've had a couple of tough weeks in this council and in this city, and it actually, Mayor, has been very encouraging to have a proceeding like this where people are so thoughtful and so civil and respectful and so inspired about our future in the water. So I'm very pleased to vote aye. Great.
 I was honoured to create and lead the office of a healthy working river in my first term. And what we're talking about here is both a healthy and a working river. So thank you to the staff for the 20 years of cleaning it up and making it healthy. We now need to look at how do we make...
 safe opportunities and direct people to where they are safer, direct them away further or not, and providing basic things like life belts, life rings with a lot of signage on them that say don't take this for fun, it's for life saving. So I do want to honor Anne Beyer, who is the Director of the Office of Healthy Working Rivers and Patty Howard on my staff that helped with the river recreation plan that has continued to work on this thanks to all the staff and for the great testimony, aye.
 Wheeler? Vera Katz, when she was mayor, called for a river renaissance. And the basic thrust of it was this. We are a people adjacent to the river, but we are not yet a people of the river. And we had not figured out a way to both respect that asset from an environmental perspective
 perspective nor view it as a place of community gathering, a place where people could come together. Over a period of many years, the city, including both of my colleagues who are up here, made significant investments like the Big Pipe project to continue to improve the water quality in the river. We continue to push forward on the Superfund site, which will help with the lower Willamette to the
 downstream portion of what we're talking about today. I want to thank all of those who testified today. Willie's still over here. Again, I'm blown away with your enthusiasm, the boaters who came in today, the people who talked about what this means for the next generation. And what we heard today underscores one clear point, which is protecting the habitat of
 and providing robust recreational and access opportunities are not at odds. In fact, there is a smart way for us to plan to have those to protect. I'm going to steal it again because it was such a great line, to be in the river and swim with the salmon.
 And that's exactly what we're going to do. I just want to thank everybody who is engaged in this and will continue to work with us. We have lots and lots of community partners. And I look forward to swimming with all of you again in the river. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Please call 645. Fish? So this is where I think you'll get a little more of the direction. And so I'll take just a minute to do that. First, I was –
 Very pleased to have so much testimony about all the activity on the river, including all the clubs and at the high school level, the college level. And I think I may actually join the Wasabi Club just to get that shirt, that jersey. It's a good one. It's a great one. Yeah.
 When I was in college, I was recruited to do crew because I had very long legs. And apparently when you're 6'1", 160, you have sort of like the right shape, and I had long legs. And it conflicted with the sport that I had played in high school. Poker? I couldn't do both. Poker. No, but it overlapped the tennis season. But the –
 There is something magical about being on the water in a boat, and I actually wish I had had a chance to do crew seriously, but I didn't.
 The other thing is, as I was hearing all the testimony, I was reflecting on the fact that when we open up the river and we create these opportunities, the ripple effects are huge. And so we have 1,000 people, apparently, actively engaged in this sport and a chance to grow it. And that's fantastic. So on 6-45...
 I am persuaded that option one is the best option, and there may be some way to harmonize option one and option two. But for me, fish habitat has to come first, and I know that site very, very well.
 On the Holman dock, I think we have to begin to plan for its replacement. And it sounds like it could fail any time, but at least in the next two years, it sounds like we have to have a plan. And I think there's a broader community reason why that has to be done. I think the Portland boathouse is a phenomenal opportunity. How we pay for it and how it fits within the OMSI master plan. And the OMSI master plan is a critical piece of how all this fits together. And as I said, from the letter we got from OMSI, we still have work to do. But OMSI.
 I don't know whether people know this, but in the proposed location for the new Portland Boathouse is like one building over from the building that OMSI uses to build all of its sets and all of its exhibits. And what's fascinating about that building is most of the exhibits they build there are for museums other than OMSI. It's the world – it's the nation's leading center for developing those kinds of things. And –
 It's a wonderful place to visit. So for me, fish habitat comes first. Home and dock, we ought to bring Prosper Portland in and start talking about what are the options. Helping Portland Boathouse find a new home.
 And frankly, Caitlin, given that location, I would want to at least have the option to talk to them about taking a portion of the wall and putting our Superfund materials on it because that is a hell of a location. And since we've just the other day we're talking about how to expand our outreach to the community, having a little kiosk there around Superfund and having something on the side of the building, you know, that we might contribute to would be pretty cool.
 Then balancing the trail and how we do the swimming safely all gets fit in. One other piece I just want to add.
 What I've heard from a lot of people today is the swimming is going to occur regardless of what we do today. And so I do think, Mike, we need to have a plan for signs or ladders or safety equipment, and I would hope that you'll come back to council with something and a price tag so we get ahead of that. Because I don't think we have the luxury of saying, gosh, sorry, we thought it was prohibited, people did it, and then someone...
 a tragedy happens. So I'd very much like to know, Mayor, about what the additional steps we can take now to enhance public safety. Thank you all for a terrific presentation. I'm very pleased to vote aye. Fritz.
 Well, the one trimester that I rode at Cambridge is not something that I look back with fond memories. Just because I, partly because you had to get up at six o'clock in the morning to do it. But just because I don't particularly want to do it either now or then doesn't mean that I don't support it. And that's the case with many of the things that we deal with on the council. I am very supportive of both the boathouse and all of the clubs there and the swimming option. I definitely agree with Commissioner Fish that option one is the direction to go.
 But a note that the redevelopment of East Bank Crescent is currently unfunded. What we found in Portland Parks and Recreation with Poet's Beach is that the amount of money that's been allocated by the council is
 Fairly enough, we think, to make it a safe place. And as we heard from the River Place folks, law enforcement is definitely a component of this, that there are some things that rangers can do and that other river users can do. But just unsafe behavior and criminal behavior needs more enforcement. And so I know that the mayor is committed to that. And choosing the right path is going to be a challenge for all of us. And one that I'm looking forward to working with you on. Hi. Hi.
 Wheeler. Very good. So first of all, I want to thank Nathan Howard from my office, before I forget. He's worked on this for many, many, many, many months. And frankly, it's been a hoot. I've really enjoyed working on this project with all of you and really everybody from the community. It's just been a blast, frankly, and a great inspiration. I err probably towards what the staff recommendation is, which is what I'll call one-and-a-half.
 again, respecting the environment, but where it is compatible, acknowledging that we really do need access and we do need recreational opportunities on the river for a variety of reasons. I'll just go on one thread, and then I'll be quiet because we have to get our budget approved by the tax soup folks upstairs.
 It's this. The river has too long divided this community, and there is very rarely a day in this council chamber where somebody doesn't mention the divide.
 in this city that the waterway creates. And they talk about it in different ways, socioeconomic, geographical, you name it. This kind of planning can actually bridge that divide. And we could be similar to what other communities are that respect their waterway, respect their habitat, protect the environment, but also acknowledge that it could be a thriving area that brings people together rather than divides them.
 And I happen to be on the side of the philosophical argument that says people are going to come either way, so let's do it in a responsible, planful way. That's been the Portland way for a long, long time. So that would be – and I'm hearing my colleagues, and I certainly respect their important points of view on this, but I'd say I'm one and a half. I'm not one –
 I like where we were with regard to respect the environment, but where it is appropriate to do so, let's also cultivate those access and recreational opportunities and let's take that river renaissance to the next level.
 So with that, I will just say thank you, everybody. It's been a great day. Commissioner Fritz. Just one other thing. Willie Levinson has been an amazing community leader on this, and I forgot to say that in my comments. So I appreciate it very much. Thank you. Very good. I vote aye. And with that, the resolution is adopted as amended. Thank you all for your hard work. We are adjourned.
 Actually, I've had to stop collecting t-shirts. That's great. My wife wishes I would stop collecting t-shirts. No, I do. So I'm going to take two minutes. One in the petty drawer. One in the petty drawer? Okay, thank you. And Kristen is going to get them just to start on the floor. Yeah, I'll get that as soon as I can. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Hey, man, I was going to give you a shout-out. Yeah. They gave testimony. I'll give it to you. It's a matter of public record. Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah, that was good. You guys, hey. Hey, great. Yeah, pretty awesome. Thank you. Shake hands. Thank you. That was excellent. That was good. Yeah. See you. Thanks.
 So did Carla have to take off to prove herself? She did. She took off. Alright, and I won't be short on time. She does. Oh, she has career? She does. Oh, she does. Okay. Yeah, it's not a good idea. Oh, it's going to be okay. Yeah, it's not a good idea. It's, you know, it's a lot of stuff. It's a lot of stuff. And I think what I said, I think it's a great idea. You know, so, yeah, well, it's... And he doesn't know how to tell tomorrow. He's like, oh, you're going to have fun? Grab those two glasses real quick. Oh. I'm afraid I'm going to have to go. I'm going to have to go. I'm going to have to
 That's ours. Mic's on. The mic was on. Okay. I'll grab that from there. There's another one here.