Under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by phone, and the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. The public can also provide written testimony to the Council by emailing the Council Clerk. The Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit person contact and promote physical distancing.
 The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you for your patience, flexibility, and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the city's business. We will now hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum.
 Thank you, Mayor. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda at PortlandOregon.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. Presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Finally, please be aware that all council meetings are recorded.
 All right. Thank you, colleagues. It's my understanding that at the request of the new Portlanders Policy Commission, they'd like to reschedule the proclamation and the report that were scheduled for the 930 times certain to be responsive to community needs and the issues that need to be highlighted at this moment.
 Before we begin our regular agenda this morning, I'd like to take time for my colleagues and I to reflect briefly on the moment in which we find ourselves. I will keep my remarks brief as I want to leave this space for my colleagues. For the last five nights, thousands of people have come together to grieve, to show solidarity, and to demand accountability and justice for police brutality following the murder of George Floyd.
 Brutal murder of George Floyd laid bare a harsh reality. Racism continues to rob our black communities of safety, of health, and of prosperity. Too often, the very institutions that are supposed to protect and serve our community have instead failed people of color, specifically our black community.
 Mr. Floyd's murder announced that reality so loudly, so unconscionably. They are tired, they are hurt, and they are grieving. Over the past week, I've listened to community leaders. I've met with organizers of demonstrations, and I've been in the difficult but necessary conversations to focus on what comes next. I'll say it again until I reach every single Portlander. Keep holding us accountable.
 I want to be held accountable. And I want you to know that I will continue to hold myself accountable as your mayor. And I know that my colleagues feel exactly the same way. I am your ally. I believe in justice and reform. I believe in our peaceful demonstrators and their calls for reform. This is all of our responsibility. Thank you. And if my colleagues would like
 to reflect on the moment now, or frankly later in the meeting, whatever is your preference. So Mayor, I would love to see if my other colleagues want to make a statement. I want to make a statement, but I want to give them the space first. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Fritz, good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, everybody. Commissioner Hardesty, I appreciate that statement. You have been doing such a great job of leadership with the Mayor, and I feel a bit awkward being a white woman being asked to be speaking before my black colleague.
 So I'll just say that I'm so grateful to the work that Ewing and Mayor Wheeler have been doing. The anguish of our community is longstanding.
 Black Portlanders have been in the forefront and justice has been denied for so long. And in fact, my staff and I are overwhelmed by the outpouring of support and unable to respond to everybody who's writing in and calling. And so we appreciate that. And I'll have a statement on my website later today. Thank you. I'll try to keep this brief.
 I went to bed in tears watching police fire gas canisters as they were rolling down streets into random crowds of protesters. And I woke up horrified by images that were shared with me this morning. My first experience of a protest was 30 years ago when I was 20 years old and I watched Portland Police.
 use excessive force against protesters. It shook the foundation of what I thought it meant to be an American to see the police violating protesters' constitutional rights and harming their bodies and wrongfully arresting them. And that protest did lead to judgments against the police. So this is not my personal opinion. This is what happened.
 It was terrifying and I was undeterred. And I am so disturbed by what we are telling these youth. 10,000 people came out last night, mostly youth, with our actions through the police and with our inactions on police violence and accountability. Yeah.
 I've spent the last 30 years as an activist and an organizer and an advocate, not specifically on police reform, but I get to sit, I felt powerless. You feel powerless against the police, no matter how righteous your cause is, and no matter how closely you're obeying the law, you can be attacked and injured and killed.
 30, almost 30 years later, I joined city council. City commissioner is the second most powerful political position in the city. And I still feel powerless against the police. As soon as my team got to city hall, we began conversations with community, with advocacy organizations, and with the police themselves to determine what we could do because we were in the middle of a crisis.
 intense protests following the November 2016 election. And time and time again, no matter how reasonable the requests, we were told it couldn't be done. Oh, that has to be bargained in the contract. Oh, that's a directive. We got nowhere with those conversations. We're not going to see an end to this until we get somewhere. These protesters want action, and we are not giving it to them.
 So, you know, I don't want to be cynical about police. I know there are many good officers in the force. I saw those images of people, of officers taking the knee. If you're not open to change, if you're not calling out misconduct, if you're not standing with us against racism, don't take the knee.
 It is a disservice and an insult to every person who has died from police violence and to the people that have suffered real repercussions for taking the knee. The Geneva Convention banned the use of tear gas. I think we should too. I am absolutely horrified by what I saw last night, and it is...
 sadistic to be doing, to be using tear gas in the middle of a public health crisis that's attacking people's respiratory systems. I'm really worried about the health impacts that these protests might be having, but what I see out there is beautiful. It's an uprising and it's a time for reckoning and we have got to do something now.
 Thank you, Commissioner Udailey. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, colleagues. Quancy Haynes, Aaron Campbell, Keaton Otis, Kendra James. We don't have enough time for me to go through all the names of people who have died at the hands of the state in Portland. I want to remind people that this protest isn't about what happened anywhere else.
 It's about what happens in Portland. It's about the relationships that Portlanders have with people who are sworn to protect and serve them. I want the community to know I see you. The most beautiful sight I'd ever seen was the Burnside Bridge last night. What we know over the last five days is that there are people that are standing up for justice. They're demanding it.
 They are requiring more of their elected leaders. But then, as has happened every night since the protest has started, there is a small group of people who are intent on doing damage to our city, to our values. They're attempting to be disruptors to the real issue that Portlanders are confronting. I share Commissioner Udeli's concern about we are in the midst of a pandemic,
 We know that it causes respiratory distress. And we know that as we see more and more people showing up to protest, those people are putting their health at risk. And that risk is going to be exacerbated by tear gas and other chemical elements.
 We have an obligation to find out what the impact of those chemical weapons are on protesters, especially at the height of a pandemic. I will be moving forward legislation to take real action now before we pass our budget. I will be asking you, my colleagues, to join me in removing some of what we know are the most racially discriminatory
 unequal systems that we have within the Portland Police Bureau. I will be asking you to join me and Dorn away with the gun violence reduction team. I will be asking you to join me and Dorn away with school resource officers. I will be asking you to join me and Dorn away with Transit Police.
 I'm also going to ask you to join me in making sure that we provide training to Portland police officers to make sure that everyone who encounters a police officer does not have to be in fear that they won't make it home that night to their family. This is an epidemic that has impacted this community and the whole 30 years I've lived here. This is not new. And so for people who are shocked
 that this is now happening. This has been the life of African Americans in the United States since we arrived. I'm going to ask you colleagues to look into your souls and join me in making sure that we can send a strong message to the community that we hear them and that we also believe that everyone deserves to be treated with respect and dignity in our city and
 And I want you to publicly affirm that you will work with me to make sure that we can remove the fear, the fear that police officers have of Black bodies and the fear that Black bodies have of police. We have an obligation as the leadership in this city.
 to make sure the community knows that we are hearing them loud and clear, and we're not going to put together task force and work groups and all the other fabulous things that we do to delay action. But we're going to take actions because the community has told us over and over again that these are the changes that they want, and they want these changes now.
 Thank you all. Mayor Wheeler, it has been a pleasure to work with you through some of the most trying times that we have had here at City Hall. And I want you to know that I am committed to continuing to work with you side by side to make sure that everyone in our community is safe and feels like that if they call 911,
 they can be assured that whoever arrives will not treat them based on the color of their skin, but will treat them based on the fact that they are human in our community and they deserve whatever resources we have. Thank you all. I really appreciate you, Mayor, giving us the time because there's no way we could have started a city council meeting today without addressing what's been happening in our community. So I thank you all, colleagues.
 Thank you Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you Commissioner Udalli. Thank you Commissioner Fritz. Colleagues we are going to read the first two items but they have been withdrawn. Carla can you please read 412 and 413.
 Yes. 412, proclaim the city of Portland a place that does not tolerate xenophobia by condemning the rise in hate crimes, attacks, and attitudes against Asian Americans and Asian Pacific Islander communities due to the racist manipulation and polarization of the COVID-19 crisis. And 413, accept report of the new Portland Earth Policy Commission COVID-19.
 Thank you, Carla. And both of those items have been withdrawn for the time being. Have any items been pulled off of the consent agenda? Yes, we've had a request for 416. Very good. We'll do that at the end of the regular agenda. We'll now move to Commissioner Fritz.
 Just before we move to take the roll on consent, I just wanted to thank the New Portland Policy Commission and the Asian and Pacific Islander community for their sensitivity in wanting to reschedule the items that we just heard read. So thank you to the community members for showing support and solidarity. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Carla, please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Hardesty? Aye. Udaily?
 Sorry, Mayor, I thought you were handing that off to me because that was an item I was bringing. I'm sorry, Commissioner E. Daly, why don't you go ahead. Yeah, I'll just say I had planned to introduce these items in collaboration with New Portlanders Policy Commission. One is a proclamation condemning the rise in hate that Asian American and Pacific Islander Portlanders have experienced during COVID-19.
 and the other was a special COVID report from the Commission on the need they're seeing for immigrant and refugee, in immigrant and refugee communities. The Commission has opted to postpone their items in light of local and national civil unrest that has focused all of us on the hate and oppression experienced by Black Americans. I know that the Commission is in solidarity with Black Portlanders, and I'm looking forward to bringing this proclamation
 and the report forward when the time at a more appropriate time. Thank you, Commissioner Daley. Carla, can you please continue the roll on the consent agenda? And aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. We're going to move to the regular agenda item number 418 please.
 418, appoint Sam Rodriguez as an alternate to the Building Code Board of Appeal for a term to expire June 2, 2023. Very good. And I can't see who is here to present on 418. I see Sam is here. Yeah, I see Sam Rodriguez. You're up. Thank you, sir. Sam, are you muted? I can't hear you. Still can't hear you. That's weird. I show you unmuted. Okay.
 Sam, can you do us a favor? We'll move on to 419. And why don't you log out and log back in and see if that works?
 Mayor, did you see Terry Whitehill is here to speak on 418? Oh, yeah, good. Okay, Terry, can you cover for Sam? He's got some audio. I can. You know, I've worked with Sam for a lot of years. He's in the past been on the board. He's a great addition to it. I have nothing but great things to say about Sam.
 he is really good at trying to find alternatives to make things work. I know that he really enjoys being on the board and has been in the past, been a great contributor to it and has been off for a while. And now we're bringing him back on again. So yeah, great, great addition.
 Well, thank you, Terry and Sam. See, that's the good news is even though you can't be heard, Terry said nice things about you. I just wondered how it was going to work out if he said bad things about you and you weren't able to respond. So it sounds like we have an overwhelming endorsement. Colleagues, any questions that you would ask?
 of Sam, I think he'd have a real tough time answering those questions. And with that, unless anybody has any strong objections, I would encourage a motion to accept the report. So moved, Mayor. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty and a second from Commissioner Fritz. Thank you both. Sam, I'm really sorry for the audio issue. We're all trying to muddle through this age of new technologies.
 Any further discussion on this item? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Thank you so much, Terry, for pitch hitting. Appreciate you being here. I vote aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you, Sam, for your willingness to serve. I appreciate that very much. It's a big time commitment. Aye. Wheeler.
 I'd like to extend my thanks to Sam. This is technical, the work that this particular Board of Appeals does. It requires people to step forward who have a great deal of knowledge, and we're grateful to have you, Sam. Thank you for stepping forward again. Terry, thank you for filling in as well. I vote aye. The appointment is approved. The report is accepted. Thank you. Thank you both. Carla, 419, please.
 Appoint Mary Seip and reappoint Michael Wallace to the Noise Review Board for terms to expire June 1, 2023. Very good. And I'm not sure who is presenting on 419. Hi, this is Catherine Couch. That would be me. Thank you, Catherine.
 Sure. So yes, this is Michael Wallace's second term. He's retired. He's let's see, I'm just reading his past president of neighborhood association and he wants to reduce the noise that too often characterizes city life in Portland. And for our new board appointment we have Mary site who is incredibly familiar with, um,
 most everything that happens on the noise review. So the learning curve is going to be very short. This will be her first term. And she has a lot. I think she might be here to talk herself a little bit. Yeah, there she is. You're on. Hi, I'm here. I'm
 This is a really exciting day for me. It's funny, I attended my very first noise review board meeting in May of 2014, and little did I know that six years later, I would be sitting on that board. As most of you know, I've done a lot of work over the last six years with noise issues.
 really advocated for some changes in our noise code. And I've also established some really great relationships with the noise control program.
 staff and also with the Noise Review Board members. And so I'm really, really excited about this opportunity to join and to work together to reinforce our noise code and to help protect our citizens from the health hazards of
 of excessive noise in our community while finding a balance with continuing to make improvements and do new developments and things like that. So I'm really excited and I can't say much more. Thank you, Mary. We're so appreciative of your engagement on this. Thank you. Colleagues, any thoughts for Mary or any questions that you want to raise at this particular time? Sure.
 If not, I'll entertain a motion and a second. So moved. Second. Commissioner Hardesty moves. Commissioner Udalli seconds. Thank you both. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Udalli?
 I want to thank Michael Wallace and Mary Sipes for their willingness to serve on the Noise Review Board. Michael, thank you for your ongoing commitment to the board. I'm happy to approve you for another term. I'm also happy to approve Mary, who will be taking a long vacant position. It's critical that the board increase its membership, and I'm glad to see that happen with appointment and reappointment of two residents with a history of interest, expertise, and volunteerism
 in working with noise. I also want to thank Catherine Cooch and Kenya Williams and Civic Life for their work with the board. I vote aye. Great.
 Well, thank you to the nominees for being willing to serve. The noise review board meetings that I went to were always, always had a lot of controversy. So this is not an easy assignment and it requires a lot of thought. And Mary has certainly been involved for many years, as she said, for six years as a community advocate. And so she'll now be one of the decision makers. And I wish both of them and the rest of the board all the best as they help.
 the city council to make the right decisions regarding noise. Thank you, Mary and Michael. And I'll just echo the sentiment of my colleagues. As far as community issues go, noise is a very heated one. There's a lot of construction going on in the city. There's a lot of noise issues related to that. It's very personal for people because it typically involves people
 their homes, the livability of their homes, their ability to get a good night's sleep and whatnot. And so these are really, really important issues, but as the commissioners have indicated, they can also be,
 complex issues to navigate. I appreciate that we have two super engaged, smart people who are willing to step forward and continue this effort in the case of Michael or be appointed in the case of Mary. I'm really happy to vote aye. Thank you both for your service. The appointments are approved and report is accepted. Thank you. Next up, Carla, could we read items 420 and 425 together, please? Mm-hmm.
 Item 420, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the downtown Old Town Urgent Sewer Pipe Rehabilitation Project, number E-11212, for $2,687,510.25.
 except bid of James W. Fowler Company for the Downtown Old Town Urgent Sewer Pipe Rehabilitation Project for $2,687,510. Colleagues, I'd like to introduce items 420 and 425 together. Obviously, the Downtown Old Town Urgent Sewer Pipe Rehabilitation Project came before the City Council in April and it was approved.
 The project will improve sewer pipes that are upwards of between 100 and 150 years old and are at obvious and serious risk of failure. The authorizing ordinance is back at Council due to a scrivener's error in the original ordinance. There was some language that needed to be included that was not. BES staff are available to answer any questions if you have any questions on that.
 And then with regard to 425 specifically, this is a procurement report that authorizes a contract with James Fowler Company for the Bureau of Environmental Services projects through April for the purpose that I just described. This is a project that's going to improve reliability and reduce the risk of pipe breakages and sewer leakage.
 which will in turn obviously protect the public's health, people's property, and our environment. It's my understanding the project is scheduled to begin mid-summer, July, and will be completed by the end of the year. And we have our Chief Procurement Officer, Lester Spittler, on the line to give us a brief presentation on the procurement. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning, City Council. Lester Spittler, for the record, the City's Chief Procurement Officer.
 City Council approved ordinance number 189908 on April 1st, 2020. The engineer's estimate was $3,286,000 and the confidence level was high. The procurement services issued the invitation to bid.
 On April 14th, with the due date of May 5th, four bids were received. James W. Fowler Company was the apparent low bidder and is the recommended awardee. Their bid came in at $2,687,510, which is a little more than 18% under the estimate. So we certainly always appreciate when bids come in that far under the estimate.
 The city's standard 20% aspirational goal for state certified subcontractor utilization applied to this solicitation, and the following is the breakdown of utilization that Fowler submitted and is committed to at this point. They are intending on self-performing 57.5% of the work they've identified.
 47% that they intend to subcontract with state certified subcontractors in the area of concrete, cutting, flagging, and casting. Excuse me, Lester. I'm sorry. I hate to interrupt you, but you cut out just as you gave the percentage when you started that second sentence. Okay. I'll cut my video then in case that's the issue. I'll just go to audio. That'd be helpful. Thanks, Lester. Sure. Okay.
 Um, so Fowler intends to self-perform 57 and a half percent of the work they've identified 42 and a half percent that they intend to subcontract with state certified subcontractors in the areas of concrete cutting, flagging, and cast in place pipe work. Um, commissioner Hardesty, I know you had asked to provide.
 previous project history with each of the contractors. And so we have, the city had a project in 2018 with James W. Fowler Company, and that was worth a little over four million dollars. And on that project, they achieved a total of 25 and a half percent state certified
 subcontract utilization and they also met the apprenticeship goal on that project. They were a little, they were a little less than the goal for minority journeyman and apprentices and a little less on the female journeyman and apprentices. So I wanted to provide that information to council.
 James W. Fowler is located in Dallas, Oregon. They are not a state-certified contractor. They have a current City of Portland business tax registration and are in full compliance with all of the city's contract requirements. BES has the funds budgeted for the project in their FY 2021 budget.
 I'm happy to answer any questions about the procurement process, and I know the BDS project manager is in attendance as well. If there are no questions, we would recommend that you accept this report and authorize execution of the contract. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Lester. My question is that you said they had a contract in 2018 for $4 million with a 25.5% utilization rate.
 What can you tell me that's different about the spread of utilization? You did not give me the specific demographic breakdown. What can you tell me about the difference between who the subcontractors were in 2018 and who they will be in 2020? Okay.
 Sure. So the project that they had in 2018, the 25 and a half percent utilization is broken down between disadvantaged business enterprises. They had about 891,000 go to DBEs. They had 2,800 to emerging small business, and they had 211,000 go to a woman owned business enterprise for that project. For, for this project,
 The concrete cutting in the amount of 12,000 is going to Brothers Concrete. Did you say 211,000? What does that mean? Say that again? 2,000 or was it 200,000? So for that 2018 project...
 They used an emerging small business in the amount of 2,800. It's a very small amount for that project. That was emerging small business utilization. For the women-owned business utilization, it was 211,000. Okay, got it. Thank you. And for DBEs, it was just under 900,000. It was 891,000. And that made up the 25.5% utilization on that project.
 And Lester, is it your belief that this major contractor is expanding their reach and reaching out to MWESB firms? So Fowler also happens to have a contract that's currently being overseen by the Community Equity and Inclusion Committee. It's a joint PBOT, BES, and Water Bureau project. It's the Capital Highway Project. And we just had a meeting yesterday, and they are at the point where they're,
 planning to go out and engage subcontractors for the work. And, um, you know, I think we're, we're pushing them harder than they've pushed in the past than they've done in the past. I think, um,
 A lot of contractors, we're asking them to do more than the status quo. And so it's great because we have on the committee, we have lots of representation. And so those organizations are actively offering to help Fowler get better participation. So I'm excited to see what they can come back with at our July meeting. But...
 I would say that so far they're showing a good faith effort. They're showing that they're serious. They're making calls. They're engaging with those certified subs. And I think, you know, they're doing more than just emailing. They're doing more than just bare minimum. So that's what I think. Are you collecting that data now? Are you asking them to collect that data? Because I remember our last conversation, you weren't collecting that data. So for the outreach logs? No.
 Yes, for the quote unquote good faith effort. Yeah, so under a low bid situation, if they meet the goal, historically we have not asked for the outreach logs, but we are starting to ask for that. And I believe there's potential language that may be proposed for a later item that would make that official, but we are asking for that. But in those alternative delivery projects that are overseen by the CEIC, we are asking for that.
 They're submitting all of their outreach. They're submitting their plan ahead of time. The committee is giving them feedback on that plan. They're identifying contractors in their memberships that, you know, have capacity and performance scope of work, and they're being intentional about, hey, call so-and-so. I believe they have capacity, and this is right up their alley.
 So we will have all of that data after that process is complete. And when we come to council to ask council to authorize the construction contract for that project, we will do a very detailed presentation about everything that Fowler has done to obtain the highest amount of percentage on the project. That's a couple of months out, though, at this point. Thank you. My last question is, what was the error that we are correcting today? Yeah.
 Mayor Wheeler, do you want to propose that or should I summarize that? I'll give you the big picture and then, Lester, you can give the small. There was a paragraph of inclusive language that is required for our contracts that was accidentally excluded. Lester, maybe you can be more specific about that.
 Commissioner Hardesty, are you asking about the error on the authorizing ordinance or the revised language that we're going to propose for later on? The error on the authorizing ordinance.
 Okay, so the error on the authorizing ordinance is it didn't specifically allow for execution of a contract upon acceptance of a chief procurement officer report. So there's standard language that goes in those authorizing ordinances. And sometimes there's a legacy template that gets resurrected that doesn't have the right language. And so from time to time, we have to come back and amend those ordinances to include that very specific language. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions?
 Carla, is there any public testimony on either item 420 or item 425? No one signed up for either of those. Very good. So item 420 is a first reading of a non-emergency. I'm sorry, that's an emergency ordinance. Can you call the roll on 420? Hardesty. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 425 is a report. I will accept a motion and a second. So moved. Second. I have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion on the report? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. We'll go to item 421, please.
 Accept bid of Moore Excavation Inc. for the Hillsdale Crest Rainfall Derived II project for $4,072,044. Colleagues, this procurement report is for the Bureau of Environmental Services for a project that will repair over 18,000 feet of sewer mains and 172 public laterals preventing sewer backups in many homes and businesses. Thank you.
 This report was originally scheduled for the April 29th council agenda, but I referred it back to my office due to concerns about how more construction had met the 20% aspiration goal of the subcontractor equity program. Chief Procurement Officer Lester Spittler is here to present the report, and then I have a few more comments I'd like to make before we go to public testimony.
 Staff from the Bureau of Environmental Services are also here to answer any questions that are specific to the project. Lester? Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Again, for the record, Lester Spittler, the City's Chief Procurement Officer.
 City Council approved authorizing ordinance 29821 on January 8th, 2020. The engineer's estimate at the time was $5,178,885. The confidence level was high. Procurement services issued the invitation to bid on February 17th, 2020.
 There was a mandatory pre-bid conference and eight firms attended. Bids were due on March 19th when we received three bids. Morex submitted the lowest responsive bid in the amount of $4,072,044, which is about 27% below the estimate. The city's 20% aspirational goal for state certified subcontractor utilization applied to this solicitation and the following is a breakdown of the utilization that More submitted.
 They intend to self-perform 51.5% of the work, and they've identified 48.5% that they intend to subcontract to state-certified subcontractors in the areas of concrete cutting, cast-in-place pipe, pipelining, pest control, and manhole rehabilitation. I want to talk about Moore's past performance. So since 2016, they've had...
 It had four projects with the city of Portland ranging from $590,000 up to about $6.5 million. Their overall achievement on the projects...
 For one project for the 600... Lester, I would like to have the individual. I want the details. They've had four projects. Yes. You can give me the demographic breakdown for all four. I would be greatly appreciative. Yes, I'm going to do that. Yeah. So for one project, it was about $600,000. They had a dismal percentage utilization at the end of the project of 2%.
 That was performed by a woman-owned business, Enterprise. What year was this? That was 2016. Thank you. They did achieve the 20% apprenticeship utilization rates. They achieved a 15% minority utilization in journeyman apprentices and a 6% female utilization in journeyman and apprentice or journeyperson and apprentice, sorry.
 The next project they had was in 2016 as well. It was $4.3 million, and they achieved a 26.5% utilization. That's broken down by disadvantaged business enterprises in the amount of $362,000, emerging small business in the amount of $49,000, and women-owned business enterprise in the amount of $731,000.
 The women-owned family business is a family member of the contractor? I'm working off of a spreadsheet that we've compiled. I don't have that information off the top of my head right now. I'm sorry. Thank you. The next project they had in 2017, it was $3.5 million, and they met that. They achieved a 42.15% utilization on that contract.
 And what type of utilization was that? I hit a bunch of columns because there was a lot of information on this spreadsheet. Fortunately, it looks like that was a woman-owned business enterprise as well. And I don't have the specifics. I can get back to you on that. It's just really important information. Thank you, Lester. Okay. The last of the four projects was in 2017 and it closed in 2019. It was $6.5 million.
 They achieved a 10.7% utilization on the project, and that was through the use of disadvantaged business enterprises in the amount of about 600,000, emerging small business in the amount of 71,000, and minority business enterprise in the amount of $26,000. So I'm seeing a trend here.
 I see a trend that it doesn't appear that this particular contractor is expanding their knowledge of the subcontractors that are available in our community. So we are talking from 2016 to 2020. And we are talking over $15 million in public resources.
 And one of them was pretty small, the one that was at 2% of utilization. What is the kind of analysis that happens at the end of each of these contracts that encourages contractors to do better?
 So in the past year, we've put in place a post-project evaluation form that the project managers fill out and our compliance folks fill out, and it has the end of project utilization rates. And we've started to give that to the pre-qualification board when contractors' application comes up for pre-qualification. So we're taking that into consideration as we determine whether or not a contractor is responsible. Okay.
 And so, you know, I think we've had conversations at council about how do we look back historically at their history?
 at their, you know, how are they aligning with the city's goals? And I think, you know, having this, um, past history allows us to do exactly that. And I'll also say that, um, we invited more excavation in for a meeting last fall. Um, and Derek was in attendance as well as Jamal and Marshall. And I believe someone from commissioner Fitz's office. And we told, you know, we told them that they need to do more. Um,
 And they did respond with a letter. They started to attend more certified subcontractor association groups. They started to develop more relationships. But honestly, they could do more. And I think we're, you know, I talk to them, you know, every so often and we're constantly asking what they're doing. We're constantly and it's about the relationships because
 It's not just about, you know, emailing a bunch of firms and expecting them to get back to you. It's about establishing relationships. And even if a certified subcontractor, you know, isn't selected for a job, you know, reach back out to them afterwards and sort of help them understand where their bid either came in high or, you know, or wasn't competitive. We're not asking them to divulge, you know, confidential information, but it's about those relationships, it's about that extra effort there.
 So that when they do reach out to that subcontractor and the next time they understand that they that more wants them to work on the job and that they know that they have a partner and a prime contractor and not somebody that's, you know, just reaching out to meet a goal. So we're I think that's a relationship we're trying to work on.
 And I would say that I've, you know, I think collectively between my staff and I, we would say that we've seen more from them, but it took that council meeting to really get them to step up their game. So I certainly appreciate the leadership from your offices and having that meeting and following up and setting that message. And we're trying to work with them to get them to do more.
 And my last question on this particular one, because we're just at the beginning of several of these kind of contracts. What is...
 I'll rephrase the question. Let me ask this question, and maybe this is a Robert Taylor question. Is the city of Portland obligated when we get responses back that achieve a 2% utilization goal to fulfill that contract?
 I would see that as an unresponsive contract. So I'm wondering why we approve contracts with a 2% when we say our aspirational goal is 21. I don't know if that's a you question, Lester, or if that's a Robert Taylor question. I can just jump in and say that historically, Lester,
 We measure responsiveness based on the good faith effort. But if you weren't tracking a good faith effort, then you would have no idea of knowing whether or not they made a good faith effort. Well, anytime they don't meet the percentage, we scrutinize their outreach efforts to make sure they did meet the standard of a good faith effort. And so what did you learn in 2016 when they used 2% utilization?
 Well, I mean, since we presented that contract to council, we determined that they met the good faith effort at the time. I'd have to go back and look at the paperwork specifically to see how they met that good faith effort. As a woman, I would love to know that, too. I would love to know how somebody has 2% and we are told that they have met the good faith effort. I really need to know the answer to that question.
 Okay. I will just say that our good faith effort requires contractors, not just to reach out. It requires them to get responses, which includes emails back preferably. Cause that's what we can verify. But you know, if the prime contractor can document a convert a phone call conversation or one-on-one meeting they had with a subcontractor that works too. But if we don't see that they got, um,
 three responses in each subcontract that they reached out for, we don't consider that meeting the good faith effort. Do you verify, do you go and call those subcontractors and ask them if they got a call from a contractor that has put them down as a good faith effort? Yeah, in some cases we do. We don't have the capacity to do that with everyone, but in some cases we do. I did say that was my last question, but there was three questions ago. Thank you very much.
 Sure. Commissioner Hardesty, I've learned over the years that when I say this is my last question, or this is the last thing I'm going to say, it's like a very powerful self-jinx potion. It never turns out that way. I share that. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, does anybody at the moment have any further questions for Lester on this issue? If not, we'll go to public testimony.
 Carla, do you have people signed up for public testimony on this item? This is a report. Oh, good point. My bad. Sorry. So I do have, well, I'll read my comments during the vote. I'll take a motion and a second, please. So moved. Second. Second. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty moves. Commissioner Udaly seconds. Carla, please call the roll on the report. Hardesty. Hardesty.
 This is not acceptable in my mind that we continue to have major contractors that I believe are using the system that we have put in place to make opportunity available for a wide range of community members to be able to reap the benefits of public contracting.
 As all of my colleagues know, from the day I got here, I have asked for specifics about who is benefiting from public dollars and who is not benefiting from public dollars.
 I am committed to making sure that as we move forward, we are expanding opportunity for community members to be able to access public contracts. I will expect our purchasing department to not just take people's word for doing a good faith effort. I expect that there will be written confirmation that good faith efforts have, in fact, been taken and achieved.
 I will also expect purchasing to ensure that they are doing spot checks to ensure that we are getting accurate information. I am disappointed in any contractor who has had five years of
 feeding at the public trough through public contracting, that they are not able to build deeper relationships in minority contracting communities and in women communities. And if we have public contractors who are unwilling to do the work necessary to build those deep relationships, they should not be entitled to public dollars. Therefore, I will vote no on this contract. I vote no. Okay.
 You daily I want to thank Robert Taylor in the city attorney's office for briefing my team on council considerations for the procurement report. I share Commissioner hardest ease frustration and just want to add that we need to reform our procurement goals and
 process if we're going to get any different results. I do understand that these projects vary from project to project, season to season. It may legitimately be impossible to meet the goal, but like Commissioner Hardesty said, we're seeing contractors that are just consistently coming in
 under the goal over and over again, regardless of the nature of the contract or the time of year. And we need to be able to... Hi, Mayor. We need... Yeah, sorry. We need to be... Strategizing.
 We need to be able to better compel them to meet these goals, but we also need to do work with building capacity in the community. And the mayor is still laughing in his giant faces on the screen and really distracting me from my comments, so I'm just going to vote reluctantly aye. Great.
 So I think we all agree that we want to achieve better numbers. And I think we agree that we don't like some of the policies and regulations that we have in place right now. So the way to change that is to change the policies and the regulations. And the mayor and I supported continuing to put money into that by not necessarily having enough money to do a disparity study, but...
 keeping the conversation going with the money that we is in the budget for next year. And Lester Spittler has repeatedly answered our questions and expressed his commitment to improving the numbers. That's one of the reasons that he was hired and I have confidence that he's able to do that. So again, thank,
 You don't change the goalpost. You can't move the goalpost in the middle of a project and it's not legal. So, and there already is a way to do a different process. And that's by doing the longer, more expensive construction management, general contractor bidding process. But with low bid, there are rules as to what we can refuse and what we can, what we have to approve. And so, yeah, I was, I,
 As Lester noted, I was very aware that Moore has not achieved our aspirational goal on many occasions and have been pushing them to do so, and they have started to make some improvement. So I believe that we're sending a clear message to all of our contractors that we expect them to do better. And in the meantime, this contract is approvable. Hi. Wheeler. Hi.
 First of all, I want to acknowledge that when it comes to this technology, you would think I would perfect this at some point. It sort of reminds me, my daughter and I have been playing a virtual mini golf game. We're in separate locations during the week.
 And she beats me every time because she knows I don't know how to perfect the technology. So I keep hitting the ball backwards and things like that and presiding over a virtual council session is no different. But at least this time I'm unmuted when I want to be unmuted. And so I apologize for that.
 This contract, as I mentioned up front, this is for the Bureau of Environmental Services. It's for critical infrastructure. It's about 18,500 feet of sewer infrastructure. It's at risk of failing. Obviously, we need to move forward with the project, and I support it. But Commissioner Hardesty is not wrong on this issue, and I'm hearing the same frustration from Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Fritz.
 Companies who undertake a contract with the city of Portland are expected to undertake significant good faith efforts to meet our aspirational goals of the subcontractor equity program. And this isn't just a hurdle we ask companies to meet. This is actually, in a way, critical.
 to shared economic prosperity, which has been a goal for us for a long time. And these are public dollars that are being spent for public projects. And we demand a lot because the public expects a lot and we should. There are changes that we're making that are positive changes we're making to the subcontractor equity program are necessary.
 But there's more we need to do to fix some of the loopholes that currently exist. And my colleagues and I all recognize that larger changes are going to be needed to the city's procurement policies and strategies to truly move towards equitable outcomes.
 And I want to first of all acknowledge the close collaboration of all the council offices and our staffs. And they've been working really hard with Lester and Lester's team. And Lester, I want to thank you and your team for that to explore other policy and program options to help us meet our goals for increasing equity in contracting. I'm also going to say this.
 I believe that there are some contractors who understand what the legal threshold is that they have to meet in order for the contract to be approvable. This is such a case. And I'm also just going to be blunt. All of us sent staff members to more excavation.
 for the purpose of trying to secure even aspirational or values-based commitments, and they thumb their noses at our staffs. And we're not happy about that because it shows a lack of alignment of values. This is not just a business proposition. This is not just a contract. This is where the city council seeks to use public projects and public resources to
 to in a fair and equitable manner. And that's the whole point of having a procurement process. And so I'm going to continue, you know, I will vote for this because we need the infrastructure project to
 Um, but we cannot continue to have this conversation under these terms every single time a contract comes forward So i'm committing with my colleagues We will close these loopholes and we will find ways to make sure that we are holding our contractors accountable To the in the same manner and to the same degree that the public is holding us accountable as a city council on these projects so today the report passes but uh
 I think the public is hearing loudly and clearly the frustration on the part of this council to do better. We're going to do better. We want to do better. And I'm committed to it. My colleagues are. So thank you for that. Next item is 422, please, Carla. Thank you.
 Exempt bid of more excavation for the Northwest Thurman Street Sewer Reconstruction Project for $4,171,393.
 This procurement report is for a Bureau of Environmental Services project that will reconstruct, repair, and replace public sewer infrastructure in the Willamette Heights neighborhood of Northwest Portland. These improvements will relieve basement sewer backups at 31 properties and increase the capacity of the 100-year-old sewer system to handle combined sewage and stormwater. Chief Procurement Officer Lester Spittler is here on this report, and I assume many of the issues will remain the same. Lester. Thank you.
 Thank you Mayor Wheeler. Again for the record, Lester Spittler, the City's Chief Recruitment Officer. City Council approved Ordinance 189790 on December 11, 2019. At the time, the engineer's estimate was $4,680,000 and the confidence level was high. Recruitment Services issued the invitation to bid on February 26, 2020. We had a mandatory pre-bid conference and seven firms attended.
 bids were due on march 19 2020 and we received three more excavation is the apparent low bidder and is the record recommended awardee their bid came in at 4 million 171 393 which is almost 11 under the estimate the city's 20 aspirational goal for state certified subcontractor utilization applied to this solicitation the following is the breakdown of utilization that more
 They intend to self-perform 78.81% of the work. They've identified...
 20% of the work that they intend to subcontract with state certified firms. And there's a little less than 1% of the work that they've identified non-certified subcontractors for. I'm going to walk through the breakdown of subcontractors that they've identified this work. The first is a flagging contractor. They are owned by a Hispanic female. And they are a disadvantaged and minority-owned and emerging small business enterprise.
 Brothers Concrete in saw cutting. They're a Native American male-owned firm, a minority business enterprise. Cutter Construction. They are a disadvantaged and a woman-owned business enterprise. They'll be performing trucking on the contract. Igami Construction is a DBE and an ESB. It's Asian Pacific female-owned. They'll be doing the signage.
 Iron Horse LLC is the disadvantaged woman-owned business enterprise that will be performing the cast-in-place sewer and storm drain work. Kodiak Pacific is a woman-owned business enterprise that will be performing the paving. Miller Factors, woman-owned business enterprise performing landscaping. Pest Solutions LLC, an emerging small business performing rodent control. And lastly, Taylor Transport, a woman-owned business enterprise performing trucking.
 In Moore's original post-bid documentation, they weren't able to identify a concrete subcontractor during the bidding timeframe. They invited to bid and followed up via phone call with 12 co-bid state certified firms, including women owned business enterprises, minority business enterprises, and emerging small businesses. The responses that they received at the time was seven didn't respond. One said they're not bidding. One said they were too busy.
 One actually said the city of Portland is too hard to work for. One said they were undecided at the time, and one said that they were bidding, but then they decided not to. Subsequent to submitting their bid and submitting the documentation, they followed up with one of the subcontractors because the quote that they got from a non-certified sub for concrete was what they thought was uncompetitive.
 So they were able to get in touch with one of the subcontractors, D&D Concrete Utilities. They reached back out. D&D Concrete is an emerging small business, but they were able to work with them to get a quote that was within a reasonable amount. And so their performance is not included in the 20.838%, but they do intend to use them. So I wanted to mention that.
 I described Moore's past performance on the previous item. I'm happy to do that again. But if there's any questions, I know the BES project team is in attendance, and I'm happy to certainly answer any questions as well. I'll link any question on this item.
 If not, sorry. I won't ask the same questions again because it is a consistent theme through the contracting that I have seen in front of city council. But I will just say for the record that I am appreciative that you, Mayor,
 have drawn a line in the sand and said that we are going to do better. I am committed to making sure that before this year is out, we will never have another contract in front of us that does not exceed our goals. Thank you. Thank you, commissioner. Any further questions? If not, I'll entertain a motion in a second. I'll move. Commissioner Hardesty moves. Commissioner Udaly seconds. Thanks both of you. Carla, please call the roll. No. Udaly.
 Aye. Fritz? Well, according to the impact statement, this does meet the goals at 20.38%. Aye. Wiener? Yeah, I'm much happier about this one. I vote aye. The report is accepted. 423, please.
 except bid of West Tech Construction Inc. for the Southwest NATO Parkway, Southwest Salmon Street to I-405 improvement project, $8,648,803. And this is a PBOT project. Lester, I'll turn it over to you unless Commissioner Udaly had any opening comments on this one. Go ahead, Lester. Thank you again, Lester Spiller for the record, the City Chief Procurement Officer.
 And Lester, I'm sorry to interrupt. Could we keep the remarks a little briefer just because I want to be respectful to the time, the 1030 time, sir, as well? Of course, sir. The authorizing ordinance was approved last September. The engineer's estimate was a little under $9 million and the confidence level was moderate. We had the solicitation on February 26th. Bids were due on April 16th. Four bids were received.
 West Tech Construction submitted the lowest bid in the amount of $8,648,803.02, which is 3.4% under the estimate. West Tech intends to self-perform.
 A little under 31% of the work, they've identified 12.5% to subcontract to state certified subcontractors and 56.5% to non-certified subcontractors. I talked to Westec yesterday and the vice president of the company is on the line to answer any more questions, but I did want to go into their good faith efforts. I'll try to make it brief.
 So while they did not meet the goal, they did provide a call log with 13 scopes of work listed. They provided backup documentation for outreach responses for all certified firms. They did receive three written responses in each of the 13 scopes of work based on staff's review of their documentation and the bids that they received. It was determined that they did meet the good faith effort. Additionally, they have two first tier subs that are not certified that will be contracting with certified firms as tech as second tier subcontractors. So again,
 That amount of work is 130,000. And so that brings their unofficial participation up to 14% versus 12. So I do think that that's noteworthy, even though it doesn't officially count within our policy.
 I also wanted to add that West Tech, in their outreach to find certified firms, they had identified a woman-owned business enterprise in the paving scope of work, and they expected to get a quote from that business. But when the due date came and went, they didn't get a bid or they didn't get a quote. So they followed up with that contractor, and it just so happened that that contractor switched to a new system, and the quotes that they had sent out got stuck, and they didn't actually get delivered.
 So had they received a quote from Kodiak Pacific Construction to perform the paving work, they would have achieved the 20% goal. And I just thought that that was, you know, that's one of those nuances that I think maybe happens from time to time, but I thought that that was noteworthy.
 West Tech has not had a recent project with the city within the last three to five years. I know they constructed the first phase of NATO. So they were, they put, you know, they told me they put their heart and soul in responding to this bid because they wanted to do both phases.
 As I said, CLESS, their vice president is in attendance in case any questions come up, but we do recommend that you accept this report and authorize execution of the contract. West Tech is not a certified contractor, but they are in compliance with the city's contracting requirements. Thank you, Lester. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Lester.
 Thank you. I would like to hear from the vice president of the company. I really appreciate you making the effort to be here today, and I presume that you've heard some of the conversations so far. So it would be helpful to hear from your perspective what the challenges can be in meeting the shared goals. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Yeah, it's a pleasure to be here.
 Some of the issues that we have in dealing with specifically this project, the natal parkway project is a very difficult project to, to perform. And so one of the issues that we have, because the good faith efforts relies on the COVID system, we have to go to the state website. And I feel that one of the issues is that we're missing some MWD ESB participation from the Portland metropolitan area because they don't have a COVID number. They're not on the list.
 So when we go to reach out to some of these people, the scope is too big for them. Some of them don't know why they're on the list. But those are just, those are things that become difficult. And we offer to, you know, give them a set of plans, walk through the plans and stuff. So again, that's an issue that I think that we can improve on. I think that the ones that are...
 There are people that are just confused, like I said, as to why they're on the list. We're limited to that list, and I think that's a downfall. I know that there's other firms in the Portland area that we can't really reach out to. I do want to talk to the positives about this system, though. Some of the positives are because of this intricate project and how difficult it was put together, I was actually doing outreach clear to Eugene and Medford. I think one was even to Ashland.
 And I actually developed a relationship with two of the subcontractors that I reached out to in the scope of work that they're not even listed for. One was in pump stations and was interested in finding a partner in the Portland area to perhaps do some BES work. I just happened to have a private job that I needed some help with, and that was a great communication between that company and us. The other one was for a structural company.
 concrete wall subcontractor wasn't listed in their, their forte. But again, I, I made contacts on this from people just by doing this significant outreach. So I think there are some positives that we could do on this. It is, this system we have does have limitations. I, I have been doing this for 22 years. I would be very happy to be involved in a workshop to, to,
 help improve this system. Well, thank you very much. That's really helpful. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, class. I had a question for you. You said that you had a couple of subcontractor potentials who are not on the city's list.
 I don't know why the city would not. Actually, if you are able to identify minority and women-owned firms, that whether they're on the city's list or not, I don't understand why the city would not allow you to utilize them. Thank you, Commissioner. According to the program that is set in place right now,
 In order to enter them on the good faith effort form, they have to have a COVID number, which is a state number. So what the contractors do is we have to go to the website and look up firms according to their COVID number. We just happen to know, and off the top of my head, I apologize, a little bit nervous. I can't think of the name of the company, but we do know some MWD ESP firms who either, uh,
 were on the list before and they decided to get off because it was too difficult for them, or they're just not on the list because they don't know how. I hope that answers your question. Yes, it does, Klaas. And I want to thank you for your offer to work with us because we will need major contractors who are as committed as the city is to ensure that we are providing equitable opportunity. And I just want you to know how much I appreciate your willingness to do that
 I have myself actually questioned why the city only uses 25% of the contractors that actually exist. The state list is not a magic thing. It is just simply the people that went through the enormous paperwork to get the state certification. And I continue to remind my colleagues that that only helps.
 white majority contractors. It does absolutely nothing for minority and women-owned firms. So we have a lot of work to do before we can pat ourselves on the back about our equitable contracting. And Klaus, you're going to be a great resource for us as we move forward. So again, thank you for being here. Thank you. Any further discussion on this item? Any questions on this item? Carla, I'll entertain a motion in a second, please. So moved.
 Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, second from Commissioner Fritz. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? I hope that we have many more contractors, primary contractors in the city of Portland like Kless.
 than, um, some of the other ones that I have been looking at lately. Um, I know that there are, uh, majority contractors who are committed to the same equity goals that the city has. And, uh, any of them who are listening to this broadcast today, please contact us because we need you, uh,
 to be the ones helping us fix this system. And I will just put on the record that I don't think the state's certification list is any magic solution to the problem. I vote aye, I am happy to vote aye for this contract because plus I believe you when you say you are committed, I did not have that faith in many other contracts that come in front of us. Thank you.
 Well, I want to thank Klaas for being here today and sharing his reflections with us. I was of course disappointed that
 West Tech didn't reach the 20% utilization rate, but I understand that this isn't a pattern with them, that there were unique challenges with this, just the nature of this project made it tough to get to 20%, as well as the issue with the subcontractors.
 that we heard about earlier from Lester. So I'm happy to support it. I will say that we need some kind of vetting process for MWDSB businesses because anyone could claim to be one if there wasn't. And that's the purpose that the COVID system is.
 serves. My office has worked with numerous MWDSB businesses to help them through that process, but it sounds like there are some real challenges with it. It either needs to be fixed or replaced. I vote aye. As we know, it's sometimes difficult for the City of Portland to get the state to fix its systems, but perhaps we could add a second one for
 Portland certified firms. I mean, that's the kind of thing that we need to discuss. Thank you, Chris Woodward, for coming in to tell us some of the challenges. I suspect that in the previous two or three contracts that we've discussed this morning, that had their principles shown up and explained that there may be similar difficulties in terms of the state system and the
 the clunky thing that we've got in place right now. I appreciate your willingness to help us figure out the best way forward. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Contract is approved. Item 424, please. Exempt bid of Goodfellow Brothers LLC for the Road 10 Milepost 6.2 to 8.2 Improvements Project for $2,773,570. Lester.
 Good morning. Lester Spittler for the record, the city's chief procurement officer. City Council approved the authorizing ordinance.
 In September, the engineer's estimate was $2.2 million and the level of confidence was moderate. We issued the invitation to bid on March 27th with bids due on April 30th. And we received eight bids, which is a great showing. We don't typically receive that many responses, so we were really happy about that. And there was less than a 3% difference between the two lowest bidders. So we feel really good about the low bid that we got from Goodfellow Brothers.
 It is over the estimate, it's about 24% over the estimate, but like I said, with the 3% difference between the two lowest bidders, that gives us confidence that we got a good low price. Goodfellow Brothers intends to self-perform 75% of the work. They've identified a little more than 20% of the work that they intend to use certified subcontractors for.
 Very quickly, I'll review that. They intend to use Brothers Concrete for concrete cutting. Brothers Concrete is a minority-owned business enterprise. They're Native American male-owned. For erosion control, they intend to use Fox Erosion Control Landscaping. That's a disadvantaged and a woman-owned business enterprise. It's Caucasian female-owned.
 Kodiak Pacific Construction for road construction and paving. They're a women-owned business enterprise and Caucasian female-owned. And lastly, Taylor Transport for trucking, a woman-owned business enterprise and Caucasian female-owned. Goodfellow Brothers has had a recent project with the City of Portland. It started in 2018 and ended in March of 2020. It was a PBOT project. It's
 The project was just under $5 million, and by the end of the project, they achieved a 30.34% certified subcontractor utilization. The subcontractors were certified as disadvantaged business enterprises in just under $1 million and emerging small business enterprises in just under $600,000.
 That's the only project that we have recently that has closed. Excuse me. Were there no minority businesses in that contract? There was none used. That's correct. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to, this is a water bureau project in the Bull Run Watershed to repaving the roads. And I just wanted to go into why it's higher than the estimate. The estimate was under on the cost, and thank you to Chief Engineer Teresa Elliott for this information. The estimate was under on the cost of hauling the rock to the watershed. All the items that included rock were higher than that with the estimate, with the exception of the channel gravel.
 and the walls have lightweight fill and very limited rock under the estimate. And some of the larger diameter culverts were higher than the estimate because of the greater depth of the culverts in the watershed and the number of elliptical pipes installed in the state for the use in the estimate. So Tresa concurs that considering the number of bids received, it's unlikely we would get different results
 rebidding the contract. I will note that Kodiak Pacific was one of the firms that was discussed in the previous meeting.
 item and that they had not been able to get back to that contract bid in the allowed time. So it's clear that there's, there perhaps are limited numbers of firms who meet the state standards or on the state's list. And that we also need to continue the work that we've been doing in supporting, you know,
 additional firms in becoming certified. So I appreciate the work that's been done on this. Thank you, Commissioner. Any further questions? If not, I'll entertain a motion in a second. So moved. Second. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty moves. Commissioner Daley seconds. Thank you, Commissioner. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty.
 I'm just going to just put my objection on the table once again. We can do better. We must do better. I vote no. You, Daly? Aye. Fritz? No.
 Well, again, this does meet the aspirational goal. It's over the 20%. And so it's clear that some of my colleagues don't like the rules, and we need to change the rules. But in the meantime, this contract meets those rules, and I appreciate that. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report is accepted. Now we'll go back to item number 414. Okay.
 And that is the time certain item. Carla, if you could read 414, please. Extend final inspection deadline for qualifying for a system development charge expiration for certain accessory dwelling units from June 30, 2020 to September 30, 2020, and establish options if that date deadline is missed.
 Colleagues, the Bureau of Development Services is here to request the Council adopt a resolution that will extend the deadline to qualify for an exemption to pay system development.
 charges, sometimes called SDCs, for homeowners trying to complete construction of their accessory dwelling unit projects. In 2016, we extended the existing SDC exemption for auxiliary dwelling units called ADUs until June 30th of 2020. This applied to permit applications with intake dates from 2016 through July 31st of 2018.
 As of March 30th, 2020, BDS records showed there were still 223 outstanding permits that were eligible for this SDC waiver that had not yet reached the point in their project where they can get their final inspections approved. BDS staff has been working with these customers to get their ADU projects completed and their inspections finalized.
 The COVID-19 crisis created difficulty for homeowners to get work done by their contractors in a timely way, and it obviously caused some impacts to the services that are delivered by the borough. For that reason,
 The reason for that is, of course, they temporarily limited residential inspections and temporarily postponed non-critical inspections that required inspectors to enter an occupied home for reasonable precaution during COVID. Many of the ADU projects include converting existing living space in a home, so these projects have been impacted by the inspection limitations.
 Homeowners embarked on these projects assuming that they could get them constructed and completed before June 30, 2020. They counted on the existing SDC waiver. They obviously did not anticipate delays resulting from the COVID-19 crisis, and they had not budgeted in many cases for the additional expenses of paying the SDCs.
 So in order to help homeowners get their ADU permits finalized, this resolution before us would extend the date for getting the permit finalized for an additional three months to September 30, 2020. If the council approves this proposal for a three-month extension to qualify for the SDC exemption,
 The second question then becomes how to handle those applicants who don't yet meet the deadline. The proposal before you is to give them two different options. The homeowner can either, number one, pay the SDCs that are due, or number two, they can record a covenant agreeing not to use the ADU or any other structure on the property as an accessory short-term rental unit for 10 years.
 This mirrors the current requirement for SDC waivers for ADUs permitted with intake dates after July 31st of 2018. So with that, I will turn this over to David Kuhnhausen with the Bureau of Development Services. Welcome, David. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners.
 Hi, my name is David Quinaz and I'm the Permitting Services Division Manager at the Bureau of Development Services. I want to acknowledge that I'm joined today by two of my colleagues, BDS Residential Inspections Division Manager Dave Thibault and BDS Code and Policy Analyst Nancy Thorrington, the latter of whom was instrumental in developing this resolution that you're seeing today.
 As Mayor Wheeler stated, the resolution before you is to take the extenuating circumstances that we as a society and specifically related to these customers have had to deal with regarding the COVID-19 pandemic.
 and it has directly impacted two major aspects of the construction process. One of which is that contractors and subcontractors having to adhere to social distancing on construction sites has obviously slowed down progress on those sites and that's definitely the case on large sites where you know
 People are working on multiple floors or there's a large floor plan to spread out. But for these ADUs that are a maximum of 800 square feet, it really only allows one, maybe two people to be in that space at any given time. So that significantly limits how quickly projects can be done on these or how quickly work can be done on these projects.
 The second aspect is that, as Mayor Wheeler stated, our inspections were temporarily limited while we evaluated how we were going to be doing our work with new regulations in place and then getting those tools and processes in place to deal with the pandemic. And I'm going to pass it over to Dave Thiebaud in a minute, just so he can elaborate from the inspection side as to what his staff have had to deal with in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic and how they do their work.
 But as an update, Mayor Wheeler indicated that as of March 30th, there were 223 outstanding permits. And just as an update, as of Monday, June 1st, there are actually 203. So in those two months, 20 of these ADU permits have been finaled. And that may not seem like significant progress, but given the conditions,
 That does seem like, from our standpoint, there is still work being done. It is being done slower, but there are still a number of projects that are ongoing. And just to elaborate a little bit more, there's different steps in the process. So there's different phases that a permit is under. So you can be under review, meaning you don't have the ability to then do that work, but
 But the projects that are under inspection, there are 128 of them currently.
 And those 128 permits have had progress done in the last six months, meaning a BDS inspector has gone on site and evaluated some scope of work, meaning those customers are continuing to progress with their projects. And just as a little bit of background, BDS has been conducting outreach to customers to let them know that they have a timeline to meet, and customers have requested an extension on that.
 up until the COVID-19 pandemic really started to affect us, we've been saying no, this is the end of, you know, this ordinance only allows for so long to be for these projects to be ongoing. However,
 As work grinded to a halt on many of these projects, we saw a significant uptick in calls from customers who stated that work was not taking place or was taking place very, very slowly. And I believe there's a number of public testimony that I want to make sure I allow time for today for customers who will have been directly.
 directly impacted by this. But just to elaborate a little bit more, a number of these customers who have called have said that should those SDC fees be added to the permits, they would need to either revise their permit to remove that aspect from the scope of work or completely abandon the project altogether, meaning just cancel everything and start fresh.
 I'll be the first to acknowledge that a number of these projects won't be completed at either by the June deadline or the September deadline. But those customers who have applied for and were issued a building permit to construct an ADU, we're asking that the city acknowledges that there were or are issues outside of their control that have made it very difficult, if not impossible, to really complete those projects by the deadline.
 So as Mayor Wheeler stated, there are a couple of different options for customers who, should this resolution be approved, still do not meet that September 30th deadline. And those being that those mirroring the current ADU customers and that they can pay those SDC fees, which would range from $10,000 to $15,000 per project, or they can sign that covenant with the Office of Management and Finance that states that they cannot rent.
 any room or structure on their site as a short-term rental for a period of 10 years. The latter of these options keeps those ADUs in the rental pool within the city and thereby assists with the current housing crisis. So with that, I want to see if Dave Tebow, the residential inspections manager, has any input from his side that he'd like to add.
 David, before you move on, could we get a question in here from Commissioner Hardesty, please? Absolutely. Thank you, David. My question is just simply, just knowing where we are right now with COVID-19, isn't this extension a little short? That's a great question, Commissioner Hardesty. And I would agree. It's a  it does continue to make 
 Without knowing what this summer and fall are going to add in terms of, you know, number of cases that we see or restrictions being lifted, it will be difficult. However, we struggle to find a suitable timeline that would make sense to all parties involved, those being that...
 as well that would like to collect fees on these projects. So for that reason, we have elected to put a three-month extension on this. Thank you. Thank you. You can continue. Thanks, David.
 Dave, are you, do you want to add? Yes, I'm here, David. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Just briefly, I'd like to speak to the aspect of the impact of the global pandemic on the construction industry in general. Due to the governor's social distancing rules and the construction industry's willingness to continue to provide service to whatever extent possible, they were really forced to reinvent how they do their jobs.
 The result of that was the fact that their work slowed down substantially in an effort to keep the social distancing and to work through problems of how to do their work and maintain that social distance. They...
 Basically, they had the opportunity to continue to work, which they appreciated, but they had to do it within these confines. And so that really restricted their capabilities of servicing existing clients that they had because of the work slowage and to take on any new customers that might need work done. And I just thought that that was an important consideration to bring to the council to consider during their deliberation of this.
 In addition, even we've been continuing to do our inspections to some extent, like David alluded to, that we're not going into occupied buildings anymore. We're doing our best to utilize technology such as video, FaceTime, and Skype to complete those inspections, but not every inspection can be done that way.
 And even on the buildings that are standalone, we're able to go in and do those inspections, new construction or isolated construction types of the building where we can go in and do those inspections. We had required that the contractors remove all of the work personnel while we do those inspections, which means that all work stops even while we're doing our inspections.
 they've really done their best to try and accommodate, but it's just under the present conditions and the parent paradigm, we're just, we're not being able to complete the work, and I just wanted to bring that to the council's attention. Thank you, Dave. Appreciate it. Any questions before we go to public testimony? Not seeing any. Very good. Carla, how many people do we have signed up for public testimony? Carla, are you muted? All right. How many people are signed up?
 One person, Benjamin Weisel. All right, Benjamin, you're up. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Hi, good morning. My audio has been cutting in and out, so hopefully you guys can hear me okay. Yep. All right.
 Thank you so much for allowing me to speak a little bit about it. It's encouraging that you guys are willing to look at extensions of these permits. I'm actually a contractor and I build ADUs and it's never been a problem to meet a deadline. I've been very proud of my record of building these beautiful little places in the back of people's homes. Yeah.
 But currently, my customers have lost their jobs, and I was not able to finish a couple of jobs because of that. And we're just running into money problems. We can't finish this thing really by the June 30th deadline just due to money. We've had constraints with other contractors getting in here to do some work. The plumber and the electrician have slowed down on other jobs, and that's slowed down this job.
 So the timeline has stretched out for that as well, but mostly it just comes down to being able to afford to build it. I've really been proud of being able to build these ADUs in Portland. I think it's so neat that we're able to do it, and I'm proud of you guys for spearheading all that. So I don't know, I just hope an extension, I think, would relieve a lot of stress.
 Thank you. We appreciate it. Thank you for coming in and sharing your personal perspective on this. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, any other questions for staff before we move to a vote on the resolution? Mayor, I wonder if the presenters would entertain a friendly amendment that would allow us to extend this beyond three months. I am concerned that
 not knowing what we don't know about how COVID is going to be impacting us, especially since the major demonstrations that have shown up.
 We are a week out from knowing what the impact of all the mass demonstrations are. And I'm just concerned that if we only do the extension for three months, that in two months, someone will be back asking for another extension. And so I'm wondering if...
 during a six-month extension would make more sense. And if we don't need it, then we won't need it. But that question is just on the top of my mind. I'll just say that I absolutely do not support that. It was my office that made these SDC waivers permanent for homeowners who are building long-term housing homes.
 I don't know why we ever were subsidizing homeowners who were building ADUs to put on the short-term rental market. We don't subsidize other industries in that manner. Why would we subsidize people who are just building wealth and creating profit for themselves while not contributing, not relieving
 not contributing to the relief of our housing crisis. So I'm happy with the three-month extension. The shutdown turns out to be lasting about three months. We're starting to, we'll probably be entering phase one in a week or two. But just to be clear, if you're building long-term housing, which is what is needed, you get that.
 SDC waiver. This only affects a small number of property owners, and I won't support extending it. We could talk about a payment plan or something, you know, an extended period to pay the SDC since it wasn't anticipated, but it was hard enough for me to justify extending this at all for people who are not building properties.
 housing that we need. Commissioner Fritz? Well, I don't support extending it for longer for different reasons. One, we can always extend some more if that's deemed necessary. And two, I would imagine that there's people who were thinking they were going to get into the short-term rental business who might be rethinking that. So I support the resolution as written.
 Sorry for trying to be helpful. I withdraw my recommendation. In these times, Commissioner, a good sense of humor is probably the most valuable of all assets. So well said. Thank you, colleagues. I think you have your answer, Commissioner Artesty. So this is a resolution. If there are no further questions, Carla, please call the roll. Artesty? Aye. Eudelene? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 I hate to do my boring old person, but this is an issue that I've been working on for I think 20 years because I was on the planning commission when we first put in effect and figured out the first accessory gelling unit ordinance and it's been fascinating to watch
 it refined over time and increasingly used over time and indeed becoming more important for long-term rentals and living situations, as Commissioner Newdaly said. And so I appreciate the flexibility and the willingness of Bureau Development Services staff to negotiate through all of these changes. And I'm happy to vote aye.
 Wheeler. Well, I'd like to thank David and Dave, both of you for your presentation and your work to prepare the resolution for the council. I think this resolution helps provide both relief and certainty in these highly uncertain times for those building ADUs in the city of Portland. At the same time, I appreciate that the resolution addresses the decrease in demand for
 for short-term rentals and the increase in demand for long-term rentals due to COVID-19. Good work. I vote aye. Resolution is adopted. Next item, Carla, is item number 426, an emergency ordinance. 426, amend loan
 repayment schedules of inter-fund loans from Portland Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Fund to Portland International Raceway Fund and to Pitt Parking Lot Capital Project. The park system development charges or SDCs are fees paid by developers on new construction, and they're used in this case to expand our city park system.
 The Parks SDC fund is allowed to make inter-fund loans with conditions including a requirement to charge interest in a maximum term. This ordinance will make technical adjustments to two inter-fund loans because of the new realities created by COVID-19. We have City Treasurer Bridget O'Callaghan joining us to give us a few more details. Good morning, Bridget.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Brigid O'Callaghan and I am the City Treasurer. Joining me today also are three representatives in the Parks Bureau, should we need them to answer questions. And that is Maximo Behrens, Todd Melton, and Victor Sanders.
 The purpose of this legislation is to amend and extend the repayment terms of two Interfund loans to the Parks Bureau from the Parks Bureau Recreation System Development Charge Fund, the SDC Fund for Parks. And as you've referenced, this has become necessary due to the financial impacts of COVID-19.
 There are two loans presently extended under this program. One is for the Portland International Raceway. The other is for the Pittock Parking Lot Capital Project.
 The Portland International Raceway loan in August of 2018, city council approved resolution 37377, authorizing an inter-fund loan of 1.75 million from the Portland Parks and Recreation System Development charge fund to Portland International Raceway fund to pay for the costs of paving the South Paddock area.
 In response to COVID-19, PIR is experiencing revenue shortfalls, and this proposed legislation would extend the term of the existing PIR loan from seven to nine years.
 Schedules no principal or interest payments in the current fiscal year. A payment would resume for interest only in 2000 to 2021, and then principal payments begin in fiscal year 2021-2022.
 The PITIC parking loan in March of this year of 2020, City Council approved ordinance 189900, authorizing an Interfund loan of $200,000 from the SDC fund to the PITIC parking lot capital project to pay for costs of installing meters, signage, and administrative costs for a pay to park system at PITIC Acres Park.
 Again, due to COVID-19, the pandemic situation, the parking lot project has been delayed.
 No funds are anticipated to be loaned in this fiscal year of 2019-2020. This legislation would amend the PIDIC loan repayment schedule due to the construction delays and moving the first scheduled payment of the loan to fiscal 2021, the year that the loan is expected to be utilized in.
 The Interfund loans accrue interest at the city's investment fund rate, and that interest, of course, is payable to the Park System Development Fund. So it's a neutral impact to the System Development Fund. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Colleagues, any questions? Yes.
 Commissioner Fritz has a question. Brigid, thank you for that presentation. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for the question. I don't know if there's anybody from Parks here to answer or maybe you know. Well, yeah, the debt part of it makes sense to me. I'm just curious as to why the Pitsdark parking lot project can't move forward. It would seem like the perfect time to do it while the mansion is closed. Is there anybody from Parks here who could address that or from procurement?
 Yeah, this is Victor Sanders here from Portland Parks. Unfortunately, just due to the shifting in staff necessity early on with COVID, we just didn't have the staff capacity to take on this project right away in late spring. And so we hope to pick that up immediately at the start of the new fiscal year as we kind of ramp down our parks response to COVID. Yeah.
 Oh, that makes sense. Thank you so much for being here to give us that information. No problem. Thanks, Victor. Any other questions for right now? 426 is the emergency ordinance. Carla, do we have any testimony? Yes, we have one person signed up. Edith Gillis. Oh, great. Good morning, Edith. Hello. Can you hear me? Loud and clear. And can you see me? No, but we can hear you.
 So what I would like you to do is have
 a separate vote for the separate funds and loans, separate projects. This is consistent with Oregon law, one issue per voter per ballot. I strongly agree with the pay to park at Piddock Mansion and to be using it now with that for a loan and I strongly, strongly oppose paving and the use of the Portland International Raceway.
 at a time when we just voted to reduce noise pollution. And we've been talking about reducing carbon emissions and climate disasters and the problems of the air pollution, the chemical pollution, the noise pollution on immune system and on respiratory health in the middle of a pandemic.
 I strongly disapprove of us having the Portland International Raceway. I think that instead of having us pave more, which uses more dependence on petroleum products for using that, more pollution and more heating, that we need instead to break up the roadway, have it only one lane wide, have gravel on the other side, and to, instead of having grass, have it be an organic permaculture food, uh,
 food forest and have it have organic
 pollinator garden paths. We need to have more biodiversity. We need to clean the air, cool the air, clean up the water, storm water that goes in, and have the biodiversity that prevents the pandemics that we've had due to violation of ecosystems and violation of our biodiversity. We need to have this
 to make it safer and healthier for the people who live in the neighborhood, to reduce the speeding that is a neighborhood as a result of the roadway getting people excited about that, and we need to have safe places for people to do disease distancing as they enjoy nature, and we need to have that flat area that could be used for internal refugee camps for when we have our
 our earthquakes, etc. So we need to have that area not paved, not used for excess for carbon and and cars and pollution. We need to mitigate the air pollution, the diesel, the noise pollution that is harming public health and safety, and we need to actively create something that is constructive. And in that process we can also have public art that lets folks know about our indigenous
 and other people here that's consistent with 412 that I was strongly in favor of with some very strong ways to include and very strongly in favor of 413. So
 Again, separate the vote, two different projects, go forward on the paid park at PITIC and do not pave, do not include, and repurpose that public space for things that are good for public safety and public health. Thank you, appreciate your testimony. Colleagues, any further comments or questions? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Udailey? Aye. Fritz?
 I appreciate Edie's comments and there are climate and other issues with the raceway. However, this isn't the process to make those change. Aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is 427, please. Accept a grant in the amount of $1,957,230.00.
 from the Oregon Department of Transportation and authorize intergovernmental agreement for the Northeast 12th Avenue over I-84 and Union Pacific Railroad Bridge project. Colleagues, this is the second reading. We have heard a presentation and had opportunity for public testimony. Is there any further comment or questions on this before we call the roll? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye.
 Udaylee. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 428, emergency ordinance. Authorize a one-time COVID-19 small business utility relief program up to $1 million and intergovernmental agreement with Prosper Portland for an amount up to $100,000 to administer the program. Commissioner Fritz. Aye.
 Sorry, I'm toggling back between the talking points and the unmute. So thank you very much. I am very excited to bring this to council in partnership with the mayor. We know that small businesses are hurting because of the COVID-19 pandemic. And in particular, we know this to be true for small businesses owned by women, communities of colour and others with historical disadvantages to capital. I'm very happy that the Water Bureau and the
 Portland Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services are partnering with CrossFit Portland to support small businesses through this new small business program for utility relief or SPUR. Utilities allocated $1 million to provide financial support to qualifying small businesses in the form of a one-time credit on their sewer stormwater water bills, which as we know, they're
 The water bill is actually a combination of two-thirds of the sewer and stormwater charges and about one-third of the drinking water. The SPUR program is designed to do exactly what its name suggests, which is to spur the vital economic activity of our small business world. The utility bureaus are investing in our small business.
 businesses now so that they will be here to invest in the water sewer and storm water infrastructure for years to come. In the long term we are supporting businesses so that they can stay in business, recover and continue contributing to our community.
 Using prioritization and vulnerability criteria developed by POSCO Portland, the program will provide impactful relief to small businesses by reducing temporarily an operating expense to support their stabilization and longevity as they cope with the pandemic.
 The credits will range from $1,000 to $10,000. Between 200 to 300 businesses will receive credits. We know that the need in the small business community is great, and we've designed this program to work with others like the CARES Act funding to help address that need. Still, we know that it's probably not going to be enough, and so we sought Prosper's as
 assistance for the application process and the prioritization, given the success of their small business grant program in getting the money to those most needing it. And this program...
 The application will open on July 8th and stay open for two weeks. I think that's still the right date. Staff can correct me if not. We're keeping it open to allow businesses time to learn about the opportunity and submit their applications. We don't want to cause additional stress on our businesses by giving it too short of a time frame. On the other hand, we really want to get these credits so that companies...
 businesses know that they, that's one less thing that they have to worry about. The Small Business Utility Relief Program is just one part of the suite of financial assistance services the bureaus offer, and other programs exist for residential customers, including multifamily tenants at risk for eviction.
 This ordinance authorizes the bureaus to establish the $1 million one-time small business utility relief fund and to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with Postal Portland to administer the program, including applications, development, and selection. And now I believe the mayor has some comments to make also.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Colleagues, the City of Portland is committed to centering racial equity in our collective response to the COVID-19 crisis. The City recognizes that Black, Indigenous, and people of color, individuals with disabilities, those experiencing poverty, are often disproportionately affected. The City is dedicating resources to help prevent this crisis from continuing to exacerbate existing inequities.
 And I'm very pleased that the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services have partnered with Prosper Portland for this program. Prosper Portland will pair its expertise in its grant program development with the Utility Bureau's trusted infrastructure to disperse funds rapidly to diverse and women-owned small businesses throughout the
 by the equity and vulnerability criteria used in the Portland Small Business Relief Fund. That fund was led by Prosper Portland back in April in response to the pandemic.
 Prosper, Portland's existing equity-centered networks and advisory bodies, leaders from other cities and financial partners played a key role in the initial development of those guidelines. And once again, I'm very, very grateful for this collaboration. And with that, I now turn it over to Gabe Solmer and Sarah Santner from the Water Bureau. Gabe, why don't you go ahead and take it away for us?
 Thank you so much, Mayor, for the record. My name is Gabrielle Selmer. I am the Deputy Director of the Portland Water Bureau. Mayor and Commissioner Fritz, thank you so much. I feel like you covered so many good points. We will go through as staff to just give a few more details.
 but you have a lot of that information already. I'm joined by Sarah Santner from the Water Bureau and Shea Flaherty-Bettin from Prosper Portland to go through some of this information. I also want to thank the Bureau of Environmental Services, who is a key partner in this, as Commissioner Fritz said, that the utilities are really united in this work. Thank you so much to Steph for putting up the presentation slides.
 As you've heard, we are here as the utilities to share our plans to partner with Prosper Portland to provide one-time credits on qualifying businesses sewer, stormwater, and water combined utility bills through this new program, the Small Business Program for Utility Relief. Next slide.
 And as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, this is an expansion and the Water Bureau and BES, the expansion of us working together to adapt and continue to support our customers and all water users. As you may know, we put into place with the first project.
 When the pandemic first started, no interest flexible payment schedules available to all customers. We temporarily suspended late fees, collections, and stopped water shutoffs. We have a moratorium on accounts with past due balances, and we restored water service for anyone who had been turned off for nonpayment services.
 In addition, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, we have a robust financial assistance program that includes billed discounts, both at a 50% and 80% discount. We have crisis vouchers. That is a $500 amount that is available for income-qualified customers who are enrolled in the billed discount program. We have a utility safety net, which provides long-term interest-free payment arrangements if someone has an employment or medical or other personal emergency. Okay.
 We have a water leak repair program, and that is funding for repairs of water leaks for income-qualified homeowners. And, of course, you're familiar with our partnership with Home Forward, which provides multifamily rental assistance up to $500. What we wanted to do is expand that for support for small businesses, and we've developed that program. Next slide.
 As Commissioner Fritz mentioned, we are here before you to establish the Small Business Program for Utility Relief and to authorize both the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services to commit $1 million collectively for bill credits through this program. And we will also establish the intergovernmental agreement with Prosper Portland for up to $100,000 for program administration through Prosper. Next slide.
 And Mayor, as you went through BES and water, we are not neutral on racism or the impacts of institutional racism, both historic and current. And we know, as you said, that the economic impacts of the pandemic are being felt disproportionately by Black, Indigenous, and people and all people of color as you went through. And by working with PROSPER, the utilities are building on that established equity-centered criteria and prioritization.
 We were invited to present to the Portland Utility Board yesterday. They had some concerns about project management and how the utilities could accomplish this critical equity-centered work. And I just want to share that that's why we have partnered with Prosper Portland, as they have written program guidelines and this council has approved those guidelines to address this very issue within the confines of the current pandemic.
 So I know that, Council, you are well aware of the success of the Small Business Relief Fund, but if others aren't as familiar with that program, I'd like to ask Shea Flaherty, the team who is one of Prosper Portland's project managers and worked to develop the guidance, to just go over those briefly, and then we'll turn it over to Waters Program Manager Sarah Stantner to explain how that informs our program today.
 excuse me Gabrielle I just have a quick question of course I noticed that your equity statement leads with women is there a reason why you put women first rather than black indigenous and other people of color I will ask Prosper because this this equity statement I believe comes from the small business relief fund so we are using the same language maybe Prosper can speak to that Shay do you want to introduce or speak to that as you
 Start your comments. Yes, I can. And I think I'll add, that's just how it's been worded in the slide. I think our official statement reflected more of what council had approved in our previous work sessions. I thought the equity statement was Black, Indigenous, and other people of color. And then we added other groups. But I thought we were really intentional about leading with Black and Indigenous people because of the historic...
 Tom, that's been done. So I'm just curious to see this on the screen with women in the lead. That's correct, Commissioner. And we apologize. It is an oversight. The actual priority language is reversed. Okay. I'll go ahead and start if I could have the next slide, please. Thank you, Gabe. And thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for allowing us the opportunity to speak today. So I'm just going to share briefly some of our process and approach as well as outcomes for the Small Business Relief Fund.
 focusing in on some of our program guidelines, marketing and outreach, as well as some of the selection process. For our guidelines, we leaned pretty heavily on our internal equity lens, as well as our small business technical assistance experience and input from community businesses through our inclusive business resource network. We also benefited from having some support from our Council of Economic and Racial Equity members, as well as inquiries that we received as part of our small business hotline that was put up to support businesses throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.
 We'll also mention that the City Council was heavily involved. You'll recall that we established some priorities in order to really further refine the vulnerability priorities and eligibility criteria. And just to remind folks what those are, those were focusing on businesses that were prioritizing employee support, prioritizing their own stability, prioritizing impact of the dollars in those businesses, as well as the use of those dollars for the individual businesses. Okay.
 The application was translated into the top four other spoken languages of it in English in our region, including Spanish, Vietnamese, Russian, and Chinese. As far as marketing and outreach, it was a robust campaign, including email, social media, phone calls, our small business hotline, as well as some of our existing email lists at Prosper Portland. We did communicate extensively.
 extensively with our partners in the Inclusive Business Resource Network, as well as our minority chambers, our partners at WorkSystems, OAMI, and we also had partners who mentioned and did some additional outreach such as our Seoul District Business Association, TAO, VBPDX, PBA, Travel Portland, many of our minority chamber partners and others.
 I'll add for the selection process, apologies also for the busyness of this slide. You'll all recall this happened very early on in the crisis, in the early weeks, attempting to provide immediate relief before federal supports came online. And we know some, a lot of those federal supports didn't actually reach businesses in our community. So I'll just add that that was kind of the intent early on. So in terms of the review process,
 Early on in the process over after we received over 11,000 applications at with those of which about 9000 were initially eligible.
 For about four days, a review committee dedicated a tremendous amount of time to reviewing data and applications and doing some initial analysis. There's about seven to eight staff involved in that. We had three members of our Council for Economic and Racial Equity, as well as three commissioner staff who then worked throughout the weekend to review some of these selections and approve the process. We focus on both racial equity and economic relief using the priorities established by Council that I mentioned earlier.
 To expand diverse representation in our final list as we were going through the review process, we applied an equity lens that further prioritized not only demographics but intersectional identities such as our LGBTQ+, neighbors, disabled community members, and veterans, as well as considerations for geography, industry, and non-English speakers. We also had questions that spoke to past experience with bias around discrimination with financial products.
 The committee was also mindful of giving attention to East Portland residents where incomes and access to resources traditionally lag behind the rest of the city. So there's a question of why we put such a heavy weight on BIPOC communities. We hope that that goes without saying, but historically we know that numbers related to access to capital have shown inequities when you factor in race and gender. And we were mindful of that. For example, many of the banks that received stimulus funds have already committed those funds to distinct clients. We're,
 We also feel further justified in this when we see data from the Center for Responsible Lending showing that federal relief products like PPP and EIDL inherently in their design were unable to reach BIPOC communities. If I could have the next slide, please. So speaking to some of the outcomes.
 Specifically, of the over 8,700 applications received, we know the need was tremendous. We were not able to reach all the awardees by any means, and we know the need persists and continues in community.
 90% of our awards were given to people of color and just to not perpetuate the erasure of individual communities I will share specifically 18% of these funds went to our API community and that's when you factor in an earlier grant that went out to our
 Our partners at APANO is in a form of a block grant. 27% went to Black or African American business owners. 23% went to Latinx or Hispanic business owners. 16% went to Native owners. And others were, we had multiracial categories as well. And 6% went to white business owners. So...
 I will add a little bit more about the award levels. The 210 businesses that received grants ranging from $2,500 to $10,000 in the fund, the $2,500 grants went to 100 community serving businesses with single employees, as in they were the only employee, many of which had furloughed workers in the hopes that they would be able to use funds to re-employ.
 Recipients ranged from childcare businesses to preschool providers, health and wellness services to beloved food carts and consumer product makers and coffee houses. These are businesses that are essential to the fabric of community. The larger grants, the remaining $5,000 and $10,000,
 were really to support larger businesses where the funding would have a greater ripple effect, specifically core community businesses that were taking extraordinary measures to support their employees. You know, it's really, it's a challenging thing to narrow down over 8,000 applications to 200. So we really had to focus on those businesses that were going above and beyond just to support their staff. One of the business
 For example, using a $10,000 grant was using personal funds to provide food for the employees. Another was keeping employees on payroll and providing personal protective equipment at their own expense to employees. The stories just continued on and on of what our small businesses in our community were doing to support their staff.
 I will add that an additional group of businesses on top of the 210, about 70 businesses, were awarded funds using the same criteria that received these grants from an additional pool of money generated by both local banks and that were housed at the Oregon Community Foundation. They were on a slightly different timeline, but they were added to this pool. And I will add, I skipped on the first slide, but the method by which these funds were passed to the community were done in partnership.
 with local community development financial institutions. And so we had Micro Enterprise Services of Oregon, Mercy Corps Northwest and Craft 3 actually dispersing the dollars to businesses directly once the selection had been made. That concludes my portion and I'll pass it back to my colleagues at Waterford. Thank you, Shay. So we just wanted to reground us all in the work that Prosper had done on the previous rounds. We can have the next slide, please.
 So in developing the SPUR, we have pulled forward three guiding principles that will hopefully be familiar from previous PROSPER work. And that is to prioritize and support the most vulnerable, applying a racial equity lens. We are centering racial equity by prioritizing BIPOC businesses. Also really wanted to have meaningful resource allocation, something that would provide impact to the businesses that we're serving.
 The second was we wanted to act quickly and build on the existing work. So we're using and planning to borrow from the equity and vulnerability criteria that was developed by PROSPER, as you just heard Shay describe. And we are using the sewer, stormwater, and water bill to deliver these credits efficiently. Our third guiding principle is to work together to take action in partnership. And this is an example of BES, Water, and PROSPER coming together to try to serve businesses. Next slide.
 A bit of an overview. So the program, as you've heard already, I'll just restate, we have allocated a million dollars to support the bill credits on the SPUR program. And these will go as a one-time credit on the sewer, stormwater, water bill. We will, sorry, we anticipate the credits will range between $1,000 and $10,000 and we'll be able to serve between 200 and 300 businesses. We're expecting that the applications will be ready to open to the public on July 8th.
 and they'll stay open for two weeks. As Commissioner Fritz described, we wanted to give adequate time to provide, to allow people to hear about the opportunity and to put in their application, and then we wanted to be able to respond quickly. Next slide, please. The program equity and vulnerability priorities are, as we have discussed, the small businesses owned by Black, Indigenous, and all people of color and or women.
 and also businesses that are currently open or identified to be opened in Governor Kate Brown's Phase 1 reopening plan. We've also centered a priority around child care businesses. That's an important priority going forward. Next slide. So the eligibility requirements, and these will be very familiar to you as they are borrowed from the previous PROSPER programs, the business must have lost revenue due to the impacts of the pandemic.
 The business, as we're defining a small business, must have $2 million or less in annual gross revenue, and the business must have 50 or fewer employees. In order to be able to provide the credit on the bill, the business must receive water, sewer, stormwater service from the City of Portland. And then the business must have been in operation and in compliance with State of Oregon registration requirements prior to July 1st, 2019. Next slide.
 So just a little bit about how the process will work, the application selection and disbursement process. It's just a graphic that kind of describes what we are thinking. It will be a simple online application that would be managed by Prosper Portland. We are going to utilize the tools that they've created. It will be modified for this program, but it will be based on the good work they've done. And as you know, the materials will be translated into the four languages
 that Shay described. So that's Spanish, Russian, Chinese, and Vietnamese. So the applications can be submitted online and will be open again July 8th. Utilities and Prosper will work together through the applications to use the prioritization criteria to select applicants. And the application selection will be made up of staff and hopefully outside perspective as well.
 Once the selection is made, the accounts, the account numbers identified for the credits will be passed to the Water Bureau for upload onto utility bills. Next slide. So I'm going to pass this back to Gabe. She's going to go over what our next steps are and so you have the information you need.
 Thank you. Thank you so much, Sarah, for going through that. The next steps would be if Council approves today, then the Bureau of Environmental Services and Water will work directly with PROSPER to reaffirm the selection process, making sure that we make any additions in getting information from outside stakeholders on this particular program, but using the established criteria and process.
 We will develop the application, I know Sarah mentioned, that will be translated, streamlined, mobile friendly, and continue to build out that outreach plan to work directly with community partners so that we're reaching those impacted businesses. That would include multilingual mailing for commercial customers, a partnership with community engagement liaisons, the CELS, media outreach to culturally specific media,
 Direct outreach to community organizations and our partners. And of course, Prosper will share the information with the Inclusive Business Resources Network, Minority Chambers, and their other community partners, as well as past applicants from their grant and loan programs.
 And then we'll move to, after outreach, finalize the selection and disbursement process. And I will share that we have invited a member of the Portland Utility Board to sit on that selection committee so that we can have their input as well.
 During the application window and period, we have learned that it is very important to provide support to the applicants and potential applicants. So as well as having the application in multiple languages, we have also trained our call center to manage those calls. We have set up a small business hotline to manage any calls that are more complex.
 We have frequently asked questions to provide and a website is a resource.
 So just as a reminder, What's Before Council is an ordinance that would establish this program and authorize the utilities to commit a collective $1 million for these bill credits, and then also establish the partnership between Prosper Portland and the Water Bureau for an intergovernmental agreement for program management up to $100,000. And that concludes staff presentation. We can take any questions.
 colleagues any questions on this item it looks like commissioner hartesty commissioner hurst you're up uh thank you mayor i thank you all for uh that very detailed presentation i'm going to ask the question because i know somebody's going to ask me this question are we using these funds legally based on what the rules are in the water bureau are these funds that are appropriate for us to be giving out in a way that's not
 actually written into law? That is a very good question, Commissioner Hardesty. I don't know if there's a member of the city attorney's office that can speak to that, but I will say that we consulted the city attorney's office to make sure that we were drafting the program in a way that does meet all of our requirements.
 Wonderful, because you know somebody's going to ask us that very soon. Absolutely. I just want to thank Commissioner Fritz for her work and really shepherding this forward in such an expedient manner. This is desperately needed support, and I appreciate all of you who presented today. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for that support and also for your question. That was one of the reasons that we chose to go with a bill credit rather than giving the money as grants to community members to do whatever they felt was the most urgent for their business. And so we did want to make sure, and Karen Moynihan in the City Attorney's Office has always been very diligent in the times I've been the Water Bureau's Commissioner, to make sure that we don't...
 overstepped that boundary. So thank you very much for clarifying. Any further discussion on this item? Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up. Very good. It's an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Hardesty.
 Again, I want to thank Commissioner Fritz. She's been committed to this ever since the COVID-19 started, and I'm happy to see this moving forward. I want to thank Prosper Portland. Prosper Portland has enhanced its reputation by the expedient nature of which they've been able to provide relief for community members who are in desperate need. And so good work all around. I vote aye. Udaylee.
 I also want to thank Commissioner Fritz for championing this project. I also want to thank the work of the Water Bureau, Prosper Portland, Commissioner Fritz's team, and Commissioner Fish's team who all worked together to make this happen. This provides meaningful support for small businesses and builds off a successful framework that my office was happy to implement.
 support and development with prosper Portland and all of the other commission council offices so really appreciate how quickly you're moving to get financial assistance out the door I know thousands of our small businesses are struggling right now I vote aye. Great.
 Thank you for your support colleagues and thank you Mayor for your steadfast partnership in developing this program. I'm going to start by thanking the frontline staff in the Water Bureau and Environmental Services whose dedication and sacrifice has been absolutely outstanding during the COVID crisis and many of whom have kept working in buildings and then many more have been working from home with their lives.
 barely missing a beat. So thank you to the staff and thank you Kathy Cook and the staff in the Customer Service Centre at
 the Water Bureau. Their staff will be available to take questions about this program, as will Commissioner Udaly's staff in the information referral section, so people can call 823-4000 to get more information about this. And we appreciate the work that those staff are doing as well. And then thank you to the leadership, Water Bureau Director Mike Sturde.
 Deputy Director Gabriel Salma and Sarah Santner, the Water Efficiency Manager with the Water Bureau. You have really, you took my, oh my goodness, we need to do something about this. And just to be clear, the impetus in this was reading emails from constituents saying, I don't fit into any of the other programs that you have to help the various sectors. And so, you know, I need to be able to keep this business running so that the
 the employees can stay employed and so that the customers or renters can keep those services going. And so that was the generation for that. And I will say, yeah,
 again as i as i mentioned at the beginning of this session that we're currently being somewhat overwhelmed with emails coming in on other topics so if people are still um emailing me i think i got a thousand emails yesterday so um even i cannot respond to that many um despite as hard as my staff and i are working and so i thank everybody who's engaging both in the um
 acute crisis, COVID crisis response and in the chronic Black Lives Matter racism response and this program attempts to assist in both of those urgent needs for our community. Thank you for Prosper Portland as Commissioner Hardesty said becoming an excellent partner with
 equity-centered networks and advisory bodies, leaders from other cities, leaders from the community advising them, and also the financial partners who have played a key role in the development of the guidelines, particularly Amy Nagy and Shea Laotie Betten. Your dedication has helped us develop and launch this program.
 Thank you to Astrid de Goren, my senior policy advisor for the Water Bureau, who has helped guide this process and who is firmly committed to the principles that have guided it. And I appreciate everybody's work. Thank you for this partnership and what it will allow us to do to support Portland small business owners. Bye. Wheeler.
 I want to appreciate the extraordinary leadership of my colleagues, in particular, Commissioner Fritz, for your hard work on this and the city team. There were so many people who had played a valuable role in this, and I think it's a great collaborative effort. It's a brilliant vision, and it's one that's keenly needed by people in the community who are hurting during this COVID crisis. I'm very happy to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 Next item is a four-fifths agenda. Carla, could you please read item 428-1? Authorize a letter of agreement between the City and the District Council of Trade Unions to temporarily extend the termination date of the existing collective bargaining agreement and to address the economic impact of COVID-19.
 Thank you. Colleagues, I'm very pleased that this item is on our agenda today, and I'm enjoying the City Council's unanimous sponsorship of this item. Today, we're authorizing Kathy to sign agreements with three of our labor partners, DCTU, Liuna, and ProTech. Our Human Resources Director, Kathy Bless, is here with our Lead Employment Attorney, Heidi Brown, to present. Kathy, please take it away.
 Thank you, Mayor. And good morning, Commissioners. I am Kathy Bless, Chief Human Resource Officer with the City. These three, my remarks are going to be for all three of these items, 428.1, 428.2, 428.3, as listed on the agenda. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't turn the page. Can you read 2 and 3 as well, please? Sorry about that.
 428-2, authorize a letter of agreement between the City and Labor's International Union of North America, Local 483, to address the impact of COVID-19. 428-3, authorize a letter of agreement between the City and Professional Ethical Employees, Local 17, to address the economic impact of COVID-19.
 Sorry about that, Kathy. Now we're all leaving. No worries. So these three ordinances before council today seek your authorization for me to enter into agreements on behalf of the city with DCTU, Pro Tech 17, and Playa Una Laborers Group. I will briefly keep my comments related to all three of these ordinances.
 I would like to take this moment, however, and thank our union leadership, Rachel Whiteside, Tom Collette, Bao Nguyen, Pat Christensen, and Mark Hinkle, as well as their negotiation teams for their collaboration in these agreements.
 I would also like to thank the Labor Relations team within BHR, Budget Director Jessica Kennard and her staff, Deputy City Attorney Heidi Brown, as well as Chief of Staff Carly Edwards to Commissioner Hardesty, and Chiefs of Staff Kristen Dennis and Deputy Chief of Staff Jamal Fox from your office, Mayor.
 As was stated with other agreements approved a couple of weeks ago, all have worked tirelessly in support of getting to this moment, and we continue to value the work of our employees covered under these agreements today. For your consideration, the DCTU Letter of Agreement includes a contract extension for six months, a COLA freeze until January 1, 2021, and 64 hours of furlough time for members who are eligible under the State of Oregon's WorkShare Program.
 This letter of agreement also offers DCTU members the ability to reduce their normally scheduled hours in response to COVID-19 with approval from their bureau as an alternative to furlough days. This may offer employees a better opportunity to address work-life balance in the months ahead.
 Both of these approaches are eligible under Work Share. The concessions made by the DCTU are made to support the City's budget shortfall due to COVID-19 and are valued at about $4.5 million. I fully support this agreement and ask that you approve the authorization for me to enter into the agreements on behalf of the City with DCTU. I'll pause here. Do you want to take care of that action first?
 or do you want me to speak on to the other agreements? Why don't we go ahead and do the complete presentation? Secondly, for your consideration, is the LIONA Laborers Letter of Agreement. It includes a contract extension for one year, a step freeze through the next fiscal year, and eight days of furlough time for members who are eligible under the State of Oregon's Work Share Program, and four furlough days for members who are not eligible.
 The concessions made by the laborers are made to support the city's budget shortfall due to COVID and are valued at about $2.3 million. As you can see, there will be differences in each of these agreements and each address the nuances of the memberships within these agreements. So I fully support this agreement as well and ask that you approve the authorization for me to enter into agreements on behalf of the city with laborers.
 And then finally for your consideration is the ProTech 17 Letter of Agreement. It includes a contract extension until December 31st of 2021. It also includes a COLA freeze until January 1st, a six-month delay in step increases, and five days of furlough for employees who earn more than $29.55 per hour.
 This letter of agreement also offers ProTech 17 members the ability to reduce their normally scheduled hours in response to COVID-19 with approval from their bureau as an alternative to furlough days. Again, this may offer employees a better opportunity to address the work-life balance, and both of these approaches are eligible under WorkShare.
 The concessions made by ProTech 17 are made to support, again, the city's budget shortfall due to COVID-19 and are valued at $4.1 million. I fully support this agreement and ask that you approve the authorization for me to enter into the agreements on behalf of the city and ProTech. That completes my remarks and I am available for questions as is Heidi Brown, Deputy City Attorney, to answer any questions you may have.
 Very good. And before we move on to that, I just want to thank you, Kathy, and your entire team. And I, of course, want to thank Heidi and our council office staff, Jamal Fox and Carly Edwards. And particularly, I want to acknowledge the great work that the two of you did. You took on leadership roles during these conversations. And, of course, our labor partners for the very challenging work that they all did together.
 And I also want to thank the union leaders who worked with the city to reach these agreements. Collectively, these unions represent over half of the city's workforce.
 And of course, we'd already reached an agreement with our firefighters and the commanding officers from our police bureau. Altogether, these five unions represent 70% of our city's workforce. And altogether, these five agreements will save us approximately $14 million next year, helping us close what we will think will be about a $75 million budget gap.
 I've said all along that protecting our community's core services and protecting our workers,
 My top priorities as we navigate through this difficult budget year, and I've said that I hoped our labor partners would work with us to find savings in a way that felt right for their members. When we start with shared values and when we have clear goals in mind, we can meet these extraordinary challenges with extraordinary partnership. And I want to make it clear, everybody on this council and everyone,
 virtually every member of our, our council team worked really hard in some way or another, along with our labor partners, along with our, our labor negotiations team, along with our legal counsel to come to a resolution, which, um,
 respects our shared values. And this speaks very, very highly of the public employees that work for the City of Portland. That they were willing to take sacrifice on themselves and on behalf of their families in order to continue to support the important work that people do here at the City of Portland. So I just want to really acknowledge that positive spirit. With that in mind, do we have any questions at the moment?
 Do we have any public testimony, Carla, on any of these items? No one signed up to testify. All right. Why don't you call the roll, please, on item 428-1. Hardesty? Hardesty.
 I'm on mute. I will do all my thank yous now because we have three of these. I want to join the mayor in thanking Kathy and her team, Heidi and her team, Carly, my fabulous, absolutely wonderful chief of staff, Carly Edwards, Jamal Fox, and the mayor. Thank you.
 Without all of us playing a role, we would not have these agreements in front of us today. And I just really appreciate our union workers being willing to come to the table and help us actually address the budget deficit that we have.
 None of us want our employees to have less money, but we also know the reality of our financial situation moving into the next fiscal year. I am so proud of our union leadership in the city of Portland. And as the mayor said, we now have agreements with over 70% of the city's workforce. And I am so proud and honored to vote aye. New Daily.
 Well, I just echo the thanks to everyone who's already been acknowledged, especially want to thank the unions and every city employee. We're going to have to have another series of hard conversations. So I'm welcoming and inviting recommendations from our labor partners about how we can build on that.
 the positive interactions represented with these items today as we head into the fall. I vote aye. Prince.
 I'm also very grateful to the District Council of Trades Unions, to the Professional and Technical Union 17 and to the Labourers' Unit 483 for their partnership and for the collaboration that we've seen from our labour partners over the last few months. Thank you to the Mayor and his team who have done astonishing leadership and outstanding leadership in this time. And thank you, Cathy Bless.
 the Chief Human Resources Officer and her team, who have done very good work. And thank you also to Commissioner Hardesty's Chief of Staff, Carly Edwards, for her role in helping to reach these agreements. Thanks to Tim Crayle, my Chief of Staff, who's been my Labour liaison for the 12 years we've been in office together.
 The sudden and unanticipated drop in revenues caused by the coronavirus pandemic created a hole that was unprecedented in recent city history, even in the recession. And the Mayor and City Budget Office have done fantastic work of minimizing the long-term impacts to city services, which means minimizing
 impacts to Portlanders. And this is so far primarily through short-term savings through employee sacrifice. So thank you to each of our employees, whether represented or non-represented, who have been willing to make these sacrifices.
 Each of the three letters of agreement are tailored to the needs and circumstances of their memberships, which is as it should be. And again, I commend Cathy Bless and the Mayor for not insisting on a one-size-fits-all, but working with the unions so that they were able to tailor the agreements to meet their members' needs. And I do hope that their members will ratify these agreements. I appreciate that this is being done in a little
 bit of a different order. Often we wait for the membership to vote before the council agrees to the tentative agreement. On this one, because of the need for speed, we are saying we approve if the membership does. And that's perhaps as it should be this time. It's
 as it should be right now, because we can't do this without our employees. And I hope that they will ratify what their excellent leadership has done in negotiating on their behalf. There's still tough decisions ahead of us as we work to recover from the economic disruption. These agreements today go a long way to making future decisions less dire. Thank you, everyone. Bye. Wailer.
 I won't repeat my speech or my thank yous. I just want to say colleagues, great work. Thank you to our labor partners. Thank you to our city bureaus. This is great leadership all around on behalf of the entire city team. I'm very proud to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call the roll, Carla, on item 428-2. Hardesty? Udeli? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Aye.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 428-3, please call the roll. Hardesty? I'm sorry, aye. Udalli? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks all. Thank you. Next we'll go back to the one item that was pulled off, the Consent Agenda 416, please.
 Authorize city attorney to file litigation on behalf of
 of the city as may be required to protect its interests regarding the streetcar crash on May 24, 2018. Colleagues, on May 24th of 2018, a Portland streetcar derailed, striking multiple vehicles as well as city-owned property. The derailment and crash were caused by defects in the master controller unit of the streetcar.
 The City purchased the Streetcar and Master Control Unit from Vigor Works LLC, formerly Oregon Iron Works LLC, which provided warranties regarding these particular products. The City intends to tender third-party claims for defense and indemnification to Vigor Works.
 The city has also been working with bigger works to resolve the city's own claim for damages. This resolution authorizes the city attorney to file suit against bigger works LLC. If we are unable to reach a negotiated resolution in connection with either the third party claims or the city's own claims for damage here to answer any questions are Ryan Bailey and Naomi Sheffield. Good afternoon. And Carla, who pulled this item?
 This was pulled by Edith Gillis, but she is no longer on the line. All right. Colleagues, do you have any questions on this item? I'm not seeing any questions. Last call, is there anybody who would like to testify on this item who is present? I'm not seeing anybody flag. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. The resolution is adopted. Carla, that completes our business for this morning, does it not? That does, Mayor. Very good. Colleagues, thank you all. We are adjourned until 2 p.m.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted, I think Commissioner Fritz wanted to withhold her comments till the end. And I just wanted to. Good call. And by the way, before I forget, because you know I will, we're not reconvening at 2 p.m. this afternoon. We are reconvening at 2.30 this afternoon. So I want to make that quick correction before anybody tunes in at 2 o'clock and wonders where did the city council. Yes. 2.30. Commissioner Fritz, would you like to make a comment?
 Thank you. If I'd have wanted to, I would have raised my hand, but I made some brief comments on what I said earlier with that I would be putting out a statement. So I don't wish to make another one at this time. Excellent. Thank you all. We'll see you at 2.30 this afternoon. We are adjourned. Computer, it looks like it's 2.30 on the dot. We have one item for this afternoon. Carla, can you please call the roll? Hersey? Here. Udaily?
 She may not be on yet. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. Under Portland City Code and state law, the city council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the council are attending remotely by phone, and the city has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcasts of this meeting. The public can also provide written testimony to the council by emailing the council clerk.
 The council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and promote physical distancing.
 The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your continued patience, flexibility and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do our city's business. At this point I'll turn it over to our very able legal counsel to read
 the Rules of Order and Decorum. Lauren, good afternoon. Good afternoon. To participate in City Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. The published Council Agenda at portlandoregon.gov backslash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the City Council is holding electronic meetings.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you're representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded.
 Thank you very much, Lauren. Carla, we have one item this afternoon. Could you please read item number 429? Amend the Comprehensive Plan, Plan Map, Zoning Map, and Title 33 Planning and Zoning to revise the Single-Dwelling Residential Designations and Base Zones.
 Thank you, colleagues. Today we continue our work on the residential infill project. Before we begin this substantive discussion on RIP, I want to announce that I rent property in a residential zone. Properties in all residential zones could be impacted by the residential infill project. I have no plans and no intent and
 and frankly, no ability to redevelop or change the use of my property personally. However, out of an abundance of caution, I'm disclosing this as a potential conflict of interest. Colleagues, would you have any disclosures you'd like to make? Thank you, Mayor. I also rent property within the city limits that would be covered by the legislation we're considering. I also have no ability to make any changes to it because I don't own it. I am a renter, a proud renter.
 But just for the sake of caution, I want that to be on the public record. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Fritz, muted. Sorry. Never mind. I also own property in the city of Portland. I will neither benefit nor be damaged by this proposal to a greater or lesser extent than anybody else, and therefore I continue to participate.
 Very good. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Mayor. I am also a renter and have no ability to benefit from this legislation, similar to what everyone else said.
 Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. As a recap of where we are in the project after hearing public testimony in January and holding two work sessions on January 29th and then again on February 12th, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff have developed concepts for amendments to the proposed draft of the residential infill project and reopened the record for public comment.
 The public can read and submit written testimony about the proposal by visiting the BPS testimony app page of the project.
 After a truly impressive amount of work and coordination from the staff said the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, the Bureau of Development Services, Portland Bureau of Transportation, the Bureau of Environmental Services, the Water and Housing Bureaus, and of course, our city attorneys, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability will present the complete package of amendments. I want to thank all.
 Our city staff for their hard work to help prepare these proposals for the City Council I also want to thank those who submitted their comments and met with staff to help strengthen the original proposal I'm now going to turn this over to the Bureau planning and sustainability Director Andrea Durbin to walk us through the agenda this afternoon. Good afternoon, Andrea. How are you today? Good afternoon, Mayor. I'm doing very well. Thank you. Thank you Mayor
 Mayor and City Council. It's a pleasure to be back here talking to you all about residential infill. We've organized the agenda into two parts today. First, staff will introduce and briefly review the draft amendments to the residential infill project.
 The draft amendments were shared with the public in early March. We suggest that council move and second these amendments prior to taking public testimony today. We also suggest that the City Council hold its deliberations on the amendments until after hearing testimony. We will return to City Council on June 18th for deliberation and a vote on the amendments, with a final vote on the package set for July.
 The second part of today's agenda will be public testimony. We ask that this testimony be focused on the package of amendments. We are recommending a two-minute limit on testimony to ensure that we can hear from as many people as possible, and when the record closed last night, we had 96 people sign up to testify. We've reserved time on June 11th, starting at 2 40 in the afternoon. In case people who've signed up for today's testimony are not able to speak, they will have an opportunity to come back.
 um before you move on from that andrea it looks like commissioner fritz had a question about that specifically sure so thank you mayor i am concerned about limiting testimony to two minutes i realize that there are 90 plus people signed up on the other hand i'm getting a thousand emails a day so normally we would say please send in your testimony in writing but i cannot promise that i'm able to get to everybody's testimony on account that there's so much incoming input on other issues right now
 With 90 people, if we were to allow the three minutes We could still get through them in three hours And you need two hearings So if you please consider that Or at least Mayor being somewhat lenient If people are on point and still have something new to say To allow them to go to three minutes Thank you
 Yeah, and I certainly don't have any, I have no problem with that, Commissioner. As people know, I tend to be pretty lenient when it comes to the timeframes, particularly since everybody's sort of trying to figure out the technology here. But I will ask when we get to the council test or the public testimony that people do try to respect the fact that there are many, many people who'd like to be heard.
 So we'll encourage people not to give repetitive testimony. It's okay just to say I also agree on point X without going into all of it. So we'll just ask people to do that, and I appreciate it. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor. We've heard from some comments that we've received so far that there's a lot of concern from the public that density is a contributing factor for a number of the COVID-19 cases.
 while the data shows us otherwise. Clearly a city's design and development, as well as social, economic, and natural environment conditions affect public health outcomes and the well-being of communities. Also, as we are seeing every day and more broadly acknowledging, our history and systems have built inequities based on race into the structure of our city.
 When other factors that contribute to livability and health are considered, for example, living wages, educational opportunities, access to healthcare and affordable housing, dense cities are actually safer from pandemics than less dense areas.
 PSU professor Vivek Shanda said it well recently. He said, cities might actually become the safest places to be during the next pandemic. Denser spaces can make it easier to monitor people's health and track exposure, communicate risks and prevention strategies, and rush protective gear and prescription drugs to outbreak hotspots.
 I recognize that the COVID-19 crisis has raised many, many concerns, but we hope that as we discuss residential infill today, that we will refrain from reducing a complex global pandemic to arguments for or against density.
 And finally, given our nation's crisis today rooted in racism, anti-blackness, and white supremacy, the City Council's consideration of opening up single-family zoning for middle housing options is an opportunity to demonstrate that we can right these wrongs. We can unbuild our unjust land use systems.
 As the City of Portland looks for ways to demonstrate that we are going to talk less and act more, adopting residential infill is that opportunity to create more inclusive neighborhoods, expand housing opportunities to more residents, provide safer access to schools and closer transit options, including Black, Indigenous, and people of color. We cannot wait to undo these past harms any longer. And now I'd like to invite BPS staff Morgan Tracy and Sandra Wood to present the amendments. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and members of City Council. I hope that you are seeing my presentation. Is that correct? Yes, we can. We can see it. Thank you. I'm Morgan Tracy, Project Manager for the Residential Enfield Project. With me today is Sandra Wood, Co-Development Manager with BPS and host of our meeting this morning or this afternoon. Joe Zender, Chief Planner, as well as Bob Kellett and Kirk Kruger from PBOT.
 Before we cover the more fine-grained aspects of today's subject matter, I wanted to reiterate the framework for what the Residential Infilt project achieves. It increases access to more types of housing in all Portland neighborhoods. It allows for more units of lower prices on each lot. It applies new limits on building scale and height, and it helps reduce displacement overall. Following your public hearings on January 15th and 16th, and your two work sessions on January 29th and February 12th, to review several potential amendment ideas,
 Staff has developed the following six potential amendments to the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommended draft for your consideration. My intention today is to provide a short summary of all the amendments. This will help us move through the staff presentation more quickly and allow more time for the public to testify. Before we begin, I would like to note that the project documents that comprise the project record are included on the project website at www.portland.gov slash bps slash rep and are hereby entered into the official record.
 Amendment number one includes four distinct parts. These are the most technical in nature and are necessary to address changes in the code package since the Planning Commission's vote last spring. They align the code updates to reflect changes adopted by Better Housing by Design. They align the proposed visibility standard in the single-dwelling zones to match the multi-dwelling zones. They update map changes to reflect zoning changes completed as part of the 82nd Avenue project.
 They clean up a few language consistency issues, including a cleanup to a correction where we had changed how height would be measured in mixed-use zones. This correction will essentially leave the height method the same as it is today for those zones. Amendment package number two responds to requirements in the recently passed House Bill 2001. Currently, duplexes are limited to corner lots and single-dwelling zones.
 The Planning Commission's recommendation allows interior lot duplexes, except in natural resource and hazard-constrained areas, which are identified by our Z overlay. HB 2001, which passed after the PSC's vote, specifies that cities must allow a duplex on each lot that allows for the development of a house. This amendment aligns the Residential Enfield Project with the House Bill by allowing duplexes on all lots in the ARC 2.5 through our seven zones, including those lots in the Z overlay.
 The amendment also lifts the duplex restriction created for small flag lots, which only allow for a house. Amendment Package 3 includes code changes related to the implementation of Senate Bill 534. This bill requires cities to allow development of at least one dwelling unit on pre-existing platted lots and makes no distinction based on the zoning, lot size, or other lot dimensions. However, it does provide that the presence of certain constraints can exclude a lot from being considered billable. These amendments establish rules to confirm substandard platted lots.
 Lots of record and lot remnants, on the other hand, will continue to be subject to the same standards and minimum dimensional requirements that apply today. For the remaining substandard platted lots that don't meet the base zone sizes, they would be considered billable unless the lot is steeply sloping, it's in the 100-year floodplain, or it's within the environmental overlay zone. The Fourth Amendment package is about streamlining processes to make it easier and less costly to reconfigure narrow lots into wider lots.
 Currently, when a property owner wants to convert three narrow lots into two wider lots, a two-step process is required. First, a lot consolidation, followed by a property line adjustment, which adds time and cost to this whole process. This amendment would combine both of these processes into a single replat process. This takes us to number five. Number five is a non-Zone and Code amendment.
 and you will recall that the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendation includes a limitation on three or more units when the site is located on gravel street, like indicated here in this picture. At our last work session, Council gave BPS direction to explore options to address infrastructure needs while also furthering our climate and equity goals.
 The idea behind Amendment 5 was to allow only three and more units when lots have frontage on improved streets, in part because the cost of those improvements can sometimes be disproportionate to the level of impact, meaning that the city is legally unable to require those improvements. And also because when these improvements are built in the middle of unimproved streets, they result in piecemeal improvements that don't connect efficiently to the overall system.
 Most commissioners weren't convinced that the concept that we'd shared was the right one and asked us to work with infrastructure bureaus to recommend the best solution possible. We've been meeting with our colleagues and our conclusion is that the best solution is not to amend the RIP policy, but to work with PBOT to expand the local transportation improvement charge, or LTEC, program to apply to three or more units on unimproved streets located in these single dwelling zones.
 Therefore, our recommendation is that number five is a non-zoning code amendment. Instead, PBOT will be bringing the necessary changes to LTIC and Title 17 separately for Council's review next week on June 10th, and that hearing starts at 4 o'clock. The deeper affordability bonus was supported by many who testified during the public hearings in January.
 The proposed amendment would provide for a larger FER, a bit more height to allow three full floors, and up to six units when at least half of the units are affordable to households earning up to 60% of the median family income. Two of these units will also be required to be visitable. 60% of the median family income works out to about $1,200 a month for a two-bedroom apartment.
 For comparison, the average rent in Portland for a two-bedroom apartment, including both old and new construction, is about $1,600 a month. Market rates for a new two-bedroom apartment are closer to $2,000 a month. So this represents the difference between a family earning $48,000 a year and a family earning $78,000 a year.
 Due to this level of rent restriction, this bonus structure is generally infeasible for for-profit builders. But non-profit developers who have a different business model and can bring other funding sources may benefit by being able to better compete for these properties. The final amendment relates to historic resources and more specifically conservation resources. Currently in historic districts, those are the areas shown in blue on this map, a demolition review is already required.
 However, in conservation districts, the brown areas shown in and around Albina, in these cases only a 120-day delay is required prior to deconstruction. This is something that a forthcoming project from our Bureau, the Historic Resources Code Project, will be evaluating. Amendment number 7 puts in place a restriction in the interim that when these resources are demolished, these sites cannot build three or more units for a period of 10 years.
 They are still able to utilize the provisions for additional ADUs or converting existing houses to triplexes or fourplexes. So for next steps, since it's likely we won't get through all of your testimony today, City Council will hear the remaining testimony about the package of amendments on June 11th, starting at 2.40 p.m. The record for written testimony will remain open until June 11th at 8 p.m. Council will return and vote on the amendments on June 18th.
 Staff will then incorporate the approved changes into an as-amended draft for council's consideration later in July. That concludes my presentation, and I'll turn it back to you, Mayor. Very good. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
 I know this is the result of countless hours of working with our infrastructure bureaus, our community members and organizations, and affordable housing developers. And I want to just acknowledge, I appreciate how much effort's gone into this amendment package. So colleagues, I have a question. Do I have a motion to move the residential infill projects amendment packages as a group for discussion and public testimony? So moved. Okay.
 Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any comments prior to us? No, we're going to keep that open. So it is moved and it is there. Thank you.
 Please, we're going to get to the public testimony piece right now. We're going to begin public testimony. Each person will have, as we stated earlier, two minutes to testify. We'll be somewhat flexible, but again, folks, given we have so many people who want to be heard and we want to hear everyone, please keep your remarks as succinct as possible. And so...
 And I also want to remind anyone who may be testifying today as a lobbyist must declare which lobbying entity that you're authorized to represent in accordance with Title II of our city's code. Carla, would you go ahead and kick us off, please? Okay. The first person is Julie Metz, and she'll be followed by David Sweeney.
 Good afternoon. I'm Julia Metz with Catholic Charities of Oregon. Today I'm also speaking on behalf of Housing Oregon's Portland Metro Policy Council, which you may recall consists of a diverse set of affordable housing organizations from across the Portland metro area. I'm here to express our support of Amendment 6, deeper affordability in full option. Our written testimony provides more detail, but I would like to highlight some of the positive impacts that this will have on our ability to provide affordable housing.
 While we acknowledge that the existing affordability bonuses as well as the proposed deeper affordability option do not require or inherently guarantee affordable housing as part of the residential infill project, we would like to emphasize the important role that these bonuses play in opening the door to an option that currently does not exist. As we have previously noted, increased density translates to serving more households with less subsidy and or serving households at lower incomes.
 An increase in FAR allowances in conjunction with an increase in number of units allowed also provides a path forward for providing more affordable family-sized units per lot, which we know are sorely needed across the city. The modest increase in height allowance with this amendment is also an important piece to providing affordable housing developers with the flexibility to design and develop housing that responds to the needs and preferences of the communities we serve.
 We look forward to ongoing dialogue about ways that we can work with the City Council to continue expanding affordable housing choices throughout the city, mitigating displacement that has occurred, and to be proactive in preventing future displacement. We are excited by the opportunities that will be provided through the Residential Info Project and the proposed amendment, but we know that there will continue to be ways to take the discussion even further, especially if we continue to break down silos between city bureaus and departments.
 On a personal but related note, I implore you to keep listening and truly hear the messages of protesters and the Black community and leaders. We can do better. We have to do better. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Next is David Sweet, followed by Nicole Johnson. Good afternoon, David. Good afternoon.
 And thank you to the Council for taking the time in this fraught period to hear this also important issue. And.
 I'm David Sweet, I represent the Cully Association of Neighbors and speaking for the entire Cully community. I wanna first thank Commissioner Udaele, Mayor Wheeler, the entire council and the infrastructure bureaus for abandoning the infrastructure amendment.
 It would have prevented development of moderately priced housing on about half of Cully's residential lots and led to more gentrification and displacement. And following that, thanks to Commissioner Udaly and the PBOT staff for moving quickly to expand the local transportation infrastructure charge to include all developments in single dwelling zones.
 Culling needs the LTIP to be expanded in order for us to realize the benefits of residential infill.
 We also want to encourage you to adopt the Deeper Affordability Bonus Amendment. This amendment was created in collaboration with affordable housing developers who have said they can and will use it. Most of Cully is zoned for single dwellings, and this amendment will allow affordable housing developers to compete for those lots and build more affordable housing in Cully.
 Inclusive Cully is our anti-displacement policy that we adopted over four years ago. The deeper affordability bonus amendment would help us address more than half the goals that we established in that policy. One of those goals reads, encourage city agencies to develop and implement strategies to prevent displacement. We want to encourage you to continue your work on anti-displacement strategies.
 We note that residential infill is a residential anti-displacement strategy. And the deeper affordability bonus amendment is also. But more can and should be done. And the Cully community looks forward to working with the city to develop and implement such strategies, preserving the diversity that makes Cully the special place that it is. Thank you. Thank you, David. We appreciate it. Thanks for your testimony.
 Next is Nicole Johnson, and she'll be followed by Tony Jordan. Good afternoon, Nicole. Hello. Hello.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Portland City Council. My name is Nicole Johnson. I am with 1000 Friends of Oregon and I just like would like to thank you for continuing your work on the residential infill project. And as you may know, 1000 Friends of Oregon seeks to create sustainable, vibrant, healthy and livable communities through smart land use and planning.
 Our mission is working with Oregonians to enhance our quality of life by building livable urban and rural communities, protecting family farms and forests and conserving natural areas.
 As an organization, we seek to support policy planning and advocacy that builds and improves Oregon State's land use planning goals. Within these goals, housing is addressed in Goal 10, which calls for adequate numbers of needed housing units at price ranges and rent levels, which are consumer rent with the financial capabilities of Oregon households and allows for flexibility of housing location type and density.
 And it's for these reasons that we support the passage of the Residential Info Project and its goals to create urban, livable communities.
 By June 30th, 2022, Portley needs to be in compliance with House Bill 2001, which requires cities to allow for duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes, and other types of workforce and missing mode of housing. We are pleased to see that the city is taking serious action to be in compliance. We support the city in creating comprehensive and consistent code language. We strongly support Amendment 6 and also recognize that this zoning code change does not ensure affordability in itself.
 But by aligning with the deeper affordability bonus found in the Better Housing by Design code change, we think this amendment moves the policy in the right direction.
 We strongly oppose Amendment 7. This amendment provides no benefit and further creates exclusionary, wealthy neighborhoods. All neighborhoods need to be open for affordable and diverse housing options. We don't support this amendment because it would potentially exclude wide swaths of some neighborhoods from these options, continuing the trend of unaffordable, single, detached dwellings.
 Again, we appreciate that you're working towards greater housing options for Portlanders while balancing trade-offs with existing development. With that said, we are currently in a housing crisis, and we need to act swiftly. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next is Tony Jordan, and he'll be followed by Ian McKenzie. Good afternoon, Tony. Tony, are you with us today? Okay.
 Yes, sorry. I had a technical issue. Good morning. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Tony Jordan, and I'm on the line to support the Residential Infill Project, and in particular, to ask you to support Amendment 6, the Deeper Affordability Amendment. There are some who will argue that the times are too uncertain right now to pass policy like RIP. I disagree. Given the lengthy public process...
 like six years we've undertaken, Cortland is lucky to have such a vetted and prepared policy ready to go. The housing RIP will allow is small enough in scale to be built during a recession. It's flexible enough to adapt to unforeseen changes in the future, and it will help to diversify and strengthen our communities by providing more homes of all types in all neighborhoods.
 Ending exclusionary zoning, which has descended from racist deed restrictions and redlining, is certainly no less important right now as the nation protests the long-standing injustices perpetrated on our Black neighbors, friends, family members, and fellow citizens, and as police brutalize protesters for simply demanding the recognition of the universal truth that Black lives matter.
 So I ask you to pass RIP, and in particular, to support Amendment 6, the Deeper Affordability Amendment. And I remind you that I, and many, many others, asked for a comprehensive anti-displacement strategy, including tenant opportunity to purchase at the last hearings. We would like to see a fast-track effort to develop TOPA and the other policies asked for. RIP is clearly not a standalone solution for our housing crisis, but it is an important foundation. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next is Ian McKenzie, and he will be followed by Doug Klotz. Good afternoon, Ian. My name is Ian McKenzie. I'd like to thank you all for taking the time to listen to testimony in this particular moment. I've supported the Residential Info Project for a long time, and I believe that you should pass it. I am particularly in support of Amendment No. 6, the Deeper Affordability Bonus. This amendment could only be used by developers, mostly non-developers, who are planning to build regulated affordable housing.
 If I came to you today with a proposal to ban affordable housing on 77% of the residential land in Portland, you'd probably be horrified.
 but that's what we've done in our zoning code. We can not only fix that, but with Amendment 6, give affordable housing providers a competitive advantage in securing land to build on. Changing our zoning code won't solve all the inequities that there are in housing, far from it. This council has taken some great actions, like the Fair Access and Mending Ordinance, and there are other actions yet to come. When those come before you, I plan to be there to support them. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Next is Doug Klotz, and he'll be followed by Tricia Patterson. Hello, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Doug Klotz. I appreciate your attention to this important measure, even in the middle of a national and international crisis. The residential infill project has been over five years in process. It will reduce displacement of low-income tenants in the city and also reduce market rate housing prices at no cost to the public.
 The Deeper Affordability Amendment, number six, sharply reduces the per-unit cost for developers who can then create below-market housing on any lot. Amendments one to four are necessary fixes. I oppose Amendment seven, which will result in luxury single-family houses instead of the needed smaller, cheaper units when those lots are developed. I also support the path chosen with the LTIC instead of Amendment five.
 The residential infill project reforms are only part of what the city needs to do. Please fund and implement a robust anti-displacement strategy led by community experts such as PAALF. Thanks to the staff, the PSC, and council for your support over these years, and I ask you to adopt the residential infill project and amendments 1 to 4 and amendment 6. Thank you. Thank you, Doug.
 Next is Tricia Patterson, followed by Heidi Hart. Good afternoon, Tricia. Hi. Hello. My name is Tricia Patterson, and I'm speaking on behalf of Portland.
 Portland Neighbors Welcome. Portland Neighbors Welcome is a grassroots pro-housing, pro-tenant organization. We are proud to testify as advocates for a holistic suite of policies that will address the housing crisis from multiple angles. So thank you, Council, for making the time for this issue amid this moment of national crisis.
 Portland Neighbors Welcome supports Amendments 1 through 4 and Amendment 6. We strongly oppose Amendment 5 as originally proposed, as well as Amendments 7 through 17. So we'll go quickly. Amendment 6, we enthusiastically support the Compromise Deeper Affordability Amendment
 bonus and urge its passage. It's great. It will facilitate building homes for many folks who don't qualify for Section 8, but also can't afford your typical market rate housing. It also allows for up to six much needed family sized homes on a typical lot, all while the proposed four area ratio that's significantly lower than what is currently allowed.
 On Amendment 5, we really applaud council's decision to just eliminate this amendment. It would have exacerbated displacement and exclusionary zoning by blocking your smaller, less expensive homes in both displacement risk areas like Cully and East Portland and affluent places like much of Southwest Portland.
 So we encourage efforts to find a long-term solution for sidewalk infill and shared street designs. In particular, we're open to raising LTIC fees as long as this doesn't end up primarily incentivizing more one and two unit structures, which are the most infrastructure inefficient housing types. On amendment seven,
 As we oppose it, as it would effectively block smaller, lower-cost homes while doing nothing to actually incentivize adaptive reuse of historic resources through internal conversion, and a major risk of this amendment is allowing a future council to potentially create new conservation districts as a way to preserve exclusivity.
 On the tabled amendments 8 through 17, we oppose these amendments. They are unreasonable, unworkable. They undermine the fundamental purpose of RIP and Council was right to table them way back in February. They should remain tabled. And finally, Portland Neighbors Welcome supports amendments 1 through 4 to ensure the code functions well and complies with state law. We also support moving swiftly on TOPA after RIP passes.
 By passing the residential infill with Amendments 1 through 4 and 6, we can renounce the racist pattern of exclusionary zoning that has shaped our city for decades and open up our neighborhoods to more Portlanders with abundant and less expensive housing options.
 Yet as important as the completion of this project is, more action is needed. A citywide anti-displacement strategy, new funding to fight homelessness and build deeply affordable homes, and zoning reforms to bring larger mixed income buildings to currently exclusive areas near transit and jobs. We really look forward to working together on these fronts in the future, and we thank you so much for working so hard to get this right. Thank you, Tricia. Thank you.
 Next is Heidi Hart followed by Stephen Judkins. Hello, Heidi. Hi, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Heidi Hart. Thank you for listening to testimony during this time of national crisis.
 The Deeper Affordability Amendment, Amendment 6, is great because it reduces the cost per unit for developers to create below-market housing in more areas. I also generally support the Residential Infill Project because it is projected to reduce displacement and reduce market-rate housing prices while costing nothing to the public. Finally, please continue working on further reforms, including an anti-displacement strategy led by community experts. Thank you.
 Next is Stephen Judkins, followed by Daniel Chandler-Klein. Thank you. Hi there. Thank you very much for making the time right now for this hearing. I wish I could say that Residential Infill Project would solve all the problems Portland is facing. I know it won't. I know this is a limited incremental step, but it's such a step in the right direction
 CNOS addressed our dual housing crises, the middle class being forced out and the loss of any affordable housing and the displacement of so many people from the city already in dire situation because of the pandemic. Addressing both of these in concert is what we need to do to move forward, build a coalition.
 With that, I think it's really important that we include Amendment 6 as part of this package, making sure that deeply affordable housing developers are getting an advantage here and able to see, develop housing that will help the most disadvantaged in the city. Yeah.
 Really optimistic to see us go down this path and not follow something like the Bay Area or San Francisco, where, you know, the city becomes basically a playground for the rich. Appreciate your time very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Stephen. Next is Daniel Chandler Klein, followed by Matt Kelly. Welcome, Daniel.
 Good afternoon. My name is Dan Chandler-Klein, and I'm here today to support the residential info proposal along with Amendment 6, the Deeper Affordability Bonus Amendment. In the summer of 2018, I started searching for a home in Portland to purchase. The vast majority of options available to me were single-family houses. Not only were these houses unaffordable to me, but they were also not the type of housing that I needed. After some extensive searching, I was able to find a garden apartment for sale in a 10-unit building. It was not only within my budget, but provided me with the type of housing that I needed.
 My home was built in 1947 before middle density was housing was banned in the majority of Portland.
 Because someone was able to build this type of multifamily, middle-density housing 73 years ago, I was not only able to purchase a home within the city of Portland, I was able to purchase a home that is close to work, bars and restaurants, grocery stores, and most importantly, public transit. Had this type of housing not been available to me, I would have ended up purchasing a home on the outskirts of the city, driving my car to work every day, adding to our already congested streets and freeways. Instead, I'd bike to work every day.
 While Amendment 6 would still not allow modest 10-unit buildings like mine, it strikes a good balance between increasing housing supply without changing neighborhoods too rapidly. It also allows other people to share in the wealth-building opportunity of homeownership, something that I have been so incredibly lucky to have achieved. I want everyone in Portland to have that same opportunity. I strongly encourage the Council to support Amendment 6, in addition to Amendments 1 through 4, and allow people to choose the type of housing that works best for them. I would also like to encourage the Council to oppose Amendment 7,
 It does nothing to stop or reduce demolitions and uses vague terminology such as historic to stop housing from being built in certain areas of the city. The housing crisis is a crisis that affects each and every one of us and it up to every person and every neighborhood to do its part in providing more housing. We will not fix this issue if we limit new housing to only certain neighborhoods. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next is Matt Kelly, followed by David Binning.
 Good afternoon, my name is Matt Kelly and I am a City of Portland employee, but the views I'm expressing today are my own and I prepared it in delivering this testimony outside of my work hours. I deeply appreciate your making the time for this important work right now and I really encourage you to support today's ordinance and the amendments that are supported by Portland Neighbors Welcome.
 The residential info project is carefully crafted policy. It involved a huge amount of public involvement and it's projected to reduce displacement and market rate housing costs at no cost to the public.
 I especially encourage you, like many others today, to support Amendment 6 to allow for deeper affordability. This amendment reduces the per-unit costs for developers to create low-market housing on any lot. And this is good because it allows for deeper affordability in neighborhoods across our city.
 As important as the residential infill project is, as many others have said, it's only one part of the solution to our housing problems. And among other things, we need to create a meaningful and funded anti-displacement strategy led by community experts. Thank you for supporting the residential infill project to increase housing opportunities in Portland. And thank you for continuing to work with community experts to ensure that everyone in our city has access to housing. Thank you. Thanks, Matt. Appreciate it.
 Next is David Benning followed by Brad Baker. Hi, David. That's it. Good. I'm David Benning. And I do want to thank all of you, the mayor and commissioners, for being here and for the years of work that have gone into this.
 I'm testifying to express my support for the residential infill project, and especially for Amendment 6, the deeper affordability bonus, which I know you've heard in previous testimony, affordable housing providers have been asking for so that they can make the best use of their resources at homes for people who need them.
 I really appreciate, Commissioners Udaly and Hardesty, the focus that you brought to keeping affordability and displacement at the foreground of this conversation. And I hope that you'll work with your colleagues on policies that affirmatively pursue those ends. Right now, I think the residential infill project is a necessary first step, really just in getting the city out of its own ways so that our zoning rules aren't actively shutting out more affordable homes. That's all I got to say today. Thanks for your time.
 Thanks, David. Next is Brad Baker followed by Aaron Brown. Brad, welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Brad Baker and I'm the Chair of Elliott Neighborhood Association's Land Use and Transportation Committee. I'd like to thank you for your continuing to work on the residential infill project and moving it forward. The Elliott Neighborhood Land Use and Transportation Committee has sent you many letters in support of RIP and we sent you one recently on the proposed amendments.
 Rather than read the whole letter, I'll just briefly summarize. We ask that you please oppose Amendment 5. We ask that you please support Amendment 6, the deeper affordability bonus. And finally, we ask that you please oppose Amendment 7. I particularly want to call out our opposition to Amendment 7, since our neighborhood contains the Elliott Conservation District.
 While the intention of the amendment is historic preservation, we worry that the amendment is misguided and the outcomes would not actually meet their intention, nor would they be beneficial for our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Next is Aaron Brown, followed by Donna Cohen. Good afternoon. Can folks hear me? Yes. Loud and clear, Aaron. Awesome. Good afternoon. My name is Aaron Brown. I am a renter living in the St. John's neighborhood of North Portland.
 There are clearly more pressing matters that the city needs to be addressing at this moment than reviewing a thoroughly researched and thoughtfully discussed zoning change for housing affordability and climate justice that has already received hours and hours of public testimony over the past five years. So I'll be very brief. Please vote in support of the residential infill project. Please support Amendment 6 in support of the deeper affordability bonus. Please aggressively move forward with the tenant protections proposed by other community organizations. Please oppose Amendment 7.
 And please allow me to live in a neighborhood with more neighbors. And finally, please stop using tear gas on peaceful protesters. Thank you. I yield my time. Thank you. Next is Donna Cohen, followed by Brian Derrick.
 Hi, I'm Donna Cohen from St. John's. Almost 17 years ago I was the beneficiary of the affordable housing program and it radically changed my life for the better. It allowed me to become a homeowner also. I fully support the deeper affordability amendment. It's also very important that we allow people of mixed incomes to live throughout the city. All neighborhoods should share in welcoming all residents.
 A while back I came to council during a general communications time to tell you about a reporter in Houston I heard on NPR. She was interviewing a woman about a plan for affordable housing in her middle class neighborhood. The woman said she didn't think those who would live in the housing would fit in her neighborhood and didn't want the housing there. About a minute later she talked about how she didn't understand those who say that everyone doesn't have the same opportunities.
 Let's not let people with those attitudes determine Portland's housing policy. The Deeper Affordability Amendment is a good start. Let's go further. The pandemic has only increased housing prices. We need to continue to find more sources of funding for affordable housing, rental assistance, and houseless programs. I do appreciate the efforts the city has made. Let's keep working to solve these issues. Thank you. Thank you, Donna. Next is Leon Porter, followed by James Offsink. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Leon Porter. I support RIP and its amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6. But please reject Amendment 7, which would prohibit development of small plexes or multiple ADUs on almost any lot where a historic resource was demolished in the past 10 years. The problem with this idea is that small plexes and ADUs are the main form of less expensive housing that RIP will allow.
 Since Portland's designated historic resources are disproportionately located in wealthy neighborhoods, Amendment 7 would make it especially hard to add less expensive housing in Portland's most exclusionary areas. The amendment wouldn't result in many old homes being preserved through internal conversion either, because state and city regulations make most internal conversions prohibitively difficult and expensive.
 It's puzzling that Amendment 7 would allow an older home to be demolished and replaced with a far more expensive new single-family home that only the rich could afford, but wouldn't allow that same older home to be replaced with housing for several families of middle or lower incomes. Amendment 7 would not preserve many historic resources.
 but would ensure that only the most exclusive homes are built to replace historic resources in the most exclusive neighborhoods. If our goal is historic preservation without economic exclusion, then it would make more sense to turn Amendment 7 on its head, prohibit new single-family homes on lots where historic resources have been demolished, but allow smallplexes with less expensive homes to be built on those lots instead.
 That's all. Thanks for your time. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next is James Offsink, followed by Mary Vogel. Hi, James. Hello. Thank you for Mayor Wheeler and members of the
 Thank you, Council, for hearing us today. I'm James Offsink. I'm involved in numerous civic organizations, but today I'm speaking in a personal capacity. I'm testifying in support of the residential infill project and encouraging you to go further and to see the future of the city as a compact and walkable place where there's housing affordable to all Portlanders at every income level and where everyone can live in a walkable and connected community.
 I'm a resident of southeast Portland. I've spent a lot of time here. When I ran for office in 2016, I knocked on thousands of doors and there's really something special about the neighborhoods where there was infill historically. If it's, you know, the garden apartment complexes or You know,
 buildings that have been older home Victorian or something divided into multiple units. You can really feel a deeper sense of community there and neighbors who know and love each other. I've also seen
 Within my own direct neighborhood, I live actually just off Division, and I love all the new influx of neighbors and businesses and thriving activity. I've also seen the darker side of our current code system, where several houses in my block, older homes that were smaller, were taken down, demolished, and then put up with much more expensive single-family homes on the same lot, thus displacing former neighbors, a
 getting rid of afforda- naturally affordable housing and replacing a neighborhood with older, wealthier, and whiter community members. Um, specifically with respect to the issues at hand today, I wanted to express my support for Amendments 1 through 4, um, which will create more housing at lower prices in neighborhoods across the city and welcome new neighbors, uh, to everywhere across, uh, our great city. I strongly support, uh, Amendment 6 and the deeper affordability,
 As others have said, I oppose Amendment 7, which would not lead to reuse, but instead to more expensive homes like we see already. I want to thank the Council for removing Amendment 5. And in summary, when I think ahead to the Portland of the future, to the legacy that's being created right here and now with these decisions.
 I think this project with the amendments as discussed takes important first steps towards creating the diverse, affordable and connected Portland of the future. So I thank you for your consideration and I hope that you'll pass it as amended.
 James, I'm sorry, I cut out here. Can you just quickly, which amendments, just number the ones you supported and the ones you did not? Sure. Support amendments one through four and six. Don't support amendment seven and thank the council for removing consideration of amendment five. Got it. Thank you. Appreciate it. We'll hear from Mary Vogel and then Michael Anderson. Hi, Mary. Hi, Mary.
 Hi Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Mary Vogel, principal of Plan Green and co-founder of Portland Small Developer Alliance. After the events of this week, I hope the amendments before you, as well as RIP itself, can play a small role in allaying some of the pent-up anger at a system that especially excludes Black Americans.
 In consideration of Denise McGriff's March 10th testimony about unequal impact of RIP on African American historic resources, we do not suggest eliminating Amendment 7, though we feel it has an enormous loophole. Could it instead apply only to the area that was part of the 1993 Albina Plan?
 This way, wealthy neighborhoods with historic designations won't be able to weasel out of providing more housing choice as those testifying against Amendment 7 fear. Now, if the goal is to encourage adaptive reuse of historic resources, the city needs to provide building code changes and appropriate incentives to ensure their success.
 In PSDA's February 13th testimony, Garland Woodsong had in-depth suggestions for regulatory changes. It covered building code classification, then such common items in the Oregon State Building Code as fire sprinklers, window openings, and insulation that make it very difficult and expensive to do internal conversion of existing homes.
 Portland City Code largely obstructs adaptive reuse of large single-family homes for group living as well. We are aware that city staff is already working to change some of these regulations at both the state and local level, and we hope we can coalesce folks to support the city's efforts in the building code change process as soon as you pass RIPA.
 Continued work on such changes, as well as incentives, will make it economically feasible to adapt and reuse historic homes at reduced costs without any sacrifices to safety or health.
 And we have commented on Amendment 6 in other testimonies on MAP-APP and orally as well. So I'm going to just leave it at this, you know, in terms of Amendment 7. Thank you, Mary. Appreciate it. Sure. Thank you. Next is Michael Anderson, followed by Robert Hemphill. Very good. Hi, Michael.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Thanks for taking time in this pivotal moment for attention to this structural issue. My name is Michael Anderson. I'm a Senior Researcher on Housing and Transportation for Sightline Institute, a sustainability think tank for the Pacific Northwest. We strongly support the Residential Infill Project, the Defector Bill Amendments, and the Deeper Affordability Amendment 6 for the many reasons others have specified and will be specifying. I want to share a little recent research on the pandemic.
 In thinking about this issue, it's useful to distinguish between residential density, that is homes per acre, and residential crowding, that is people per bedroom. The experiences of Taipei, Tokyo, and Seoul this year clearly show that homes per acre is not a primary indicator of infection risk.
 The publication Inside Housing, however, did recently publish an enlightening analysis of per capita COVID death rates. It showed a strong relationship between fatalities and the number of people per bedroom in a given home. This underscores what we know about the coronavirus. A huge share of infections occur indoors among members of the same household.
 There's reason to believe that multi-generational households are particularly vulnerable. According to Pew Research, American householders identifying as Asian, Black, and Hispanic are almost each, almost twice as likely as white Americans to live in multi-generational households. For people at risk in this pandemic, being able to afford a place of one's own or a room of one's own or just a room in which one is able to isolate to protect the life of a loved one means even more than it always does.
 This project and its amendments promise to make living space more affordable to more people in very slow motion. It will not affect this pandemic. Abundant, better distributed housing will, however, make us more resilient for the next pandemic as it will prepare us for so many other trials to come. Thank you. Thank you, Michael. Appreciate it. Next is Robert Hemphill, followed by Aidy Leverett.
 Good afternoon, councillors. My name is Robert Hemphill. I'm a renter in the Kearns neighborhood. And thank you for the opportunity to speak with you all today. I know that there's a lot calling for your attention right now. I'm here to reiterate my support for the residential infill project and to add to my testimony to that of Portland Neighbors Welcome and the Thousand Friends of Oregon in supporting the technical amendments, Amendment 6 and opposing Amendment 7. And they've well articulated why to support that.
 But stepping out of second, I just want to say that exclusive zoning has long been used for racial segregation purposes, like from its inception, from the initial Chinese Laundry Exclusion Act, right? And so while passing RIP is not going to right all of our wrongs in the system, it's a step forward in dismantling a racist housing system that is designed for exclusion.
 I'm going to be here to support future efforts to continue to dismantle these institutions that uphold white supremacy. And I want to urge you to do the same. And that includes things like a meaningful anti-displacement strategy that are led by the at-risk communities. Um, so, uh,
 RIP, it's carefully crafted. It's a long awaited reform. Things like Amendment 6 reflect the possibility of delivering real affordable units in our city at little cost to the public. And Amendment 7 jeopardizes the benefits to everyone and opening loopholes for future exclusion around our city. Thank you for your time. Thanks a lot, Robert. Next is Amy Leverett, followed by Nolan Leonhart. Amy. Amy.
 Hi, Commissioners. My name is Aidy Leverett, and I'm here on behalf of Business for Better Portland. I started writing this testimony three months ago when this hearing was originally scheduled. I don't think any of us could have imagined how extremely the world would change in such a short time. March feels like another dimension, and it's just starting to dawn on us now that we aren't ever going back to normal.
 But we know that's a good thing because our old normal is one in which safety, justice, and opportunity are benefits of privilege rather than universal rights. We refuse to go back to that normal to all of us. In this... Aidy, can you do me a favor? We're not hearing you. You're breaking up a little bit. Or is it just my computer? Is she breaking up to you guys? Aidy, can you turn up and your screen's off? Try again. Let's see if we can get better reception.
 Sorry, yeah, you were breaking up too. Is this better? Yeah, much. Thank you. Should I start over? Why don't you go ahead and start there? Start over. That's fine. I started writing this testimony three months ago when this hearing was originally scheduled. I don't think any of us could have imagined how extremely the world would change in such a short time. March feels like another dimension, and it's just starting to dawn on us that we aren't ever going back to normal.
 But we know that that's a good thing, because our old normal is one in which safety, justice, and opportunity are benefits of privilege rather than universal rights. We refuse to go back to that normal, and it's up to all of us to embrace our role in shaping the next normal. In this context, the question of how to amend the residential infill project seems pretty small. But by small, I don't mean inconsequential. I mean comparatively easy.
 Improving the policy to make it legal for more people to reasonably gain access to the amenities and opportunities of our city should be an easy decision to make. So while we're living in 2020, but somehow also 1919 and 1929 and 1968, let's not remain stuck in 1924 to 1959 when the exclusionary zoning policy whose intent and outcome was to discriminate against non-white Portlanders was established in the vast majority of our neighborhoods.
 So for the record, Business for a Better Portland applauds PVOP and BPS for working with the community to find a constructive solution to the infrastructure problem. We strongly support the deeper affordability bonus to help nonprofit developers provide more affordable housing for people who need it. Who are the people who need it?
 They are the so-called essential workers, nurses and grocery store managers, teachers and firefighters, restaurant staff. They are mechanics, estheticians, graphic designers, copywriters, bartenders, social workers, and artists. It's critical that all Portlanders continue to have housing options in all neighborhoods to avoid the negative impacts of displacement and sprawl.
 And as we all grapple with the historic nature of these times, I'm sure your jobs have never felt bigger. So thank you for taking the time today to take a small step toward making increased housing opportunities part of Portland's next normal. Thanks, Sadie. Appreciate it very much. Next is Nolan Leonhardt, followed by Cameron Harrington. Hey, Nolan. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Harvesty, and Commissioner E.U. Daly. I am grateful for the opportunity to reiterate my support for the Residential Infiltration Project.
 This effort represents an important transformation of our land use and housing policies to reduce displacement of low-income tenants and also reduce market rate housing prices. I support the comments made by Portland neighbors welcome in 1000 Friends of Oregon, but I also want to express particular support for the deeper affordability amendment to sharply reduce the per unit cost for developers to create low market housing on any lot.
 I also want to express my strong opposition to Amendment 7, which would continue to prioritize expensive housing at the expense of low-income housing and residents. I specifically reject the argument that we are somehow honoring the displaced African American community by erecting barriers to housing that most people in our community can afford. I hope that you'll move quickly to implement the residential infill project as the first of many steps that our city must take to improve access to housing and opportunity for all Portlanders. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, Nolan. Next is Cameron Harrington, followed by Ezra Hammer. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. I am a registered lobbyist with Living Cully. Also speaking on behalf of the Cully Housing Action Team, which is the grassroots community organizing group.
 that Living Cully supports, and we strongly support the Residential Infill Project and its goal of expanding access to affordable homes in Portland's single-dwelling zones. But for this code change to truly advance racial equity rather than simply adding housing supply, it must be accompanied by measures that are going to produce regulated, affordable homes and provide long-term stability for renters.
 Several such measures were outlined in written testimony from our organization, along with several allies, this past January. One of those suggested measures is being considered today, which is the deeper affordability amendment, which we strongly support.
 However, we also encourage Council to move forward with the other provisions that were suggested in January. These include specific ideas for incentives and subsidies that will facilitate the development of regulated affordable homes in single dwelling zones and ensure long-term stability for renters. On that last point, we're very proud to share our support for a tenant-led process to develop housing.
 a tenant opportunity to purchase policy for Portland. A top policy would give all renters, including those living in single dwelling zones, the right to receive advance notice if their homes will be sold or redeveloped and a pathway to purchase their own homes or decide for themselves if they would like to work with a non-profit partner to keep their home affordable for the long run. Tenants deserve more transparency and a right to collective decision making when it comes to the future of their homes
 And that needs to apply to renters in single dwelling zones. So we do support residential infill project. We strongly support the deeper affordability project.
 amendment and we look forward to working with you all over the coming months to center and prioritize the voices of Black, Indigenous, and people of color renters as we develop a tenant opportunity to purchase ordinance that will provide greater stability for renters citywide. Thank you. Thanks Cameron, appreciate it. I'm sorry Commissioner Fritz has her hand up.
 Thank you. I just wanted to respond to the previous testifier. First of all, thank you everybody for testifying. And in response to the testifier before last who greeted the Mayor, Commissioner Sardis, Jeannie Daly and not me, I just wanted to note that I'm part of the digital, well, I experience some of the digital divide. Although I have the privilege of a smartphone and a computer, I do not have audio or video.
 video capacity on my computer, but I'm watching that so that I can see the presentations and just want to let people know that I am paying attention. Thanks. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Is Ezra Hammer followed by Raymond Cunningham? Ezra, good afternoon. Ezra sent me an email. This is Sandra. He sent me an email saying he would like to testify the next time and next week. Okay, thank you. Okay.
 Then we'll go with Raymond Cunningham followed by Luke Norman. All right. Hello, everyone, and good afternoon, and thank you for the opportunity to speak before you all today, especially during this national crisis. I am here to testify in favor of the residential infill projects and Amendments 1 through 4 and Amendment 6. Amendment 6 will greatly help to reduce the per-unit cost for developers and create opportunities for below-market housing on all lots.
 Additionally, I hope you reject Amendment 7 as this will carve out several high opportunity neighborhoods from developing more affordable housing than an average Portland household can afford.
 Also, I hope you consider that while the residential infill project and these amendments might seem isolated from the reckoning our nation is facing today, they are not. This project will help address the demands protesters in our streets are making for our society to address institutional racism and inequality. Zoning has historically been used to exclude minority communities and help contribute to inequities that permeate all parts of our society.
 While this project is not the only policy our city will need to pass to correct these wrongs, it is a step in the right direction to dismantling our racist institutions that uphold white supremacy. I urge you all to approve the Residential Info Project, as well as Amendments 1 through 4 and 6, and then I strongly urge you to also reject Amendment 7. Thank you. Thanks a lot, Raymond. Next is Luke Norman, and he'll be followed by Chris Blackmore.
 Hello, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Luke Norman and I am an Irvington resident and a member of the Northeast Coalition of Neighborhood Board. I'm here to speak on their behalf. Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods strongly supports the residential infill project as it supports the 2035 comprehensive plan's vision to increase the amount of affordable housing across our neighborhoods.
 Regarding the amendments that are before councilor day, we support amendment number six, which will allow the creation of affordable housing with six plexes. If with half of those units affordable to residents earning 6% of the area media income.
 We think this would be a great pilot opportunity for the affordable housing bonds that have recently been passed in Portland and by Metro, a great way of encouraging nonprofit developers to support this work. We also encourage Council not to stop here, but to continue with the implementation of the Anti-Displacement Action Plan. This is important to protect our existing low-income residents.
 and we'd like Council to look at multiple innovative opportunities, including ways to support the right to remain for residents in our neighborhoods. We believe that with RIP, it's a great and important first step to ensure residents of all income levels and family sizes are welcomed across our Northeast neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you, appreciate it.
 Next is Chris Blackmore followed by Anna Kemper. Good afternoon Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Chris Blackmore. I appreciate you taking the time to hear public comment on a zoning issue during this historic national moment. With that in mind, I will be brief.
 Single-family zoning is racist and exclusionary. This is a good time to get rid of it. The residential infill project isn't the solution to the crisis of affordability and racial exclusion facing our housing system, but it is one structural step we can take right now. I support amendments 1 through 4 as well as 6, the deeper affordability bonus. I oppose amendment 7. I ask that the council pass RIP and continue this vital work on housing with local community leaders to develop robust anti-displacement policy. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks, Chris. Next is Anna Kemper, and it'll be followed by Anna Aziz Kahani. Hi there, Council Members. I'm Anna Kemper. I'm speaking today on behalf of Sunrise PBX. We're a youth climate justice movement with hubs around the country, and my comments today come from both a climate as well as a racial justice perspective.
 Oregon's housing policy has an incredibly racist past with a history of redlining and gentrification. Continued gentrification has pushed Black and Brown communities out of the center parts of Portland to the far ends of the city. And in light of the recent protests in response to the murder of George Floyd, we have got to recognize racism and inequities when we discuss housing policy improvements.
 Overall, the residential infill project is a well-crafted and long-awaited reform which should help reduce the displacement of marginalized communities in Portland while also reducing our city's carbon emissions.
 Creating dense, walkable, and affordable neighborhoods makes our city safer and more equitable and overall healthier for everyone. Sunrise is strongly in favor of amendments 1 through 4 and especially 6, the deeper affordability bonus, but we cannot stop there. We need community-led anti-displacement strategies. We need justice for Black and Brown community members who have been systemically displaced in this city.
 Thanks for your time today and I hope we can wrap up this meeting quickly so that our city can spend more time on addressing the police brutality we experience here. Thank you, Anna. Next is Anna Aziz Kahani, followed by John Liu. Hi. Can you hear me? Okay. Loud and clear. Thanks. Hi, I'm Anna Aziz Kahani. I'm an immigrant, small business owner, lower middle class, homeowner in the Creston-Kennelworth neighborhood just south of Powell.
 I want to just start by thanking Commissioner Hardesty on her comments today about the excessive police violence and the tear gas against protesters. As a peaceful protester, I am disappointed that there hasn't been a stronger, clearer, unified message among our city's leadership addressing this issue. And everything that needs to happen within the Portland Police Bureau.
 At first I didn't want to address RIP during this time of civil unrest, but after thinking about it, it is the perfect time because RIP is racist classes policy in disguise. I disagree that RIP is the anti-displacement strategy and I disagree that single-family housing zoning is racist. I definitely understand that it has been in the past, but
 The way that RIP is written right now, it's going to continue that racist policy. RIP will destroy communities of color. Developers will come in, buy the last of all the affordable homes, and replace them with expensive duplexes, triplexes, and more. Smaller does not mean that it's going to be more affordable. In my neighborhood, single-family homes are being torn down and multi-units are being put up and they're empty because they're not affordable.
 We need amendments that are going to deter the demolition of sound, stable, and affordable housing. That is what will deter displacement. The RIP displacement study that was done was flawed because it did not take into account any induced displacement, which looks at the effects of upzoning and gentrification. And that is what has the racist and classist implications. Also, RIP will encourage corporate ownership of Portland's real estate.
 Communities of color need to be encouraged to buy property. That is how we create generational wealth. Who's going to own a quarter of a quadplex? Nobody. A corporate or out-of-state owner will own the entire quadplex, and that will perpetuate the cycle of keeping people as renters.
 RIP will also again tell communities of color and lower income neighborhoods that we are not good enough to have a church tree canopy in yards and that only rich neighborhoods can have those things. None of the amendments address any of these things.
 The real problem is not shortage of housing. We have thousands of empty units here in Portland. The real problem is not shortage of the land. The 2035 plan allots for over 200,000 new units. The real problem is housing affordability. And the cause of that housing affordability crisis is a global trend of private equity firms that buy up residential real estate everywhere.
 RIP, as it is right now, will make it more attractive for them to do that here in Portland. So it'll add to the problem and at the same time displace our vulnerable black, brown, lower income and elderly communities. Isn't it interesting that Andre Bao, the only black man on the Planning and Sustainability Commission, voted against RIP because he thought it would destroy the communities of color? He said it was racist policy. I urge you guys to listen to him and not sell our city out to white, rich developers.
 Thank you. Thank you, Anna. Next is John Liu, followed by Brooke Best. Okay, I'm muted. Can you hear me? Yeah, loud and clear, John. Okay, sorry for my little bobble there. No worries. So everybody knows in a pandemic, we're in an economic depression. And I'm going to follow on with what Anna said. This is the worst possible time when you would want to accelerate displacement by encouraging the demolition of natural affordable housing to build expensive housing.
 So we're basically in for a repeat of 2008, 2009, but much, much worse. Right. We know what happened then. People struggle to pay their mortgages. They struggle to pay their rent. They get evicted. Speculators and developers grab that property. They redevelop it with expensive housing or it goes into enormous national portfolios of rental housing. And they brag about being raised rents by 7 percent year over year.
 And those people who are evicted are usually lower income, often communities of color, and they never, ever get to come back. So RIP will just accelerate that. What RIP does is it makes property more valuable, right? The more development rights you have, the more valuable the property is. So that gives people an incentive to get rid of the existing occupants and sell and redevelop. So in the history of RIP, I and many others have asked council to fix this, not to reject RIP.
 Okay, not to reject density, but to fix RIP by requiring that in all RIP development, one unit at least be affordable, whether it's a duplex on up. Okay, so the council has rejected that. So RIP continues to permit the $1 million duplex units and the $600,000 quadplex units. We also asked council to slow RIP down until there's an actual effective and well-funded anti-displacement plan.
 So Council's rejected that as well. There is still no anti-displacement plan and the huge hole blown in our city budget, well over $100 million and counting, means that there will be no funding for a really effective anti-displacement plan in the next couple years. There just won't be the money. And during this time period, Portland will be at the mercy of the developers.
 So the response we've always gotten, both from council staff and from the Bureau, is, and I'm doing some air quotes here, you're wrong, RIP will benefit low-income families, and it will reduce displacement, and it will reduce gentrification. So the last thing we did was we met with Commissioner Udaly's office, and we asked for another amendment. We said, look, can you ask the city to at least carefully monitor and publicly report the effects that RIP has over the coming years?
 Right? Accurately track what gets demolished, what gets built, the price and size of each, and try to assess the demographics of the people who are displaced versus the people who get to benefit. That request has also not received action. So as what is probably going to be my final attempt to not reject RIP but fix RIP, I would ask someone in the council to bring forward what I'm calling a monitor and report amendment.
 The idea is in several years, we can all come back with real data to show, hey, how well has RIP worked, right? Were people like John and Anna right or were other people right? And if it turns out that things need to be fixed with RIP, we'll have the data to do it. Because right now what's going to happen is we're going to come back in 10 years and we're going to say, oh, my gosh, Portland has been gentrified even worse. There are even fewer communities of color here.
 What can we, what did RIP do? And the Bureau will say, well, we don't really have the data. We'll study it for another 10 years. And by then it'll be too late. All right. Thank you. And just a note on that. The Council did not reject the mandatory affordable housing unit as part of a fourplex. What happened there was the state prohibits a local jurisdiction from requiring this. So it wasn't about intent. Commissioner Hardesty?
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say that I know my, I speak for myself, I have no intentions of waiting 10 years to see the effect of RIP. We as a council have the opportunity every year to have updates on what's working and what isn't and to change it as we move forward. It is my belief that once we have completed this long multi-year process,
 we will put in place a system so that we are annually getting reports on what's working and what isn't so do not feel like just because you don't see an amendment that we aren't interested in tracking and making sure that we are getting exactly what we want to get out of it thank you so much for your testimony
 And Commissioner, you daily would like to speak as well. Yeah, thank you, Mayor. This is a conversation that I have had with BPS. I've repeatedly expressed my concerns that despite their best intentions, that we may not see the type of housing that we're hoping to generate, the numbers we're hoping to generate, and that I want an annual report. So, yeah.
 There may be an amendment forthcoming. I haven't lost sight of that. And I've worked very closely with community advocates to advance anti-displacement measures. And I've never backed away from that. So thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Next individual, Carla. Next is Brooke Best, followed by Susan Lindsay. Thank you.
 Okay, can you hear me all right? Yep. Okay. My name is Brooke Best, and I'm a member of the Architectural Heritage Center's Advocacy Committee. I want to thank you all for your hard work navigating RIP now in its final stage for public comment. I did submit written testimony on the Deeper Affordability Bonus Amendment, so I'm going to focus on the Historic Resources Amendment now.
 So we strongly support this amendment that disincentivizes demolition for sites with historic buildings, and it's parallel to the one adopted for multi-dwelling zones and the better housing by design, and it's also consistent with the COMP plan's policy 4.17.
 As proposed, it only applies to designated contributing buildings within historic or conservation districts. It doesn't apply to all the majority of ranked resources, those that have been designated as significant in the historic resource inventory, but they're not landmarks or located in any districts. And on a personal note, I support very strongly the comments presented by both onlookers
 Anna and John of PCHR, of which I'm also a member, and I strongly support the request for a monitor and report amendment. I share their sentiments about RIP and appreciate their eloquence on the nuances and unintended consequences of RIP, which will impact Portland's livability while having no measurable impact on affordability, housing for families,
 Thank you again for this opportunity during these very challenging times. We're taking on a really, really complicated subject, and I think you guys have done a terrific job. Thank you, Brooke. That's appreciated. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you Mayor, thank you for your testimony Brooke. I just wanted to remind everyone, you alluded to the better housing by design restriction and in that project we decided that we were going to have more work done on historic inventory and coming to Council. The challenge with both that and
 but both Amendment 7 and with the monitoring is that once you've given, you can't take away without paying for it. That then becomes a taking under land use law. So it would be better in my mind to move slowly where we have some questions, because once it's done, it's done. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Next individual, Carla. Is Susan Lindsay followed by Eric Lindsay?
 Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Zudehli, Fritz, and Hardesty. I'm Susan Lindsay and I've come to talk to you on this subject several times before. I have two words to say, West Hills. It's very interesting to me to hear so many speakers talk about the need to get the residential rental project in place and going in order to bust up the privileges.
 within the city of Portland in terms of housing and yet to look at that map app and see again continued such large swaths of the West Hills historically the power wealth and influence of the city of Portland excluded from the
 the residential infill project and even the properties that are the many of the R7s that might be eligible are also excluded because maybe a small portion of them falls under a natural resource zone or overlay. So I am discouraged by this because I believe that so many people who are not from Portland and I am from Portland
 do not really know the history of where the power base of the city of Portland is. And it is not out all over the East side that is going to be subject to the changes that will take place from this project.
 that many of which I believe strongly, many affordable properties will be torn down, will be replaced with unaffordable rentals or plexes. And that what we will see is displacement. We will see loss of opportunity for people of lower means to be able to stay in the city of Portland or to be ever to be able to afford a home. And at the same time,
 The West Hills and their single family homes on their R10 properties or their R7s with small natural resource overlays will be protected from this density, even though they are close in, close to amenities, have the best schools, best test scores, lowest crime, closest to the city of Portland, to the central city core, and yet unprotected.
 were written out of that. If this isn't racist policy being continued, I don't know what it is. I've come before you guys. I went before the Planning Commission. I've brought this up endlessly, and I get nowhere with it, but I'm bringing it up again, and thank you for listening. Thank you. We appreciate it, Susan. Next is Eric Lindsay, followed by Paul Frazier.
 Hello. Hey, my name is Eric Lindsay and I want to say thank you to council and staff for the really hard work of crafting the residential infill project. And I also want to thank you for taking the time in the midst of both a pandemic and really important calls for justice that are ringing out in Portland and across the country. I am speaking to urge you to pass the RIP.
 Unlike a lot of people and maybe not very popularly, I am a builder, a developer, and a real estate asset manager. And one of the things that's particularly important to me is amendment number six, the deeper affordability amendment. As I know firsthand how important it is to reduce per unit development costs for new affordable housing. I also strongly oppose number seven for reasons that others have already elucidated.
 One more thing I wanted to mention is that obviously RIP is not the last thing that's needed. It's just one step along the way. After the passage of RIP, I really hope that the city will turn to meaningful anti-displacement policies that have both teeth and funding. As a landlord and asset manager, I often see ways in which renters are never given the opportunity to gain more control or ownership over their homes.
 And I really want to encourage the city to move with deliberate speed to enact a tenant opportunity to purchase, such as that is being proposed by community groups like Living Cully. Thank you so much for your time and thank you so much for the excellent work that you guys are doing. Thank you. We appreciate it very much, Eric. We have Paul Frazier and they'll be followed by Neon Brooks. Hi, Paul.
 Hello, thank you to the mayor and to the commissioners. My name is Paul Frazier. The residential infill project is a carefully crafted long-awaited reform project. It is a start and only a start. Please do not stop here. These reforms are only part of what the city must do, including a meaningful and funded anti-displacement strategy led by community experts.
 I support one through four, six, and reject seven, which would create more division and confusion. Historic housing is a made-up idea. If we honored historic housing, there would be no houses, just trees for the birds and the deer. Deeper affordability is key. Make it as incentivized as possible and be open to making it even better. I'm the water can guy. Can't see me. Okay.
 It's like buying cans of sparkling water. When I'm offered an incentive, I buy two cases, three cases, four, even six cases to my wife's chagrin. Without an incentive, I only buy one. We can use incentives to get affordable housing.
 We need more housing than ever to house our neighbors, and we need more tax revenue more than ever. Perhaps we could use some of that tax revenue to fund our body camera program, or perhaps just take some from the tear gas and flash bang budget, which made me cry on Sunday, and I could see a cloud coming to the square last night with flash bangs interrupting the speakers. Don't be afraid of quadplexes.
 On a corner lot near me, four families can now live where one house used to stand. It creates more total units. We need them. Get creative to fund body cameras. Black lives matter and the police keep lines, so we need the tape. Every day we wait, more single-family homes get built. The status quo allows for one-to-one demolitions. With RIP, we create more units instead of just getting larger houses.
 Thank you to Commissioner Fritz for your many years of service. I truly mean that. And I love your visibility in the public and marching in parades. It's an inspiration.
 I've listened to your comments and I'd like you to ask for solutions instead of problems. It's been a while since the last conversation, but your concerns about sewer pipes and charging electric cars stuck with me. We can build more pipes if needed and the city has already shown the ability to put chargers curbside. And ideally, we won't even have more cars if we're hitting our city's climate goals. So if possible, can we engage in a dialogue? Why are you still opposed to this and how can we get you on board? I yield my time.
 Thanks, Paul, for your perspective. Commissioner Fritz? I've offered solutions and they haven't been accepted, so that's why I'm still very concerned about this. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Next is Neon Brooks, followed by Charlie Burr.
 Hi there. Thanks to the last speaker. I'm going to agree with a lot of what you said. My testimony is less polished because of everything that is going on. I am. My name is Neon Brooks. I'm currently a member at large of the Grant Park Neighborhood Association, but I'm not representing them here. I'm representing myself. I grew up in inner northeast Portland, mostly at the Concordia and King neighborhoods.
 And I just, you know, watching those neighborhoods transform and become so unaffordable over time, you know, I feel like I'm seeing opportunities denied to children such as me in future generations. And now in Grand Park neighborhood, we desperately need more diversity, more affordability, so that these neighborhoods are available and accessible to a full range of people.
 people. I think all neighborhoods benefit from having mixed affordability and incomes and people, you know, and also not just, you know, having single people living in this neighborhood, having, you know, teachers be able to form homes in this
 neighborhood and so forth. Not to mention the climate benefits of higher density housing, especially close in where transit and biking accessible. So I strongly am in favor of finally passing RIP, strongly in favor of the deeper affordability amendment, continuing to work on this issue because this is not a silver bullet. There's a lot more that needs to be done. And also banning tear gas. Thank you very much. Thank you for your perspective, Neon. Appreciate it. Absolutely.
 Next is Charlie Burr, followed by Nick Burry. Good afternoon, Charlie. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. My name is Charlie Burr. I live in the King neighborhood, and I'm here with my daughter, Maranie. This is today's civics class. So Maranie is a Tubman sixth grader, and we are here to welcome her.
 strongly endorse RIP and specifically the deeper affordability bonus amendment. Mary is also going to be my timekeeper, so I will keep it short and sweet. This is an important step to stabilize costs, to have a good policy for Portland's environment that will lower per capita energy usage
 and we'll just make it easier to have affordable places close to transit. Finally, this is going to lead to good neighborhood design. We are strongly in favor of it. We appreciate all of the work that has gone into it, thousands and thousands of hours, so please pass it. And yes on Amendment 6. Also opposed to Amendment 7 that moves us in the wrong direction.
 I also appreciate the previous comments made by Andrea Durbin about density and coronavirus. Meredith and I are right now in our guest house, ADU, and although it wasn't the original intent of the structure, we were able to lend our current ADU out to a local doctor who needed to self-quarantine for the past month and a half or so.
 having more housing choices can be an important part of our community's resilience. So thank you for the work you've done to get us this far. And this is certainly part of an ongoing effort, but I appreciate the significance of it. Mary, do you want to add anything? Let's keep Portland accessible to everyone. All right. Good job. Thank you very much. Thank you, Charlie. Mary, and thank you both. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Charlie. I want to ask your daughter. What grade are you in? I'm in sixth grade. In sixth grade. And do you have a diversity of students in your class? Yes. Since Tubman was built, it was originally founded in like the 1900s, but it's been rebuilt and there's a huge diversity of students. Okay.
 And do you enjoy going to a school that's really diverse with people from all over the world? Yes, I get to learn about all different cultures. And it's way better than my old school, Saban, which only had a handful of African Americans and Latinas. And it was basically just like mostly white. So Tubman is way better than San Francisco.
 And I know that your dad did an excellent job of teaching you about RIP and what the impacts of RIP will be in your neighborhood, because I know your daddy and your daddy's daddy. Go ahead, Charlie.
 Well, I just want to say briefly, thank God for all the teachers out there because this stuff has been really hard. So here's to keeping it affordable for all the teachers so they can live in this neighborhood.
 Well, I just want to appreciate you bringing your daughter and having her see our democracy and work, even if it is virtually. It's an opportunity. We're always pleased to have young people participate in our city council meetings. So thank you both and enjoy the rest of your sunny day. Thanks so much. Thank you. Thank you both. Appreciate it. Thank you, Commissioner. Next is Charlie Burr, followed by Charlie Gisbert.
 I'm sorry, Mayor, what was that? Charlie just spoke. Oh, I'm sorry. Next is Nick Burry, followed by Kua Jiang. Very good. Nick, welcome. Hey, Commissioners. My name is Nick Burry. I'm an organizer with Sunrise PDX. There are a lot of issues we need to be discussing right now, chief among them being the brutal policing tactics we're witnessing here every night.
 But RIP needs attention as well. We already know that densifying our housing stock is one of many essential tools for fighting the climate crisis. That's why Sunrise PDX is here to support the Residential Info Project and the amendments recommended by Portland Neighbors Welcome. RIP is a crucial foundational step in undoing some of the harms of Portland's racist housing codes, adding much needed density to our metro area, increasing affordability to address our housing crisis and combating the climate catastrophe.
 To that end, we need to pass Amendments 1 through 4, and we need to ensure Amendments 5, 7, and 8 through 17 remain out of the final project.
 Most importantly, though, we need to make sure Amendment 6, the Deeper Affordability Bonus, gets passed. We need to ensure that the solutions we implement to fight the climate and housing crises are equitable and don't leave out marginalized communities. Amendment 6 brings us closer to that goal by ensuring that the dense housing built as a result of this project isn't just a luxury housing giveaway to developers, but is available to folks in the middle unaffordability zone. All that said, passing this project, even in the best possible condition, is not enough.
 We need to use this momentum to surge forward on anti-displacement policies, building more deeply affordable homes, allowing mixed income buildings, and adopting strong funding and zoning reforms to fight homelessness. RIP is a great step, but it needs to be the first of many. Stop tear-gassing peaceful protesters. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Next is Kua Jiang, followed by Tamara DeRitter. Looks like we'll go with Tamara DeRitter, followed by Andrew Goodell.
 Tamara, are you on board? I am now. Thank you. Welcome. Okay. Thank you for having me. My name is Tamara DeRutter. I'm Actually testifying on behalf of the Grove City Park and Neighborhood Association tonight and I wanted to say that we virtually met yesterday and reaffirmed our letter of March 4th and added an addendum. The March 4th letter includes a post
 the city council proposed amendments and that were dated in February. We have not had a chance to meet since then. Supporting the findings and conclusions contained in this letter that document the failure of the RIP to comply with the policies and growth concepts in the 2035 comprehensive plan. Those include allowing four to six units on a typical R5 lot that is 50 by 100, subverts the single dwelling policies.
 allowing multifamily dwellings to be constructed on the same beyond walking distance. The high frequency transit fails to support the TSP and the plan growth concepts. We request that the City Council remand the RIP back to the Planning Sustainability Commission to correct these errors. The addendum says if RIP is implemented,
 then let's make it truly a measure for affordable housing and equitable housing. The board agrees at this time that the 80 MFI, that's median family income housing that is to be provided with all these new dwellings be actually 60 MFI.
 And that is because during the time of COVID, we have seen enormous gut punch to our economy, as well as people's incomes. And we need to address, create the most housing for the greatest need in our community. If the City Council chooses to proceed with RIP, please, please update your economic reports, place the multifamily dwelling units along quarters and centers, and make all new units available at 60 MFI.
 Thank you so much. Thank you. And Carl, I noticed in the chat, so I was having troubles unmuting, so maybe a phone call and we could... You'll try to get back on and then we'll get her re-numbered. Okay, I appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Next is Andrew Goodell followed by Tim Davis. Hi, Andrew. Hi. Good afternoon.
 Mayor and commissioners, can you hear me? Yep. Okay, thanks for your time, especially now. I'm Andy Goodell. I live and work in Northeast Portland. I'll be brief. I support the Residential Infill Project and the proposed amendments 1 through 4 and 6, and I'm against 7. I believe in housing as a human right, and I think that Portland, as a progressive city, can and should end exclusionary zoning and legalize abundant housing.
 Amendment 6 in particular, the deeper affordability bonus would probably go a long way towards this, as we've heard from these housing nonprofits. Anyway, the best time to build small plexes, duplexes, and little a affordable housing throughout Portland was 30 years ago, 40 years ago, but we didn't do it.
 And so, you know, these things aren't, we're not going to catch up overnight. But I think that this RIP would be an important step in that direction. Again, thank you for your time. Thank you very much, Andrew. Appreciate your perspective. It looks like we have Kua Jiang on.
 online now so we'll go with her then followed by tim davis great and carl after this could we get a check just to make sure between this session and the next one we think we're on track given that we have a hard out five today okay
 Hello, this is Kua. Can everybody hear me? Yes, Kua. Thank you very much. Sorry about the technical difficulties. No, my apologies. Thank you. My name is Kua Zhang. I am here on behalf of the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, or PANO, to express our support for using the residential infill project as one way to establish new truly affordable housing in Portland.
 I want to echo the ask from our partners today, including Living Cully and Community Alliance of Tenants. If not today, I believe they will be testifying next meeting. First, I want to thank you for making time for this meeting and acknowledge that anti-Blackness has permeated every system in this country, including housing. And we must center Black lives in this work and continue to work alongside the Black community.
 APANO has long prioritized inclusive neighborhoods and prevented displacement through community development advocacy and tenant organizing in the J district.
 In the J district, we have a large number of renters who live with multi-generational families. The residential infill project is one way to begin offering more affordable housing for multi-generational families without pricing them out of their own neighborhoods. With discussions in our communities, their housing needs require a neighborhood design that allows for density and a pathway to truly affordable housing.
 We also want to uplift in adding components of the tenant opportunity to purchase and write a first refusal to ensure that struggling low-income renters can have a pathway towards a better life. In 2016, when low-income residents of Douglas Square and the Jid District were at risk for being priced out of their homes, we quickly organized with tenants who were...
 largely Chinese immigrant families, to ensure they were not displaced. If tenant opportunities to purchase and write our first refusal policies were in place, we could have gone beyond preventing displacement and actually created a new asset for our community by creating long-term affordable housing. We ask that the Council supports a tenant-led initiative to develop a tenant opportunity to purchase policy.
 Everyone is worthy of a stable, healthy home. I ask that you please support measures within RIP that will create sustainable, affordable housing. Thank you for listening and your efforts to continue helping low-income Portlanders have opportunities to be the most vulnerable throughout the city. Thank you. Thanks, Koo. Appreciate it. After Tim Davis, I show about 25 more people on the line. All right, good. We'll definitely...
 get through it in our two sessions. Thank you. Okay, so next is Tim Davis, and they'll be followed by Sam Stuckey. Hi Tim. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, and the rest of City Council and everyone. This is Tim Davis, and for decades, official housing policy has been incredibly destructive to the planet, to equity, and to racial justice.
 It's time to make massive changes, and passing RIP is a small but crucial first step. The police are on everyone's minds right now, and there are striking parallels with housing and zoning. The police system itself was created to protect the rich in the wage labor form of capitalism and particularly to control the working class and the poor,
 rather than to serve and protect. Similarly, our land use, transportation, and exclusionary housing system has literally systematically divided people by race, class, and privilege for decades, and RIP will at least rip out a tiny sliver of this exclusion and reduce racism. Regarding the amendments,
 I support amendments one through four and I'm extremely excited about amendment six. Thank you so much Commissioner you daily and others for for this. It just warms my heart. Oh my gosh. Thank you so much. I
 And I oppose Amendment 7, which has good aspirations, but it will only increase the rich-poor divide by exempting already wealthy neighborhoods from allowing missing middle housing. Plus, our city code makes repurposing large single-family homes into subdivided apartments nearly impossible. And regarding demolition and displacement, again,
 RIP began, of course, over concerns about small homes being demolished and replaced by much larger single-family homes. And let's not forget that...
 All non-subsidized new housing, again, non-subsidized new housing, including duplexes and triplexes, are of course incredibly expensive for many reasons. So arguments about affordability are a little bit ridiculous in this case. RIP is anticipated to reduce demolitions by 28% citywide.
 Every day that RIP is not passed, more Portlanders are displaced than otherwise would be. Plus, opponents, they always talk about, you know, displacement and affordability. But what about the people who do not live in expensive, close-in neighborhoods and who want to live there and have wanted to for decades for many reasons? Close to work, walkable, eco-friendly, lots of amenities. They are already the displaced ones. Thank you very much. Thank you, Tim. Next is Sam Stuckey, followed by Henry Kramer. Hi, Sam.
 Hi, thank you Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners for taking the time to hear us. Also thank you to everyone else who's chimed in today to share their testimony. I know many of us have our minds elsewhere right now. I just wanted to say that I support the passage of the residential infill project. I look forward to seeing greater diversity throughout all of our neighborhoods and I know that allowing a greater diversity of housing options is just the first step and we cannot wait any longer
 With that in mind, I hope you give great consideration to Amendment 6 as deeper affordability means greater opportunity for that diversity to reach further into all areas of the city. I can't imagine a greater legacy for members of this city council to leave behind. That is all I have today. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Next is Henry Kramer, followed by Janara Ramirez. Hi, Henry. Hey there. Mayor Wheeler, city commissioners, my name is Henry Kramer. I'm a homeowner in the King neighborhood of Northeast Portland, and I'm an organizer with Portland Neighbors Welcome, but speaking only for myself. First off, I wanted to thank you for taking the time to listen to testimony during this moment where I know I'm not the only person who's finding it almost impossible to focus on anything other than police brutality.
 I'm asking you to take the humble step toward dismantling exclusionary zoning and residential segregation by enacting the Residential Infill Project. With the proposed technical amendments 1 through 4 and the deep affordability bonus 6, Amendment 6, I also want to ask you to reject the counterproductive Conservation District carve-out Amendment 7, as well as Tabled Amendment 5 and Tabled Amendments 8 through 17.
 Even with the vital adoption of Amendments 1 through 4 and 6, Residential Infill Project on its own is just one small step toward building a more just city, but it's a necessary step. We have big things to do in this city. Reigning in an out-of-control police force, building a climate-resilient city, providing stable housing to all people experiencing homelessness, preventing and repairing the displacement of communities of color and low-income communities. I think we would all love to turn our focus to that.
 We have a state mandate to act on this. And we've spent six years mulling over this question. There are first graders going to school up the street from my house who weren't born yet when we started working on this. We have reached a humble, moderate answer that any reasonable person can support. You're at the one yard line here. It's time to move on it and move forward. Thank you very much for your time. Please adopt residential info as soon as possible. I yield the rest of my time. Thank you.
 Next is Janara Ramirez, followed by Diane Lynn. Welcome Janara. Thank you Mayor and city council members for allowing testimony.
 As the person said, my name is Jenaida Ramirez and I am a renter in Northeast Portland and I'm here to support the residential intro project and especially in support of Amendment 6, the deeper affordability bonus. As this amendment incentivizes affordable and smaller, more multifamily units, which is a strategy that is culturally relevant to communities of color and allows Portland housing options to be more accessible to our diverse population.
 As many have said before me, this is only one of the many steps our city needs to ensure housing stability. As a renter, I personally see housing stability to not only mean affordability. Housing stability to me speaks to residents' capacity to mitigate change in their lives, like losing a job or losing a job in your regular life, but also losing a job in the middle of a pandemic. And
 other life occurrences that might cause a family to be displaced out of their neighborhood or displaced out of the city. Housing stability speaks to their ability to remain in place and that's just to be able to afford
 that house or that unit depending on their job. And I fear that the number of people who are displaced out of the city will rise as many of the low income renters are facing severe financial hardships during this time. The amendments submitted by ADPDX, the Anti-Displacement Coalition in January speaks to actions that can allow renters to be more stable in their housing and have more options.
 to some extent work towards ownership, like the suggested rent to stay suggestion and the tenant opportunity to purchase.
 Housing stability helps everyone mitigate uncertainty better and it allows us to create more resilient neighborhoods where families, low income renters and folks with mixed income can all live together. And I look forward, like I said before, this is only one step in order to address our affordable housing crisis, not that we're having just a housing crisis, we are having a crisis of affordability in our city and many cities across the country.
 the state and I look forward to work that comes out of the City Council member, I mean out of the Council, to move forward and provide better pathways to home ownership for low-income renters and medium-income renters as well as other tenant protections for renters who do not see ownership as their next step right now. Thank you. Thank you. Next is Diane Lin followed by Rowena Paz Norman. Hi, Diane.
 Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for listening to all of us during these extraordinarily difficult times. I honor all of your service. ProGround joins Habitat for Humanity of Portland Metro East in our enthusiastic support for both the residential infill project in general and for the deeper affordability bonus amendment to allow for additional FAR and sixplexes.
 The program partners with Habitat to provide first-time home ownership opportunities, and for the reasons that were just discussed, the stability that brings to their kids and families is still very important. And these are for families living between about 35% and 80% of median income.
 In addition to Habitat's achievement of over 90% people of color, we also serve families of color with a wait list of over 500 families, three-quarters of whom are families of color. This kind of public policy move is critically important right now and especially poignant. Our home ownership models that we have in place here in Portland rely on identifying property zones appropriately for family size units in neighborhoods across the city.
 If this deeper affordability bonus is approved, in addition to units Habitat expects to build on double-sized lots, Prague Grand is also hoping to partner with builders to add even more units in a very cost-effective way.
 The six unit properties on infill lots would allow proud ground to add to the pipelines for homes in neighborhoods all around the city that are very amenity rich in communities that have experienced so much gentrification and have caused so much displacement. Re-establishing economic and cultural diversity that was once taken for granted back in the Portland I grew up in is a critical role and especially now.
 So this upward trajectory of possibility for more and more homes, and I think the monitoring support to see how well we do and what it's going to take to remove barriers to continue to create more units for more and more families is critically important. We so appreciate your time and look forward to the final passage of RIP finally after so much work and effort.
 Portland is finally moving in the right direction as it relates to single-family zones, and we thank you for your support for Residential Info and the Deeper Affordability Amendment. Thank you, Diane. Appreciate your testimony. Thank you. Next is Rowena Paz Norman, followed by Sean Green. Hi, Rowena. Rowena, are you on?
 And can you hear me? I am on. I'm sorry. Can you hear me? Yep. There we go. Hi, everyone. My name is Rowena Paznarman. And I first want to thank Mayor Wheeler and the commissioners for your time. I am speaking on behalf of Partners for a Hunger-Free Oregon and Anti-Hunger Advocacy Group. Partners support the Residential Infill Project and Amendment No. 6 because of the strong relationship between housing and food insecurity.
 In a tight family budget, rent and utilities won't budge. Yet rice can be squeezed. Food is the most elastic of basic needs. A key reason that Portland and Oregon have spent decades high up in the national hunger rankings is that housing costs have risen so much faster than wages.
 The rapid rise of rental costs in the Portland metro area and in other places in Oregon could be a driving force in the jump in food security, according to Oregon State sociology professor Mark Edwards.
 This connection between housing and hunger is also demonstrated by a study from Harvard's Joint Center for Housing Studies that found that low-income families with affordable housing have more food security. And this study was shared with counsel in an email that I sent earlier today.
 I encourage Council to pass residential infill with Amendment No. 6 to keep working on housing through the future anti-displacement plan to support partners' efforts to build a hunger-free Oregon. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Next, we'll go with Sean Green and they'll be followed by Michael Stephan. Hi, Sean.
 Hi. Thank you, Commissioners and Mayor, for hearing my testimony. I just wanted to say that I've been working on this issue for over five years, back when I was chair of the Laurelhurst Neighborhood Association involved with the Southeast Uplift.
 neighborhood coalition and I continue that work as vice chair of the Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods and co-chair of the Land Use and Transportation Committee at NECN. You heard earlier about the support by NECN for this proposal from my colleague Luke Norman and I wanted to echo that support and I'm here to say that the time is now to support this and we're ready and I feel strongly that this is going to make our city a better place. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Next we'll go with Michael Steffen and they'll be followed by Chris Marasini. Hi Michael. Hi there, this is Mike Steffen, a Salwood resident. Came to Portland 26, 7 years ago I guess now because it was a city on a hill, it was a
 in our nation, in its leadership then and it is still today. And I think what's been done with the planning work and the policy work on the RIP project is phenomenal. I support it and my family support it 100%. And I share the concerns that many have mentioned about Amendment 7.
 and carving out certain neighborhoods from the requirements. I just wanted to state on the record a wholehearted endorsement. And yes, as many have said, it's time to move forward with this and now. Thank you. Thanks, Mark. Next is Chris Marasini followed by Lincoln Tuchel. I see Chris, he's muted. Chris, can you unmute?
 Chris is on. Yeah, we hear you, Chris. Yeah. Okay. Are we, are we ready? You're ready to go. Okay. Thank you.
 All over Eastside Portland, green spaces are disappearing with the cementing over of lawns and landscaping to build apartments and four, six, and eight plexes. Green spaces in Eastside Portland help lower temperatures of all of Portland during hot summer months and filter smog on high pollution days. These green spaces also slow down water runoff. Lack of comprehensive infrastructure considerations is also a big concern.
 The January 2020 edition of the Oregonian reported 4.8%
 4.8 million millennials are reaching 30 years of age in 2020, a prime age for many to purchase their first home. Not a rental, but a house. Current research also indicates most people want a yard and storage, especially due to COVID-19 issues. The city's RIP ignores these trends. Home ownership encourages longer community commitments and more stability than rentals.
 Home owners are the ones who vote to pay higher property taxes in order to improve Portland schools and support community resources. As a teacher, the educational ramifications of Portland's RIP puts Eastside Schools and students' educational success in jeopardy. The city's RIP is exclusionary in and of itself.
 It encourages gentrification and is making home ownership only possible for the wealthy. It is giving many Portlanders the only option of renting, thereby allowing the rich to get richer and the poor to get poorer. The whitest part of Portland is southwest Portland. It is a shame that neither diversity nor density is addressed in the city's RIP concerning southwest Portland.
 The state HB 2001 recommending duplexes is enough. The city's RIP does not make Portland better. Rather than displacing residents and demolishing homes under the guise of affordability, solutions should be explored for eliminating displacement and gentrification and providing down payment mortgage assistance.
 Home ownership opportunities will be more available to a diverse population with the elimination of developers who are artificially raising house prices and to help with strategies for giving mortgage assistance. Short-term profit should not be the major goal of Portland's RIP.
 Please choose health, safety, stability, livability, and home ownership opportunities over short-term profit. It is vital to Portland's future. Thank you. Thank you, Chris. Appreciate it.
 Next is Lincoln Tuchel followed by Margaret Davis. Hi, Lincoln. Hi, guys. Thanks for having me here. Greetings, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Fritz, Hardesty and New Daily. My name is Lincoln Tuchel, and I'm a board member of the Architectural Heritage Center, as well as a residential real estate agent here in Portland. I'm here to speak in support of Amendment No. 7, the Historic Resources Demolition Disincentive,
 As a realtor, I can tell you that zoning changes, which allow up to a fourplex on most single-family zoned residential lots, will put tremendous demolition pressure on Portland's historic buildings. This same proposal was adopted for multifamily zones in Better Housing by Design, and it makes good sense to extend the demolition disincentive to single-family zones,
 This will allow us to protect those special residential buildings that help define Portland and give it its unique character. Furthermore, discouraging the demolition of historic buildings is consistent with the goals of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. It is also the green thing to do. Demolitions across the city will be an ecological nightmare, producing massive amounts of solid waste, releasing toxins into the neighborhoods and creating a huge carbon and natural resources footprint.
 Adaptive reuse, on the other hand, of existing homes will reduce waste, preserve naturally occurring affordable housing, and help prevent displacement of lower income households. And an important part of this amendment is the extension of the demolition disincentive to contributing buildings within conservation districts.
 Many of these districts such as Elliott, Piedmont, Mississippi, and Woodlawn are historically black neighborhoods which contain cultural sites important to the history of African Americans in Portland. Some of these stories were told by our founder, the Architectural Heritage Center, former executive director and founder Kathy Galbraith in her 1995 book Cornerstones of Community, Buildings of Portland's African American History.
 Although quite a few of these buildings have been lost to demolition and redevelopment, I'm sad to say numerous ones still remain and would benefit from this protection.
 Because there are numerous historically significant homes outside of historic and conservation districts, which will be threatened with demolition if RIP is approved, I propose that the demolition disincentive be extended to include ranked homes on the historic resources inventory that are not already on historic landmarks, which are not already historic landmarks or contributing structures in a historic or conservation district.
 These homes have been identified for their significant contribution to Portland's history and architectural landscape, yet numerically they only represent a small fraction of the single homes, single family homes in the city. So in other words, the impact on RIP would be negligible, but the potential benefit to Portland would be great.
 therefore I encourage you to adopt this small modification. And thank you for letting me speak to you at this time. I realize there's a lot going on in the city and the world, which is, you know, of a major significance. And I appreciate you taking the time. Thank you, Lincoln. We appreciate it. We'll hear from Margaret Davis, followed by John Gibbons.
 afternoon margaret hi everybody i have a few visuals that i sent to keelan i think it or carla i don't know who's who's supposed to put those up yes i'm pulling them up right now oh thank you keelan all right well i'm margaret davis i uh
 I live in Northeast Portland. I have these few visuals for you. Just looking at this first slide, we just have three pictures. I'm amazed that this market rate housing measure comes before you at such unprecedented times, but it does relate to issues on everybody's mind and that's inequality and also health and safety.
 With rising income inequality across America, which I know you're not responsible for, we see dramatic gaps in treatment between the haves and have-nots. But here's how you can make a difference. By voting no on RIP and allowing affordable housing to remain standing and be reused. Remember, RIP isn't about affordable housing. Look at the last item on that slide. This was presented near the beginning of the project.
 And it shows that affordable housing was not part of the scope of the project. We weren't even really allowed to discuss it at any of these open houses. So I'm surprised people are mentioning it. And I wish you had an air horn for every time it was intimated that RIP would bring us affordable housing.
 What's worse is RIP incentivizes the loss of affordable housing. When you offer a multi-unit payout where a single family house once stood, that house doesn't stand a chance. Keelyn, can you go to the next slide? Can I get the next slide?
 So here's an example of RIP style development. And this is at 63rd and Mason in my neighborhood. A house that sold for $330,000 was demolished. And now the one there on the corner is selling for $685,000.
 So you will never get that $330,000 housing option back. We will only be inviting wealthy people to live in our neighborhood and that is inequality. We know that neighborhoods are stronger for their diversity, whether it's background and here I'm talking specifically about income. Can I get the next slide, Keelan? Thank you.
 So that's inequality. So how about public health and safety? You know, really the reason why we're online today. Right now we battle something we can't see. This is a battle about something we can see. You can see the toxins coming out of the demolition there. By BDS's own recent estimate, about 90% of demolitions go unmonitored for hazmat control. And this is even after you pass the stringent rules that you thought you did.
 So right now, a BDS subcommittee, and this afternoon, was meeting to give oversight of hazmat control during demolitions to an employee of the teardown builder. So basically, no change from what you're going to see here. All it takes is that demo manager going off for lunch and, oops, look what happened.
 So I miss Nick Fish, you know, for many reasons, but he publicly worried about the effects of demolition dust on his kid, as he should have. And I hope you will honor his legacy and that concern. Wait for a full council and full public participation before approving a rezoning that displaces more Portlanders and exposes us to even more toxins. Thank you so much. Thank you, Keelan, for the slide, Hope. Thank you, Margaret.
 Next is John Gibbon, followed by Stephanie Winters. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, thank you for letting me speak to you today. My name is John Gibbon. I'm representing the southwest Portland neighborhood of Markham.
 and I'm here to express some concerns I have about some of the technical amendments that effectively impact uncurbed public and private streets in our area and more or less relate to amendment 5 which I know will be discussed next week and
 express an opinion on what Markham would support in terms of Amendment 6.
 The thing that you have to understand in Portland Southwest or south of I-5, and there are seven neighborhoods located south of I-5, we have no, don't yet have reasonable, safe, active transportation or transit options to
 access complete community resources. Those seven neighborhoods are with the closure of the market of choice on the corner of Taylor's Ferry Road and Terwilliger is a food desert. So all the way from roughly Boone's Ferry Road and Taylor's Ferry Road intersection to the Tigard City line, there is no market available.
 except one or two gas station markets serving that entire area. I will admit we have lots of people who have access to cars and use them a lot to access food resources on Barber Boulevard or in Lake Oswego, but the neighborhoods do not have any resources like that
 in our neighborhoods. This unfortunately has, the effect of this is to unfortunately create parking problems on many of our streets and private roads and create special problems on our uncurbed streets and private roads.
 These uncurbed streets and private roads also cause stormwater issues and other infrastructure deficiencies in these areas create fire protection issues. Therefore, we are supporting Sweeney's request that we believe has been submitted to you to limit damage.
 through triplexes and fourplexes to only paved curb streets in southwest Portland, and to limit the deeper affordability bonus to defined centers and corridors throughout our areas in the hopes that
 focusing the density in those areas will enhance our very spotty transit service. That's three minutes. Thank you. Thanks, John. Appreciate it. Next, Rod Merrick, followed by Constance Beaumont. Hey, Rod. Can you hear me now? Yep, we can hear you loud and clear. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you for this opportunity to talk to you guys. I've been involved in the RIP and its evolution from the beginning. It's been an ideologically driven process.
 that has morphed with the times, all the while lacking much needed analysis and accountability. Additional density to support neighborhood centers is a long-standing policy that I, the neighborhood association that I chair, and many others strongly support. And this is where the emphasis should be. But the residential infill project is not a modernization of Portland zoning code, but an untested and radical inversion
 The impacts are as divisive as its acronym might suggest, effectively handing over single-family neighborhoods across the city to investors for random density development. Advocates appeal to aspirations and ideology. Maybe it will be needed in 20 years. Maybe it will welcome new neighbors. Maybe it will produce innovative housing. Maybe it will advance social justice. Maybe it will lower housing costs. Maybe it was compelling
 that the unlikely bed follows of 1000 friends, real estate investors and the home builders joined forces to advance their notion of how Portland, how Portlanders should live, maybe, or maybe random density policies are a path to accelerated displacement of our most disadvantaged citizens, our most affordable housing, our most desired housing types, our adopted comprehensive planning goals for livability,
 homeownership, stable neighborhoods, compatible infill, reduced automobile dependency and goals for resilience and sustainability. Leading to this point of final decisions, there has been no testing, an embarrassing lack of analysis, and no framework or standards for assessing the impact of these far-reaching policies.
 HB 2001 does not mandate density everywhere as in the RIP. There is currently no shortage of land for this type of smaller scale, higher density development. Even the heavily lobbied planning commission found it a challenge to provide a green light for these policies. The reduced lot sizes and deeper affordability amendment under consideration are part of the pattern of ideologically driven agenda.
 It's become clear that the new higher density rental condo housing placing older single family housing is not about affordability now or in the foreseeable future. And encouraging six and eight flex housing everywhere is simply deeper deception.
 Displacement mitigation remedies remain ill-conceived without standards for accountability and of course unfunded for these reasons. We urge that if the RIP advances, it must be constrained by the mandated periodic assessment. This to be conducted by an independent auditor and published periodically. Comprehensive plan, excuse me, the audit should include a minimum of the assessment of the following indicators.
 associated with additional density building permits for the single family zones are 2.52, are 20. Transportation impacts and specifically transit ridership, pedestrian travel, parking congestion, auto ownership patterns, displacement of lower income residents and disadvantaged communities, housing affordability relative to income, ownership patterns, owner occupied, small scale investor owned corporate ownership,
 displacement of middle-income families with children. Urban tree density almost there. Urban tree canopy reductions and changes in the heat characteristics and complaints about incompatibility of scale. Rod, thank you. Your time is up. We appreciate it. Thank you. Next, we're going to go with Constance Beaumont and they'll be followed by Alan Kessler.
 Carla, sorry to interrupt. This is Andrea Durbin. Mayor, I just wanted to make note that now might be a good time to pause today's hearing and carry over to next week, because I know you need to have a hard stop at 5 and you and council and probably want to talk about kind of the next steps. Why don't we take this last person whose name was just called and we'll continue after that. Constance Beaumont.
 Can you hear me? Yes Constance, go ahead. Oh, okay. I'm surprised because I kept typing in my password and it didn't seem to be working. But I'll be very brief. I support the comments that were made earlier by John Liu and Anna and the Lincoln Tuchow from the Architectural Heritage Center. I support the goals of RIP, but I'm disappointed that it didn't
 takes a scattershot approach to density rather than focusing it along transit lines as recommended in the comprehensive plan. I confess to being influenced by the policies that Arlington County, where I lived for many years, has taken where they focused density along transit and were successful in
 a dramatic reduction in car trips, a boost in transit use, and they did create affordable housing as well. I am concerned that Amendment Number 6 would increase the incentive for developers to destroy existing homes, thereby wasting natural resources embodied in them. I feel that it should not be necessary to destroy one community asset to create another. I agree with others who have recommended that if the city does decide to go ahead with the program
 It should set up a system to monitor and report annually on the number of houses demolished, the number of households displaced, and the affordability or lack thereof of new structures replacing demolished homes. Finally, I support Amendment 7, which would discourage the destruction of historic resources, a resource that Oregon's Goal 5 was intended to protect.
 So thank you for your patience and we'll move on. Thank you very much. Thank you, Constance. All right. Thank you, everyone, for your testimony. We know that this is an issue many people have been working on for a long time. And we're going to continue public testimony on June 11th. For those of you who are already signed up to testify via Zoom and
 And of course, I want to acknowledge there's a number of people who signed up who did not have a chance to testify today. So if you've signed up, your day will be June 11th. I encourage those of you who have already testified to watch at www.portlandoregon.org.
 gov slash video on June 11th to listen to the testimony. If you didn't catch all that or write all that down, just go to Portland City Council and you'll find it. I also encourage all participants to read the record and submit any additional written testimony into the record on Residential Infill Project page on the testimony app. I also wanna thank staff who've worked hard to make it easy to listen and engage in this process.
 particularly our Smart Cities PDX staff. Thank you. I'll turn it back over to the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff to give instructions for June 11th and next steps for the Residential Infill Program. Andrea?
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you everyone who took the time to testify today, and really to all of you who have engaged in this process for the last five years. We really appreciate it, and your engagement has helped improve this proposed package. As the Mayor said, we will resume next week, June 11th at 2.40 p.m., and look forward to hearing, continue the testimony. We will come back to Council on June 18th,
 for deliberations of the amendments and a vote on the amendments. And I look forward to a final vote in July. So thank you very much for your time and we look forward to continuing the conversation. Very good and that concludes today's hearings colleagues. Is there anything else anyone wants to say before we adjourn? Mayor I just want to
 Frankly, sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt. Just for the record, just so everyone knows that the record is still open and will remain open as Morgan previously announced until June 11th at 8 p.m.
 Very good. And one final note, sorry to bug in again. So for the folks that didn't get to testify today, there were about 20 folks that we didn't hear from, plus another 23 that are still on our list. We will automatically roll those folks over to our next meeting, and we'll be sending out a registration to those folks, and that will show up in their email shortly. Thanks, Morgan. Commissioner Fritz?
 Thank you, Mayor. Can people sign up to testify who have not already signed up? Hi, it's Morgan again. So we closed the registration for the testimony on yesterday at 4 o'clock. So that is it for folks that want to testify orally. However, opportunities for written testimony are open, as Lauren said, until June 11th at 8 o'clock through the MAP app or through council clerk email. Yes.
 Thank you for that. My concern is, as I've mentioned, the volume of emails that are currently coming in, that it's practically impossible to sort them, to find the ripped ones. So maybe you could give some thought to whether additional oral testimony might be allowed to sign up. I'll defer to counsel on that question. All right. Very good.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, and certainly we can consider that. All right, that concludes today's hearing. We'll pick it up again on June 11th. Until then, we are adjourned.