All right, good morning everyone. Welcome to Portland City Council. This is the Wednesday, June 5th, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning, Carla. Could you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here, and now we'll turn it over to legal counsel. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Thank you. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and needs to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony for council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. First up is communications, Carla. The 14th request of Robert Patterson to this council regarding homelessness. Is Mr. Patterson here today? I do not see him. Perhaps he'll come in before the end of communications. Next individual, please. Item 515, request of Nicholas Caleb to address council regarding fossil fuel infrastructure. Good morning. Morning. Morning, council members and Mayor Wheeler. My name is Nicholas Caleb. I'm the staff attorney for the Center for Sustainable Economy, a nonprofit organization in Think and Do Tank. We work primarily on climate issues in Portland, Oregon, and the United States more broadly. Over the last six months, the conversation around climate action has shifted because of two occurrences. First, a new report from the International Panel on Climate Change, IPCC, gives us until 2030 to complete a massive carbon drawdown to keep warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. In essence, we are in a climate emergency, and we've got a clock that we need to follow. Second, and partially in response to the IPC report, climate advocates have been successfully raising the popularity of extremely ambitious economic, social, and environmental proposals that have emerged under the label of Green New Deal. As Naomi Klein puts it, we are left with a stark choice. Allow climate disruption to change everything about our world, or change pretty much everything about our economy to avoid the fate. Today we are encouraging you to be bold and take risks to create the possibility for a future worth living in. First, be bold in taking on tar sands and crude oil exports. This Council is well-versed in the risks of expanding fossil fuel infrastructure and has taken action in the past to prevent it. You must act boldly again. June 3rd was the three-year anniversary of the oil train derailment in Mosier, Oregon. The same year, in 2016, City Council took numerous actions to oppose fossil fuels, including passing a resolution supporting the actions of the Standing Rock Sioux to blockade the Keystone XL pipeline, which would threaten their treaty resources, ancestral lands, natural resources, and sacred sites with tar sands oil. We must renew this commitment to all communities on the front lines of the resistance to the fossil fuel industry by stopping this project and any more like it. We need you to be disobedient alongside us in support of the climate movement when faced with the machinery that is fueling the collapse. And there are some folks in the audience, I think, who have been arrested at the Zenith facility recently putting their bodies on the line for that. We must have a public hearing on the Zenith expansion and the threat of crude oil in Portland. We need the fossil fuel terminal zoning amendments reinstated, and we require bold city action that forecloses on any fossil fuel industry plans to turn Portland into a tar sands and crude oil export hub. Fossil fuels pose inherent risks from spills, leaks, explosions, and derailments, and we must move quickly towards safer alternatives. Two years ago, the city passed its 100% renewable energy resolution, and an update on progress I think was due three days ago. I'm not sure what the progress is on that. It's time to, essentially the resolution as we read it puts an end on the life of the fossil fuel industry in Portland. It puts a time that we can actually stop that. We should be ahead of 2050, but there's a time for us there. So the second bold step that we're asking from Council today is to actually create a plan for a managed decline of fossil fuel infrastructure in Portland, to make that a community-wide plan that involves people from everywhere so that we can talk about what we want to do with formerly industrial fossil fuel lands and how we can return those to public in the future. I'm out of time, but we very much look forward to working with you on this in the future. So Nick, if I could just quickly respond and agree. Number one, I want to be crystal clear as the mayor of this city, I do not support and will continue to oppose any expansion of oil trains going through our community. And you identified one of the situations in Mosher. There was also the derailment in Kalamazoo, Michigan, and there was the catastrophic derailment in Quebec, Canada. And my recollection is that that burned down about half of the community and it killed 46 people. more sparsely populated area than the city of Portland. Oil trains are currently going through very densely populated parts of our community. And we cannot allow this kind of activity to continue to expand in our community. I'm also, by the way, concerned about the Columbia River Gorge. My immediate concern is health, safety, and the environment within city limits. But I'm also concerned about the environmental area through which these oil trains must go. I want to let you know what I've done. I have brought together all of our city bureaus, agencies including Metro, including DEQ, and others from around the region who have a potential role to play in helping us limit this risk. And I've also met with a group of environmentalists, and I appreciated your willingness to participate in that conversation as well. And the goal of the conversations has been basically this. We obviously do not control the railroads. Nobody here has any authority whatsoever over railroads. That is clearly the federal government's purview. But the problem that most people see is these dangerous oil trains coming with increasing frequency through the community. So the question is, given our infrastructure that we do control here at the local level and the permits that we issue at the local level and the oversight that we provide at the local level, what are the actual tools that we have at our disposal to help address this question? So you have asked for a meeting today. others have asked for a meeting and I have asked for a meeting and so we will have a public work session where we will invite people with different perspectives to come to the table in a public setting and put all the ideas on the table and give us the opportunity to discuss what our options are and that by the way includes requirements regulations on the actual crude oil material that's coming into our community you've also asked to today for a community-based plan. And I would encourage you at that work session to make that desire known. I would personally support it. This is really ultimately about the community, and there are trade-offs to be made here, and it should be done with the blessing of this community. But the first step and the first imperative for me as the mayor of this city is to vociferously fight the expansion of oil trains coming through our community. It is a public health, of public safety, and an environmental hazard. And that has been proven beyond any doubt. And I thank you for being here. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you Mayor. I just wanted to ask if there were, how many other items were on your list before your time ran out? It was mostly rhetorical. I was going to give you the hurrah encouragement. Is this your testimony here? I haven't sent it in, but I'm happy to copy it over and send it to you. Thank you. Well, I just want to appreciate both the mayor's leadership and really trying to help us get ahead of this because, as he has said, none of us want the kind of devastation that comes with having oil train derailments and explosions. And so I look forward to us continuing to work on this as a city so that we can continue to be the model we want to be.
 Thanks. Nick, you're meeting with Amy later today, is that correct? That's right. From my team? Great, good. I'll look forward to hearing the results. Yeah, and I would also say just we're really thankful for the words that we're hearing today. And we're prone to showing up and continuing to make our presence known, but we are, are excited to see the progress and are also working on new creative approaches where the city can intervene. So happy to share those. Thanks for being here. Thanks for sharing your thoughts. I just want to give a little plug for the Sunrise PDX Pedopalooza climate ride this Sunday. See you there. What time and where? Oh, okay. What time? Well, it begins at Southwest Park Avenue and Southwest Montgomery Street. and it starts at 11 a.m. and it ends at the Zenith property. Very good. That'll be fun. There'll be music and probably some food and other fun things. And there's also I don't have the date in front of me. I think it might be June 18th. The Sunrise Movement and PDX is actually having a forum on the Green New Deal, and they'll have a range of speakers from, I think, Merkley and Blumenauer to some community activists who are going to be speaking around Green New Deal and a vision for the community, and that would be also a great event for folks to show up to. Excellent. Thank you. Sure. Appreciate it. Carla, next individual, please. Item 516, request of Bob Schatz to address council regarding approval to change zoning of property and how decision is affecting career. Bob Schatz. Mr. Schatz, are you here today? Oh, come on up, sir. Good morning. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Hi, my name is Bob Schatz. I've lived in Portland most of my life. My wife has lived here all of her life, and our kids were born here. and they went to the same elementary school my wife went to. So we tend to think we've been here a while. We lived in Ladd's Addition for 27 years, and as of a few years ago, we kept asking city council to help us out with the homeless problem, the drug addicts that were peeing our yards, pooping our yards, stealing our things, camping in our driveways, and with no response, no help at all. Basically, the last communication was Either they go or we do. And the response I got was, we can't stop you from moving. So we moved. We left Portland. We still own a lot of property in Portland. We have rental properties. Our business is in Portland. I come into Portland every day. It saddens me to see what has happened to this city. With the trash and the graffiti, the people sleeping on the streets, it's awful. I remember Portland when there wasn't one bit of trash on the ground. I own property at 123 Southeast 97th Avenue. And I bought the property to build affordable housing. And I build, design, and manage my own property. I'm an architect and developer and property manager. I know all my tenants by name. I treat them with compassion. The goal is to build more housing for them. The city council has approved a change to change my zoning, so I'm no longer allowed to build there. I can only build industrial. I don't know industrial, it's not my thing. I don't know what to do with it. I begged and pleaded before it happened. I testified, I came in verbally and testified, I sent emails and letters. I don't know why you have public testimony if you don't listen to us. After the zone change was made, I've been in here several times asking, can you please give me back what I bought? Because I bought this for a specific reason to build affordable housing. I don't do industrial. I've been ignored. I feel like I'm a hot potato with you guys. You just pass me from person to person, and no one can do anything about it. Mayor, I've talked with your assistant, Michelle. She was supposed to set up meetings, we're supposed to meet and do something about it. After seven attempts to communicate with her, had no response. I told her at the last response, you're just as bad as responding to me as the mayor himself. And prove me wrong by responding to this one last communication, nothing. Last time I was here, Commissioner E. Daly, you referred me to Marshall Runkel. He could not help me. He referred me back to the mayor's office. I talked to Trayvon. He gave me the same response with, I can't stop you from moving. He sent me to Kyle, no help at all. I'm done. So you've got the better of me because I don't know this issue. And so I can't sit here and competently tell you what the zoning issue is relative to your property. I am happy to have the conversation with you and see if there's something that can be done here. We tried that three times already. I don't know the issue. So I'll do what I can. That's what you've told me before and nothing has happened. That's what several of you have told me in the past. And I've got a list of communications. I'm sorry, I've met you previously. This is my third time here. Yes. I have not sat down with you to discuss this issue. No. What I've done is I've referred you to staff who can actually connect you with the people in the Planning and Sustainability Bureau who control all of the city's zoning operations. So I don't personally do that. We have employees here who do do that, but if you're feeling like you're not getting satisfaction or they're not being responsive, I'm happy to help you out. So if you could leave. I have a staff member here in the back, Mustafa. Can you make sure you get the contact? I will call you personally. If that's what I've done before, it doesn't work. Well, you have to trust me. You can sit here and say I don't trust you all day long, but I'm giving you my word. I will call you. I'm not guaranteeing you I can fix your problem, but I am guaranteeing you I will contact you. You guys are stolen from me. I want back what I purchased. Now you're moving on. Do you want me to call you or don't you? I'd be happy to do it. Great. Next individual, please. Item 517, request of Max Hein to address council regarding high rate of fatal and near fatal motor incidents on Tioga and Pheasanton. Is Mr. Hein here, please? Very good. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 518, request of Lee Callis to address council regarding Northeast 102nd Avenue Corridor Safety Project. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Thank you for letting me take some time. You bet. Don't worry, we won't start until you sound, so don't rush too much. Thank you, I'm not good by myself. And Carla, while he's setting up, did Mr. Patterson come in? Is he here? I don't see him. Okay. Where do I stand? I guess, so I can do my poster. Yeah, very good. Okay. Thank you for letting me be here. I'm Dr. Lee Coles. I've been a dentist on Northeast 101 Second for about 30 years. Vision Zero does some wonderful things for safety. They've been very successful in New York City and San Francisco, and so they're implementing plans here This is in New York City or San Francisco. And apparently they feel that they don't need to get expert opinions, technical opinions, or community opinions in some of their plans. There's a plan for 102nd that's supposed to start at the end of this month to revise the roadways. We're very, very concerned and my option to be here today is to request this be put on hold until it can be looked at by experts. So the current situation on 102nd, there are two lanes of traffic going each way. On 102nd and Sandy, just off there, all four directions of freeway meet. Most of the time, this is a very nice neighborhood, but in the peak hours, this is extremely congested, and it's not uncommon to have traffic backed up all the way to Halsey, trying to get on freeways from all four directions. It's a problem. So we'll let that sit for a minute. ODOT has a division called Crash Analysis Division. I don't know if you're familiar with it. They keep track of all the accidents, why they occurred, events, weather, type of vehicle, drivers, and the policies. For the 12 year period 2005 to 2016, there were 253 accidents here, which actually is very low compared to most major streets. Now, more specifically on the area of congestion, right up by Sandy, there were 110 accidents. Of those, 86 of them, or 86% of them were congestion accidents, rear ends, angle turning into other people, not yielding. They were not due to speed. They were not due to alcohol. The other concern is of those, 76% had at least one injury. Now, the plan that Vision 1 has, in order to make bike lanes, they are going to make it so there's only one lane each direction. Now, you notice this blue line here, this is the I-205 bike lane. that ODOT last year put $645,000 into maintenance and repairs. A third of it here in Maywood Park. It's very close. But because of plans that Vision Zero has done in other places, they want to make a bike lane and cut down the traffic. We're very concerned about congestion. So that's what the experts have said. There are many reports that show that if you increase congestion, You increase accidents, supported by several states and the United States Department of Transportation. I talked to the CAT supervisor, do you know about this? And his response was, to my knowledge, ODOT has not published a publication about increased congestion equals increased crashes. It is the general belief and pretty firmly held in the community. You increase congestion, you will increase crashes. The real problem is these people here. This is the backbone of the community. This is why I'm here today. None of these groups had any input into this. And since the project has been done, they have not been allowed to have any input at all. They're very concerned. And in the evaluation period, they again, not going to have any input. So my again here is to ask, please put this on hold until these expert opinions, technical and community can be put into play. And ask you one question, what can these groups do to get your attention about this? Thank you. Thank you. Very well done. That's kind of hard to balance all the reports. And he did it. And you did it within the appropriate timeline. You're talking my neighborhood. This is my hood, right? I live in East Portland. I travel that road daily. So like you, I would be very concerned if we went from four lanes to just two lanes. And I also don't know whether or not that's part of the plan. That is the plan. Well... the commissioner in charge of transportation, Commissioner Udeli, I would certainly want to have a conversation with her about what's going on with that. And maybe the three of us could have that conversation. There have been numerous conversations with Dr. Cowles. I'd be happy to have you briefed and to have a one on one with you. Very good. May I make a comment on that? No. Okay. Thank you very much. Appreciate your- Anybody want to ask a question about this? I put it up hoping somebody would ask a question. I didn't see it. Commissioner Daly. Time's up. Can we move on? Thank you. Thank you. My understanding, thank you, sir. Appreciate the presentation. I do have some information to pass out. I don't know if you can give it to Carla right there, and then she'll make sure we all get a copy of it. Thank you, sir, for being here. Carla, it's my understanding that Mr. Hine has shown up? Yes, 517. Very good. Please call 517. A request of Max Hine to address council regarding high rate of fatal and near fatal motor incidents on Tioga and Pheasanton. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Can I just take a seat right here? You bet. Just take a seat. If you could just tell us your name for the record. Yeah, Max Hein. Thanks. And I live in St. John's. I live on Fessenden. The last three incidents that took place within a span of two months on Fessenden, they took place immediately outside my house. One was a man getting hit. my neighbor getting hit on his way home on his bike and he got hospitalized and put in a wheelchair. The other one was a woman crashing into a telephone pole and the last was an elderly woman who was fatally hit in a hit and run. But we just wanted to say from the community there's been action you know from you taken recently and with the speed bumps and the traffic islands, and it's made an enormous difference. The difference is night and day. I recall a time when people would be doing like topping 70 just on that strip. There was a time when I couldn't cross the street because of the high density traffic. It's no longer the case now, and we deeply appreciate the investment and the action taken. I have a couple of notes. There's, we also look forward to the pedestrian traffic beacons. I understand there's some people working with Commissioner Udeli, I think talking with you today about this. There's no single thing that's going to fix, that's going to remedy the problem. It's all these little things. I think those traffic beacons would make an enormous difference, especially for the elderly and especially for the kids. There are kids who board for school, on either side of the street have to cross. There's also a curve where they cross to get to the public pool. So there's like a very high density of young people and elderly. I think those would make an enormous difference. I think that specifically for the last incident where that the grandmother was was hit. I think those particularly would have been very effective. So we just look really forward to the whole thing coming together with the traffic beacons. Thanks, Max, for being here. Appreciate it. Commissioner Udaly. I just. Hey, Max. What do I say? I wanted to thank you for coming today. I'm glad to hear that you feel like the improvements are making a difference. We're still seeing some incredibly reckless, dangerous driving on that street. Right. I don't know if you've seen it, but people just... bypassing the traffic islands and people going the speed limit by driving down the wrong way on the road. Which to me, I'm doing my best to accelerate these improvements. I know the St. John's community has been waiting a long time for this and we've seen way too many crashes and injuries and fatalities in the area. But that behavior... demonstrates how we can't engineer and educate our way out of this. We need more enforcement and that is largely outside of my scope of power. So I'm having conversations with the mayor and the mayor's office about how we can increase enforcement because there's too many people that don't seem to care about human life driving on our roads right now. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thanks for being here. Appreciate it. Very good. Carla, have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? Yes, we have 526, 528, 532, and 534. Very good, please call the roll on the remainder. Fish. Colleagues, item 531 today that's part of our consent agenda is titled create three new represented classifications. And I wanted to, even though it's the first reading, I wanted to call this out because this is a real milestone for our city. This is part of the Access to Work program, which was established by BHR and directly inspired by the project search internships. The purpose of Access to Work is to facilitate entry level job opportunities at the city for people with disabilities. These positions and the Access to Work Program were created to support the city's model employer resolution. They are full-time, entry-level positions with full benefits. This program was modeled after a similar program at the City of Seattle, as well as the State of Oregon, and at OHSU. A number of years ago, I had the chance to visit Seattle and see how this program was functioning and we're in the process of replicating it. This would not happen without strong leadership at the Bureau of Human Resources. Mayor, thank you for the commitment that you've made to expand Project Search citywide and to create opportunities for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Just applaud this moment because we are now creating full-time opportunities for people at the city. We have a long way to go, but I think we should be proud of our progress. Aye. Hardestine? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for your work on that project, Commissioner Fish. Aye. Wheeler? Although 532 got pulled, I just want to reference it. This is an inclusionary housing project. We have effectively incentivized down the... limit on this to 60% for the units that are included under inclusionary housing. This project will join 59 private sector projects in inclusionary housing. approval pipeline. That means that there is now a minimum of 398 units of affordable housing in otherwise what would be market rate housing. And so I just want to note this for my colleagues that we are starting to see considerable movement in the inclusionary housing pipeline and this would be just one more example. I vote aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First term time certain item please Carla. Item number 519. Adopt administrative rules for chapter 2.16. Open and Accountable Elections Program. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Our colleagues are excited to finalize these administrative rules, which clarify certain aspects of the Open and Accountable Elections Program. Typically, administrative rules do not have to go through council. However, this is a high profile program with interest for many members on council and the public. So we wrote into the code that administrative rules would be presented to council. These rules have been open for public comment for about 30 days and were created in partnership with the Open and Accountable Elections Commission. Susan Motte, Program Director of Open Accountable Elections, will run through the highlights. And Amy Sample Ward, one of the Open and Accountable Elections Commissioners, will also discuss the creation process in lickety-split time. Really impressive. Thank you. So with the first election cycle not having happened under this program, we It took Seattle's approach when they were writing rules prior to their first election cycle of their program, which was to, rather than kind of imagining how the election cycle would play out and writing rules based on those assumptions, to actually try and write the bare minimum number of rules that we think are necessary for the first election cycle, see how it plays out, and then after that, tailor some very detailed rules to how the program is playing out in the city of Portland. Thank you. The Open and Accountable Elections Code required the program to issue rules on the following topics. Documentation for allowable contributions and certification, allowable and prohibited expenditures, contested elections, special elections, recounts, vacancies, withdrawals, certification, disbursement of funds, and return of unspent funds. obtaining contributions, the administration of the open and accountable elections fund, investigation and enforcement procedures, and inspection of documentation. The rules that it was decided aren't required but would be desirable coming into this first election cycle for clarity's sake would be some clarity around reporting requirements, some leniency for late reporting if there are mitigating circumstances or personal emergencies involved, some rulemaking around accessibility and language access, and the emergency rulemaking authority, so that if something occurs that we didn't anticipate and we want to have the agility to create a rule to deal with it, we wouldn't need to go back for council approval for a year, so that in case Some of you are in the middle of an election cycle. We can keep it off your plates while it looks political and potentially improper for you to vote on something, and then bring it to you after the election's over and let you guys deliberate on it when everyone feels it's proper for you to be deliberating on such things. So it went through a 30-day public comment period. It was circulated to all commission offices for comment. It went before the Open and Accountable Elections Coalition and the Open and Accountable Elections Commission review and a lot of the comments and feedback were integrated into this final document. And Amy Sample Ward, who's one of our open and accountable election commissioners, is here to discuss their review process. Hi everyone, thank you. Good morning. So as has already been said multiple times, I've never experienced that before, my name is Amy Sample Ward. Thank you for saying it so many times. I am one of eight, soon to be nine commissioners for the Open Accountable Elections Commission. Excited to have a full team. And just briefly to Susan's point, so the full commission did review all of the rules first. Then we created a rules subcommittee that met three times. Two of those three times specifically to focus only on the rules section and get those reviewed. hopefully true, to also, I think a lot of time in that meeting, meetings was spent to right-size the penalties to ensure that programs had some integrity and fairness towards campaigns, the true intent of this program and how we want these rules to support that. So after that, they came back to the full commission again at our most recent May meeting, and that meeting as a full group included discussion of language access, which does remain unresolved but is being discussed with members of the city council, equity advocates, event hosts, et cetera. And we don't want that to... kind of ongoing conversation to hold up the adoption of these rules at this point. And as a commission voted unanimously at the May meeting to recommend them to adoption. Thank you, Trayvon. And colleagues, as you can gather from that brief presentation, there's a lot of detail in these rules, so we didn't propose to walk through every one of them. They were presented to the chiefs of staff and happy to take any questions. Yes. Trish E. Daly. Thank you. Thank you for your hard work on this. I want to express my concerns around... I guess item number 17, which is accessibility and language access. I am a disability advocate. I'm the parent of a child with a disability, so I would be the last person to argue against accessibility accommodations, but I'm very concerned about the vagueness of this language. Number, and it is, participating candidates may not participate in a debate or similar public event that isn't in a location that provides equitable access to all members of the public. Accessibility includes reasonable provision of the following. Language services, removing physical barriers, providing modifications, accommodations, alternative formats, auxiliary aids, and other services that ensure access upon request at least 10 business days prior to the event. Okay. Number one, candidates don't participate in organizing events. Number two, I'm concerned that this... language is going to discourage small organizations and grassroots groups from holding forums. So it may decrease overall access to public forums for candidates. And only larger, more established organizations with the funds to provide all of these things will hold forums. I'm concerned about that. And finally, the language is so vague that it's not You know, I've been working with this arena for over 15 years and I'm not sure what providing modifications, accommodations, auxiliary aids, and other services might entail. So I imagine that someone that doesn't have direct experience with disability would be very confused by this language. So I'm not going to offer an amendment. I just wanted to go on record saying I think it's well-intentioned but problematic. And finally, I want to say if the city struggles to provide these things at their own public forums, then how can we expect small organizations to fulfill them? And that if we are going to require this, we need to give... we need to provide trainings or we need to provide some kind of information, maybe we need to provide a fund because some of these services could run in the hundreds of dollars for a single event. Commissioner, thank you. This is really great. You've explained what the commission has been struggling with. Actually, they have a proposal for doing exactly what you just suggested. Yes, okay. It arose... from Commissioner Fish's experience when he was running for re-election, when Philip Wolfe was also running, and Commissioner Fish decided he was not going to participate if Philip could not participate. And so that's the origin of this. As Susan and Amy both said, we agree that this needs more work, that language. It's recommended by the Office of Equity and Human Rights. We're certainly happy to, actually we know there's at least one other thing that we're going to be coming back with, more Open and Accountable Elections Fund over the next couple of months. So this is one that definitely we would be happy to have more discussions about. Fantastic. And it did just occur to me, there is a difference between accommodating a candidate with a disability and accommodating members of the public. If we have candidates who have mobility challenges, who are hearing, who are deaf, who are vision impaired, of course every forum should have to accommodate their participation. I have no problem with that. It's just that, you know... 20% of our population has some kind of disability the smaller the organization I think the harder it is for them to anticipate the needs and pay for them and adequately address them is often my experience but thanks I'm glad to hear that it's a work that is That is a work in progress. On it. Okay. May I ask a question, a follow up to this question? Thank you Commissioner Udaily for raising it. Thank you for Commissioner Fritz for acknowledging that there's people working tirelessly on this issue. And it is a complicated one. And so what is the time frame for bringing back a proposal to the council to address these issues? We were hoping to actually get it ready for you to look at today, but it's just taking a little more time than that. We would expect it would be before you within the next month or two. Okay, so before people start participating in the program, we're going to have this nailed down. Okay, great. That's satisfactory for sure. I feel like I should probably say that I do intend to use open and accountable, so I appreciate your sensitivity about not kind of creating potential contracts. conflict of interest I'm very interested in this area and would you know, welcome. That's such, what you said before, that's a good acknowledgement also that the issue of the candidate, that might be something that would help us resolve this particular issue is to specify that. I certainly remember Fondly Sue Stahl running when you were and I was. And certainly we would want to make sure that all candidates are able to participate. And I mean, we were at forums that were really challenging for her to participate for her to access. And to me, that's inexcusable. You know a candidate has a disability. You want to have a public forum for their race. You need to accommodate them. Yeah. Great suggestion. Thank you. And I'd like to be part of this discussion because my campaign last year was, I learned a number of things. We were the only campaign last year that, for example, translated our website into a a whole variety of languages to make it accessible to the public. That's not currently part of this requirement, but the idea was, if we're going to have a campaign website, we want to make sure that we're sending a clear message to the community that it is accessible. And so at some cost, we had the website translated and there was enough, I don't remember how many different languages, but there were quite a few so that we were communicating with people in multiple languages. I also, it was the first forum in the campaign and it was a forum hosted by the Democratic Socialists of America in which There was some significant miscommunication and a lot of sort of hard feelings that came out of it. A tremendous number of people from the deaf community were in the audience and felt like they were being disrespected. We had a candidate on the dais who, but for the fact that he brought his own translator, this would not have been a forum in which he could have fully participated. There was a big learning curve for me, and so what we said was we won't participate in forums in which Philip is participating and there aren't translation services and other things. I can tell you that it didn't, to my knowledge, cause any of the conveners to drop any of the forums. And we had forums, as you know, in these things, we had a lot of forums and some of them were very sparsely attended. But what it did send a strong signal to people about was, let's make sure it's handicap accessible. So if you're in a wheelchair or you have any kind of mobility limitation, let's make sure you can get there. As appropriate, let's make sure there's translation services and other things. If people are requesting an accommodation, let's put people on notice that these are public forums and they have to make an effort. So, it wasn't a perfect experience, but there was a lot of learning that went on. We ended up calling all the sponsors of events that were in the pipeline going forward and said, hey, I just want you to know we can't participate unless you do these minimal things. And I think to the credit of most of the sponsors, it was, again, a learning experience. It was, oh gosh, hadn't thought about that. You know, we'll make reasonable efforts. I do think creating a fund to help subsidize some of these things is important. And the dates and the deadlines need to, I mean, there may need to be some flexibility. What you don't want is someone gaming the system to prevent a publicly financed candidate from participating. On the other hand, again, as I learned, if you don't take reasonable measures, then what you're really saying to someone who has fostered, filed that you're not going to be treated as fairly and seriously as other candidates and that's unacceptable. And that was the gist of my concern that we not have publicly financed candidates that are participating in forums where other people are prevented from fully participating and the law from being enforced. So I'd like to be part of these conversations as we work out the details and make it more specific and I think it's going to take an election cycle to really debug this and do some learning. But I thank the sponsor for her willingness to take this on because I think it's really important. Yeah. I have a couple of, oh, Commissioner Hurst, please go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say I was just trying to remember if we have a disability commission. Is that functioning? It's currently not functioning. convening and is having conversations with the community about what the next iteration of that commission is going to be. We just funded in the budget the position that's going to help do that. Thank you for that. It would be great to actually bring Phillip Wolf and other people who are disabled together, maybe for a focus group to really talk to them directly about how we could make sure that we are writing rules that will ensure that they can fully participate, whether they're candidates or whether they are people that want to work on an election that's actually being run by someone with a disability you know we always do this after the fact and it would be so much more effective if we would bring people with us right as we go through this process but I agree with Commissioner Fish that until we go through a full cycle and learn what we don't know about what we don't know then I think as long as we're engaging those communities and keeping them connected to make sure that if we identify barriers, that we remove them as soon as possible, I think we will have an excellent election cycle. So thank you for your hard work. It's amazing how much progress we've made in such a very short period of time. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor? I can just add one other comment. that I now recall. The language is, shall not participate in a forum? Is that the specific trigger language? Yes. Okay, because there was a second category of controversy in my race, which I'll just put on the table so that you're aware of it. And that is, notwithstanding the commitment I made that If I were on a panel, I would not participate unless it was fully accessible. I did one Saturday attend a forum, actually it was Joanne's forum, because I was interested in seeing how those candidates were doing. So I went to a church forum, Joanne and the other candidates for the other seat were participating in the debate, Philip came to that. and similarly felt shut out from the process and was very critical of me for participating. And, you know, we drew a distinction between being a participant and, you know, for our race and being in the audience at some other debate. But it still raises an interesting question, and I understand from his perspective why they were disinclined. And he didn't view them as either or. He viewed them as the same set of issues. So I offer that just to complicate our thinking a little bit because that became a topic of conversation. Yes. Thank you. I have a question, and I know you're prepped for this, and I don't think I got the answer prior to the session this morning. But it's my understanding based on the rules that if one were to have funds in their PAC, which I do, If I were to participate in this program, I would have to return those funds? Is that accurate or no? So if they're in your candidate political committee, you would need to return them after filing your notice of intent and pay a penalty for having collected them outside of the context of the rules. but then could get certified if you met the certification requirements. Okay, so could I stop you on that point? So how can you tell? I have a PAC, it's been ongoing. My PAC's been alive for I think 12 years now. The funds get used for a variety of purposes. They get used for sponsorships, tables. They get used for other initiatives. Most recently, for example, I made a contribution to the regional housing bond. And they could also be used for the purposes of reelection. How do you make that differentiation? Are we talking about a candidate's political committee or a PAC separate from the candidate's political committee? Okay. It is the candidates. Okay. So we require once a person has filed their notice of intent, at the next reporting deadline, they need to report all of their activity in that political committee, you know, from the beginning of the election cycle. And if there are funds in that political committee already, they can transfer up to $5,000 of those funds as seed money into the account they're going to use – for the public money to come into and to make all of their expenditures out of. So what they need to do is essentially freeze the old account so that they can't use it to support their election while they're a participating candidate. So as long as it's sequestered, if it is sequestered separately, it could still be used for those other purposes. It just could not be used for the furtherance of a local race. Is that a fair way of stating it? Sensitive. Just so I understand it. Okay. Well, so if it's an account separate from the candidate's political committee, it could be used. Right, so what if you create an entirely new PAC just for the purpose of participating in the public election cycle? Mm-hmm. So there are two rules that this relates to. So one set of rules, if it's your candidate committee, then you basically have to freeze any of the money that was raised – prior to the election cycle and then have a separate account that you're bringing money into as a participating candidate and spending money out of. If it's a separate political entity that's not the candidate's political committee, then it can continue to do its business as long as it doesn't make any actions that supports your candidacy or opposes one of your opponents. Okay, and who would make that determination? Let me give you just a crazy example. Let's say... let's say we had a sixth congressional district in the state of Oregon and it was important Portland and we had a congressional candidate with seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars in their pack and they decide hey I'd really like to run for the City Council I'd like to run for mayor or whatever walk me through that does that mean that they could not use the seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars in their pack for any political purpose while they are running and they would establish a separate pack for the purposes of the election? Is that a correct interpretation? Well, so one of the scenarios we were thinking through with the rules was, you know, what if someone thinks they're running for one race at a different level that doesn't have a public financing program, and so they're raising money and spending money according to the state rules, not the program rules? And then something happens, a seat opens up for example, and they think actually I'd like to run for that seat at the city level. In that case, all they have to do is if they want to use that account that they've already been raising money into and spending money out of, but not according to program rules, they just need to remedy any rule they've broken. Pay, you know, return contributions that were in excess of the limits. or cure any prohibited expenditures, pay a penalty, and then apply for certification. So that's how it would work in that scenario. Okay, and just to make sure I understand this then, as long as there is a sequestered independent PAC-related request, to the race at the municipal level and the other resources are definitively not spent for the furtherance of that campaign, you could still participate using that new PAC and only that new PAC. Is that correct? So the other rule is that you can't. We can't get you to say yes or no. Sure, I know. So the other rule is that you can't. solicit or direct contributions to an entity other than your campaign committee that spends money on your race. So if you have already done so and it's already spent some money on your race, then you pay a penalty according to the rules. Okay. And one final question related to this, and we don't necessarily have to nail these answers down today, but I'm just giving you some of my concerns that I think we're going to have to have some very clear definitive rules around who gets to decide. So let's say that you're right and that I've established a separate PAC and we have funds going in from the public elections process. And somebody says, but hey, wait a minute, you are through your other PAC supporting a fundraising effort or a dinner for a key constituency, you know, let's say Planned Parenthood or NAROL pro-choice Oregon that could have an impact on this race. Is that a contribution to the race or isn't? And who gets to decide who, who is the definitive decider? So the director of the open accountable elections makes the initial determination and sends a letter, you know, uh, announcing a penalty or sometimes decertification, then the candidate can then request reconsideration if they believe that that determination was made an error. And if that's not resolved to their satisfaction, they can do a formal appeal. And we're working with the state administrative law judges to handle the formal appeals process. Okay, good. And then last but not least, and I may have just misinterpreted this in the proposed rules, it It appears that the administrator has the authority to change the rules unilaterally for a period of up to one year. Is that accurate? That's right. That's emergency rulemaking. And what kind of rules are subjected? What's the latitude there? What is the span of control over those kinds of unilaterally made rules? The same rulemaking authority as the law provides. Which is what? Which is, you know, it's essentially the list that I kind of listed out earlier and then any other rules necessary for the administration of the program. And that's similar to other administrative rules that the director of a bureau gets to make changes. As I said at the beginning, normally these rules wouldn't even come to council, but we wanted them to.
 Okay. I'll stew on that for a while. Okay. But I appreciate your responses. Thank you. Sure. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I have to say it. I was totally with you until you tried to answer the Mayor's questions. And then I got more confused than I've been about this process. Because I never heard you say yes or no to the Mayor's question about if I've got this campaign fund that's separate from my city campaign fund, Can I still use that campaign fund for all the legal purposes that I would be able to use that campaign fund for as long as it's not impacting the race that I'm running for with the city public finance system? Yes. Thank you. I've been waiting for that, right? Okay, so those two can be totally separate and operate separately as long as I'm not co-mingling those funds. Commingling or using one to support another. Right. A dubious purpose like getting elected to the city council, right? Yeah. Okay, thank you. I feel much better now. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion? Very well. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have three people signed up. Very good. Come on up. Lightning, Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson, and Maggie. Thank you everyone for signing up today. Three minutes each, please. Name for the record. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Humanity. Now, so it's my understanding is that one of the reasons this program is being put together is to take in $500 from a candidate and then the city will match those funds. Now, if I'm incorrect on that, you're going to have to explain that because what I'm seeing here is that the city is... wanted to subsidize this, the candidate, and then put a lot of restrictions on what they're going to be able to do as far as running as a candidate. And where I find this rather interesting is that you have a penalty system in place to come back and If you don't report properly, you'll be penalized. We can go up to $10,000 in penalties. We'll do a 12% interest rate. We'll contact the city attorney. We may seek civil penalties. We may not. And then on the rules itself, you say, well, we can pass an amendment to change the rules, and those rules are good for 12 months. There'll be no... city council approval but if you want to make those rules permitted after 12 months then we'll put it up in front of the city council and then you counter back and you say well this isn't going to be political if we run a lot of penalties on this candidate and and they're giving us maybe information that's late and there's a lot of issues here that just opens up a situation to where let's just say i wanted to run against the mayor And I have city council members that don't like me because of the way I've spoke out against them in the past. And then I sign up for this program and then you have some director and they go, oh that's lightning, oh boy, look at this. A little bit late here, this, that, oh, well he's got this separate fund over here, well we'll let it slide over here, but oh lightning. This is our time, lightning. This is our time to let you know how government really works. And you know, here's my problem. You're trying to be open and accountable here, but I think this is purely political on jeopardizing a candidate's position to be able to move forward. And such as what the mayor said, he already has funds over here. Now he's supposed to possibly freeze these funds in some manner, then report these funds over here, and then come back here and then get approval. Oh, well, you're in violation. More penalties. Well, I'd like to have access to every document and every penalty on any candidate because everything that comes up, I want the media to have everything. Are you going to allow me to do that, to hand everything to the media? Yes. Fair enough. Everything will be posted online and everybody will be able to see it. Okay. And this is my option if I'm a candidate to go into this program, correct? So would that influence maybe a vote because this person doesn't want to go into this program, but it looks open and accountable, we'll be viewing this. This person does not. Would that kind of influence that vote at the end of the day by the public possibly? Yes or no? No. Very good. Thank you. Just to correct your initial statements, the rule is that you can only accept $250 from any Portland resident. Okay. And then only the first $50 is matched. Okay. Very good. Thank you. Maggie, would you like to? Hi, I'm Maggie. I don't want to run for office, but I want to comment on the PAC-related issue first. It's too bad that we've got this PAC situation where you just run – for election all term instead of having just, here's your public money to run for six weeks and that's it, you're done and the rest of the time you're running the government instead of running for office. You see what I'm saying? Rather have you fixing government problems than just running for office. That's not a job. And then the second thing I would like to say on voting access and disability, voting access and new citizens, voting access and, you know, formerly incarcerated, voting access for low-income, marginalized citizens. I want to comment about voting access. I worked on Obama's 2012 campaign. I covered the university and I covered the low income and disabled people. And I want to tell you that they feel very marginalized especially disabled people, I would go to the low-income apartments and you know I would explain to them that I couldn't tell them how to vote but I could tell them who the people were and who you know which district they were in and and that was it and at the end of the campaign I had you know so many vote you know, envelopes, you know, running back, you know, when the clock was running down, that I had to, like, stuff some envelopes into my shirt because I had no more room to carry any back to the district. And, you know, whether they were voting Republican or Democrat I consider it a triumph when a low-income disabled person votes and you know I heard you know you were back in my history and look I'm I bring blind people and deaf people up to the governor's office and help them write notes to the governor and I just think we need We need better campaign literature because the news paper campaign literature is really bad. We need like Reader's Digest, Big Print, color photos, show which district each person is in, what time their drop-in is, when they're available, all that email. And then You know what disabled people love? They love it when the campaign people come with the boxes and they come to the apartments and they don't have to go to the polling booth. They love them to come and pick up the envelopes and take them right back to the precinct district and drop them right off. Yeah. So the students can do that. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Maggie, I just want to say, you know, there's some things that government shouldn't do. And what you're talking about is one of those things that I do not believe government should do. That is the job of community nonprofits. I've done a lot of voter registration and education campaigns, and we really don't want government going out organizing meetings to explain to people how to vote, right? Right. That's why I was doing that, because I'm out in government. I said at the beginning, I don't want to run for office. But let me just say, the League of Women Voters does one of the best jobs of really explaining both sides of ballot measures. It is in plain English. They do an excellent job of that, right? Yeah, and I've got to say, the League of Women Voters does a great job of explaining both sides of ballot measures. of women voters, they're getting up there in age and they don't want to go out to the universities and disable people because they... However common. It is available in every library. It is accessible in every corner of the city of Portland. Right? So let's utilize community resources that we have rather than trying to duplicate efforts that work so well. Yeah, it would be great to have ballot boxes at the library. You know, where there's a Oh, that's right. There is here. There is here. That's right. Very good. Commissioner Fritz. Maggie, I just want to say thank you for your testimony and thank you for the work that you've done. It's obvious that you share the passion on this issue. Thank you. Well, and I'll just say I know many of the women who are involved with the League of Women Voters, and most of them are going to outlast me for sure. Thank you. Good morning. How are you doing today? Or perhaps at least outlast your mayoral regime. I'm Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and I'd like to put a little context. Back in 2012, 38,762 voters thought that Cameron Witten would be the best state treasurer. But alas, Ted crushed him with almost a million votes. And now we have a city council where... I would say that the most elected person, even though only three people are currently in the five chairs, the most elected person is Joanne Hardesty, who had over 150,000 votes, almost 40,000 votes ahead of the actual mayor. And as we move towards the 2020 election, it's great that we're going to this open and accountable election system. So more grassroots people that are not as engaged with the local democratic machinery will be able to run. But as we learned from the mayor's questions, we have things in this ordinance like part 15, Q3, Roman numeral four, where fortunately those things only all fit in 13 pages. But there's a maximum penalty of $10,000. And I think that that's the thing that actually most ties in with the concern that Lightning raised, is how do we make sure that one candidate, when they have a problem, is not penalized more than another? It's going to be a learning process, and I'm definitely in favor of seeing you all vote unanimously as a unanimous panel of five to put this into practice. But the phrase political action committee isn't in there, only the phrase political committee. So hopefully what Lightning alluded to in his question that Amanda Fritz answered is people's conduct within the system is an issue that we get to judge them by. If a person says, oh, I don't know if I want to use the highly regulated public process system. I just want to grab bootloads of cash from Monsanto or Nike and run. Or Trump's ambassador to the EU. Okay, please. Sentinel Hotel, Gordon Eastland, Trump's EU ambassador. But please do vote yes and make sure that we develop a context so that... Maybe there's eventually some language linking the amount of the penalty to the size of the indiscretion I couldn't see in the brief time we were looking at this how that's in there, but it's a Important program as we look at Commissioner Fritz moving on and as our community tries to decide Which people are going to be vying for the mayoral seat and how we're all going to pressure Joanne to run for that seat we need to have these processes so that great people that have already been mentioned, the late, great Sue Stahl, who is no longer with us, can inform these conversations, and Philip Wolf. And I also hope that we... Get some progress to wrap it up. Resurrect something like the PCOD, the Portland Commission on Disability. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks, both of you. Commissioner Fritz. I just want to say we need more students. Thank you for your time. Appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz. Would you be comfortable putting an emergency clause on this? Would anybody not be comfortable putting an emergency clause on this? Me? No. Okay. Then I move that motion. I move to add an emergency clause because it's in the public interest to have these rules in effect when the program opens on July 1st. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further discussion on this particular amendment, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment passes to the main motion. Sorry. Aye. Yep, this is a resolution to the main motion. As amended, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That is not right. I withdraw that. This is an ordinance, and we've now put it in an emergency clause. Right. Right. Okay. Sorry. Coffee hadn't kicked in yet. Aye again. You daily. Aye. Aye. Fritz. Colleagues, thank you for delving into these rules, for the engagement in the system. Thank you very much to Susan Mote, Anna Paisior, Christina Nieves and Tim Crail. Thank you to the Open and Accountable Elections Commission. You've done amazing work in a very, very short time. Thank you to the Voice for All Portlanders Coalition, who have been engaged in this process since the very beginning. And thank you just to the people of Portland for... electing me in the first place with public campaign financing and for knowing that this is wise use of taxpayers' money because it's going to increase the trust in government and avoiding the appearance of corruption for politicians. It's a small step, but it's a necessary one. Aye.
 Wheeler. First of all, sorry for the confusion. People may not realize that sometimes sitting in this chair requires an incredible amount of multitasking and I sort of blew it there, so sorry for the confusion. I think this is an important step in the right direction. I want to be very clear. I think there will need to be revisions over time. I think there will be a learning process, and this is a process that's going to evolve. But I want to thank Commissioner Fritz in particular for the considerable amount of effort that she and her team have put into this. And I'm glad that we now have the commission ready to. step up their work. That gives more public eyes on the process. And I look forward to seeing how this evolves in the months and years ahead. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Next item, please, is... Yes, we can do this. 5-2-0. Adopt the Portland Parks and Recreation Integrated Pest Management Policy to prohibit the use of Avatrol and other avicides on city-owned property and infrastructure. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. In early 2018, the city received multiple reports of suspicious crow deaths across Portland. The Oregonian reported on witnesses who saw nearly a dozen crows falling dead out of the sky. Clearly someone or something was poisoning crows. Anyone who has come downtown in the early evening during the winter has likely seen the annual gathering of crows. It's a spectacle to be seen, thousands of crows amassing in trees on power lines and on rooftops. This annual gathering is not welcomed by everybody. The crows leave behind a mess, generating calls and emails from residents demanding that the city do something. While we cannot and should not control the natural behavior of thousands of wild birds, the city's response has been measured. Additional cleaning of the streets and sidewalks by Clean and Safe and the hiring of a team of falconers to fly hawks through downtown. To some in our community, those efforts were not enough, and we think a resident may have intentionally fed birds avitrol, the deadly commercial grade neurotoxin that killed the crows. This is unacceptable. These poisons are inhumane and these types of actions risk exposing the general public, local wildlife and the entire food chain to a dangerous neurotoxin. Today I'm proud to introduce representatives from both of my bureaus, the Bureau of Environmental Services and Parks and Recreation, to explain how we are working to prohibit the use of Avitrol and other bird poisons on public property. With us this morning are Nicole Lyman, Pest Management Specialist with Parks and Recreation, and David Helzer, Environmental Specialist with BES, with a presentation. After their presentation, we have invited a panel that includes Bob Salinger, Stephanie Boyles-Griffin, and Lisa Frisch. And after that, we're going to take a picture, if I can indulge the council. So Nicole and David, welcome, and take it away. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Dave Helzer. I'm a biologist with Environmental Services. Nicole Leninghan, I oversee the Pest Management Program. Nicole, move the mic a little closer to you. Integrated Pest Management Program. I'm just going to give you a brief overview to build on Commissioner Fish's introductory comments. A little background on the history of City Council actions for protection of birds and conservation of other wildlife here in Portland. The city has taken a number of actions over the years, going all the way back to 1986, with the adoption of the great blue heron as the official city bird. And a little more information on crows in Portland. Crows are a familiar urban bird. They're renowned for their intelligence. During the summertime, crows are all throughout our neighborhoods right now, spread out throughout the city in family groups raising young. During the winter, crows form up into larger flocks and on winter nights they form communal roosts, numbering in the tens of thousands sometimes, usually thousands of birds. They do this because there's safety in numbers for protection from the elements, warmth, for example, protection from predators, and also in these wintertime roosts, they share information on food resources. Along with this comes a nuisance, which is crow droppings on the sidewalk. Downtown Clean and Safe has used a couple of non-lethal strategies to address this nuisance of bird droppings on the sidewalks, including using, as Commissioner Fish described, falconers who have trained hawks. And these trained hawks harass the crows as they're settling in for the night. and kind of herd them into safe areas, including the parks behind City Hall. And that's what this photo here illustrates is the wintertime crow roost on a snowy night taken by a representative actually of the Portland Police Bureau. So avitrol is an avicide. What is an avicide? An avicide is a class of pesticide used to control birds. Avitrol is a lethal form of bird control. It's a neurotoxin. We've had several crow poisoning events, as Commissioner Fish mentioned, with dozens of dead and dying crows found falling from the sky, notably in 2014 and 2018. In those instances, it was confirmed that Avatrol was the cause of the crow deaths. It was unknown who used the product. The Oregon Department of Agriculture is investigating that. Avatrol and other avicides represent some significant risks to other birds. For example, birds that are not the target of the control. Wild birds can consume the bait, the poison bait. Predators then can consume, such as eagles or falcons, can consume birds who've consumed the poison bait and absorb it that way. It's also a risk for pets who may consume the bait And finally, it's a risk for people. In fact, the label for this restricted use out-of-site prohibits it being used in an area where children are present or an area where children may have access. I'm going to turn it over to Nicole now. All right. Thank you. As many of you know, Parks oversees thousands of acres of land from natural areas to botanical gardens, golf courses, and developed parks. each with varying sites and with specific needs, usabilities, and public expectations of uses. Because of this, Parks has an integrated pest management program to help manage the land. It's available to staff, the public, and is also adopted by many city bureaus. What is IPM? Well, it's a process and it can be seen as a playbook with multiple tools in your toolbox to use when you have a pest. And it can also help you prevent pests from emerging as well. When a pest arises, the IPM program helps the staff decide if they should control the pest in the first place. What happens if they don't control the pest and the best way to control it? So first we look to local, city, state, federal agencies such as Solar Water Conservation, Oregon Department of Agriculture, EPA, USDA, local universities on the best science available for pest management. Some control options that we utilize are cultural, physical, mechanical, manual, biological, and chemical, but usually it's a combination of a few of them. Once we make the application then we monitor the results and determine if we would need to repeat. Parks has recently added an avian management policy to our IPM program, reinforcing Parks and other city bureaus' stance of no chemical harm to birds. And it also guides employees to review BES best management practices for scheduling maintenance to limit harm to nesting birds. Why have we gone this route? Well, the city cannot supersede Oregon Department of Agriculture's regulations, which enforce state and federal regulations regarding pesticide use. But the city can model actions we would like to see taken by the public. And we can also use this to promote awareness of the city's stance on avicides. So we are here today to request the city require other bureaus to adopt Portland Parks and Recreation's IPM policy on avian management. Thank you very much. That was very succinct. If there are no questions from my colleagues, we'll invite up our panel. Thank you very much. Bob Salinger, Conservation Director for the Audubon Society of Portland. And I'd be remiss if I didn't say that both Bob and Audubon have been indispensable partners in developing this policy. Stephanie Boyles-Griffin, Senior Director and Wildlife Biologist with the Humane Society of the United States. And Stephanie, welcome to Portland. It's a nice convergence of your being here and a chance for you to testify. And we thank you for taking the time. And Lisa Frisch with the Portland Business Alliance. With that, I'll turn it over to Bob. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Bob Sollinger. I'm the conservation director for Portland Audubon Society. And I would just add Tara from Center for Biological Diversity is also here today and would like to testify as well. So thank you very much for this resolution. We are here today to express our strong support and appreciation for the work that has been done on this, particularly to Commissioner Fish and his staff, Jamie Dunphy, and the city staff, James Allison, Dave Helzer, Paul Ketchum, Caitlin Lovell, Nicole Lyman. A lot of work has gone into this and we really appreciate the work that has been done. These types of avocides are dangerous, they're indiscriminate, they're cruel, and they're inhumane, and they have no place on our landscape whatsoever, and particularly on an urban landscape. Dave's told you a little bit about avitrol, but I want to tell you a little bit more. It is an avicide, a bird pesticide. It is a neurotoxin. It is put in bait, and bait birds are lured in, and they eat it. It is advertised as humane. It is anything but humane. It is designed to trigger an alarm response in birds. Birds seizure, they convulse, they scream, they lie on the ground on their sides and their back, their legs pedaling in the air, and then for the most part they eventually die. That can go on for minutes, it can go on for hours. The pesticide takes sometimes a long time to kick in, so birds can disperse over wide areas before they actually are impacted and then literally fall out of the sky and die on the ground. It's marketed as non-lethal, but in fact if you read the EPA registration and label, it says explicitly, quote, birds that react and alarm usually die. It is inhumane and it is lethal. Applicators are required to keep the poison area free of people and pets until all poisoned birds are collected. However, this is totally unrealistic. It's a joke. It can take an extended period of time to kick in, and a flock of birds or an individual bird that has consumed this poison can travel miles before it actually feels the impacts. This means that birds can get scattered over miles and miles of our city after they've been poisoned in our neighborhoods, in our parks, in our community. And the risk to people and pets and other wildlife is particularly high because if you think about the mechanism of death, these birds are lying on the ground, falling out of the sky, lying on the ground, screaming, pedaling, flapping their wings involuntarily. That's the kind of response that draws attention. So if you're a red-tailed hawk or a peregrine falcon or a dog or a cat or a child, that's the kind of thing that may cause you to come and pick up these birds. And by the way, this compound is both orally and dormally toxic. So it's toxic to ingestion, it's toxic to the touch. This is really scary stuff. And yet, it is sold and legally used. So I want to tell you a little bit about the two events that we had, because I think it's important to get it on the record. The first one was November 24th, 2014, the day before Thanksgiving. Dead crows started showing up at Chapman and Lounsdale squares. A little while later, they were discovered in Waterfront Park, a 25-plus block area covered in dead crows. We started getting calls, the city started getting calls, the city responded, the state responded, the feds responded, Audubon responded. We were all down there the day before Thanksgiving collecting dead crows and trying to figure out what went on. The fire department responded and took air samples because there was a concern that this was a terrorist attack, that somebody had put something into our environment and this was actually terrorism. It is terrorism, but different kind than what people were thinking at that moment, but it was scary enough. We set up an emergency hotline. We called in extra volunteers and we called in extra staff. And for the next several days throughout the holiday weekend, we collected dead crows and responded to every single report of sick and injured birds. I actually went out into the field and did that. Our wildlife care center did that. I collected them and then got them off to the labs for shipping for testing. And it was, in fact, confirmed that this was Avatrol. We didn't know what it was at the time. That's one of the really scary things, is you don't know until several days, sometimes weeks later after they get done with the testing. The second event was in late January of 2018. People in northeast Portland near MLK and northeast Jessup witnessed a flock of crows flying overhead and suddenly birds literally started dropping from the sky, crashing into the ground. Some were dead when they hit the ground. Others screamed and twitched and seizure and convulsed and then died. A reporter that covered it said it was one of the worst things that she had ever seen. Again, a massive mobilization, city, state, feds, Audubon. We again set up a hotline. We again went out for days, actually weeks afterwards, looking at sick and dying birds to see if this was a continuation of the pattern. We are still getting calls today from that announcement of if you see sick and dying birds, call us. People are still calling saying, I saw a sick crow yesterday. I'm worried because I think it might have been poison. There might be poison in my neighborhood. Now this is obviously not something that's associated with that incident, but it's how it gets into the psyche of our community. We put up a $1,000 reward on each one of these, but we didn't identify anybody who had actually done it, unfortunately. These incidents have occurred in other cities as well. There was a big incident in Bend several years back in which they poisoned over a senior center and birds lay dying on the rooftop in the ground. They measured the temperature of that ground where those birds were lying and convulsing. It was over 140 degrees. Anybody that tells you this is a humane way to die hasn't really looked at this product. You can imagine a wild animal lying out in the open on 140-degree ground twitching and convulsing. I want to call out our Wildlife Care Center because this is the kind of stuff that our Wildlife Care Center responds to. We have a Wildlife Care Center volunteer here today, Carrie May, in the front row. We have over 100 volunteers and several staff. We deal with 3,000 injured animals a year and 10,000 wildlife phone calls. These are among the scariest types of situations we see. People ask me, is it scary to work with wild animals, eagles and bears? No, it's scary to work with poisoned animals because you can't identify them as they come in the door. They don't come in with a tag saying, do not handle me because I have a dermal poison on my body. That's what really worries me with our staff and volunteers is this kind of a risk that we have to respond to. And it's not a theoretical risk. It's a real risk. I and another staffer and person were poisoned in the 1990s handling birds that were poisoned with a different compound called Ritterbird. There was a dermal poison, a contact poison. Redtail came in, was identified as hit by car. In fact, it was covered in this compound, and we both wound up enjoying symptoms of that poison. It is a real, real risk to the community, and it's a real risk to the people that respond. I particularly call out our care center today because we're going to go through a big expansion process next year. And this is the kind of thing that we're set up to do. We provide a really big service to this community and we'd love to have council support. And the importance of this facility as we go forward with that expansion process. Your endorsement will be helpful in that so we can continue to respond to these kinds of events. So I want to end today. by simply noting that this is a very important step that you're taking. I want to note that the city does not poison birds and we appreciate that. And although this applies on city property, and the city isn't using these poisons, this will prevent anybody from even considering it in the future on city property. But more importantly, it sends a message to our community that these poisons are unacceptable, they're dangerous, and they don't have any place here. It sends a message to the state that they need to do a better job regulating these incidences and following up on them and also perhaps giving local authority so that we can regulate them better in our own communities And finally, it sends a message to the EPA, which is responsible for licensing and re-registering these pesticides periodically. We hear constantly that we don't have any data about these pesticides from the PPA. We don't know that they're causing problems. Well, it's very, very hard to actually identify non-target incidences like the ones we see. and the problems that they create because they don't get well documented. What you're doing today is documenting what occurred. You're putting the city on record, as other cities have as well. And when this does come up for re-registration, hopefully what we'll see is EPA making the right decision the next time and getting these products, this product in particular, but these kinds of products off the market permanently and forever. So thank you very much for all your work on this. We really appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Stephanie Boyles Griffin and I serve as the senior scientist in the wildlife protection department at the Humane Society of the United States in Washington, D.C. I really appreciate the opportunity to be here today. I also serve as a science and policy director for the Bot Stever Institute for Wildlife Fertility Control. That institute serves as sort of the world's premier clearinghouse on anything and everything having to do with that field of wildlife management. In 2011, I was appointed by Governor Martin O'Malley to serve as a commissioner on the Maryland Wildlife Advisory Commission. Just wanted to kind of give you all a little bit of background about myself. I've been working in the field of human wildlife conflict resolution for about 20 years. During that time, I've worked with federal, state, government agencies, municipalities, and corporations to implement humane, sustainable programs. For instance, I did my master's thesis working with the Virginia Department of Transportation to resolve conflicts with beavers in a humane and sustainable way where they dam road culverts and cause roads to wash out. And we're currently working with a team of my associates and colleagues at HSUS with the Bureau of Land Management to find ways to manage wild burrows at a herd management area in northwestern Arizona using fertility control vaccines. But on behalf of the HSUS and our Portland, Oregon members and constituents, we really appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony this morning and to express our strong support for the proposed resolution to adopt a the Portland Parks and Recreation's integrated pest management policy that prohibits the use of Avatrol and other avicides on city-owned property and on infrastructure. As Bob has already said and was presented by the Parks Department, Avatrol is a restricted use toxic chemical used to kill pigeons and other birds. That's what it's registered for. It's promoted as a flock-frightening agent or a repellent, but it is, in fact, a nervous system poison that can indiscriminately kill any bird or any mammal that consumes it, including livestock and even companion animals. Birds who consume it suffer convulsions and often die very slow, painful deaths. It is not only really traumatic for the birds to die this way, as Bob stated, but it's also really traumatic for people, especially children, who witness or try to help dying birds when they're found in public spaces. These kind of grisly events have been reported. reported on by our constituents and it's been covered in the news media over many years this avicide has been in use. Me personally, when I first entered this realm of work that I do now, one of the first things I got called off on is birds falling out of the sky and gathering them up and trying to figure out what was wrong with them, seeing the bait around. I'd never seen avitrol before. I thought it was just corn that had a little little bit of green matter on it. I had no idea it was a toxicant, and it is a dermal toxicant, and I was probably picking it up with my bare hands, just trying to keep another bird from consuming it. I was putting myself at risk doing so. I know better now, but what if it had been a kid? And not me. So users claim that these distressed behavior of poison birds actually frightens them away and their flock members away, but any frightening effect of abitrol on surviving birds is very short-lived. and because birds remaining in the area return quickly and reproduce. And that's basically why killing birds by any means, not just avatrol, it's not only cruel, it fails to address the root cause of whatever the problem may be, leading to an endless killing, an unnecessary killing cycle. So from the HSUS's perspective, when impacts are being experienced from birds aggregating in areas due to attractants or an area that's accessible for nesting and loafing, we encourage cities to implement a humane, integrated approach to mitigate these impacts and manage bird populations. For example, many of the conflicts with birds can be tied to feeding, so we support efforts by cities to curb the intentional or unintentional feeding of birds by educating the public, and proactively removing food attractants. We also recommend using a wide variety of devices available to permanently prevent birds from roosting and nesting in areas where they're not wanted. Our decades of work on conflict resolution with communities across the U.S. demonstrates to us that these kinds of integrated and comprehensive approaches to managing issues with birds and other wildlife are the most successful in providing long-term resolution and preventing unnecessary killing of both target and non-target animals. And finally, we support the use of fertility control methods, like the product Ovocontrol, to stabilize and reduce the size of flocks over time when it's necessary and appropriate to do so. Ovocontrol is a bird contraception that comes in the form of kibble-type food, which causes birds who eat it to reg... to that regularly to lay eggs that would fail to develop. So it's humane, it's sustainable, doesn't always have to be used, but in situations where it might be beneficial to slowly reduce the flock size over time, it's something that's an option for cities. For these reasons, all of the above, we strongly support the proposed resolution and applaud the City of Portland for its leadership in establishing a humane and compassionate standard for mitigating conflicts with birds that we hope corporations, businesses, and private property owners in and around Portland will also soon follow. Avatrol has been banned in Great Britain. And two cities in Canada have also banned it, Red Deer and Halifax. It's also restricted in New York, the state, and banned in New York City, San Francisco, Fort Collins, and Boulder, Colorado. We are thrilled that the city of Portland will now serve as a trailblazer for the development and implementation of humane and effective bird management policies and hope to see these policies replicated in other cities and towns in Oregon, the Pacific Northwest, and beyond. Thank you again for the opportunity to comment on the proposed resolution this morning, and I'm happy to address any questions that you may have. Thank you. Thank you very much for being here. It's a great honor to have you testify before us. Thank you. Now we have up Lisa Frisch from the Portland Business Alliance. Lisa, welcome. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Lisa Frisch, and I'm the Downtown Retail Program Director for Portland Business Alliance and Downtown Clean and Safe. Thank you. I'm here today to provide information on city approved methods that we have employed to minimize nuisance issues related to crows in the downtown area. I do have a video I'm going to show halfway through my testimony. In 2015, in our annual business census and survey data collection, we were surprised to note that many of our respondents felt that downtown was not as clean as it was in the past. As you know, Clean and Safe spends over a million dollars with a contract with Central City Concern to provide janitorial services in downtown Portland. We hadn't noticed a huge difference in the amount of litter that we were picking up in downtown, but we did notice that the crow population was booming, something that we hadn't previously seen. In some high crow population areas, streets, sidewalks, furnishings were carpet bombed with bird droppings. Our cleaning staff power washes every sidewalk in the clean and safe district twice a year but we started to power wash every night in high crow population areas and Two issues that presented, we power wash overnight so as not to disturb pedestrian activity during the day, but crows dirty the sidewalks around 7 a.m. in the morning. Additionally, crows were causing issues in the cold weather months, and we cannot power wash during freezing conditions as it would lead to unsafe conditions on the sidewalk. In 2015, Portland Mall Management Inc. partnered with Clean and Safe to contract with a company that provided a Zamboni-like sidewalk scrubber that we dubbed the Poopmaster 6000. And I have a video that aired on NBC Nightly News about the Poopmaster 6000 that I'm going to show you. In the dark downtown Portland, you might not be able to see the crows, but you can definitely see the mess they leave behind. The challenge was how to clean after the crows leave at like 7 in the morning. You know, when they wake up and think they leave. The crows roost here in the winter. Their droppings coat everything from statues to sidewalks. But today, in five days a week from now until spring, this little green machine is making a difference. It's called the Poopmaster 6000 and comes complete with a rather guilty-looking crow on the front. Portland Mall Management is renting the Poopmaster for a six-month trial. It cleans up all the droppings in the mall area and works in wet or dry weather. People we talked to seemed to appreciate it. I think it would beautify the area. It would keep the stench away because it does kind of smell. And it would just make the city more attractive. At the very least, it's getting a lot of attention. People come up and want to take a picture. I'm like, yeah, sure, you know. Most part, they're liking it. Thank you. A little bit of humor for today's important and serious topic. The Poopmaster 6000 cleaned the sidewalk, but it was a slow process. You saw how the machine was very slow. It was very limited in scope and very expensive, $30,000 to rent for a season. The Poopmaster did make a return appearance in late 2016, but at that time we sought a more sustainable solution. Since that time we worked with integrated avian solutions to help direct the crow populations from high pedestrian areas instead to green spaces where they might have a more enjoyable experience. Integrated avian solutions employs falconry to manage nuisance bird populations by allowing a raptor, in this case a Harris Hawk, to fly near groups of crows. Oh, you didn't say murders of crows. I was waiting for that. It's in the document here. I think it might not be politically correct, crow term. Ooh. I read something online that some people have asked us not to use that term, so. Interesting, thank you very much. You're welcome, sorry about that. It was the proper term though. It was the proper term, but might not be a correct term. The presence of the raptor makes the birds roost elsewhere. There are no sounds emitted. There is no contact between the birds. We just wrapped up our third year of the program, and you may have noticed that bird droppings have diminished in the central city, while Waterfront Park is a new haven for crows at night. We want to thank the City of Portland for partnering with us on these innovative solutions. Through the journey, we never employed any avicide or abitrol or any tactics that were not supported by the city or the Audubon Society. We are always looking for innovative solutions that crop up to issues in downtown Portland and hope to act as a model for other enhanced service districts. We are very proud to show our successful results and will be rolling out the next phase of our Crow Abatement Program this October. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, questions for our distinguished panel? I've learned a lot today. Thank you for being here. That is a superb presentation. Thank you. That concludes our formal presentation. Carla, has anyone signed up? Yes, we have two people signed up. Very good. With Maggie and Tara Cornelisse. Come on up. Name for the record, please. Same picture. I like it. Hello, thank you, Commissioners and Mayor. I am Dr. Tara Cronelisi, and I'm a senior scientist with the Center for Biological Diversity. We're a national nonprofit where we work to conserve biological diversity. We have many offices around the country, but I'm based here in Portland. So under that hat, as well as a resident of Portland and someone who loves wildlife, I just would like to provide some quick comment. Basically, I would just like to express my support and appreciation for this great resolution banning avatrol and other bird poisons. With the current mass extinction crisis, you know, the UN report just came out recently, a million species are at risk of extinction, you know, because of human activities. We're really lucky that any wildlife can survive with us in our cities particularly. Thank you. And so instead of poisoning them with dangerous chemicals, we should really appreciate how birds can add to our human-dominated landscape, including crows and pigeons. They're very unique animals with lots of really interesting behavior and intelligence. Overall, the Center for Biological Diversity advocates nationally against the use of dangerous pesticides, particularly that impair either non-target organisms or organisms that really add to the landscape, like bees, aquatic invertebrates, and of course birds. So we strongly support this resolution and are happy that Portland can once again provide an example for the rest of the states, I was happy to hear about that, as well as the country. And as Bob mentioned, an example of the EPA for how these dangerous chemicals should not be used and should not be re-registered to eliminate these kinds of harmful toxins. So I just wanted to say thank you for passing this resolution on behalf of myself and the Center for Biological Diversity. Thank you very much. I want to thank all the people who came to testify on this issue. And is there any way to prevent this chemical from being used on private property as well? Cruelty to animals and the spread of cancer-causing dermal toxins is not a good thing. So it's great that the city wants to do it on city structures and sidewalks, but what can be done to ban it from private use? And also is that Zamboni electric or oil-based and and couldn't they just use like a carpet cleaner thing, you know, the carpet cleaner squirts the warm water and then vacuums it up and It's not quite as big doesn't cost thirty thousand dollars for a carpet cleaner. Thanks. So private and Ban it on private property? It's regulated by the feds. It's one of those areas where we have very limited role in terms of private conduct other than using the bully pulpit. For example, talking to our friends at the port and making sure that they don't use these particular pesticides and others. But at the end of the day... we don't have a regulatory, we have a very limited regulatory function in terms of private actors. So what we're hoping is to set an example of how we use this in the public sphere and then use the bully pulpit to get others to follow us. Okay, I just want to mention that the skin is like the lungs. It's very permeable. And recently they did a study on sunscreen and there's some chemicals in sunscreen that get in the system. So this dermal toxin can pass through the skin very easily and we need to stress that for people who are you know still using it on private property is that it can like they say travel because the birds fly so it'll travel from private property to public property. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you both for your testimony. Yeah, thank you both. And I will just say that this state, your state legislator would be the appropriate person to talk to about regulating chemicals at the state level. And I would encourage you to connect with your state representative and state senator and have them move forward on this. And I think the city will be an example that they will be able to follow. Very good. Colleagues, any further discussion? I'd just like to say one thing. Commissioner Fish, while you have your proponents here, some of whom have traveled a long distance to be here today, and we're very grateful and honored by your presence, I thank you for bringing this to the City Council. And it is a very important issue. It might not be one that's front and center in everybody's minds. But I know that when the winter comes around again, this is a question that will pop up again. And we're going to get lots of inquiries, and we're going to get lots of emails. And I hope what the public hears today is that the livability issue is being actively engaged around by Portland Clean and Safe, the Portland Business Alliance, and others in the downtown area. And that we have employed humane approaches to addressing this problem. I just want to say, and the testimony today just underscores what I already believe, Commissioner Fish, which is this is the right thing to do because it is the wrong thing to do to use toxins to poison wildlife. under any scenario where the main issue that people are concerned about is poop on the ground. That we can deal with through other means and it does not require us to use inhumane toxins. I also just want to underscore the testimony that we heard from two of the folks this morning, which is that we are being very naive. foolish even if we believe that using neurotoxins on wildlife will not eventually impact us as humans. And so I would strongly support this. I did have one question of staff. If I could ask them to come back. Let me ask the question and maybe whoever made it. Nicole and David, are you still here? They're still here. Why don't you just come forward real quick. Great. By the way, Nicole's title is, Nicole Linehan's title is Pest Management Specialist with the Parks Bureau. So we're very fortunate to have a dedicated staff person whose job it is to review all these policies citywide. And David is environmental specialist with BES. Well, and thank you for being here and sharing your good work with the city council and with the public. It is my understanding that at this point we're not using Avatrol, but I heard reference to another chemical that suppresses the ability of birds to lay eggs. We're not using that either, are we? Yeah, that was mentioned by the representative from Humane Society. I think it's called, the product name is OvoControl. And we are not currently using that through the IPM. Good. And then the second question, the main purpose of this and the reason we're bringing Commissioner Fish is bringing it to council is to ensure that all of our city bureaus are on the same page with regard to this. And it's my understanding that none of the other city bureaus at this particular point had been using those chemicals either. Is that correct? Yes, we reached out to all the representatives that oversee integrated pest management for the bureaus, and no one reached back saying that they did use them. Great. And then I had just sort of a question of interest just because it was raised. So the Clean and Safe folks, the Portland Business Alliance and others have brought falconers in. And if I understood this correctly, to herd the crows into a larger green space area, So they actually have targeted locations or how does that work? The project between Downtown Clean and Safe and the Falconers, they've mapped out a grid of areas for priority for keeping the birds out of, the crows out of, and that includes the transit malls and then identified safe areas. And so that includes the waterfront and other green spaces. So the Falconers use their Harris's hawks. When the crows are coming in to spend the night, when they're coming in to settle in at dusk, They're kind of, the metabolism is winding down and they're looking for a safe place that's free of predators. And that's when the falconers start flying their hawks. And having a hawk on the same street where you're thinking about spending the night doesn't work for the crows. Okay, so it's eventually then just a learned behavior that this area has hawks, whereas this area over here they come to learn don't have hawks. It's partly a learned behavior. It's a couple times per week. So it's partly an association that this area isn't safe, but it's also continued pressure because there are so many birds involved that they need to keep the pressure up. So it's an ongoing process throughout the winter. So it's a mix of learned and ongoing pressure. And then one just general interest question, and then I promise I'll stop. This is a really interesting presentation and something completely different. Commissioner Fritz. They come together as a colony in the winter. Why? Why do they do that? So there's a number of reasons they do that. There is safety in numbers. They seek out areas that are a little bit more sheltered from the elements because they need to regulate their internal temperatures and conserve energy. So we have a heat island effect in the center of the city. So it's a little bit warmer in the central city. They are seeking safety in numbers. There are some studies and hypotheses that crows, who are highly intelligent, share information in these roosts about where they're finding food so they can go out and find more food the next day. Interesting. And there's another hypothesis that the lights in the downtown city core help them feel a little safe because they can see predators coming. A primary predator is like a great horned owl. So they can see that animal coming. So there's a variety of reasons they do this, but it's mostly about safety and survival. Great. Thanks. Thanks for indulging me. Very interesting. Any further questions? Yes. This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. No, this is a resolution. Resolution, Mayor. You're right. Sorry. Following the vote on the resolution, I would beg your indulgence for a quick photograph. You bet. Call the roll, please, Carla. Let me begin by thanking Nicole and David for an excellent presentation. Bob Salinger from Audubon, Stephanie Boyles-Griffin from the Humane Society, and Lisa Frisch from the Portland Business Alliance. It was an all-star lineup. Really interesting testimony. Thank you for being here today. And Stephanie Boyles-Griffin, you have an open invitation anytime you're on the West Coast to come and join us. Thanks for your great work, and thank you for honoring us with your presence today. This is a proud day for the BES and Parks families. When the mayor made the decision to put both bureaus under... under my watch, what we began to look for is opportunities where they could collaborate more. And there's so many natural areas of overlap in the work that parks and BES do. This is a splendid example of where a partnership works for the benefit of the whole city, so I'm very proud of that. I want to remind my colleagues that today's resolution is one of several actions the city has taken to protect birds. This includes adopting a bird safe building policy, bird friendly vegetation management practices, a green roof building requirement, a bird safe resource guide, and then most recently in our budget, approving funds to begin work on reducing light pollution. I'm proud to serve on a body that regularly demonstrates their commitment to nature in the city, and it's one of the things that makes our city so special. By our vote today, we're making a clear statement that Avatrol has no legitimate function in the city of Portland. The city of Portland is proud to lead by example, reaffirming that we do not and will not use this deadly poison. And we encourage others in our community to follow our lead. Thanks to Jamie Dunphy on my team for all the good work that he did and others. I'm very proud today to vote aye. Hardesty? I also want to really appreciate the guest speakers that came and spoke about this issue today. I can't vote on this without actually mentioning Poop Master 6000 because I never thought I would hear that term in this particular chamber and this particular position. But I bring Poop Master 6000 to light because... as we start thinking about innovation and how we move to this clean energy future, I'm looking forward to us being able to create something that costs a whole lot less than And actually takes into account the innovation of folks who live right here in the Portland metro area to find a solution that works for both people and animals in the city of Portland. And so I absolutely vote aye. Thank you, Daly. Well, I want to thank Commissioner Fish for bringing this item. Of course, I'm pleased to support it. I don't want to miss this opportunity to comment on how unfortunate it is that although Oregon is thought of as a leader on environmental issues in a green state, that we're really lagging behind on this issue. And, in fact, the state preempts us on banning pesticides and herbicides, specifically wildflowers. round up glyphosate at a local level. And I know there were a couple bills down in Salem. There have been no votes, and there's no additional hearings scheduled, so I don't think that's a good sign. So I want to encourage the public, if this is an issue you care about, please contact your legislators. And I want to... encourage Salem to, if we're not going to have a statewide ban, please allow municipalities to decide for themselves what they're going to allow to be used within their jurisdictions. I vote aye. Fritz? Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for bringing this forward. Thank you to everybody who spoke and has done lots of work on this project. This has, to my knowledge, never been on the City Council's legislative agenda priorities, and so it seems like even though the legislature, as was mentioned, is currently in session, we should be starting the new list of things that we'd like our lobbyists to work on in Salem to, as Commissioner Udaly said, at least take away the preemption so that we could ban these toxic products. I would have to say that it's... The presentations were a lot more graphic and disturbing than the ones when we were talking about banning neonicotinoids, which affect bees. And this obviously illustrates that these toxins do cause harm in little creatures and big creatures and humans as well. So thank you for bringing this to our attention. Thank you. And just one more thing, I did affirmatively get from the Water Bureau that we definitely do not use it. Wheeler? This is good work. I appreciate it, Commissioner Fish and your team and everybody who testified today and the great work from our bureaus. Thank you very much. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Quick photograph, Mayor? Sure. Nicole and David, would you join us here? No, I'm fine. Item 521, accept the Bill Portland 2019 annual update presentation and commend the multi-bureau partnership for advancing the phase one projects in a timely and fiscally responsible manner. Colleagues, in the face of declining federal and state financial support, many cities across the nation face the challenge of crumbling infrastructure and deferred maintenance. When faced with more needs than there are resources, it's often more urgent short term needs like emergency repairs that are funded rather than longer term maintenance. The risks of intergenerational inequities as this maintenance is pushed out becomes ever larger. Portland is one of the cities facing this challenge with a 310 million and growing infrastructure maintenance gap. The 2014 citywide funding options report received by council outlined a suite of options for closing the major maintenance and asset replacement funding gap. And highlighted that without substantial investment of resources to address this issue, the city risks higher costs and lower levels of service in the future. In Portland, there's also a challenge of varying sources of funds available for different types of infrastructure. Our water and sewer systems, for example, are funded through rates, while parks, transportation, and our other civic buildings are funded through the general fund, local bonds, or taxes. For those bureaus that are reliant on the general fund, inconsistent funding can mean the potential inability to maintain assets over the long term. While we've made notable progress in identifying resources such as the parks replacement bond, the capital set aside program, the gas tax revenue, it most certainly is not enough to fill the gap. In 2017, we initiated a bold new initiative, Build Portland, to fund infrastructure renovations and repairs. With Build Portland, we expect to spend $600 million over the next 20 years for investments improving roads, bridges, parks, and buildings that the community uses every day. Carmen Merlo and Geraldine Moyle from OMF are here today to give the 2019 annual update on Build Portland and the progress the city's made on the first Build Portland projects that were initiated last year. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. I'm Carmen Merlo, the Deputy Chief Administrative Officer. With me is Geraldine Moyle, the Build Portland Program Manager. I also want to acknowledge several asset managers in the room, including Brian Doran from Travel Portland, who is on our Build Portland Community Advisory Committee. We're here today to give you the 2019 Bill Portland Annual Report. As Mayor Wheeler mentioned, the city owns and manages over $35.9 billion in assets. These assets include streets, parks, water, sewer, stormwater systems, and civic buildings owned, managed, operated, and maintained by the city. Citywide asset maintenance is estimated to have at least a $310 million annual funding gap that is growing each year as costs increase and conditions deteriorate. Access to funding is challenging depending on the type of funds, the fund requirements, and the number of assets in need of maintenance and repair. The first phase of Bill Portland was approved in March 2018 with a commitment to initial program investment of $50 million. Seven projects were selected that maximize the city's return on investment, minimize risk, and consider equity in the priorities of the Portland plan. The overall goal of investing at least $600 million over the next 20 years is expected to roll out in subsequent phases, with the intention of using expected returning revenue from expiring urban renewal districts to fund this work. Council will be asked to approve the funding and projects in each phase, determining the highest and best use at that time for the returning revenue and general fund debt capacity. We have great news to share with you today, so I'm going to turn it over to Geraldine Moyle, the Build Portland Program Manager, to provide an update on the program and the Phase 1 project progress. Hello. So as part of the Build Portland 2019 annual report, we will give you a recap of how Build Portland came to be, an overview of what's occurred over the last year since the program was initiated. We'll do a phase one project update, and then we'll give you an overview of the program milestones for the next fiscal year. So as both the mayor and Carmen covered as well, in fiscal year 17-18, Build Portland was established. So there was a council session in August of 2017 that set the vision for Build Portland. In October of 2017, the Build Portland Advisory Committee was formed and charged with developing criteria to prioritize projects for Phase 1 and to create a funding plan. At that time, the Build Portland team was also directed to provide council with an annual update on Build Portland, and that's why we are here today. Thank you. The first phase of projects, which includes seven projects completed between 2018 and 2024, were approved by council in March 2018. And at that same time, the initial program cost of $50 million was approved. The general fund debt to finance this $50 million was approved in April of 2018. Over the 18-19 fiscal year, the Build Portland program and phase one projects have been initiated. With the funding approved, the seven phase one projects were initiated in July. Build Portland is a multi-bureau partnership with the Chief Administrative Office, the Budget Office, and the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services, all supporting the infrastructure bureaus who are implementing the projects. The phase one projects have advanced over the first year, moving from initiation into design and development phases. And the advisory committee has been informed with quarterly updates on the status of these projects. The first seven projects focus on transportation and parks and recreation improvements. And we'll go into more detail on each project, but as an overview, the projects are dispersed throughout the city. There are five location-specific projects, four transportation projects and one parks project. And there are two other transportation projects that are citywide and ongoing. The project team is pleased to be able to inform Council that all projects are on track to meet the 2020 milestones. And these are the milestones the bureaus indicated the projects would meet two years from the time Build Portland funding was awarded. So now we'll do a brief overview of each of the seven projects. The Outer Stark Corridor Improvement Project is using Build Portland dollars to upgrade paving and signals on Southeast Stark Street from Southeast 108th to Southeast 162nd Avenue. The project also provides enhanced pedestrian crossings and safety improvements in this corridor, and the project is expected to start construction in late 2020. The 42nd Avenue Bridge and Corridor Improvement Project is using Build Portland dollars to replace the bridge structure and upgrade paving. The project also provides sidewalk, pedestrian crossings, and bikeway improvements. That project is expected to start construction in early 2021. The Lentz Town Center Improvements Project is using Build Portland dollars to upgrade paving along the Foster Road-Woodstock Boulevard couplet. The project also provides sidewalk, pedestrian crossing, and bikeway improvements and is expected to start construction in June 2020. The North Lombard Main Street project is using the Build Portland dollars for pavement reconstruction on Lombard Street from North St. Louis to North Richmond Avenue. The project also includes crossing treatments, transit pad improvements, and curb extensions. And this project is expected to start construction in late 2020. The next two projects are citywide with locations throughout the city and the work is being completed on a continuous cycle of design and construction. The ADA compliant corner ramp improvement project is using Bill Portland dollars to complete ADA compliant corner ramp improvements over the next seven years. The ramps are prioritized by first addressing ramps requested by persons with disabilities and then by risk equity and other measures such as access to transit. The traffic signal system improvement project is using Build Portland dollars for signal reconstruction and rapid flashing beacons across the city. And traffic signal improvements are prioritized by safety, equity, and asset condition. The last of the seven projects is the Mount Scott Community Center Rehabilitation. While still in pre-development, this project anticipates Build Portland Dollars going towards the rehabilitation of the facility, which could include a number of the items shown on the slide. The project, once the scope is finalized, expects to start construction in summer 2022. The phase one funding approach includes balancing when general fund is needed to fund debt service with the project progress to ensure the dollars are spent and to minimize the fees associated with taking on this debt. The limited tax revenue bonds were authorized last April. And based on the Phase 1 project spend projection, the Build Portland Phase 1 funding approach is to, one, issue a line of credit in fiscal year 19-20, as the Phase 1 projects ramp up from pre-development and design into construction. We would replace that line of credit with the bond in late 2021-22 when the projects are projected to 1. need a significant amount of Build Portland dollars and 2. are well underway and committed to reach completion. This manages the city's risk by delaying taking on debt as long as possible and minimizing the fees and debt service. This also aligns with the expected timeline for returning revenue, some of which is intended to fund the debt service on the bond as well as potentially fund future phases of Build Portland. So could I just stop you there? Yeah. Because I think this is incredibly wonderful. Mae'r Prif Weinidog wedi'u meddwl am ddewis rhai o'r arian sy'n dod yn ôl o ran ystod y cyllid cyflogau ariannol, a chael ei ddod o hyd i'r arian honno er mwyn i ni ddod yn ôl, nid i ni ddod yn ôl, ond i wneud ychydig o ddynion yn y prosiectau hyn. Mae hyn yn wych. Rwyf wedi siarad gyda tri Prif Weinidog nawr. Mae'n dda. ar gyfer cyflogwyr a'r ardalau o adnoddau ariannol. Felly roedd pobl yn dweud, wel, mae gennym ni'r holl ddimau pobrydol oherwydd ein bod wedi gofalu am rai o'r ardalau sydd wedi'u llwyddo yn ymddygiadol mewn rhai achosion. Beth yw'r ddawr o hynny? Mae hyn yn y ddawr. Diolch. Ac mi fyddwn i wedi rhoi hynny yn y blaen os oeddwn i'n eich cyfarwydd, ac ni fyddwn ni'n gallu gwneud y cyfarwydd. Diolch, gobeithio. Os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy o arian, os oes gennych chi fwy Mae'r Swyddfa Adranol y Prif Weinidog yn arwain i'r cyfnod o adroddiadau BWP, sy'n cynnwys nifer o faterion y byddwn yn trafod yn gyflym. Mae'r Swyddfa Budged y Prif Weinidog yn arwain i'r cyfnod o adroddiadau arian y cynlluniau amser hir ar gyfer pan fydd ychwanegolion yn dod o hyd i'r ffres nesaf. Mae'r Bwrw Gwaith a Gwasanaethau a mwy yn benodol, rheoli arian, yn dweud y gwir, sut i gynllunio'r rhaglen Build Portland, ac yn enwedig sut i reoli'r risg o ffas 1, a oedd wedi'i gychwyn yn ymwybyddiaeth, ond yn ymlaen o'r gwaith yn ôl. Ac mae'r bwrwau amgylcheddol yn gyfrifol am ddarparu'r dewis o'r prosiect i ddatblygu arian i Build Portland. Felly, gan fod pob prosiect ffas 1 yn gael sgwp a'r costau, mae Cynllun Gweithredu Cymru yn gael sgwp a'r costau. Mae'r rhain yn cynnwys cyfathrebu a chyflwyno, felly ystyried hyn fel ymgyrch i gyflwyno cymuned a chyflwyno a'r addysg, gan gynnwys pam bod yna ffas o adnabod, gofynion a bwriadau o'r cynllun Gweithredu Cymru a'r prosiect progres. y cyd-dysgu o'r rhaglen ar draws y partneriaethau amrywiol, a fydd yn cynnwys trawsnewidiad progrwng prosiect, unrhyw gweithrediadau o'r Portlawn a fyddai'n dod allan o'r cyfathrebu a datblygu, a fydd angen cael eu cyd-dysgu gyda staff prosiect, felly gall hynny gynnwys cynllunio ar leoliadau adeiladau neu digwyddiadau sylfaenol. Ac yna, cyd-dysgu prosiect gyda'r cyfleoedd o arian, a'r cyfathrebu a ddyleniad o bryd i gychwyn ystod y ddewis. And with that initiation of phase two, the development of a long-term funding approach to those next phases of projects. And so finally, as we're here at the end of fiscal year 18-19, here is our work plan for fiscal year 19-20. So the phase one projects will advance, and to highlight the first of the location-specific projects, which is expected to be the Lentztown Center project, should start construction in late spring 2020. Debt management will also issue the line of credit later this fiscal year to fund those project expenditures. The team will initiate the communication and outreach approach with the selection of a consultant team to provide professional services. The citywide program administration and the multi-bureau partnership will continue. We expect the Advisory Committee to meet for quarterly program updates. And we will be back before you next spring in 2020 to provide the next annual update on the Build Portland program. So that is the end. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Fish. First of all, I want to echo what Commissioner Fritz said in terms of an innovative way of closing the the gap and I think you began the hearing by saying we have a $310 million annual funding gap. So I have two thoughts for next steps. One is that I am regularly reminded in communications I get from the public that there's a lot of confusion when it comes to our budgets about the difference between operating dollars and capital dollars and restricted dollars versus unrestricted dollars. And frankly, it takes a long time in this building to get to a point where you understand that with your own bureaus. And so to expect the public to have an understanding of what we call the color of money and what can and can't be used for things is asking a lot. And then we use these numbers interchangeably, so we use the all-in number, including capital dollars, and sometimes we use the operating dollars. And so I have found there's a healthy amount of confusion in terms of bureaus and what we budget for. That's number one. Number two is I think we could do a much better job at budget time focusing in on capital budgets and how we plan by bureau. to close the gap. So for example, as you noted earlier, the public utilities are in a unique situation because they have dedicated revenue and they have a revenue stream that allows them to spend a lot of capital dollars to maintain the system. That's not true of parks, housing or PBOT, for example. And so Mayor, one of the things I'm gonna follow up with you to sort of test drive, I think we should tweak our conversation about capital spending during the budget season. So that we not only talk about the deficit in each bureau, but we also talk about all the strategies we're employing by bureau to close that gap. And some are different. I mean, PBOT goes out for bonds, excuse me, PBOT goes out for gas tax increases, PBOT. according to the chart you gave us, gets the lion's share of the Build Portland money, and on and on and on. Well, I think a pie chart that showed how we're getting at that would be important. I guess what I'm saying is I don't think we should look at Build Portland anymore as a separate initiative. I think what we should do is tie it all together with all the capital spending and tell the story about how we're doing in meeting that deficit. That's great. Because that's what people are going to understand. They're not going to understand five or six one-offs. And again, the utilities are different because they have dedicated funding. And we wish that every bureau was funded in a way that allowed for such predictable decision-making. So I hope we try that and have a deeper dive in the budget season as to how, by bureau, we're going to tackle this capital spending deficit. That's a great suggestion, Commissioner. And then... integrate all the different funding sources so that people get a sense in a pie chart what we're doing. But I appreciate the presentation. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have two people signed up. Very good. With Maggie and Jeanne Connett. Whoever wants to go, go ahead. Maggie, why don't you start, please? Okay, okay. I just want to say Portlanders can't understand budgets. That's actually not what I said. I said that there's, just to be clear what I said, in the communication that I've been getting from a lot of people. There's confusion about the difference between operating dollars and capital dollars. Are they from? Dollars that are restricted and unrestricted. And I don't think we do a good enough job explaining the difference. That was my point. It has nothing to do with the public. It has to do with our ability to communicate those differences. Okay. All right. I'll buy that. Okay. All right. I just want to say, just like before, I'm a lawyer. When you do infrastructure for bicycle lanes and pedestrians, you can build a mid-size city for the amount of money you do for a four-lane freeway. So it's not the amount of money you do. need for infrastructure. It's how you spend it and what kind of infrastructure you're going to do because we want to move to a greener way of life, a more human sense of proportion. Everybody that I've talked to, they want to just shut down the whole downtown area and turn it into a pedestrian and bicycle mall because that's going to bring people in to actually buy stuff and support the economy because nobody who drives around in a car stops and buys anything or stops in a store to eat. You know, it's the people who walk around and bicycle around and scooter around that buy things. So, and ride public transportation to the grocery store. They buy things. So, you know, people in cars, they go somewhere else because they've got a car and a full tank of gas. And so, you know, let's move. move on more pedestrian, more bicycle, more scooter, you know, areas. You know, I happen to think that we have all the laws that we need on hand that go all the way back to, you know, 15th, 16th century Marine Highway laws for, you know, covering all the laws for scooters and stuff and little neighborhood electric vehicles. Yes. So if you're going to work on infrastructure, go green. And, you know, don't be like Tesla. Do you know what Tesla does? He lectures his employees, build more, sell more, so that he can fly around in his fuel-based private jet and build fuel-based rockets. Who needs that? You know, buy from somebody who actually drives their own electric vehicle. So buy from people who are actually using their own stuff, please. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. You want to go? Okay. I would like to beg the council's slight indulgence. That guy that came up here today and he was talking about infrastructure and it almost made me cry because I remember back. I don't remember the last time martial law was called in St. John's, Oregon, but I can tell you why. There were two kids crossing the street trying to go to school, and they got hit by this big diesel truck because we had this S-curve in St. John's, and we just couldn't get the truckers to slow down for the kids. And two people died. That was the day we closed down St. John's and Marshall Law came. That's the third time in my lifetime I've seen that. The whole reason why? It was because you guys, with all your infrastructure and all your stuff, and even though he said he lives right there, he sees the fatalities. Yeah, I see the faces of those two 10-year-old kids that died on their way to school, too. That was the beginning of the problem between Portland and St. Johnson. This is how it started. Because people were dying, and you guys don't have enough infrastructure for it. I don't think any of you are actually for Portland and for Portlanders. And now I understand when I'm out there on the street and I'm talking, communicating with people who actually, the last little bit that actually are from Portland because 90% of it isn't anymore them. I'm with her, I think we should all just quit all this. Because everybody in St. John's own their own business. Hell, we've run books for years. We understand shit. We don't need no pie charts. We don't need none of that. We are smart, educated people. Do you realize how many educational facilities there are right here in Portland? We're not dumb people, man. And when I watch people like you do stuff like this and I hear the word fatality again, why? Why is this what you guys think of Portland and Portlanders? You don't even take human life seriously. Thank you. Is there any further public testimony on this item, Carla? All who signed up. Very good. This is a resolution. Please call the roll. Thank you. Fish. Carmen et al., thank you for the presentation. And again, I look forward to the budget process of finding a way to integrate all of our capital spending in a way that I think is clearer and helps us make better decisions going forward about priorities. So aye. You daily? I'll wait for her to exit. Also born and raised in Portland, but frankly think that's irrelevant when people come to give testimony. So, Bill Portland helps us accomplish our infrastructure priorities and deliver transformative projects in historically underserved areas, responding to both maintenance and safety needs. Perhaps one of the earlier commenters didn't notice that six of the seven projects are heavily focused on improving pedestrian and or bicycle infrastructure as well as accessibility. Maggie, you can sit down. Maggie? Yeah, go back to me. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for your testimony. We're taking a vote. We need to go return to your seat. She's City staff. She's City staff. I want to thank the Mayor for prioritizing this investment in our infrastructure and thanks to Tom Reinhart and OMF and Carmen for developing and delivering this program that's going to make a significant debt in the $3.2 billion of deferred maintenance that PBOT has and I've inherited as the Transportation Commissioner and since we don't get thanked for things that how do I put this I want to join the chorus of appreciation to the mayor for coming up with this plan because it's extraordinary looking back how we haven't taken care of our infrastructure and I don't think that commissioners, councils, or community members are going to look back and thank us for terrible things not happening, but we are really kind of doing hard, necessary work to serve the future of Portland and chipping away at that $3.2 billion. So I also want to thank PBOT staff for their leadership in project identification and development, in particular Director Chris Warner. Jeremy Patton, Emily Trich, Zef Wagner and Shoshana Cohen. And thanks especially to PBOT's community advisors, Momoko Saunders and Tony Lam. To PBOT's budget advisory committee, modal committees and the various other stakeholders that participated in this process, I vote aye. So under Mayor Sam Adams, we were going through the recession and we managed to get through it partly because of the stimulus package from President Obama and doing a lot of building then that helped the only cranes in the air at that point were public projects and then under Mayor Hales we were in yn cofnodi'r rhwydwaith ac nid oedd gennym adnoddau addas. Roedd Merwila yn gweld ein bod yn mynd i gael adnoddau addas wrth i'r ardalau adnewyddiadol, ystod y cyfnodau cyllid, ddiwedd. Yn hytrach na dweud, gadewch i ni ddechrau llawer o brosiectau newydd, fe wnaeth yna ddewis, gadewch i ni fynnu o gwbl y cyfrif hwnnw er mwyn i ni ddod i'r brosiectau hynny cyn eu bod yn fwy ariannol. Ac mae hynny'n wych mewn llawer o wahanol ffyrdd. Un yn benodol yw bod yn gwbl yn edrych ymlaen at ddeall y cyllid, fel y bydd y genhedlaethau dyfodol yn ei gweithio arnynt. Byddant hefyd yn eu cyllid. Mae'n dda oherwydd mae'n cyllid gyda phwysau newydd sy'n dod yn ôl i mewn i'r system nad oedd yn yno o'r blaen. Felly, nid yw unrhyw un yn mynd i gael cyllid mwy oherwydd y rhaglen hon. ac mae'n ymwneud â'r broblem rydyn ni wedi ei gael am ddegau, sef, oherwydd 5, 47 a 50, nid ydym yn gallu cyflogi'r arian mewn ffordd sy'n golygu bod propiethau'n ddifrifol i'w gweithwyr. Nid oes gennym arian gwasanaeth, felly rydym wedi bod yn llinellol o ran y math o bethau sydd rhaid i ni ei wneud, gan fod llawer o arian y ddinas yn mynd i'r personel a phobl yn gwneud y swyddi rydyn ni'n eu gwneud. Felly, rwy'n credu bod y rhaglen hyn yn arwain arall, a dylem ni ddod i'r cyfrif a chweilio o'r ddechrau, ei fod yn llwyddiannus. A diolch am ddod i'r adroddiad blynyddol. Rwy'n credu ei fod yn bwysig iawn i ddangos bod y ddechrau Mt. Scott a'r rhai eraill y prosiectau trafod y mae'r Cyfarwyddwr yn ei ddweud yn ddiweddar, sydd yn ymwneud â'r angen, ac rydych chi'n edrych ar pa un oedd yn ymwneud gyda llens cyfartal. Felly, rwy'n hoffi popeth am y rhaglen hwn. Hwyl. Diolch. Rhywbeth gwych. Rhywbeth gwych. A dwi am ddiolch i'r holl reolwyr y Bwrdd, sy'n ymgysylltu'n dda iawn yn ymwneud â'r hyn. Mae'n ymdrech ar draws y ddynion, ac mae llawer o bobl yn rhoi llawer o amser, energi a phrofiad i sicrhau bod hyn yn gweithio. Ac rwy'n credu ein bod ni i gyd yn ymwybodol bod llawer o ddwyloedd arno hefyd. Felly, gwaith da, rhaid i ni ddweud yn dda. Rwy'n cymryd yn. Mae'r adolygiad wedi'i gymryd. Diolch yn f Rydyn ni'n cyfweli'r cyfnod ail. Rydyn ni'n cyfweli'r cyfnod ail. new technology, wireless technology, from coming into our community. We are left then with the opportunity to negotiate the best possible deal. This is the second deal that I can recall where we have negotiated more favourable terms than the feds had originally proposed. We're caught between a rock and a hard place and for those who say, well, cast a dissenting vote as a protest vote, That would throw us back onto a regulatory framework which would get us a less favorable deal for Portland. And I don't think that is a good alternative. I wish we did not live in a world where we were preempted from dealing with the health aspects of new technology like 5G. But that has been a recurring problem here for as long as we've had cell phone towers. And the federal government has prevented us from looking at health aspects. We need to change that at the federal level, and then we can have more flexibility at the state level. Until that happens, the question is, is this a good deal for Portland in terms of what's been negotiated? And therefore, I vote aye. You, Daly? Well, I share similar sentiments with Commissioner Fish. This may not be ideal. We're not working under an ideal set of circumstances. We've negotiated the best deal that we can for the city before we have something much worse forced upon us. I vote aye. Fritz. I agree with both of my colleagues who have previously spoken. Thank you to the Office for Community Technology for your continued good work. Aye. Wiener. Well, this Council is on record urging the Federal Communications Commission to update and publish studies on the health effects of radio frequency emissions, and we're going to continue to aggressively push the FCC on this issue. The Council has also been leading the nation. challenging FCC's recent regulatory limits on our authority to manage local resources like the public right-of-way for which the public has spent hundreds of millions of dollars, which we spend millions of dollars every year managing. It's obviously a very challenging regulatory environment at the federal level, and staff has worked very hard to create partnerships with the wireless carriers who serve their residents. And I believe on balance, this AT&T franchise continues that partnership to the benefit of the public. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, I'm going to shift things around a little bit. Item 542, we have an out-of-town guest, and Mustafa has informed me they're on a bit of a timeline here, so please read 542. Amend transient lodgings tax code related to the administration of the short-term rental laws. Require short-term rental platforms to either enter into a pass-through registration data sharing agreement, or choose listing locations from a short-term rental registry created by the city. Colleagues, the City of Portland has been a national leader in short-term rental policy setting, working with platforms such as Airbnb and HomeAway. Portland was the first city in the nation to strike a tax collection deal with short-term rental platforms back in the year 2014. In that same year, Portland was also one of the first cities in the nation to legalize short-term rentals in residential neighborhoods. Since 2014, Portland has been working hard to gain higher compliance with its permitting requirements around short-term rentals. These permits require basic inspection to ensure smoke alarms and appropriate egress in rental properties are in place and other matters like reasonable neighborhood notification. We've had years of discussions and litigation with short term rental platforms about increasing permitting compliance and we're still experiencing very low compliance rates. Today they are below 30%. While all platforms are now collecting and remitting our hotel motel taxes, which is an improvement, few have shown any real interest in aiding in enforcement of city regulations. The ordinance before you today sets a clear path path forward to gain higher compliance with our permits. Short-term rental platforms will have a choice, either enter into a data-sharing agreement with the city to provide basic information about the location of short-term rentals in Portland, or facilitate bookings and transactions only for those short-term rentals that are on the list of permitted locations provided by the city. Revenue Director Thomas Lanham is here and will walk us through the ordinance. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Well, good afternoon at this point. Good afternoon then, Mayor and City Council. I'm Thomas Lanham with the Revenue Division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. And joining me is Mike Liefeld from the Bureau of Development Services. So you summarized it very well, Mayor. And I know it's already been a long day. I don't need to repeat a lot of that. I guess what I would say is what's changed recently is a panel of the Ninth Circuit – ruled on an ordinance that was passed by the city of Santa Monica, California. And that ruling upheld Santa Monica's ordinance. And this ordinance really mirrors the Santa Monica approach that has been tested in that court. And so, in short, it sets up a registry of locations that have already got a permit, type A or B ASTR permit that Mike will speak about in a moment, And those are the only locations that can legally be advertised and that a short-term rental platform could receive fees for service for helping to book. So that's door number one. Door number two that we're still allowing the platforms to take, if they so choose, is that full-blown data sharing agreement, including transactional data, so we know how many nights each of these locations are booked. I will stop there and turn it over to Mike. Good afternoon, Council Members. My name is Mike Liefeld. I'm with the Bureau of Development Services Property Compliance Program. My team administers the BDS Accessory Short-Term Rental Permit requirements as required by the Portland Zoning Code and performs complaint-based enforcement for violations of the city's ASTR regulations. During my short testimony, I will refer to accessory short-term rentals as ASTRs. BDS supports the proposed ordinance as it will greatly assist us in utilizing existing enforcement resources to ensure compliance with the city's ASTR regulations. The ordinance provides two paths for booking agents and operators to partner with the city to ensure that the carefully crafted and balanced ASTR regulations adopted in 2014 are met. A pass-through registration program can have benefits for both booking agents and the city. An important element of a pass-through agreement includes the ability to receive transactional data regarding ASTR operations. Transactional data is needed to help identify alleged commercial vacation rental operations that are an affront of the Portland Zoning Code. These operations can best be described as commercial vacation rentals with no permanent resident and not meeting the underlying zoning requirements that the use of the property remain residential or used as primary residence for an individual or family. The current ASDR regulations allow ASDR rentals 365 nights a year and do not require the required primary resident to be on site during any guest stay. Without transactional data, ASDR applications are essentially treated the same, with the city not having any additional information to best assign enforcement resources to tackle illegal commercial vacation rentals that have been and continue to be the main driver for existing BDS enforcement action. Based on our experience in responding to 635 ASDR complaints since 2014, and through issuance of 240 ASDR enforcement citations, we know that transactional data, that is, the frequency of guest bookings, is a strong indicator of a potential ASDR violation, even if the required ASDR permit has been issued. For BDS to achieve the goal of limiting illegal commercial ASTR operations, transactional data is needed. The second path provided to booking agents and operators allows industry partners to utilize short-term rental registries that only promote and advertise fully permitted and legal ASTR operations within the City of Portland. This approach will greatly improve compliance with the City's ASTR regulations as non-permitted ASTR operations. operations will need to make an immediate decision whether to embark on the required ASTR permitting process or simply discontinue the use. Since 2014, BDS has received much feedback regarding perceived barriers to compliance with the city's ASTR regulations. It is BDS's belief that the primary reason for the great disparity between the number of active ASTR listings on booking agents' online platforms compared to the low number of permitted ASTR opportunities properties within the city is simply due to the operator's inability to permit a legal operation. Frequent cited violations confirm that common operational violations surrounding offering a whole house rental that violates the maximum number of guests and bedrooms available for rent as well as utilizing a vacation home without a primary resident is the main driver. The ability to only allow ASTR bookings of fully permitted properties will drastically increase the compliance rate with the City's ASTR regulations. BDIS supports the proposed ordinance as it will increase our ability to administer, monitor, and enforce the City's current ASTR regulations. I'm going to remain available for questions that might come up regarding administration of the program, and I thank you for the opportunity to provide comments. Very good. Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Mayor, looking back over my ten years plus of service on this council, nothing has been more frustrating on a regulatory side than our continuing challenge to get the short term rental industry and companies like Uber and Lyft and other TNCs to follow the rules that we've established that were designed to protect consumers and workers. And I think it has also been frustrating for the public to watch us fall short of ensuring public safety. When you say at the beginning of this hearing that less than 30% of short-term rental units are in compliance, what you're saying is that at any given moment, the city can't vouch for approximately 70% of the units that are being marketed online, which means we can't say for sure. to a family or to anyone accessing these rentals, that they're safe. We can't say for sure that there's adequate egress and ingress, that there's a smoke detector, that there's other things that are required. It has been really eye-opening to watch this new, I guess they call it the gig economy, operate, because the gig economy has thumbed its nose at local regulators for a long time. And that's basically their business model. In fact, as we speak today, Lyft and Uber are still working overtime in Salem to preempt the city of Portland from regulating TNCs. So all the progress we've made in setting basic standards that protect workers and consumers are at risk because the legislature may, in the name of providing statewide access to these services, may throw in a preemption which limits our ability to look out for our local citizens, our local community members. So if this is a preview of the new gig economy, I would say God help us because there's a pattern of behavior. And it's contemptuous of local control. Contemptuous of local regulations and constantly using the courts to frustrate our ability to do reasonable regulations. And that after all is a cornerstone of our responsibility as local legislatures is to make sure people are safe. So I am encouraged that we have a Ninth Circuit decision. from Santa Monica that is on our side, although I'm reminded that I think the Ninth Circuit has the highest overturn rate in the country of any circuit. So we should hope that the Supreme Court doesn't take that case up and lets the Ninth Circuit decision stand. And Thomas, I know that you have been working hard to break through these barriers. And I appreciate what you said. that the principle barriers that people have faced isn't the fact that we've created burdensome regulations as a general matter. That's the rhetoric we hear because any regulations are by definition burdensome. And that's the line used by these companies. But you've pointed out that many of the units would not qualify as short term rentals under our code because the operators aren't following the law. And by not following the law, let's be very clear. We're not talking about some abstraction here. We're talking about people being less safe. And if tomorrow the headline was city backs off regulating local motels and hotels and doesn't pay attention to basic life safety issues or the fire bureau announces we're no longer checking public venues and we're going to caveat emptor, that's going exactly the wrong direction. But – As frustrating as it has been, I think we're now at a moment where we can break through and get to the point we want, which is a much higher rate of compliance so that we can sincerely say to people who are coming to our community that they are safe. And it's a no-brainer, but I just think people need to understand this has been a war waged by these gig companies. They use every tool including the federal courts to frustrate local communities from doing reasonable regulations. And it has been enormously frustrating serving on this council and seeing the number of ways that we've been thwarted. And I sincerely hope that the legislature doesn't preempt our ability to regulate TNCs going forward. The bill, Susan McLean's bill, apparently is still on life support. It's going to come down to a question of whether the leadership of the legislature wants to see that bill get a hearing and ultimately see the light of day at the end. It would unravel years of work that we've done to protect workers and consumers, and it would effectively shut down the wage board that the Portland Bureau of Transportation has been working so hard to set up, which would address... the concerns of drivers who under current law aren't sure whether they're independent contractors or employees. So I appreciate that we're at this moment where we think we have a legal hook. Thomas, I think we want to make sure you have the resources you need to aggressively move forward on this. But it's taken us way too long to get to this point, and I don't point any fingers to your shop. But I have learned some painful lessons about how some of these new gig companies view local regulators, and it's shameful. And it's led to a dismal compliance rate of under 30%, which is really a shocking number. So I thank you for bringing this forward, and I'm encouraged that armed with a circuit court decision, we may actually be able to close the loop on this. Thank you.
 Mayor. Commissioner Yeddy, you daily. I'm going to save most of my comments for the vote, which I believe is coming next week, but I just want to signal my general support and my appreciation to Micah BDS and to Revenue Division and to the mayor. It was one of my biggest frustrations and disappointments that I didn't get to make much progress on this issue while I was a commissioner in charge of BDS. We know beyond a doubt that short-term rental platforms are contributing to a global housing crisis, including our housing crisis right here in Portland. The city implemented some common-sense regulations to try to mitigate those impacts on our rental markets as well as protect consumers and neighborhoods, but given that... Thousands of houses, rooms, and ADUs that were formerly rented out long-term are now on the short-term rental market. There is, again, no denying that it is impacting and accelerating our housing crisis. And the denial of these platforms, in particular Airbnb, which is the only group that I have met with, would be laughable if it weren't so offensive. So I'm going to support... aggressive regulation and enforcements because we need to take care of our residents and our neighborhoods. People have plenty of places to stay when they come to our town. Director Lanham, it's my understanding you have some invited testimony. Is that correct? Yeah, I believe there is some testimony. Okay, very good. So I can just go to the public list now? Yes, sir. Okay, very good. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? I think just one person. I think Maggie left. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Is he here? I don't see him. Very good. Any further comments, colleagues? Is there a reason why we're not doing this as an emergency? No. Great question. There's some irony here given the long history that you were talking about, Commissioner Fish, and I understand we want aggressive enforcement, but we do need a little bit of time. We want to give the platforms the usual second reading in the 30 days. I had conversations with Airbnb and HomeAway about compliance. I think it's fair to say they get it now, but they'll need time to notify hosts and things like that. Okay. Thank you. Very good. And, Mustafa, are you trying to get a message to me before I say what I'm going to say? We do have two people who are invited testimony. Okay. Please bring them up. I can see you madly working your iPhone there. Welcome. Three minutes each name for the record, please. I like me. Who would Robert Wood bring first? Rob Hertert from Host2Host and morning, Mayor Wheeler. and council. First, we appreciate Tyler Wallace and others in the revenue division reaching out to us and inviting us to to give comment and put on the ordinance before it was finalized. And we appreciate also Amanda Watson in your office inviting us to testify here today. The Host to Host is a local nonprofit trade association that advocates for people who host, sorry, that advocates for hosts who welcome travelers into our homes. We wanted to be able to speak for ourselves, recognizing that cities often hear only from platforms such as Airbnb and HomeAway. We use those platforms, but our interests often differ. Our association fully supports short-term rental hosts being permitted, paying occupancy taxes, and meeting reasonable regulatory requirements. We provide continual educational opportunities to our members to enhance their hospitality skills, but also to understand city requirements. And I'm pleased to be here with my host to host colleague, Shannon Hiller-Webb, who will give a more personal side of this story in a minute. The pass through registration for PTR was approved by council here a year ago and we've been expecting it ever since. And at this point, we do accept that the city needs to propose STR registry in order to bring about this pass through registration. We're concerned about privacy considering the bad behavior that can result from making the registry public, including transactional data. But we've been assured by the revenue division and the mayor's office that at least the financial information will be kept completely confidential. Overall, we support the ordinance because it seems to be a path towards removing unpermitted listings, especially unpermitted whole house listings that would affect the housing crisis. I will note that the testimony that we heard from Mike at BDS, there is one other side to that, and that is often the very best hosts with the very best return rates from their guests will be hosts who rent almost all the nights in the year. Those can be our very best hosts. Host to host supports reasonable regulatory controls of the short term market. And to that end, we'd like to take a minute to address two short term rental issues that don't depend on the registry or pass through registration, but they're relevant. And first, a regressive per night fee was created a year ago by ordinance 189.031. We testified at the time that assessing this $4 a night tax as a flat rate fee would create a discriminatory hardship for the home sharers with the least expensive listings. Mayor, can we extend an extra minute or two? Let's go because I'd like to hear what you have to say. And this is invited testimony anyway, so Carla, you don't need to time it. Since August 1st, 2018, a traveler considering a $40 a night listing faces 25% in occupancy taxes. And it's probably the highest in the nation for any hospitality provider. The highest occupancy tax rate in the country should not be assessed on the lowest owners in Portland. We're proud that we're impacting the housing investment fund. We still don't think that short term rentals among hospitality providers in Portland should be shouldering this alone. But either way, we don't want to accept the regressive aspect of the fee as being permanent. We ask that council readdress this issue with revenue division to identify a new approach. Second, we want to bring to your attention the conversion of long term housing to hotel space. This admittedly is not a topic that we're well versed in, but entire floors of some apartment and condo buildings originally constructed for long term housing appear to now be operating as short term rentals. We wonder why the city would allow this type of conversion, or at least why it might be done easily or quietly in the midst of this housing crisis. And if there's not a formal, transparent policy governing these conversions, we recommend that one be developed. And now I'd like to ask Shannon to personalize the story. Before you do, can I just say thank you, A, for being here. Thank you. I remembered your other testimony. Thank you for the clarity of your testimony. And I appreciate your focus on privacy concerns, which I think is very important. I do recall you objecting to what you previously also referred to as the regressive per night fee. This idea of converting floors of a building to short term, we saw that at the Burnside Bridgehead in the yards. And I'm glad you've flagged that issue again because that does not seem consistent with any of our rules. But you referred to your support for You know, reasonable regulations and I guess it's important since you represent the operators and your independent of industry. Is it the view of your organization that the city's current regulatory framework is burdensome? I don't know that I have that I've heard that. That's all I need. Thank you very much. Thanks, Mr. Hurd. We appreciate it. Good afternoon. Thank you for your time. My name is Shannon. And I just thought I'd share a little bit about how I got here. I began hosting in 2012 when I was starting a small business that was high risk. It was called Green Zebra Grocery. And at the time, I wanted a safety net. And hosting became an option for me that I felt comfortable. was going to be a safety net I needed. As you know, Green Zebra has grown to be a solid local business, supporting the community. And while I remain an owner, a proud owner, I've also ventured out as a consultant to help grow other local makers and grow their small businesses as a consultant. And hosting has been able to help me weather those lean times in both of those businesses to help keep me going. I would also like to state that it's afforded me opportunities to give my time to the community in a volunteer capacity. I've come before you in support of McAdam Ridge. That was a five-year operation that was extremely time-consuming that this hosting allowed me to make those decisions to give to that neighborhood association, my neighborhood association. I also gave my time to the Swirl neighborhood and their land use concerns. I'm an active member in the Sweeney Coalition, and this is one of the things that helps me. I also recently had a health issue that made me bed bound for two months, and I was only able to pay my mortgage because of this auxiliary income. So for me, I've been involved, like I said, since 2012, and I've always been a supporter of legalization. And I became connected to the people who founded Host2Host early on, and it was through that organization that I learned the single greatest thing population of hosts are older single women looking to augment their income from the retirement so that they can keep their homes and age in place. And that ignited me to organize the group to come before you last summer when we testified. It was during that testimony where we asked for a voice and a seat at the table that Amanda Fritz so lovingly suggested that we have a board seat at Travel Portland. And I can tell you that I occupy that seat proudly since January. And while that relationship is in its infancy, I've already seen the dramatic impacts it's had for both of our organizations and how we've been sharing about diversity. the travel industry as a whole that we may not have been privy to in the data set, and we've been sharing with them our expertise in our segment of the industry as short-term rental hosts. So Jeff and his team has been overwhelmingly welcoming and as an example of their support, they are now lending marketing support to an organization called Fabstays. Fabstays is a new LGBTQ-friendly short-term rental platform that shares those hosts collectively from all platforms that offer the community a safe place to stay. This organization is based in Florida, highlighting short-term rentals all over the world, and has selected Portland for its national launch this month because of Host2Host and because of our members' overwhelming support of this community. We are primarily an education-based organization, and we strive to have responsible ambassadors for the city and our communities. Travel Portland has provided and Airbnb has sponsored opportunities for our hosts on civil rights, implicit bias, racial equity training that hundreds of our hosts have attended. Our organization is growing and we are continuing to engage our hosts with best practices, community engagement, and monthly meetups. This summer, we have a planned panel on homelessness and engaging stakeholders to bring holistic perspective to the sensitive and complicated concern facing our city. We are also committed to highlighting a local experience for our guests, and we are launching a local guidebook that shares the best of the best in our city beyond the 15 neighborhoods commonly marketed to. We have 94 neighborhoods, and our hosts are in most of those neighborhoods, so we're sharing the businesses from all of them. So we thank you for supporting our voices in this conversation, providing us a seat at the table. We support this ordinance and the city's continued effort to equitably address this industry and oversight in its legalization. Well, thank you, Shannon. We really appreciate it. And, Rob, thank you both, and thanks to host to host and your active engagement in this process. It's great to hear your perspective, and we appreciate your taking the time to share it this morning. By the way, thank you for opening a Green Zebra on Broadway and PSU. If you took a poll in my office, it's our favorite salad bar, so it's within walking distance. So thank you for that. Thank you. All right. Awesome. Thank you. Carla, how many people do we have signed up for public testimony? It was Charles, Bertrand, and Maggie, and I believe they both left. Okay. And just due to some time constraints, I'm going to limit further public testimony to two minutes each. So if people are going to be testifying on things, think two minutes because we will lose our quorum if we don't move forward expeditiously. So this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item 538 please. We did that. You already did 538? I don't think so. I lost it. 538, except bid of just bucket excavating ink for the North Greeley Avenue multi-use path project for $1,334,193. Did you just leave? Yeah. Go ahead. Good afternoon, City Council. I'm Lester Spittler, the city's Chief Procurement Officer. I'm here to present the Chief Procurement Officer report for the Portland Bureau of Transportation North Greeley Avenue multi-use path project. On January 9th, the council approved ordinance number 189343 for procurement services to competitively solicit for the project. On April 23rd, we issued the invitation to bid and received four bids. The lowest responsive and responsible bidder is from Just Bucket Excavating Incorporated. Just Bucket is a certified firm with the Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity. They are identified by the state as being African American male owned. And they have proposed to meet our aspirational goal of 20% for subcontractor and supplier utilization. And they're actually exceeding that goal. And we'll be using 24.1% certified subcontractors. Those certified subcontractors are Chicks of All Trades, LLC, Igami Construction Incorporated, and Faison Construction Incorporated. Chicks of All Trades LLC is a disadvantaged minority owned and women owned business enterprise. Their ownership is being identified as female and Hispanic by the state. Agami Construction Incorporated is certified as a disadvantaged minority women owned and emerging small business. And they are identified as being female owned and Asian Pacific. by the state. And Faison Construction is a disadvantaged minority-owned business enterprise and is African American male-owned. Just Bucket is proposing to self-perform 30.7% of the work and the other non-certified subcontractors are listed in the report for your information. Just Bucket is located in Albany, Oregon and again is certified by the state of Oregon. They have a current city of Portland business tax registration and are in full compliance with all the city's contracting requirements. If there's any questions, I have the Portland Bureau of Transportation project manager here. If not, I recommend that you accept this report and authorize execution of the contract. Move to accept the report. Second. Kyla, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Fritz? Thank you. That's a really good presentation. I appreciate the extra detail in the written documents that we got. Aye. Houdini? Same. Thank you. I vote aye. The report is accepted. Carla, can you please read 539 along with 543? Yes. 539. 539. Accept bid of Keystone Contracting, Inc. for the Luther Road Restoration Project for $1,827,000. Thank you. and 543, amend ordinance to authorize contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Luther Road restoration project number E10854 in the amount of $1,827,000. Thank you. Commissioner Fitch, do you want to... No. Good comment. Okay, we'll move right to staff. Staff report. Okay. City Council, thank you. Good afternoon. Lester Spiller, Chief Procurement Officer. I'm here to present the Chief Procurement Officer report for this project. March 20th, 2019, Council approved the authorizing ordinance number 189430 for us to competitively solicit for the project. In that ordinance, it capped the amount for which... my position could sign the contract for and that's why these two items are being read together. The amended ordinance is to do away with that cap and allow council to accept the report at the lowest responsible and responsible bid. So the estimate for this project was $1.75 million. The level of confidence was high. On April 23rd, 2019, Procurement Services opened the bids from the invitation to bid and we received three responses. The lowest response of bid is from Keystone Contracting Incorporated in the amount of $1,827,000. That bid is 4.4% over the estimate, so not too bad. The project, as usual, had a 20% aspirational goal for subcontractor and supplier utilization. Keystone Contracting is meeting that goal. They're using one certified subcontractor, and that company's name is Brenda Lee Fairbanks, DBA Daybreak Construction. They're a disadvantaged business, minority-owned business, and a woman-owned business enterprise certified with the state's office. And they will be performing flagging, excavation, soil clearing, and grubbing in the amount of $369,000. They are listed by the state as a woman-owned Hispanic business. Keystone Contracting is located in the Le Centre, Washington and is not a state certified contractor. They do have a current City of Portland Business Tax Registration and are in full compliance with all of the City's contracting requirements. I have the project manager in the audience in case there's any questions. If not, the recommendation is for Council to accept the report and authorize execution of the contract. Commissioner Udalli? you gave me the opportunity to make an opening comment. I do, in fact, have a very brief opening comment. The mayor is back, so you're going to have to address that. So it puts it in context, so, Mayor, with your forbearance. This ordinance follows up on Council's March 20th authorization of the Luther Road Restoration Project. Environmental services through this contract will restore Johnson Creek near Luther Road to stabilize the stream bed and eroded banks. That will protect a major city asset, a 66-inch combined sewer and stormwater pipe that runs through the creek and serves the Lentz area. The restoration will also improve stream flow and salmon habitat while protecting nearby properties from erosion. Thank you. Very good. I move the report. Second. Commissioner Fish moves the procurement report. Commissioner Udaly seconds it. Any further discussion on the report, please call the roll on the report. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Lester, I want to thank you for the additional demographic information on the MW... ESB contractors. I think it's something that the council and the public appreciates knowing, and I believe it's going to help dispel maybe some concerns about who exactly is represented in that category. I vote aye. Happy to do it. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The report's accepted, and Commissioner, it's my understanding 543 has also been read. Yes. Has public testimony been taken? Yes. Okay. We called for it. Okay, so public testimony is done. It's an emergency ordinance. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Ordinance is adopted. Please read item 540. I'm going to return it. 540, amend the policy for the Minority Evaluator Program to increase the threshold for which it applies from $150,000 to $1 million. Colleagues, I'd like to return this to my office. Without objection, read 541, please. 541, amend city code to reflect current structure, operations, and responsibilities in the Office of Management and Finance. Colleagues, the Office of Management and Finance has updated sections of the city code to reflect many organizational changes that they've undergone in recent years. The bulk of the changes are located within a restructured Chapter 3.15. This describes the organization's functions and duties of the Office of Management and Finance. but also include referential cleanups to the area of code that were affected by their efforts. I'd like to welcome Deputy Chief Administrative Officer Carmen Merlo back to the rostrum. She's here to provide us more information on these code changes. Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor. Welcome back. Commissioner Carmen Merlo, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer with me is Michelle Kunick-North with our strategic projects and opportunities team. And I'm here today to present updates that reflect organizational changes implemented by the Chief Administrative Officer to the Office of Management and Finance. In March of 2018, the CAO, Tom Reinhart, dissolved the bureau formerly known as BIBS, the Bureau of Internal Business Services. BIBS was previously made up of four divisions, fleet, facilities, risk, and printing and distribution. As part of the new organizational structure, fleet and facilities were combined into a new division of asset management or a DAM. I can't compete with the Poop Master 6000, but I have a joyous time seeing the DAM manager. Under the office of the Chief Administrative Officer, printing and distribution was moved over to the Bureau of Technology Services and risk was moved to the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. Other changes made to Chapter 3.15 include adding the new position of Deputy Chief Administrative Officer that was created by Council in November 2017, and establishing the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer as a major organizational component to the operations of OMF. Clarifying that the CAO had the ability to appear in small claims court to defend and represent the city, as well as enter into non-disclosure agreements. And that these authorities could be further delegated by the CAO to appropriate individuals in OMF. It also clarified the authority of the Chief Technology Officer to enter into technology-related nondisclosure agreements, and for the Chief Financial Officer to enter into financial-related nondisclosure agreements. Finally, it moved enterprise business solutions into the Bureau of Technology Services. We made significant edits to chapter 3.15 to reflect best practices found in newer city codes. Some of these improvements include the addition of a purpose, definitions, and functions section. Ensuring authorities and responsibilities were delegated at the appropriate level. And removing specific references to funds or buildings managed so that council can assign or reassign those roles and functions without the need for code updates. Additional housekeeping changes were made to remove references to the Bureau of Internal Business Services and ensure delegations of authority previously issued by the director of bibs were transferred to appropriate parties. It also removed inaccurate references to OMF bureaus or divisions. And then finally, we know that we have more work to do and we anticipate coming back to you in the near future with additional code revisions that are unrelated to the dissolution of bibs. As one example, with the establishment of the new office for community technology as a standalone bureau, we'll need to update additional code sections to reflect the new organizational structure. And look forward to working with OCT staff to bring these code changes to council. Finally, I do want to thank Michelle Kunuk North, Josh Greger, and Diana Shiplet for all their work in helping to affect the, and Linda Law, excuse me, to affect these changes in code. So happy to answer any questions. Any questions? Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Okay. Very good. With that, this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you for your work on that. Thank you. Next item is 544. Authorize two-year grant agreements with seven youth-serving organizations in support of the team collaborative initiative not to exceed $560,000. And... And per grant not to exceed $80,000. Colleagues, this is a second reading of an ordinance. There's already been a presentation and public testimony. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Udemy. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 5.45 also a second reading. Increase fee schedule for the Office of Community and Civic Life Noise Office for noise variance applications in the amount of 5% as permitted by Code Section 18.14.020B. Any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll. Udaly. Well, thank you to the Civic Life Noise Program and the Noise Review Board. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. That leaves us with the consent agenda, item 526. Who pulled it? This was pulled by a community member. Do we know who? They wanted to be anonymous. Okay. Very good. Read it. I can tell you who did it. I did it. Okay. Oh, it's very good. No worries. It doesn't matter. Go ahead. Item 526. Yes. grant a franchise to XO Communications Services LLC for communications services and facilities for a period of 10 years. Elizabeth, are you here to staff on this issue? Yeah, would you like to go ahead and give us a brief presentation, then we'll hear public testimony? Good afternoon. Afternoon. Oh, we're in the afternoon already. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Elizabeth Perez. I'm the current acting director for the Office for Community Technology. This is a franchise for exo communication services to provide wire line Telephone internet access and internet best based network services for small and medium-sized Businesses now I looked over the testimony that was written in response to this franchise Many of them were concerned about 5g I can tell you it does not provide or build wireless sites and does not provide any wireless services 3g 4g or 5g and the franchise was first agreed to in 2000. It was granted to Next Link Oregon doing business as XO. It was a 10-year franchise. It has been extended six times, and this is the first time that we have renegotiated with staff for another 10-year franchise. Very good. Any further questions of Elizabeth? Why don't we take public testimony? Maybe that will generate some additional questions. How many people do we have signed up, Carla? I have six people signed up. Very good. Two minutes each. Name for the record. Okay. The first three, please come on up, are Robert Philip Robbins, Michelle Blexius, and Barry Sanders. Okay. Then let's go with Anne Maxie Oliver. Anne Marie, sorry. I should know your names. Sorry. Good afternoon, welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners, guests. Roberta Phillip Robbins, Executive Director, Digital Commonwealth Alliance. An organization bringing leadership and resources to build community self-reliance through local control and ownership of digital and physical assets. I encourage you to review our submitted public comments dated May 22nd, 2019. And I invite you to work with us on those recommendations proposed in those comments. The city of Portland's top priority should be to support municipal broadband as it is a true solution to digital inclusion. And will allow Portlanders access to affordable net neutral and reliable internet. We request that the city deny the franchise agreements referenced today, as we can all agree not all laws have been good or just. Dozens of cities across the US have said no to the telecoms, and this body should remember its history as a leader and innovator and stand up to big telecoms. Given the emergency franchise agreement already in place for a full year and the pending litigation against the FCC, there's no reason to rush this process. We request that you require robust public notice for all permits, especially 5G installations. Although I learned today that this one does not necessarily include for 5G. The city should draft stronger aesthetic standards before finalizing the franchise agreement. The FCC does not limit your ability to look into this. And as you consider this franchise agreement and the likelihood of others, many, many others, the city must maintain its responsibility and ability to continue to regulate aesthetics of proposed telecommunications equipment. The FCC. has allowed governments to put forth aesthetic standards and the City of Portland should do so. We request that the city take the time to set these standards before moving forward with this and other franchise agreements. And also the city needs to study the potential negative impacts to property values and to public health. We encourage... We encourage you to consider, thank you, the potential liability for harm to public health, the environment, and property. And what its plan is to address those costs and its own potential liability, shall citizens proceed with any class action suits in response. Thank you, appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Shall I begin? Yes, sir. When each of you assumed office, you vowed to protect the people of Portland, their safety and their well being. I feel let down. I feel sad, bereft, and even a bit frightened. I'm sad about the lack of an open democratic process. I feel bereft about a political system that does not guarantee fairness. And worst of all, I'm frightened. Frightened that the democratic impulse is fast draining from our republic. I didn't expect to see those principles set aside in the city of Portland. You're letting contracts for the deployment of 5G wireless technology throughout the city without sufficiently considering the health and safety of its inhabitants. without informing residents that this is taking place, without anything close to a town hall informational meeting. Indeed, in the two resolutions for letting wireless contracts with XO and Singular, that is with Verizon and AT&T, the phrase 5G does not appear. That's worrisome to me because I know it's going to happen. May I reiterate, members of the Council, the Oregon revised statute 192.620 states explicitly that The Oregon form of government requires an informed public, aware of the deliberations and decisions of governing bodies and the information upon which such decisions are made. It is the intent of ORS 192.6 that the decisions of governing bodies be arrived at openly. I've been a professor for close to 60 years. I've been a research professor for 60 years. If an experiment came to me in my classroom With possibility of side effects affecting health and in fact other living things like birds, I would be remiss in not investigating. As a deeply concerned resident of the City of Portland who resents the lack of an open process and clear procedure, I have no choice but to file my complaint with the Office of Ombudsman pursuant to the City's Charter Code and Policies Section 2509D voice my concerns about this precipitous procedure. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Anne-Marie Oliver. I'd first like to applaud Commissioner Nick Fish for making abitral and other avocides in the city off the table. I never knew this was even happening like so much else. And so I applaud this measure. I would also urge you to banned pesticides from Portland schools, from city parks, all of them, and from playing fields. On to the matter of 5G. XO, as you know, in a $1.8 billion purchase. by Verizon was created, one of its major reasons for having been created and this merger or buyout or whatever it was with Verizon was to accelerate 5G technologies, fifth generation wireless technologies. We have many concerns. The endeavor to push through and accelerate fifth generation wireless technologies despite the fact that they have never been tested, something admitted to by this group here. And thus we're talking about a live experiment is an absolutely anti-political move. That is to say it is not subject to the processes of politics. That is to say challenge, contest and and negotiation. Perhaps it is for this reason that many politicians and others now simply turn to the very industries that will benefit financially from the installation of these new technologies. Such a retreat from what is obviously necessary can only result in catastrophe. One of the greatest dangers facing us today is an essential oblivion, as well as the obvious exemption of technology from the realm of thought. We have asked for study on the matter of 5G. We have asked for study sessions. We have asked for town halls. We have asked for delays for public input. We've asked that you let people know what you were doing with regards to this matter. How much more time do you need to read your comments? I have pages and pages. I would like at least- Your testimony, you and Barry have been waiting a long time. How much additional time do you need? Probably a couple more minutes. Here, could we give her an additional minute? Sure, certainly. We have asked for a moratorium. What this council, along with the military, continues to call the deployment. People should pay attention to this term. The deployment of 5G and their concomitant technologies until further scientific, independent, non-industry funded study and research is carried out. And until common sense, rationality and ethics take the place of fear, greed and arrogance. and thoughtlessness. We join thousands of teachers, physicians, activists, scientists, environmentalists, and people across the country from all walks of life in making this demand. Given the consequences for ourselves and for all posterity, it is an eminently reasonable and absolutely necessary demand. Yet what we have seen in response to this call is, in my opinion, disingenuousness, obfuscation, falsehoods, and misdirection. We have not been seen and we have not been heard. Not only have we not been seen and not heard, again, many people calling the city hall have been given false or misleading information. I'm sorry to say, but I find this absolutely unacceptable. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler, point of personal privilege. Can I have two minutes to speak from my heart? I actually know, and you've done so very eloquently in the past, but I don't want to lose our quorum because we have to come back here shortly. And I don't want to lose the quorum. That's really unfortunate. Why does a Verizon show get almost unlimited time and actually concern citizens? That is actually an employee of the City of Portland. She is the interim director of the Office of Community Technology. No, no, I'm not talking about Ms. Perez. Your time is up. Thank you. I'm not talking about Ms. Perez. Please have your seat. Next three, please. I'm not disrespectful. You know the council rules. Please, your time is up. I'm asking you to take your seat or you will be asked to leave. The next three, please. Excuse me. You are in violation. I'm going to have to ask you to leave. David Morrison and Coleman Garrity. You don't have to ask me to leave. You don't have to ask me. I can wait, you know. Folks, you all had your chance at the microphone. Now let's give some other people the opportunity to be heard. Good afternoon. Thank you. May I begin now? Yes, sir. My name is Coleman Garrity and I oppose this measure 526 on a general principle against the involvement of telecommunications corporations in Portland proper. Now this measure has been repeated six times, is that correct? if that is the case, then I think that we should reasonably assess the impact that that has had on our Portland community in ways that do not necessarily relate to 5G technology as such. If the corporation's impact on the Portland community has been beneficial, then absolutely the ordinance should be repeated. If that is not the case that has been beneficial to the Portland community, then it should not be repeated. And I only ask that there are certain members of the Portland community to be recognized that the influence of corporations and technology on the city in general, on a general principle, is not being discussed and that it should be brought up on a further in public commentary and community discussion. As Anne-Marie and Barry previously mentioned, although I do not think that this directly relates to 5G as a matter properly, it's a more general issue that occurs in the city regarding the involvement of technology and advertising on public streets and other similar issues. And so I see this as one instance of a broader phenomenon that needs to be addressed and not necessarily directly related to any new advancement in technology. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. David Morrison. Thank you. The irony of the presentation before about the death of the birds was incredible because it doesn't matter what steps you folks take, the rollout of 5G is going to kill many, many birds, insects, plants, and is harmful to all life itself. That is actually scientific proof. There is science behind that many, many years. Now, the hiding behind the 1996 Telecommunications Act preemption is ridiculous. In Germany, there was a phrase that they used, we're only doing what we're told. Many, many lives were lost because of that. You're only doing what you're told. However, I have some good news for you because the states do not have to comply. There's an anti-commandeering doctrine that has long established history in constitutional law. I suggest you look it up. Sandra Day O'Connor read one of the rulings. So some things you might not know about 5G. is that currently the FCC safety standards are based on thermal effects despite thousands of studies showing otherwise. The measurement used with current microwave technology is SAR or specific absorption rate. With 5G they're not going to use SAR because SAR is based on the heating of tissue and they're going to use power density, which is not based on the heating of tissue because 5G will heat tissue. The skin has capillaries that can sometimes cool tissue, but the eyes do not. I don't know if you're aware of this, and I don't know if you're also aware that the exposure that we will be getting is about 30 times higher than the current 4G. Thank you. Also, throughout the industry now, there's Could I ask you to summarize your final points, please? I'll summarize it, yeah. Thank you. Throughout the industry, They are saying, especially T-Mobile has been saying this, that 5G is not going to work. It's only going to be available to about 5% of the population and they're going to be using 600 megahertz. Do you have any more testimony related to this? This is not a 5G. Well, you guys are being fooled. All right. Thank you. That is the end of public testimony. Thank you very much. Colleagues, is there any further discussion on this item? I just would like to say that. We don't have the luxury of not following the law. We promise to follow the laws of the United States. I can tell you that... Sir, your testimony is over. Thank you. Please have a seat. You're interrupting the Commissioner. Please have a seat or you will be asked to leave. I share your concerns, and I think that the evidence suggests that there are health problems. We are not allowed to consider that. I wouldn't do it. All righty. What's next, Mayor? Did you have any further comments? That's it, I'm done. Okay, good. I just have one comment. I always enjoy the public testimony period, especially when I learn something. And I felt that this morning, Commissioner Fish, I learned a tremendous amount by the public testimony we heard related to the presentation you gave. I'm just going to tell people, honestly, when you come in here and you compare us to the Nazis at Nuremberg, or you say that our objective is ultimately to subvert democracy, that is not particularly useful or helpful testimony. And it's too bad because I thought some of the people who were testifying actually made very good points, and I wanted to have the opportunity to have the conversation. In fact, with relation to 5G, which this ordinance is not, related to, this council has taken a principled leadership stance at the national level regarding public health consequences of small cell wireless deployment. Moreover, this council has taken the leadership role nationally on the question of the role of local government in terms of managing our own public right-of-ways. And so there is a lot of good work that we are doing related to the question of 5G. But this ordinance is not that. Any further discussion before I move this on? Very good. This is a first reading of an on-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. My understanding is 528 was pulled by lightning. Was that correct? Yes. He is not here, but go ahead and read it, please. Pay bodily injury lawsuit of Ramon McPherson in the sum of $40,000 resulting from a motor vehicle collision involving the Portland Police Bureau. Any questions or public testimony? Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hardison? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 532, please. 532, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Willis Apartments located at 1627 North Willis Boulevard. Great. And I will just point out again, this is now joining 59 other private sector projects in inclusionary housing. That's led to about 400 permanently affordable units within the city of Portland. Was there public testimony on this item? Who pulled it? Lightning. He's not here. No testimony. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 534 also pulled from the consent agenda. Authorize the Director of the Bureau of Environmental Services to execute certain lease documents with BNSF Railway needed for fire suppression maintenance. Who pulled this? Lightning also pulled this one. Very good. Any public testimony? Call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned until 8 p.m. Good afternoon, everyone. This is the Wednesday, June 5, 2019 session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Here. Okay. Hardesty, Udailey, here. Fritz, here. Wheeler. Here, and now we'll hear about the rules of order in decorum from legal counsel. Good afternoon, Robert. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and needs to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good, thank you. Carla, could you please read our first item, 546? Adopt PedPDX, Portland Citywide Pedestrian Plan, a 20-year strategy to make Portland a great walking city for everyone. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry. Thank you, Mayor. I'm excited to bring this comprehensive plan to city council. PedPDX affirms pedestrian mobility as a fundamental human right and the most basic means of transportation and seeks to ensure that pedestrian mobility is a safe, accessible, and attractive experience for everyone in Portland by putting pedestrians at the forefront of city transportation policy, investments, and design. Some basic items to keep in mind as we go through the plan are... And Michelle, I hope I'm not going to be repeating too much of your presentation here. Okay. Pedestrians in Portland are 10 times more likely than people driving to sustain a serious or fatal injury. Because pedestrians suffer a disproportionate number of traffic related deaths and serious injuries, improving pedestrian safety in Portland is critical to meeting the city's Vision Zero objective of eliminating all deaths and serious injuries on Portland streets by 2025. And I would add, we are all pedestrians. Unless you drive your vehicle from your garage to another garage, over and over again and never touch a city street, which is highly unlikely, very sad. And I just need to put that out there because we do hear from some very vocal advocates for who feel that we are overemphasizing the rights or needs of pedestrians and that car drivers are paying for it, which I just thought was fascinating since I think you do eventually have to get out of your car and walk or won't. The needs in Portland are enormous. PED PDX tells us that we still have approximately 350 miles of missing sidewalks along our busy arterial and collector streets. That does not include sidewalk gaps on local residential streets. And a need for approximately 3,500 additional marked crosswalks across the city. This is substantially more need than we are likely to have resources to address in the 20-year horizon of the plan. Given the enormity of this need, we have an obligation to ensure that we are directing our limited resources to the most critical locations first. With those guiding items in mind, the PEB PDX Prioritization Framework is based directly on the priorities that Portlanders told us themselves are most important. Locations where people rely on walking... Streets where people walking have been killed or injured and in places connecting to important pedestrian destinations. This touches on equity, safety, and demand. Prioritizing needs using a data-based approach helps ensure we're directing limited resources to locations with the greatest needs first. It aligns our spending priorities with adopted city goals and policies and the public stated priorities and creates a process that is transparent and repeatable. I'd now like to welcome Director Chris Warner. His first appearance here before us, I believe, as the Permanent Director of Portland Bureau of Transportation and Michelle Marks, Pedestrian Coordinator with PBOT for the presentation. Great. Commissioner Daly, thank you. Council, Chris Warner, Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. So, Ped PDX really is our new 20 year plan for making walking safer and more comfortable across Portland. It's an update of our 1998 pedestrian master plan and it's a culmination of two years of work. So, Ped PDX reflects changes to the pedestrian policy and design best practices that have emerged since the original 1998 plan was adopted. And it includes really two real critical elements. One of that is transportation equity and the other is vision zero, our approach to pedestrian safety. As the commissioner said, this plan really does impact all Portlanders since everyone really is a pedestrian. And there are multiple ways that a person can walk. Pedestrians can move using their own two legs, a wheelchair, a walker, a cane. Ped PDX really addresses the needs of all Portland's users of the sidewalks and crossings no matter how they move. The plan was guided by extensive community involvement that really went into this process. Over 5,400 Portlanders participated in the citywide walking priority survey, which really directly informs Ped PDX, really in our prioritization and our toolbox. Additionally, PedPDX sought to engage Portlanders who have been historically marginalized. The project worked with community partners to hold two walking while black focus groups to elevate the voice of black Portlanders in PedPDX. at these focus groups directly informs the strategies and actions of the plan. So to begin, before I turn it over to Michelle, I'd like to show a short video which kind of talked about the including engagement piece, and then we'll go into Michelle's comments. So here we go. Portland's population is expected to grow rapidly over the next 20 years. We have to be able to absorb this growth in ways that meet the livability needs of our community. The city adopted a new policy in our transportation system plan, I.O.T.s walking first before all other modes of transportation in the system. Paul PDX is Portland's citywide pedestrian plan. It will prioritize sidewalks, crossings, and other investments to make walking safer and more comfortable across the city. We have a committee of 25 dedicated, diverse, passionate community members who are moving. We can do this without them. Because a person's walking experience with their own airs greatly depending on one's area of the city and physical ability, our PedPDX community advisory committee members are intentionally selected for their demographic and geographic diversity, as well as their passion for making Portland a better place for everyone. Some areas have put them in beautiful pedestrian infrastructure, and some areas have very few sidewalks or safe cafes at all. We partnered with the University of Oregon School of Journalism and Communication to elevate the land to a diverse range of needs that people have when it comes to walking and walking. Their work included the stories of eight different book vendors and a video series called Cadastral Stories. What I find exciting for this collaboration with the Portland Bureau of Transportation is this opportunity for students to tell the stories with members, residents, and people of Oregon. Of all the ways we get around in Portland, people walking are at the greatest risk. Pedestrians make up nearly one-third of all traffic-related deaths. In October of 2013, my son John was hit by a car on a market crosswalk. He was passing the street and he had to catch a bus. John got hit on his knee. Vision Zero is Portland's goal to eliminate traffic death and serious injuries on Portland streets. I'm very excited that PedPDX exists and also that they're including community members to provide feedback for the place. And they seem very interested in what's important to everybody. PedPDX is helping to identify the locations where our resources will be able to be used and have based on our community priorities. Given the enormous amount of need across the city, we want to make sure that we're directing the limited resources to locations with the greatest need first. To better understand the community's priorities, we asked Portland to tell us for themselves the most critical barriers to walking in and the places that are most important to a person walking in Portland. And from our walking priorities survey, directly informs the PIPPX prioritization group. Our online survey was completed all summer long in 2017. Between that and our in-person outreach on Friday, we heard 5,411. However, in analyzing our survey results, we realized that we did not care for all surveys of Portland's population. In order to engage the black community, we partnered with two organizations, Portland African American Leadership Forum and Black Parenting for City of Indiana to have two focus groups where we could both I'm going to turn it over to them and be able to sponsor this one. that they proceeded to be race-based interactions, hate speech, behavior that was specific to their black experience in Portland. And so what this is doing is positioning us to have a deeper level of consciousness in the planning that we're doing across the field, but also forcing us to address some of these issues. Our goal is to get people out of their cars, our goal is to have more people who want to use transit and other transportation options, but we, that this type of an experience for these members of the community is really shaping their perceptions of safety. We want to be incorporated the feedback we heard in our Voting While Black focus groups into the Pen4Dx toolbox. The toolbox identifies the key strategies and tools we will use to make walking safer and more comfortable for everyone. In recognition of the unique needs of poor owners with disabilities, we also worked with one of our PedPDX community advisory committee members to organize a workshop for people with disabilities. Participants with a range of disabilities met to brainstorm solutions to make our sidewalks and houses more accessible for them. Many of these ideas are directly incorporated into the PedPDX toolbox. In addition to the prioritization framework and toolbox, MPDX also includes new pedestrian street classifications across the city that reflect the demand-based priorities we heard in our walking priority survey. We engaged each of the city's seven district coalitions to carefully review and help refine the proposed pedestrian classification maps, drawing from participants' knowledge of the of their neighborhood districts. The pedestrian classifications included in the public review draft of PED PDX reflect the refinements provided by the district commissions. Visit our website now to review the draft plan and give us your thoughts on PED PDX. Before I turn it over to Michelle, I just really want to just thank staff. They did a phenomenal job. It's been two years? It's been a two-year process in terms of talking to people, doing outreach, really listening and trying to figure out the best way to move forward. And I think I'm just really proud of the work they've done, and we're really happy to be here today. So I'm going to turn it over to Michelle Marks. Thank you, Director Warner. So yes, my name is Michelle Marks. I'm the PBOT pedestrian coordinator. I'm also the project lead for PedPDX. Thank you so much for having me today. I will note that since this video was made, we've engaged in even more process. So we released our public review draft at the beginning of March. It was posted online and distributed as far and wide as we possibly could. For about two months, we took public comments. We organized seven what we called view and review parties across the city in every district of the city and engaged in as broad a campaign as we could to get the word out and work with our community partners to do that. So absolutely a lot of outreach went into this effort and I will give, I want to call out my colleague Francesca Petricolo who was the architect for most of that. So I'm absolutely thrilled to be here today to share with you what I think is a really, really exciting plan for Portland. The vision for Ped PDX is that our city is a truly walkable city for all. And I'm really enthusiastic about the work not only that staff and the project team has done on this, but our huge coalition of community partners that have worked on this with us as well, many of which are in the room with us today. So thank you all. I really appreciate your time and effort. So I'll just briefly walk you through the content of the plan. So I won't restate our mission. Commissioner Udailey stated this for us in our opening remarks, but I will underscore that this affirmation of walking as a fundamental human right and the most fundamental means of transportation really does guide... the content of the plan throughout and I think you'll see that. So I know it's a very large plan, it's a 20-year plan so it's likely to be large but there really are just three fundamental components to be aware of. The first piece is identifying what we call the pedestrian priority network. And this is just a collection of all of the streets in Portland with new and updated pedestrian classifications. In aggregate, that's identified as our priority network. And these really are reflective of our comprehensive land use vision for the city locations where we have now or anticipate to see high levels of people walking. Excuse me. The second piece of the plan is within that network, we've identified every sidewalk gap and crosswalk gap throughout the entire network and developed a prioritization methodology for determining which of those needs are most critical to address first. And then finally, the last piece of the plan is what we've called our implementation toolbox. And this is a collection of all of the implementing strategies and actions that we as a city are making a public commitment to exploring to make the city walkable all across the network. There are 68 actions that we're committing to here. So really briefly, what is the state of walking in Portland? We know we have some significant issues that PAD PDX needs to address. And one is traffic safety. So pedestrians, people walking, are disproportionately impacted by traffic safety. Despite the fact that 9% of all trips, more or less, in Portland are walking trips, approximately 30% of traffic fatalities impact pedestrians. And we know that this is an equity issue as well. Portlanders that have to walk, including those who are transit reliant, most people walk to the bus stop, are most exposed to what really are systemic safety issues. We also know that people walking in East Portland die in traffic crashes at twice the rate of people walking elsewhere in Portland on a per person basis. so we absolutely have traffic safety issues to address we also have significant infrastructure issues to address as well i think outside of portland our community is you know has a reputation for being a very walkable city which it is but i think we also all know that there are too many instances of this in our city as well no sidewalks no safe place for a person to walk And so, PedPDX did something that we haven't done to date, and that's take a really solid accounting of where we have missing sidewalks. So, the map on the screen here shows all locations in green, where we know we have sidewalks present on both sides of the roadway, locations in blue, where we have sidewalks only on one side of the roadway, and locations in purple, where we are missing sidewalks on both sides of the roadway. And the geographic patterns are clear. We're missing sidewalks in southwest Portland and outer east Portland, areas of the city that were annexed in the latter half of the 20th century. To put some numbers behind that, as the Commissioner noted... Can I ask you a question? Of course. Commissioner Daly, would you prefer us to get through the presentation and ask, or what's your preference? I do think... Unless it's a clarifying question. Let's go ahead and let you finish, and I'll write my question. Sounds good. So on our arterial and collector system, we know that 32% of those street segments are missing sidewalks on both sides of the roadway, and that's... That's a big number. As the Commissioner noted, that's about 350 miles of missing sidewalk on our busy streets alone, only arterials and collectors, so that we know, given the enormity of that number, that we have to prioritize. We have to make sure we're sending investments to the most critical locations first. Crosswalks. Again, we absolutely want to emphasize marked and safe protected crossings as a critical component of the pedestrian network. But again, we know we have too many places in the city like what we're seeing in the image here where there's just not a marked crossing in sight. So this poor man just has very little choice but to do what he's doing here. So we looked at all. all of our arterial and collector streets in our priority network and found that to meet our new crossing spacing guidelines we need about 3,500 new crossings. Again, much more than we're going to be able to deliver in the 20-year horizon of this plan. We must prioritize. We must address the most critical needs first. So how did we do that? So, uh, Ped MediaX developed a prioritization methodology that was based directly on what we heard Portlanders tell us are the most important locations to improve for walking. Um, as the director in the video noted, um, our citywide survey had about 5,400 responses in multiple languages. Um, beyond the survey itself, we also engaged directly with communities. community partners and district coalitions. And what we heard are, if we must prioritize the needs, the top priorities really fall under these three buckets of equity, safety, and demand. So this is how PADPVX structures its prioritization. We analyzed our entire priority network based on those criteria of equity, where we have high equity needs, where we know we have safety concerns, and where we have or expect to see a high number of people walking. And when we aggregate those analyses, what we find, what that yields are street segments where we have overlapping equity needs, that overlap with safety concerns, and lots of number of people walking. And that tells us exactly where in our network are the most critical locations. So what we see in the map here are our top-tier priority locations for ensuring we have safe pedestrian conditions. Tier 1 in purple, Tier 2 in red, down to Tier 3 in yellow. All three of those considered top-tier priorities, all the way down to Tier 4 and 5 in green and blue. And what we've done is gone back and matched up those locations where we saw, where we know we have missing sidewalks. and where we have missing crosswalks against those top tier locations and what this yields us are what we think need to be our near-term priorities for providing new sidewalk and crossing infrastructure moving forward. Now I want to point out that what Penn PDX sets forth is the methodology for analyzing pedestrian need The intent is that this analysis is run regularly and updated regularly. The benefit of that is it keeps our plan dynamic. We get to use fresh safety and equity data regularly so that we're staying current, we're responding to current need and to changing conditions over time. So finally the last piece of the PedPDX is what we're calling our toolbox. And again as we stated in the video it's directly informed by the outreach that we did. Namely and not uniquely but our walking while black focus groups as well as our workshops with members of the disability community in Portland. And there are a lot of actions here. We're making a public commitment to 67, to explore 67 actions to make walking safer and more comfortable in Portland. Clearly I can't go over all of them with you today, even though I think every one of them are exciting. But a couple I'll just highlight. These are some actions that specifically came out of our Walking While Black and disability focus groups. One is to implement new vision clearance guidelines and set back parked vehicles at uncontrolled crossings to improve visibility of pedestrians and frankly for all people using the roadway at intersections. This one was very much important to members in our disability workshop who don't always feel seen, particularly when they are low in a wheelchair behind a parked car. But this is an issue for everybody, of course. And I'd just like to note, Michelle, that Portland standards are actually lower than the state standards. Yes. We do have some kind of exemption, but state standards don't allow parking within 20 feet of the corner. And I don't – I believe it's – if your vehicle is over 6 feet, it can't be parked within 50 feet. and we have people parking right up to the corner and it really is a problem not just for pedestrians of all types but also drivers and cyclists absolutely and does this include um taking away parking meters where the parking space is within the corner i can answer that so within a parking meter district we will absolutely do an engineering analysis to determine if there is a site-stopping safety issue at that intersection. And if the engineering analysis finds that it is, then yes, we would pull that parking meter. Thank you. And I think that many of the parking meter districts are in, there will be controlled intersections there. There will be lights. There generally are lights where we have most of the parking meters, so a lot of the parking meters. Another action that was really, really important to members in our disability workshop was to study prohibiting turn on red at signalized intersections, particularly in high demand pedestrian districts and at high crash intersections. So we'll be evaluating that. Sidewalk repair. There are several actions in the toolbox related to revamping and revisiting our sidewalk repair practices. One that I'll call out here that we've been working with Commissioner Udailey-Staff on is how can we identify financing strategies and cost saving opportunities to help bring down the burden of sidewalk repair to property owners. So we'll be moving forward on that. And then several actions came out of our Walking While Black focus group specifically, speaking to the issue of how can we improve not just a sense of traffic safety in the right-of-way, but also a sense of personal safety and security. It's hard to convince more people to walk if they don't feel safe doing it. So increasing lighting levels, particularly in underserved communities, was a key action that came out of those focus groups. And PEG-PDX does include new lighting level guidelines citywide to make folks more visible and seen in our streets. So that's all I have for you today. Thank you, Michelle. Before we open it up... I want to just ask you real quick. So of the three buckets, I think safety is obvious, how we define that. Demand is fairly self-explanatory, but can you define equity for the purposes of this plan? Absolutely. So we used PBOT's standardized equity matrix, which looks at census, race, and income data. And this is the standardized approach that I think PBOP, my understanding, has worked out with the Office of Equity and Human Rights and is also national best practice. Thank you. I have a couple of questions. I'll go in reverse order just because it's more fun. So this isn't a question, it's really a request. So this council has just passed funding for the Dark Skies Initiative. And I want to make sure that we don't have one group working on increasing light levels and another group working on reducing light levels. Is there some way to combine these efforts so that they're informing each other? Actually, I wanted to put that in the form of a statement with a period at the end. We're funding both, so let's make sure that they're in coordination. Commissioner Udaly is well familiar with this. Yeah, I share your concerns, Mayor, and there are different configurations of the type of lights as well as the type of fixtures that we use that can minimize disruption and light pollution. And if Michelle has anything to add to that. I mean, I'm personally happy to work. in conjunction with the, I'm sorry, what did, I got so many emails about it. That was an amendment Commissioner Fish had brought to the budget. Yes, I'm very supportive. Yeah, that's my understanding as well that the type of fixture and providing the, making sure that the light is downcast rather than spread up is the most important thing. Very good. And you identified crossings, and that's something this council has had many, many discussions about. But one thing I haven't received clarity on, what is the cost per crossing? Do we have some sort of a working estimate that we use? It really depends on the type of improvement that's needed at any particular location. So if it's, you know, just a simple marked crosswalk on a two-lane road, that is, you know, a much simpler, much cheaper solution than if you have to provide crosswalks you know one of those yellow rectangular flashing beacons or a red signal and a median in the middle so it really depends on the type of roadway so it would be helpful to me if now that you've gone through all the iterations and you've identified the highest priority investments, it seems to me we could be able to start putting brackets around the potential cost, the potential annual outlay, understanding what sort of ‑‑ we could start to actually get to the capital financing, what sort of revenues need to be leveraged for what amount of bonds in order to be able to do those capital improvements. And I'd be interested in that analysis. And I know there's lots of people in OMF who would be happy to help with that. The original chart you showed the percentage of sidewalks or the percentage of streets where there are no sidewalks on both sides of the streets, just sort of giving it a quick eyeball. It looks like there's a number of streets that are included in that analysis where it just isn't feasible. I mean, there are just some places where we are not going to be able to put sidewalks in. Has there been any effort to filter that? those from the analysis or identify those as areas where it just isn't feasible? Not in that planning level analysis. However, the toolbox does include an array of alternative walking path solutions that might be appropriate in those types of locations. So I think moving forward, the intent, because this is intended to be a dynamic plan, is as we've analyzed those locations and determined what's feasible or what's not, we can adjust that data set and pull that from the backlog. Low cost, easy solution. I have no idea about the level of effectiveness, but at very high volume, pedestrian crossings that we know are significant safety hazards until we can address those either through education or infrastructure or enforcement or some combination of the above. I've seen an interesting simple solution. Who doesn't love Sisters Oregon, right? And in the summer the crosswalks are very very busy and there's a lot of traffic going through and On either side, they put large buckets with bright orange flags, and you pick it up on one side, and you wave the flag, and the kids love doing that, and the traffic sees it, and then on the other side, you dump the flag back in the bucket. Have we thought of something like that just as a temporary opportunity at areas where we know crossings are a real issue and that people may not be well seen? No. Just until we do the other things we need to do to make it up to standard? I don't know that we've actively explored that particular idea for crossings, but we are very eager to look at all sorts of opportunities to provide improvements to people now who don't want to wait 20 years for the perfect improvement. We're absolutely doing that for sidewalks, trying to figure out how to provide just some kind of safe walking path. that's separated from traffic. The sidewalk, yes, is the perfect solution, but what can we do now? You know, maybe it's pull out the on-street parking and put in some sort of, you know, physical curb separation on the fog line so there's some kind of path now, or provide traffic calming to get the cars moving slower so you feel safer walking along the side of the road. You know, I do think that conversation should be expanded to look at what we can do for crossings as well. Good. And I want to reply to you for the analysis. I think it's fantastic. And thank you for giving me some time to actually read through it before the session today. Eric? Commissioner Fish, then Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I have a couple of questions that I want to ask Director Warner. And first, congratulations on your appointment. Thank you. You know, the last time that we were presented with something that was this comprehensive that I can think of was probably the update to the bike master plan or something. And I'm going to go what way that document compared to this document, but this is like a phone book. And the criticism that we got with the bike master plan is that we set this big vision, but we didn't have the resources to implement it. And that has come up from time to time as we do big visions. And then people have expectations and then we fall short in implementing because of the harsh realities of budgets and resources. So let me start with one of the, let me see what page it is, but early in this excellent report, it lists the PED PDX objectives. Page 15. And number three is funding. Commit to funding pedestrian network improvements in the pedestrian priority network. So we're going to be asked to adopt a report that has a very explicit objective around funding these very worthy things. Have you done an analysis of what additional resources PBOT would need to fully fund this plan? No. Commissioner Fish, we have not necessarily, but it is in terms of any funding going forward, that is part of this analysis. And it is a 20-year plan. Hopefully we can tear pages out and we'll be lighter by the time we get to the 20th year. But certainly what we want this to be is kind of the foundation as we look for additional funding to keep these in mind, all of these priorities in mind, because this really is kind of the the building blocks of the foundation that we're building. So it's great to identify what the fundamentals are, and then as we move forward with funding over the next 20 years, we'll want to plug in every opportunity we can to make sure that we get the priority ones funded. I would be interested at some point, even in a back-of-the-envelope number, because having... a number helps put it in the context of other things that PBOT is committed to and helps us prioritize funding at budget time. The second question I have for you is the section on public outreach is one of the most comprehensive I've ever seen at page 339 and forward. So the public involvement plan. And since all of us up here are interested in learning lessons about how to enhance the public involvement process, and when a bureau moves the goalposts, we want to know about it and understand it, I guess I had two questions for you. One was, what are you most proud of in terms of things that you did? And just skimming this section, I don't remember – A report that had a more robust public engagement process. But what did you learn? What were you most proud of? And then how did you pay for it? What does it cost to do something this ambitious? I'll ask. She will answer the funding questions since the money was spent before I got here. But certainly I think the piece that I'm most proud of, and I think we've referred to it a couple of times, is kind of the analysis and the additional outreach we did with the Walk in White Black. We had identified that during our Vision Zero work, that it's not just a matter of getting infrastructure where people feel safe, or the infrastructure and the engineering is good, but it's how people interact with the right of way. So I think when we got to this point in this plan where we had all of the data, we actually looked at each other and said, I think we need to take a deeper dive and do these focus groups in order to actually see how people interact. with the right-of-way. So it's not just a matter of numbers and statistics and speed but it's also a matter of how residents of Portland interact and so that That to us is something that we really took to heart and it's something that we feel that we can use for additional outreach in terms of how do we actually talk to communities. It's not just a matter of having people at the table. It's taking the table to people and to figure out how we as a bureau can actually do better outreach. One of the things that is so great about kind of the work we do is, you know, we're an infrastructure bureau. So we have, you know, dump trucks and shovels and all those kind of things. But we also interact with the public in a very real way every day. So we are really – really want to take that engagement to the next level. So really the thanks go to the staff in terms of really having this robust public outreach process, but it's something that we'd love to replicate for all the work we do. Yeah, and I can add on to that. So, you know, we were, our whole team was absolutely adamant that if we were developing a plan that we were saying was based on Portlanders' priorities, that we needed to be very sure that we were actually hearing from Portlanders in a representative way. So we took very seriously, you know, doing some detailed demographic analysis on exactly who we were hearing back in our survey and making sure that it matched the ratios of the different types of folks that make up a population. And when we saw that it wasn't, we knew we needed to do some additional outreach. And, you know, frankly, it didn't cost that much more. A couple of focus groups don't cost that much. I will say that... my colleague Francesca Patricco here is very good at applying for grants and got some grants from America Walks to do these fabulous pedestrian walking stories that were on our website that got tens of thousands of views and helped to build empathy for the different ways people walk across Portland and the different kind of opportunities and challenges that people across the city face so having a really good grant writer on your team is also an asset I just want to add one more thing. I mean, one of the most gratifying things for me is, you know, as you know, the staff does all the work. And I got to go to kind of the final meeting of the advisory committee. And it was such a celebration. And it was such a wonderful experience because Portlanders really came together to write this plan. And I was really touched and gratified by just the work that all the citizens put into this. So that was another moment that really struck it for me. Thank you. Thank you. Director Werner, can I interrupt for just one moment? A little bit of housekeeping here. If there's anybody here waiting for the next item, item 547, which is the time certain at 3.30 related to approving mini area parking permit, the mini area parking permit program, we're not actually going to hear that today. So if anybody's waiting for that, I don't want you to spend. spend time here thinking that that's coming. Hopefully we got the word out. Great, thank you. Sorry, Commissioner Fritz. Director Warner, my congratulations to you. I was really happy to see that you got the position. So this is obviously a lot of work over many years and I was interested to see Commissioner Saltzman on some of those photographs. I know. And I just got it on Monday, so I would really appreciate some more time to look through it and would have appreciated a briefing. So I'm going to ask some pretty basic questions because I'm not quite understanding what I'm reading. I'm looking at page 124 and 125, which is the prioritized crossing needs. And I'm not understanding what a yellow line versus a yellow dot means. I can explain that. So, thank you for asking. The yellow dots, in fact, all of the colored dots are locations where we have a potentially deficient crossing. So, it's not a crossing gap. It's a location where an existing crossing exists, but it may not be up to our current design guidelines, and we need to go back and evaluate that. So, for example, it might just be a marked crossing when our current design guidelines would call for a marked crossing plus a warning beacon, for example. Thank you. That's helpful. So I see that Fessenden is aligned, so apparently it's got gaps. But why aren't there any dots on that? Because we've heard a lot over the past several months about deficient crossings on Fessenden. Well, I think if there are no dots, then it means that our planning level data and analysis did not show those as deficient. I guess one thing I would add is we're making a lot of improvements as we speak on Fessenden. So I don't know if that reflects that or not, but Fessenden is... Yeah, I know. I just would have thought that it would show up that it was going to need those and therefore that you are doing them. And we had some nice feedback this morning that the community appreciates it. So I was just wondering, trying to understand better. And then if you look across the central city map, Why is Southwest Broadway listed as having crossing gaps when there are crosswalks at the summer grid? Yeah, thank you. So our new crossing spacing guidelines, note that within a pedestrian district, so the entire center city, we'd like to see marked pedestrian crossings approximately every 530 feet. So with our kind of 200-foot block module, that's about every other block. in the center city. So I'm guessing there are locations along Broadway where we might not have crossings where it might be every three blocks and that's popping up as a gap. On Broadway, they're all marked. So we'll take a look. And then finally, well, I've got several questions, but I think that might actually be the park blocks that you're looking at. Is it the park blocks? Yeah. Oh, yes. Broadway. Thank you, yes. Yeah. And then why is it not on 9th as well as on Park? Well, I see two yellow stripes, which would be 9th and Park on either side of the Park blocks. And there are definitely a lot of missing crosswalks. And I think we had a pedestrian fatality. Thank you, Commissioner. That's helpful. Yeah. It's hard to... So the next question is still... Actually, it's turning the page to prioritised sidewalk needs. On an earlier slide where you showed the feedback from the community of what was important to them, I live in deep south-west, so I happen to notice that what was important to them is school access, safe routes to schools, and yet the prioritised sidewalk needs aren't on 35th where the school is. So I'm wondering, how did you... How come only Barbara and only some parts of Barbara got prioritized sidewalk needs rather than it? Sure, yeah, I think you can answer that. So the prioritized locations are the aggregate, the cumulative location of where we have high demand, which would include the demand on safe routes to school, where we also have a history of traffic crashes and four and five lane roadways and high speed roadways, so safety problems. and locations where we have equity issues, so where the three overlap. So absolutely, locations, streets that connect to schools are part of the demand analysis, but we also, to be prioritized, need to have safety and equity needs identified on top of those locations as well, all three. Well then why ask the community other factors if that's what you're going to base the prioritization on? Well, the community feedback absolutely informed the demand plus safety plus equity methodology. And they told us which types of demand within the demand analysis were most important. So that was connections to community feedback. destinations and transit and schools. So that's what we use to construct our demand analysis. Okay. And then my last question is on the pedestrian priority network and what's a neighborhood walkway? Okay. Yeah, thank you. So in the past, our 1998 pedestrian plan only included pedestrian classifications for arterial and collector level streets. But PAN PDX is now identifying certain higher, what we consider higher order local residential streets as part of our network. So local streets that are either a designated safe routes to school or connect to transit are designated as what we call neighborhood walkways. So those are local streets. And what do they get? Sorry? What would you get in a neighborhood walkway that you wouldn't be able to get? No, it's a good question. So by merit of being part of the pedestrian priority network, those streets are – more eligible for public investment. Okay. Again, that's not, with the criteria of it being to transit and the routes to school, that doesn't necessarily map out, that doesn't, I don't understand how this got designated, but maybe I can have a follow-up conversation. Sure, happy to. Very good. Before we go on, kids, where are you from? Excellent. Welcome. Thanks for coming to City Hall. We appreciate it. Questions? Remainder of questions? I just want to note that this plan was put up online and accessible to the public in the spring. We took comment for 90 days, as well as all the active outreach that we did. But it is sounding like commissioners could have used a briefing or some information more in advance. And I think with something of this size, that is warranted. Although I do want to point out, it's really only 335 pages. The other... 100 or two are appendices. All right. We have invited testimony. Would you like me to call people up? Sure. Okay. So our first group, I believe, is going to be made up of Jess Thompson from Oregon Walks, and just come to the table as I call you, Ken Marks from Rosewood Initiative, and Janet Hawkins from PedPDX CAC member from Southwest. and you can give testimony in any order. Just state your name for the record before you begin and welcome. Go ahead. Greetings Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish and Mayor Wheeler. Good afternoon. My name is Jess Thompson. I'm the Executive Director at Oregon Walks. My pronouns are she and hers. I've been listening and learning and thinking a lot about what it means to feel safe while walking. For so long, the experience of walking as it exists in our public discourse has focused on infrastructure, which is so important. And people experience pedestrian infrastructure differently depending on their identities. I look forward to listening and learning more with you about how we might begin to build roads A more inclusive idea of what safety meet while walking means before I kick off my testimony about this particular plan. I want to highlight a bill. The past the Senate yesterday, this bill is a tool to begin to create a safer environment for walking important and throughout the rest of the state. Representative Bynum and others led an effort that will make it possible to sue people who call the police for racist reasons. This is something we should all be celebrating, and it is another tool to create a safer and more equitable walking experience for all. I'm here today though to talk to you specifically about the Ped PDX plan. There's much to celebrate in this plan. It is a road map of how we can continue the important pedestrian investments the city put into place with the adoption of the 1998 Pedestrian Master Plan and the 2018 adoption of the Transportation System Plan. I want to thank specifically Irene Marion, the Equity and Inclusion Manager at PBOT, and Tosin Abiodun, the Constituent Services Coordinator at PBOT, Michelle Marks, Pedestrian Coordinator, and of course Francesca Petruccolo, the Innovation and Regional Collaboration team member. In midst of what is a very technical document, it is apparent that that people in equity are at the center of PedPDX. This team has created a document that is helping Oregon Walks, other community partners, and the city consider more broadly what it means to be and feel safe while walking in Portland. We didn't want to walk past this process, so to speak. We see modeled here without taking a moment to add exclamation points in agreement in order to draw other bureaus toward successful duplication. Additionally, we suggest this community engagement model be shared with other municipalities engaging in urban development projects. So what's so special about this community engagement process? First, more equitable data collection. The team here implemented a survey, listened to the feedback, and thought about whose voices were missing. What they discovered is that black people make up about 6% of the people in Portland, but the initial community engagement work resulted in 2% of the respondents identifying as black. Many teams would have kept the work plan moving. What's so special about this? this team stopped and I think Commissioner Fish this speaks directly to your question about what was what exactly happened to make this community engagement process so special this team stopped and they consulted with Irene Marion and Tosin Abiodun who offered very skilled and critical mentorship about adapting the community engagement process to make sure it was inclusive So the team tried different approaches outlined in this report that resulted in hugely important learning for the city about the experience of walking while black in Portland. The team actually used the community engagement learning to inform the plan, all while using an equity lens. After adapting the community engagement processes, the teams incorporated what community members were telling them about their lived experience of walking in Portland. I watched this team listen to people in East Portland and go back that evening to update the pedestrian plan, asking people most historically ignored, at best, by municipalities what they think and then actually incorporating that feedback into a plan, it's pretty revolutionary. The team here also truly identified and prioritized the needs of people who are walking dependent for transportation and live in woefully underinvested areas of Portland, specifically areas east of 82nd Avenue. When I say that Oregon Walk support this plan, I mean we support it because it is very good for pedestrians. And we also support this plan because it is a solid example of how we might begin to operationalize equity in urban planning. When the city practices listening and including the experiences of people most historically hurt by urban planning, you begin to build trust and a possible path forward to repair decades of exclusionary harm. In particular, Oregon Walk celebrates the Walking While Black survey and focus group results. which show safety and visibility are major concerns. This plan highlights these concerns and calls for significant street lighting investments. Let's make this happen. Additionally, this document calls for increased visibility at crosswalks, specifically by providing high visibility crosswalks and parking setbacks on pedestrian prioritization streets. Let's make this happen. Oregon Walks does not think this plan goes far enough to promote pedestrian visibility, however. We are kicking off a campaign to educate and build awareness around the need for increased visibility at crosswalks. We are calling this campaign Clear the Corners. We are asking the city to implement 20-foot setbacks at all corners. This promotes visibility for all walkers, rollers, and drivers. On behalf of Oregon Walks, we would like to thank the team at PBOT for creating such a people-centered PDX plan. Thank you for helping Portland expand our ideas of what walking safety looks and feels like for a variety of communities. Thank you for helping Portland see what a more equitable community engagement process might look like. We also know that this plan is just that, a plan. The devil is in the implementation. We look forward to working with you to make sure the critical community feedback that informs this document is operationalized on the ground and in the streets. Walk on. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and council members. My name is Cam Marks. I'm the Director of Transportation Equity at the Rosewood Initiative in Outer East Portland. I'd like to start by I'm going to be summarizing my comments that I've prepared and given to you all. I'd like to start by thanking Commissioner Udaily. Thank you to Michelle and Francesca and the rest of the PDOT staff for their excellent work. um we do support this plan uh we do think however there are things that can be changed or improved and we do have some concerns about certain elements the first thing that i'd like to address is the issue of funding um mr mayor with all due respect i would like to push back about the um mentality of limited resources we have one of the most prosperous periods in our city's history. There's money out there. We just have to find ways of doing or finding it and getting it. One way of doing that is to increase the parking permit districts. We need to stop giving away one of our biggest assets for the city and that is on street parking. We need to stop relying on our development to get residential landfill, especially in places like East Portland and specifically around roads or streets that are used as cut throughs for traffic. pedestrians, and that are routes to schools. We need to come up with creative means of raising revenue to focus on those areas. An example is in the comments that I have provided you. Now for the nuts and bolts of getting into the weeds. We believe that right turns on reds need to be eliminated. Thank you. 8% of all driver on pedestrian crashes through this maneuver. In addition, the University of Toronto has found that over 50% of drivers attempting to turn right on red are not looking right to see if the crosswalk is clear, they're looking left. That causes crashes and near misses. I have experienced near misses like that many times in my life. Another aspect of this is that drivers pull into the crosswalk, which impedes the pedestrian trying to use the crosswalk, forcing them to go into the through lane or behind them. That is dangerous for all pedestrians, but especially for people with disabilities, children, and seniors. We need to, we support the Clear the Corner campaign for, or by Oregon Walks. Examples of design that would help are being proposed on outer division at 122nd, 148th, and 162nd, commonly known as Dutch Corners. We must implement a proactive policy of changing audible signals for people that are blind and visually impaired. Relying on capital projects to implement these upgrades is totally insufficient. The current system, many intersections lack them. Many intersections have tonal signals that are completely confusing. I, myself, almost walked into the intersection because I was confused as to which signal was being indicated. I need to push back on the concept of shared... roadways for drivers and pedestrians. Examples on page 274 and 276 are frankly inadequate and unacceptable. They don't provide context for blind and visually impaired people to know where they are in relationship to the street and to vehicles. They don't give context as to where crosswalks are and intersections are. I live on 136th Avenue between Powell and Holgate. This is a route to school. There are many drivers and many pedestrians that use this route. twice a day during the school year. It's supposed to be a low-volume, low-speed street, and I can guarantee you that drivers exceed the speed, often at extreme speeds, on this route. Those kinds of situations. It also has places where a person with a mobility device would not be able to get off of the street surface, and the lighting is absolutely terrible. Crosswalk taught types this needs to be implemented based on the behavior of the actual drivers and not just on the width of the street and the number of lanes. An example is 174th Avenue. It will not get enhanced crossings like RF rapid flashing beacons or hybrids because it's a two lane road. However drivers routinely speed down this road. We get through traffic from down south and Pleasant Valley. Truck drivers especially dump trucks heading to Happy Valley use this route all the time. This kind of street has to, context has to matter, and we need to be much more sensitive to that context. Having said that, again, I'd like to thank Commissioner Udaly and the PBOT staff for what I believe is a very decent plan, and with improvements could be an excellent plan. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners, my name is Janet Hawkins and I was one of the members of the PED PDX Community Advisory Committee. And I too, as my fellow testifiers have said, I want to commend staff for their work on the plan. I live in southwest Portland and I'm a pedestrian every day, walking about two to three miles through the neighborhoods. And my testimony today is going to focus on two key content areas, Toolbox Strategy 1 and Toolbox Strategy 7. For Tool Act Strategy 7, manage vehicle speeds and improve driver awareness. Commissioner Wheeler, you asked about some of the things that could be innovative, creative, less expensive than capital projects, and that came to mind immediately in my testimony. I have a direct experience as chair of my neighborhood association and volunteering with Southwest Transportation Committee. And I've been fortunate enough to participate and volunteer with a number of safety vigils for the city. So working with PBOT, working with the police bureau, and gosh, I think I've done like five or seven safety vigils. You know, bright vests, flashing lights, keeping everybody safe and volunteering. at busy intersections to let drivers know that bikes and pedestrians are there any time of the day or the evening or the morning. We conducted a safety vigil, our neighborhood association, Hayhurst, in early January, on January 2nd, to highlight the fact that children and youth were going to be back in school after the Christmas holiday break. And we decided to conduct that at Southwest 45th and Vermont, a pretty busy intersection right by Southwest Community Center, early evening, 5 to 7 p.m. We had volunteers, we had our bright orange safety vests on, lots of flashers, lots of lights. And we were accompanied by police officer Jacobson who was there to do informational stops for drivers who weren't complying with Portland's traffic codes. So during that two hour period, I tell people it was kind of, it's pretty scary. Because despite having a lot of folks around, a lot of kids, a lot of youth, a lot of families going to Southwest Community Center, There were still a lot of drivers who were inattentive, they were distracted, all those things kind of came to the fore during that two-hour period. I have to say, Officer Jacobson, who was with us, stopped ten drivers in a two-hour period for inattentive driving, speeding, and failure to stop for traffic signals. So that's about a stop. I think it's about every 12 minutes he had the lights going, flashers. And this is, for those of you who know the intersections, it's well lighted. There's lighting, there are marked crosswalks, there are lighted pedestrian crossing signals. And yet people continue to speed and be inattentive and erratic and unsafe in their driving. And that was the norm for some of these drivers, not all drivers, but that's enough to put pedestrians and bicyclists at tremendous risk in those situations. So as a city, I just feel very strongly and through personal experience and community experience, toolbox strategy seven is about lowering our speeds and improving driver awareness. I guess if it takes a ticket, it takes a ticket or a police stop. Maybe that's the kind of key awareness that needs to be there. And I think it's really important for folks to see those opportunities. lights on the police car in a preventative situation versus in a serious crash situation. So that's one thought I had in mind when we talked about what's affordable, what's doable, and certainly the involvement of the police bureau. The second strategy I want to talk about is strategy one, which addresses gaps in the pedestrian priority network. And I noted during the staff presentation, there were a number of questions about the pedestrian priority network and how equity, safety, demand really framed the discussion around the priority network. So as a representative of Southwest Portland, there were two other representatives of Southwest Portland and the community advisory committee. We all felt this was a really challenging aspect of the plan. And today you're going to hear about informed, thoughtful testimony from other folks in Southwest who want to talk about those infrastructure concerns they may have and what the plan reflects. As an advisory committee member, staff were excellent about really trying to find numbers and information. And around that equity information, where are the communities of color, low and moderate income households, how do we look at the census data, how do we do that kind of analysis? And again, I commend staff for going the extra mile for working with committee members and looking for other data sets and really spending time with us around that. Okay. kind of content to make sure that those communities were reflected and their needs were reflected for southwest Portland. It's clear as a city, when we developed Portland in the 50s and the 60s and southwest was growing as was east Portland, that our zoning code placed multifamily housing on our busiest streets. So Beaverton-Hillsdale Highway, Barber Boulevard, McAdam Avenue are all very busy streets, and that's where the concentration of the multifamily housing is. And that's where our families are, communities of color are, It's where affordable housing in low and moderate income households live in that housing. But we also, in doing so, place vulnerable populations on our busiest streets. And so those are the streets where the pedestrian crashes are the highest and most likely to occur in injury and death for the pedestrians or bicyclists in those areas. PedPDX addresses those inequities for Southwest residents. I feel like it does a good job of starting that analysis of inequities inequities and Michelle Marks talked about the capacity of the plan to change with information I'm encouraged that we're going to have a census 2020 coming up we're going to get new low mod income data for Southwest as well as for other neighborhoods in Portland but we need to make sure and one of the key things that comes up in the plan is to improve our transit stop safety along those busy streets and for capital improvements for sidewalks on our busiest streets and The plan prioritizes critical improvements in East Portland based on pedestrian crash data. And my view, and you'll hear different views today I'm sure, my view is that the capital improvements in East Portland will have an immediate impact on reducing pedestrian deaths and injuries. No doubt about it, twice the city number, our house is on fire and we need to put that fire out. And this is a 20 year plan and I think we really recognize that we need to focus our resources and our energy in essentially the struggle that's out there for people living in East Portland. I also know that capital improvements are planned for Southwest Portland. The Southwest in Motion Plan, I think it will be coming before council soon, highlights the work that will occur. So I know there's been lots of work around looking at that capital infrastructure. And I'm also confident that council will be responsive to pedestrian safety needs throughout the city and be aware and thoughtful about where that investment can take place in the city. So we all have places to go. We should be able to walk safely and without fear of death or injury. And my feeling is that PedPDX plan offers a clear and comprehensive guide for all of us to get wherever we're going safely. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three. Can I ask one question? I'll be very quick. And this goes to Oregon Walks. So I do... I too share your enthusiasm for the Clear the Corner initiative. I wonder, what is your view of all of the parking garages downtown where you have a similar dynamic, actually a worse dynamic in some respects? You have cars coming onto the sidewalk, often blind, and then you have them making a turn typically onto a one-way street. Mm-hmm. with the same impediment, which is a car blocking the view, so you don't see whether there's a bike or a car. What are your thoughts about that? Maybe we should expand the Clear the Corners campaign to include a clear the parking garage entrance and exits. You're exactly right. Your point is well taken, but that is another area where parked cars are putting pedestrians at risk. Thank you. I mean, honestly, I think the garages could also do a better job with signage, making cars stop before they hit the sidewalk. But I agree that is a hazard. Thank you all for your input, for your... critiques for your support. It's really appreciated and I'm taking it all in and I know staff is too. I'm going to call up the next panel of invited testimony. We have Matthew Kramer from PED PDX, who is a PED PDX CIC member from Northeast Portland. Maria Hernandez-Sagaviano from OPAL. And Jenya Andreev, who is a PED PDX CAC member from East Portland. CAC stands for Community Advisory Committee. Welcome, everyone. Please state your name for the record. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Matthew Kramer, and I'm a member of the Community Advisory Committee, the CAC for PED PDX. Good afternoon. So we at the CAC spent the first part of PedPDX talking to each other and going out into the community talking with Portlanders about how we value the pedestrian experience. As we would go around the table at our advisory meetings, it was clear to me that equity was the core value. Equity was our North Star throughout this entire process. The walking priorities survey results affirmed that the Portland community was in alignment with this value as well. Areas that serve people who rely on walking the most was the number one priority in the majority of our city. Safety and demand were also identified as the guiding values throughout this engagement process. Ped PDX builds on and enhances the Portland's values and commitment around mobility. Complementing Portland as a vision zero city, an age friendly city, and a community of all ages and abilities. We spent a lot of time looking at the data to inform this plan. We looked at 10 years of crash data. As someone who loves walking, this was not a fun experience, but it was invaluable in defining the systemic problem to solve. Data included not just where, but the conditions for the crashes themselves. We could see the trends of a public health crisis occurring in specific parts of the city. The pedestrian priority network is a data-driven response to maximizing community benefits. One item that really resonates with me within this plan is complete and maintain a pedestrian priority network that encourages walking for people of all ages, cultures, and abilities and connects people to their essential daily needs. When the draft pedestrian priority network tool was developed, CAC members joined PBOT staff at civic group meetings to validate the network in fine-grained detail, to validate if any routes were being missed. Personally, I was able to work with the Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods. I see the pedestrian priority network itself grounded in the values of equity, safety, and where we aspire to grow as a city. I was born and spent the first part of my life in East Portland. My parents worked downtown, which meant that I went to preschool downtown. I would go for walks with my fellow preschool-aged children along comfortable downtown streets. I loved going for these walks as a child. They are likely the reason I ultimately served on the CAC. However, comfortable wasn't the experience I had in my own neighborhood streets in East Portland. My mom would need to drive us to Glendover Park in order to move any meaningful distance on foot. I didn't understand this as a child, but what I was experiencing was the Portland Paradox. Both places are technically Portland, but one allows people to move freely in their own neighborhoods while the other requires a risk to the most vulnerable users of the street. The good news is I'm optimistic that PDX is a big step in the right direction for resolving this Portland Paradox. PDX really embodies the value of the people of Portland The data is dynamic and responsive to the ongoing community needs. It's a really actionable plan. We scanned a lot of other national plans throughout this work, and we could just really see that it was really clear and concise, and there was a strong focus on implementation. And this plan, as it's been reiterated today, it really walks the talk on equity. So thank you very much for listening. Thank you. Thanks. Thanks. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Portland City Commissioners. For the record, my name is Maria Hernandez Segoviano. I am the Policy and Advocacy Manager at OPAL Environmental Justice Oregon. I want to thank, first of all, the opportunity to testify today on the PED PDX plan. As an organization that builds power for environmental justice and builds and organizes within community, and who advocates for transportation systems around the intersections of inclusive housing, investment without displacement, equity, health, safety, and empower engaged communities who enjoy equitable access to lifeline services and fundamental human rights such as walking. It is such a pleasure to be here present and advocate also for this Pet PDX plan. First I want to thank and appreciate the efforts of the community engagement that Pet PDX had during this development We're glad to have seen our communities prioritizing the makeup of the type of prioritization that this plan should and could include. First of all, I also want to say thank you to our BuzzRiders members, who some of them weren't able to be here today, but who have been walking and talking and planning this process all along, particularly David Bouchard, Tristan Isaac, and Ben Pollack, who participated deeply in this engagement process. Therefore, as I mentioned, I can't emphasize how enthusiastic we are that this framework prioritizes equity, safety, and pedestrian demand as we see those three components in addition to options as a key to achieve many other outcomes that are intersectional to the multimodal network in our communities. In relation to equity, we know research indicates that low-income communities engage in less physical activity than the general population, and some of our communities are less likely than other groups to get enough daily physical activity. This trend can be related in part to how communities and streets are designed, which has a direct effect on people's ability to be active. Our communities have faced historic disinvestment, and many of those decisions have been made intentionally to deny benefits to low-income people and people of color. Many of our neighborhoods do not have sidewalks, crosswalks, streetlights, parks, or recreational facilities. They often lack the healthy and culturally appropriate food, transit, biking infrastructure, and other daily necessities within walking distance of our homes. When our neighborhoods are not walkable, they are less livable. In regards to safety, racial profiling presence of police and transit systems, economic instability, and other factors that make Portlanders feel unsafe can prevent them from walking. That has already been emphasized throughout the testimonies in the presentation earlier today as well. In addition, it can also deny the ability for parents or communities to allow their children to take transit, other forms of community engagement opportunities to engage. more locally. Our EJ communities are oftentimes threatened by unsafe and often inaccessible streets and sidewalks in addition to transit infrastructure and because of that our folks, our communities are also most likely to be stopped for jaywalking which is more likely in neighborhoods which lack crosswalks. Therefore it is such an important concept that this plan emphasizes beyond high crash corridors, the emphasis of going beyond what safety means for our communities. In regards to pedestrian demand, we need to be seen where we are. Demand is a critical factor in this plan. We need to build sidewalks and safer pedestrian infrastructure in the places where more people are already walking. The areas identified for improvement are currently hazardous. People walk along the shoulders of roads, cross unsafe, unmarked, and unlit intersections and are put at risk of being hit by cars or injuring themselves or uneven surfaces. When the neighborhood is not prioritized, we are deemed invisible by decision makers. The number of people of color is growing in Portland daily. Our people of color is growing in Portland daily, and yet we face worse outcomes for as long as decision makers pretend we do not exist. Other things that I think are important to consider in this plan, which again, we're super thrilled to have all of those three components of prioritizations in the framework of the plan itself, is given that the neighborhood revitalization occurs, it can bring unintended adverse consequences for low-income and people of color pedestrians. If it does not involve careful planning and strong and empowered community engagement like you did in the development process, New investment in infrastructure, public transportation can make surrounding neighborhoods more desirable, raising property values and spurring the conversion of affordable housing to higher end units. This trend can lead to displacement of existing residents and minority owned community businesses and can particularly affect renters. Leaving a neighborhood can mean not just leaving a home, but often social networks and community culture as well. Some of OPO members have been gentrified out of the city, losing the protection of any Portland-based city policy as they move into Gresham or beyond. Low-income residents who are not displaced can still be affected as they can, as they can face significantly increased costs of living. Therefore, we need streets that not only connect us to transit and other means, but also to our homes. We encourage more coordination of this plan with the housing bond planning that is taking on a city level but also on a regional level. And we also want to ensure that new affordable housing prevents the displacement of our communities from the places this plan targets. Finally, I would like to say that another recommendation as a city continues, and I think this also addresses to a couple of the questions that were mentioned earlier on funding mechanisms, is that we need to be bold when it comes to that. We have been struggling as a city, as a region, as a state to identify the resources necessary to fully fund a city's bicycle, pedestrian, and transit infrastructure. combines not only the intersections of transit and multimodal planning, but also housing. And so as the city continues to look for ways at low cost to fund this plan, we would like to see that any type of funding that comes available really focuses on these three priorities, walking being one, biking being another, and definitely transit being the third. We know that there's types of local investment issues, specifically have a greater greenhouse emission, have a greater impact on lowering emissions at a statewide level than other projects such as expanding highways and or roads can have. We ask the police to consider dedicating any funding opportunity towards this prioritization on this plan in particular. OPAL's membership was deeply involved in the creation of this plan. Members steer and advocated for this proposal. The lens this plan uses was shaped for low-income people and people of color as well as advocates who understand our community's needs. So thank you, PVOD, for the wonderful community engagement that you have been organizing. implementing in this process. The City of Portland has a duty to low-income people and people of color to make for historic disinvestments in our neighborhoods to address longstanding equity concerns, to improve safety where as much is needed, and to meet the demands for people who are walking. We encourage you to support the passage of this plan into law so that the city can get to work in protecting, uplifting, recognizing, and making our communities whole. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thanks. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Jenny Andreyev. I was on the CAC and I just wanted to talk a little bit about my experience being on the committee and what I found really important that I got out of it. First I want to say that I live in East Portland. I live east of 205, if you can imagine such a place. I like to say of East Portland, it's still Portland. We still pay the arts tax, and many of us work downtown. In fact, I work on the west side and took the streetcar here today. And... You know I have to say there's there's certainly a perception and I think a lot of reality to this idea that East Portland's a forgotten area of Portland. Being on the CAC and reading through the the PED PDX plan I learned a lot about East Portland that I didn't even know. Look at the demographics, look at the statistics, see what what a large percentage of the population lives there and what that population looks like. You might be surprised that this is really about 25% of the city we're talking about live in this area. So we're not a small piece of the pie, a pretty big piece of the pie. Okay. So when I found out that the CAC was actually actively looking for people from all different quadrants of the city, I thought that was really significant. I haven't seen a lot of committees that actively look for people that live east of 205 and actually want to hear them. And... I think it made a big difference. I think that over the months, all the hours spent after work with the committee, being in a room with people that live in different parts of the town and being able to speak to them really on an equal plane felt really democratic and felt very significant, especially in this day and age, our political climate. for me this felt like a way that I could personally contribute to something and that my voice mattered. As I said, I learned a lot while being on the committee and being part of it meant listening to a lot of long presentations, looking at a lot of graphs, reading a lot of things, and then talking about them and arguing about them. And there were many instances that I could see that the PBOT team was really listening to our feedback and changing the direction and changing the plan based on that. This idea of a matrix of equity, safety, and demand was something we spent months talking about. And specifically the way that things like how much do we weigh equity versus safety versus demand? We crunched those numbers over and over again and we actually asked them to change the equation and then see what comes up and look at specific intersections and I think that was something that the committee was able to help with. Well, I know in my neighborhood, you know, the way that that doesn't make sense. And we did a lot of what people in the room have been doing today is thinking about specific instances that you know about and assessing if it's accurate or if it's helpful. And I think that's so important to keep doing that we have to use use this mission of affirming walking as a fundamental human right and this tool of the equity, safety, and demand matrix and continuously evaluate if we're doing it right. I think it's really radical to affirm walking as a fundamental human right. It's something that we spent months talking about, and it was so apparent that right away that that made sense. You know, this committee really felt that strongly from day one. If you talk about walking, how can you say that, well, you know, it's not feasible there, but I live there. You know, what is that person supposed to do? So really, I just ask that you take that seriously, take that affirmation seriously, and ask yourself, you know, how do we make decisions once we've affirmed a right? You know, it's one thing to say that you have a right, How do we actually extend that right to people so they can enjoy it? You know, moving to East Portland about four or five years ago, I was afraid a lot of the times. I was worried that it would be very different than my experience living in North Portland and other parts of Portland. And I have to say a lot of things changed. A lot of those worries were true, and a lot of them weren't. It's a beautiful neighborhood. It's incredibly diverse. I live walking distance from a Russian store. I was born in Russia, so it's a big deal for me. I see people there that I don't see in other parts of Portland, and I really do love that about this neighborhood. Yeah. I am constantly shocked to hear about how many deaths occur while walking in East Portland. It's really jarring to get home and hear that news story. And sometimes there's even two in a day or three in a week. And it's really astounding. Once you start paying attention, it's different sort of hearing the numbers and the statistics, but really living that it's happening so frequently. And you just have to ask yourself, what's... What is the price a person has to pay to live somewhere affordable? Why are we tolerant of this? What more can we do? And so, again, we've affirmed this right. How are we going to act on that right? How willing are we to say that equity is important enough to spend money and attention on? Thank you. Thank you. That concludes our invited testimony. Thank you all for being here today. Thank you. That was excellent testimony. Carla, how many folks do we have signed up? We have 10. All right, good. That timing is just about right then. Could we please have people come up as the council clerk, Carla, calls your name, and then if you could just give us your name for the record. The microphones should all be on, and they slide around about six inches away from your mouth. Turns out to be about the right. First three, please, Carla. Are Lisa Caballero, Stephen Gunvalson, and Rachel Banks. Good afternoon. Would you like to go ahead and start, please? I will. My name is Lisa Caballero. I'm the transportation lead with Southwest Hills Residential League. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, and Commissioner Udaily, we were in transportation class together. Hello. Yes, hello. A tremendous amount of work has gone into creating the PedPDX plan, and I congratulate Michelle Marks and PBOT team for their accomplishment. They've analyzed where pedestrian crashes are most likely to occur. They've cataloged all of our streets and documented whether they have sidewalks or not. They have a database of 23,716 street segments. I've downloaded it. I have it in a spreadsheet. I'm going to talk about that. And they've each, raked each one of these streets with a priority score. In fact, the Pedestrian Priority Network, as Ms. Marks pointed out, is one of the main deliverables of this effort, and it will be used to determine PBOT capital improvement projects. However, I have two main problems with this prioritization method, and I'm bringing this issue up because I want to make sure that you know what you are voting for. So everything that's been said is wonderful. We're all pedestrians, carers. I agree with all of the stuff, all of the aspirations. But you're also voting for an algorithm and you're also voting for data sets. And I wanna make sure that you understand how those two are interacting with one another. So we've heard a lot about equity, safety and demand. And you would think the way it's being described that this is somehow a logical overlay. It's not. What the prioritization algorithm is, it's a big addition problem with about 12 terms, each which fall into one of those labels. And in their documentation they say that it's equal weight between equity, safety and demand. That's not true. And the reason that's not true is because you have data sets feeding into this which do not have the same distribution. So if you don't know what the distribution of a data set is, you're going to have trouble evaluating this algorithm. In reality, you can think of this as a big bathtub with three faucets. You've got equity points coming in, demand points coming in, and safety points coming in. When you count all those points in the bathtub, 52% of them come from equity faucet, 37% of them come from the demand faucet, and only 11% of them come from the safety faucet. So Commissioner Fritz, some of your questions are really getting to the heart of this problem. I've written a report, I've mailed it to Marshall Runkle, I've submitted it in my testimony, but I'm not okay with a prioritization that's only counting safety 11%. The other big problem for someone in the Southwest is that lack of sidewalks is not counted as a risk, it's counted as a need. Okay, so all of our arterials and neighborhood collectors have been triaged because the fact that they lack sidewalks has not been counted. Am I done? I would love to talk to some more. I'm going to be emailing you all my report. I've written this up. And I would really like you to pay attention to it, and I think you're on the right track. But I don't think what's being presented is actually what's happening in the algorithm. Very good. Could I ask you a question? You don't have to answer this if you don't want to. Are you a teacher? Yes. I'm teaching constantly no I'm not you should be that was very impressive in three minutes you took what is a very complex prioritization algorithm and you explained it in my opinion nearly perfectly that was great I'm looking for people who understand it because the world's falling into two groups people who quickly understand the math I've done and people that don't. I think it's important for you all to understand that a data set has as much impact on the outcome as the actual formula does. Yeah, well, if you're ever looking for another career, you've got a real gift there. Well, I know who to go to. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you so much for your information. It fascinates me to know how much East Portland and Southwest Portland has in common. I agree. When it comes to the lack of infrastructure consistently, whether it's streets, sidewalks, lighting, et cetera, et cetera. And because I just got this fabulous report. Two days ago, I haven't quite finished it yet before the city council meeting. So do you see Southwest reflected in this report? I find the report, I actually was moved to tears at one point. I mean, the most impressive thing about the report is their whole database of streets and the level of detail they went in and actually discovering the street segments. I found it moving that they looked at Broadway Drive and knew about the elevator stairs and made that a segment. So yes, we were looked at. But the problem is what's dangerous about walking in a street in East Portland is very different from what's dangerous about walking a street in Southwest Portland. East Portland Actually, your arterials have sidewalks and bike lanes. The problem is crossing at the intersections, right? We've got a lot of problems there. We have a lot of streets that don't have sidewalks. Well, the smaller ones, but the main one, you know. No, we have main streets that are horrible, like Stark. Okay. And division and yes, I could go on. Okay. So the problem is we don't have any sidewalks at all and so if you live north of Beaverton Hillsdale Highway and south of 26, we're also a transportation desert and we don't get bus service. If you want to catch a bus, you've got to walk to Beaverton Hillsdale Highway but there's not a north-south street with a sidewalk to get you there. And then you've got to cross Beaverton Hillsdale Highway where there's not a lot of connectivity. So what happens is we all can afford cars in the Southwest, so we just don't walk. And that's not an okay solution either. And we have children. I mean, any prioritization that doesn't pick up Schultz Ferry, which is the main north-south street in the Southwest, maybe the only one, and it takes you from the shopping mall all the way to the zoo, TriMet won't run buses on it because it's not safe to put a bus stop there because there's no sidewalks. That street was triaged in this prioritization. That, to me, is a litmus test. That says something needs to change about the prioritization. Thank you. Thank you. But you do know that there's like seven years of construction that's about to happen in that neighborhood, right? On Schultz Ferry? Yes. No. No. Is that the area that is happening? Didn't we have people come in earlier this week and tell us about seven years of construction that's going to be happening? Are you talking about Southwest Corridor? Yeah. No, not that area. Southwest Fort? We don't need to continue. Thank you. Thank you so much. I can send the report to you. Appreciate it. Carla, were the other two of the first three not here? It was Stephen Dunbelson and Rachel Banks. They may not be here. All right. Next three, please. Are Claire Blatch, Doug Rogers, and Glenn Traeger. Thank you for me. If you just hand them to Carla, and she'll take care of the rest. Thank you. Welcome. Would you like to go ahead and start, please? Sure. Thank you. Hi. My name is Claire Blatch, and I'm also here representing Oregon Walks, where I'm a member of the Plans and Projects Committee, and I was also on the Community Advisory Committee. Walking in Portland would be better for everyone if we could implement everything in this plan, but we can't. The biggest hurdle to building the 350 miles of missing sidewalks is funding. The biggest hurdle to installing the 3,500 missing crossings is funding. The biggest hurdle to adequately lighting our streets and sidewalks, which was the number one concern of the Walking While Black focus group, is funding. I know that the amount of money we need is probably staggering, but every little bit makes a difference. So please, fund PedPDX rather than infrastructure for private cars such as highways or parking garages. The climate change crisis demands it. Even if we could magically fund all the improvements in this plan, there are a few things we would like to see that would make walking in Portland safer and more enjoyable. I'll touch on three of them. The first one is improving visibility at intersections. The plan says that allowing vehicles to park at the edges of street corners can, quote, significantly decrease visibility at street intersections and crossings, making it difficult for people driving to see pedestrians and bicyclists. Yet the plan only proposes to remedy this problem at uncontrolled crossings and only in conjunction with other construction. We would like the city to clear the corners at all intersections, period. The second thing is to encourage the city to see street trees as an essential part of pedestrian infrastructure. City policy should maximize our tree canopy through policies that place utility vaults out of the furnishing zone, allow street trees in the curb zone, and solve visibility, lighting, and sidewalk obstruction issues without turning to tree removal. The third thing is that as PBOT develops pilot studies for the alternative pedestrian walkways, we want to be sure that community concerns and suggestions are taken into account. Cheaper walkways are a good interim solution to our sidewalk funding problem, but only if they are safe and accessible for everyone. I want to close by thanking PBOT staff for all the hard work that went into developing PedPDX. We look forward to seeing the plan implemented as we walk through the city. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. Good morning. Good afternoon, rather. My name is Doug Rogers, and I'm the president of Southwest Trails. And the volunteers from Southwest Trails have been following the development of Pet PDX. with a great interest and we would like to share with you several of our concerns. We are an all-volunteer citizen advocacy group that works to promote walking and biking in southwest Portland. And as you probably know, we've been working closely with the PBOT staff and city for the past almost 25 years to develop a network of trail routes, allowing walkers to avoid... are presently unwalkable arterials. We do appreciate the efforts made by PBOT to identify our needs as citizens to walk and bike conveniently and safely in our neighborhoods. Unfortunately, we feel this new planning effort is not recognizing the unique needs of Southwest Portland community. Because of our history and our geography, we have challenges that are different from much of the rest of the city. Our history is that we were built up in the 50s, the 60s, and 70s, as was East Portland, for that matter. Same thing. We were county-dominated, not in the city in those early years. And as a result, only about three-fourths, you know, the numbers are variable in there, of our materials, of our streets, have sidewalks. I'm sorry, it's the other way around. About a fourth, 34%, something in that area, have sidewalks. The rest of them don't. So as a result, if you walk in our neighborhoods, you're usually walking in the street. There's no place else to walk. And that means you're in competition with the cars who are moving by and oftentimes not paying attention to people. Our geography is also a challenge because of our many hills with the many ups and downs and curvy roadways that don't connect easily into a grid system, as does East County. That means that many of our streets are short, dead-ended, have limited major connected streets also that we don't have going north, south, east, west. And if you're new to the area, it's very confusing sometimes, easy to get lost, and you have many detours to where you're trying to get to. Also, we want to mention that our city's zoning system, oops, I see the light, means that low-income housing is concentrated along the street. P-BOTS High Crash Corridor is Barbara Beaverton Hillsdale. That's where we have low-income people living. That's because of the zoning system. That's where the apartments are. Because of the equity process here, we come out low on the list of priority needs. We hope that somehow we have to recognize the needs of those people and make sure that they're met in the future. Just to close, big project. This is a work in progress, and we expect to be involved in the future. A lot of work has to be done in the future to make this all really reflect reality, and that's what we're trying to deal with is reality here. So time is up. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you, Doug, for your testimony. And thank you as well. If I could just put a marker in here, because you said something that really piqued my interest and I agree with. This report is not a static report. Yeah. And so we're not ‑‑ there's an assumption that there will continue to be a process, I'm sure, Commissioner Daly, and this will continue to evolve with time as needs are brought to the attention. Very important. Very good. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. Mayor, city council members, my name is Glenn Traeger. Many pedestrians are killed in Portland each year by motorists. These deaths can be avoided if motorists would just drive slower and follow existing traffic laws. We do have an existing traffic law that would significantly reduce pedestrian accidents. It's called the crosswalk law, which requires motorists to stop for pedestrians entering the intersection crosswalk, either marked or unmarked. Unfortunately, this law is seldom followed. The city is becoming denser each year and conflicts between pedestrians and autos are increasing. Portland spends millions of dollars each year in capital projects making roads safer for pedestrians. Why can't our city save some of this money and just enforce the crosswalk law we already have? It would make walking safer and it will free up money for other important projects. I ask members of the city council and everyone in this room to challenge themselves and follow the crosswalk law. You will see how important yielding to pedestrians is needed to save lives. It will also make you a better driver. I don't see how we can have it both ways. We can't have drivers ignoring traffic laws and safe streets for pedestrians. This is not a tough decision. I hope you act in a way of safety and life and start enforcing the crosswalk law. Please take my challenge and see how we can make Portland a safer and better place to live for all of us. Just one more thing. Most of the improvements proposed in the PedPDX plan will not be effective unless traffic speeds are reduced. What good are additional crosswalks and street improvements when cars are whizzing by, going too fast to yield to four pedestrians? We need to slow down traffic on all city streets. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. I'll just say I don't disagree with anything that you said other than we could somehow solve all of our pedestrian deficiencies if drivers simply recognize the crosswalk law. I personally do recognize that law, but frankly, it doesn't feel safe to stop for pedestrians a lot of the time because other drivers on the road are not recognizing that. or abiding by that law. We are lowering speeds around the city, as I'm sure you know. We are not allowed to lower speeds on certain streets due to jurisdictional power. We tried to have that changed at the state level. That did not succeed this year. So I largely agree, but again, there's a lot of work. I mean, basic accessibility is one. If you're using a wheelchair and there's no sidewalk or there's no curb cut, people stopping for you at an intersection isn't really going to be helpful. Yeah. Thank you. Can I make a comment? You can follow up with my office. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next three, please, Carla. Are Don Bach, Glenn Bridger, and Hans Deutsch? And then who's after that, Carla? One person left, Clint Culpepper. Very good. Don, would you like to start? Sure. Thank you. Hi, I'm Don Bach from Hillsdale. It's good to be here and it's good to see you all. And before I start, Mayor, you're the only one of these four that haven't been out on a trail with us. I'd like to give you a walk around Southwest as seen by those of us in Southwest Trails. I would call your scheduler and invite you to come. Perfect. I do a lot of running on those trails. I would be happy to slow down. That's great. I was going to say, it might be worth you to keep up, Mayor. Don will take you out for a whole day if you let him. I know. I might want to do the whole Pacific Northwest Circuit with Don. It's only 40 miles. Well, he's off to a good start. Thank you. I've already used half my time. Anyway, I'm going to go ahead and get back to you. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you. I Staff deserves a well-deserved, a well-done for the great work they've done on putting together this millions of data facts and citywide thing, and particularly getting this pedestrian, priority pedestrian network put together. In Southwest, the Southwest Trails was our priority pedestrian network until this work has been done. So to some degree, we are ahead of you. They've done a great job of adding actions policies that will make walking in Portland safer for all of us. They also deserve credit for addressing 105 or more U.S. Southwest Trails identified connections that we asked them to look at to include in the pedestrian network. And the reason we did that is the permitting process, if we want to go out and hand tool build trails, is extraordinarily difficult. We got the law changed in 2011 and we've had until now three projects approved under that law, which is abysmal compared to the need. We want to make it faster and easier and this will help do that. uh first of all finally they addressed all of these and that was face to face to do this they didn't agree with all of them and so we want to ask commissioner your daily to direct staff to work with southwest trails to first of all revise the urban trail routes because there's a few changes that need to be made we've got new construction we've got better routes and safer routes that we can follow And we also, our trails to some degree go into Washington County and we want to put those on dashed lines so that we can then work with other jurisdictions to make their connections from their side tie in with ours so we don't end up with a tunnel that doesn't meet in the middle. We want to address remaining connections like Southwest Coronado, which is a street that is not included in the network. And the PBOT's reasoning was, well, it's closed by the neighbors. Now our right of ways belong to all of us and the neighbors should not have the unique right to say no you can't have a trail here. It's now used by us as a trail but it needs improvement and this is something we would like to do. It's really important. We want to revise the mapping of the Southwest Priority Network to include all properties because right now we've got it well mapped on the Piedmont properties but if the trail goes across school property, a park or something it stops and says oh that's not part of the thing that's important. Mayor, may I finish my list of S's and then I'll stop? Go for it. Yeah, you're not done yet. Review the crosswalks as needed across Southwest. We haven't addressed those at all because there's so much other stuff here, and that's a detailed thing we need to go through point by point. We've got a lot of experience walking out there, and we'd like to bring that experience to bear on making those decisions and priorities. Policing allowing vehicle barriers and improved pedestrian routes. We've had cases where people have really done a beautiful job of decorating a trail and then a car drives through it and totally destroys it. The sixth item is to a policy requiring a material about crosswalk at all trail crossings of arterials and busy streets. If you've walked the 14, you know there's at least two crosswalks where we don't have crosswalks. we have a little sign saying a crosswalk nobody stops for those things they need a zebra crossing before they even recognize the stop and that's why we want to see that and when you're on a trail okay but we have your written document thank you i appreciate it we look forward to your conversation Thank you. I could have said that, except that was so good. You just gave me thank you. Commissioner Fritz, you had a question for Mr. Bach. So in your written testimony that you sent in before, you were asking for an extension of time to review the document. Are you still wanting that? Well, if it's reasonable and the Council decides that's appropriate. The important thing is that we get the seven things I've requested here face-to-face with the Bureau and sort through those. There are some other issues that should be addressed as well, but these are the most important ones. Thank you. I appreciate you prioritising that. The section of Coronado that you're talking about, is that between 39th and 41st? Well, we would start this is from Lancaster and go all the way to Boone's Ferry. It makes an alternate route to Southwest Stevenson, which is a – I mean, sorry, Southwest Arnold, which is basically a suicide mission to walk on right now. So if we had this alternate route, we could – Which neighbors were opposed to it? I'm sorry? Which neighbors were opposed to it? A couple, three of the adjacent ones, not all. Hounds can speak to that more personally. He's been involved with it. Okay. I'll have a question about that later. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good morning, council. My name is Glenn Bridger. I live in Southwest. Walking in Southwest is a challenge, especially for a senior citizen, because anywhere in our area, it's hard to find a good place to walk. Now, PBOT staff is well aware of this, and they've commented in some reports and discussions that there are places where people just don't walk. They're too smart to go out there and put their lives at risk. I've been working on community issues for the past 25 plus years, and on that basis, I really appreciate the thorough study that PBOT has made of the pedestrian needs in our community. It's fantastic. And I'd like to call special attention to the ongoing issues like pedestrian visibility that so frequently gets overlooked, but is so important either as a driver myself or as a pedestrian, because I get scared if I'm going to run into someone. Now, there are many safety concerns pointed out in the study, concerns that need to be fixed. We would not tolerate unsafe water if it were available. Why should we tolerate unsafe pedestrian facilities in our city? The report makes clear the shortfalls in safe walking places in Southwest Portland. The city should establish all of Portland with secure safe routes. The most effective way to establish this is to put a minimum level of service that the city will provide for all communities. Now they do in a sense provide a starting point on this with a minimum level of service for standard for crosswalks at transit places for example. That is very important but another area that is also very important would be provide sidewalks along all arterials. They are critical in Southwest Portland and we have more of those arterials without sidewalks anywhere on them than probably anywhere else in the city. So that is very important. I hate to see pedestrians walking along on the roadways on arterials or on the marked bike lanes because there aren't any other place to walk. Our community worked hard to bootstrap itself. Southwest trails have been a hallmark with this and sometimes trails get misconstrued because what the community tries to do is maintain trails that were actually established as demand trails by others. Not building trails, but demand trails that walkers automatically use to go from point to point. Providing the maintenance, making them safer and more environmentally friendly is a very important activity and we need to have the resource to be able to do that cheaply and effectively. Thank you, Commissioners. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Hans Stoick. I must excuse myself. I have a rather myopic view of the report. I really have only focused on what it says about what goes on in my neighborhood, Arnold Creek in southwest Portland. And there are some lovely paths on City Right-of-Way in southwest Portland. One of them was designated as a neighborhood walkway on 30th Avenue, allows me to walk from my neighborhood up to Marikara Park on a piece of right-of-way. But there's some other lovely paths that were not designated as neighborhood walkways, and they are on Coronado Court and Coronado Street. The paths connect, paths I should say, sorry paths, connect walkers to Boonsferry Road and bus 38 service there on Boonsferry Road and to the Boonsferry Horse Trail on Tryon Creek State Park, natural area. In my mind, these paths are well suited to become part of neighborhood walkways such as defined by PED PDX. The paths are used by local residents. They are safer than the alternatives, Busy Stevenson Street and Arnold Street, which both have limited sidewalks. While the paths are used, they are not comfortable. In order to make them so, they need to be improved. Such improvement is resisted by some adjacent property owners. In some cases, the resistance has taken the form of fences built into the right-of-way, forcing walkers away from more level ground. I urge that PDX define as neighborhood walkway Southwest Palatine Heights Road connecting to 16th Avenue going east and the unimproved portions of Coronado Street and Coronado Court as defined in the attachment to my written testimony and I do this in the hope that such designation will improve the likelihood that ultimately the paths can become more comfortable for those that do use them now and for all that would like to use them if they are improved. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thanks, all three of you.
 Next. I think there's just one more. Carla, is that right? One more person? Thank you. Clint Culpepper. No, I'm going to get staff back. Thank you. You reminded me we've heard about this before. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for hearing this today, and thank you for having me. My name is Clint Culpepper. I am a member of the Bicycle Advisory Committee and also the parent of two young children. I fully support the plan. I definitely thank everybody who has had the opportunity to work on it. I know that it's been a big effort, so a big thank you to them. Please move swiftly on these strategies that have been laid out, as this year has been especially deadly for pedestrians. As Vision Zero makes incredibly clear, no death on our streets is acceptable. There may be actions in the plan that are controversial, like removing parking and slowing drivers by not allowing right hand turns on red and lowering speed limits. But none of these outweigh the complaints or none of these complaints rather outweigh the safety of our city's residents. I'll make it brief and I will leave you on an echo of a comment that Commissioner Fish made about the bike master plan. We've failed to keep up with the pace necessary to move forward with the plan. And I'd hate to see that. the Ped PDX plan repeat those same mistakes our mode split is a very clear reflection of our failure to really fully embrace the 2030 bike master plan and if we fail to take action on the Ped PDX plan what we're going to see is continued deaths on the road that are absolutely preventable thank you Thank you for your testimony. Appreciate it. Colleagues, I'd like to ask Michelle Marks and Chris Warner, Director Warner, back up to the table for questions. I think some interesting issues were raised, and I'd like to give you a chance to ask them questions. Can I ask a procedural question of a sponsor? Just in the remaining time we have to know where we're going with this. This is, we have a resolution that is before us to adopt this plan. We've had some very specific testimony where people have said, I disagree that this street's not included or I would change the emphasis on this. And it's, I think, heavy on Southwest Portland at the granular level. Southwest Trails has come in and said we have six or seven specific things we want to hammer out. I mean, this comes up periodically in these kinds of hearings. So I'd like some guidance from the sponsor about how we reconcile specific. In some ways, we've had members of the public come and sort of imply amendments to the plan. Or have said that they'd like to see some tweaks. And yet we're poised to adopt the plan as a living document. and as a document that's going to adapt over time. How do we reconcile those two? Sure. I mean, number one, as we've heard today, we've done an extraordinary amount of public outreach. This plan was put online in the spring. There was 90 days of public comment. I am not... I personally don't want to extend that public comment, engage in an endless public engagement process. We have really done our due diligence on the engagement piece, and it's time to move forward with a plan. But as Michelle mentioned, we will be coming back on an annual basis because this is, as you described it, a living document. And we know that conditions change on the ground, conditions change in neighborhoods. therefore the outcomes of our equation may change and some of these projects may rise to a top level. As far as Southwest Trails go I love Southwest Trails, I'm a fan of Dawn's. I don't think that this conversation is necessary I don't think that this forum is necessarily the appropriate place for this particular conversation. We have addressed a lot of their concerns. They've gotten, I think, an extraordinary amount of attention, and we need to look at the city as a whole. And then finally, before I turn it over to staff, I just want to say I'm interested in what Michelle has to say about the data set versus the equation. And I think one of the things, yes, there's similarities between Southwest Portland and East Portland. They were both annexed into the city. Prior to annexation, they were allowed to develop in very different ways than the central city was allowed to develop. And that explains some of the differences between the more central city and these outlying areas here. They face some similar challenges, but they're also distinctly different communities. East Portland is much more dense. Then Southwest Portland, which tends to be single family homes, not, you know, I'm going to make some generalized statements. There are always exceptions, but this is generally true. Southwest Portland is much more affluent. East Portland represents some of the lower income communities in our city. Southwest Portland tends to be more white. East Portland is the most diverse area of our city. It also is home to 25% of our population. And I think most importantly, as we have heard repeatedly, people who live in East Portland are twice as likely to die when walking on the street as anyone else in our city. And so... I feel very strongly that we've gotten this equation right. And when we are facing a public health crisis and we have limited resources, it is vital that we carefully prioritize these projects. My hope is as we do them, we're stitching together a more complete landscape, a more walkable city for everyone. But we really need to focus resources where people are in the most danger. Yes, absolutely. I would... I agree with everything you said, Commissioner Udailey, and I can just add a little bit more context to the safety analysis in particular. So, yes, PED PDX looked at 10 years' worth of pedestrian crash data with every single pedestrian crash in Portland to look for the factors that may potentially be correlated with those crashes, roadway factors, design factors, operational factors, behavior factors, because what we wanted to do was, to develop a prioritization that gets out in front of crashes. We don't want to just keep chasing improvements at locations after crashes have already happened. We want to make improvements before they do. So we really wanted to prioritize locations where those risk factors occurred. Okay. And what our analysis of 10 years of data showed us is that the risk factors are occurring on a small minority of the streets. So 95, 96% of our street network are two-lane roadways. our killed and serious injury collisions are happening on the other 4% of our streets. And that's exactly why we're not seeing this broad distribution of safety points that we heard questioned in some previous public testimony. The safety problems are happening on a very small subset, and those are especially our five-lane arterials. We found in our analysis that you are more likely to, you are I think 10 times more likely to experience a crash as a person walking along a five-lane arterial than a two-lane street. Along a three- or four-lane street, you are four times more likely to experience a pedestrian crash than on a two-lane street. So the focus on that very small subset of streets was very much intentional, and the fact of the matter is that those streets tend to be in East Portland. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, then Commissioner Harder. Thank you. So I absolutely support the prioritization, and I appreciate, Commissioner Udeli, your heartfelt dedication earnest intent to cut down on the pedestrian crashes, especially in East Portland. And there's needs all over the city. When I was in charge of parks, I prioritized putting parks money in East Portland and with the support of the rest of the city. So that is not in question for me. firmly believe that there's no point in having a public hearing if it doesn't matter what the public says when they show up. And although there's been a lot of process to date, I just saw this document the day before yesterday. And many people in the community only saw it the day before yesterday. And I know now that Donbagh and Hans reminded me about this issue of Coronado, that there would have been 20 people here if more people knew about it. Because wasn't Commissioner Novick... addressing this issue when you were working in his office? I have a vague recollection of Coronado. Yeah, so this was, you know, before you were on the council, this is public right-of-way that people have fenced off so that the public can't use it, and that is a problem. Ac yna pan oeddwn i'n edrych yn fy mheirio, wrth gwrs, rydyn ni'n arbenigwyr ar ein mheirio ein hunain, y cwestiwn a gafais i chi o'ch cynnar, Michelle, o ran y llwybr llwybr, mae'n digwydd bodwn i ar y llwybr llwybr. Mae'r stryd mwyaf yma yn y mheirio, does dim llwybr, mae'n cael 3 llwybrau dros 10 bloc. Felly, ond un strae arall yw Coronado, sy'n cysylltu â'r llinell transit, a dywedodd ei fod yn un o'r gwryderion. Mae ganddo ffordd perffaith i fynd drwyddo lle nad oes strae ar hyn o bryd, i fod yn cysylltiad llawer mwy cyfeirio. Felly dyna mewnleidfa lle dydw i ddim yn gwybod a oes y cyfrifwyr o'r ddwyllr yn gyfarwydd â'r ardal hon. Wel, nid yn gyfarwydd â fi, oherwydd rwyf wedi byw yno am 25 mlynedd. Ond, rydych chi'n gwybod, efallai y bydd yna rhy byddai'n buddsoddi i bawb heb rhai a ddim yn ymwneud â'r cymrydion. Felly, rwy'n meddwl os allwn ni ddylai'r cymryd i'r wythnos er mwyn i ni gael sgyrsiau am yr mater penodol hwnnw, oherwydd gallwn i eisiau cynnig amgylchedd. Yn yr mater penodol, rwy'n ddrwg, oedd y ffenster yn gwahanol ar y trae neu'r coronado? Mae'r ddewisiant o'r coronado fel llwybr llwybr. Yn hytrach? yn hytrach na'i ddewis yn y cyfnod arno ar y Gwledydd Arnold yn hytrach na gael Vakuna'n ddewis fel ffordd byw ar y cyfnod arno yng Nghaerfyr Westfarton. A beth fyddai'r gwahaniaeth ffuncsiol hynny yn gwneud yn y cynllun? Mae'n ddrwg, dwi ddim yn cael y math. Felly, gallaf i ateb hynny. Mae'r pwysigrwydd o gael llwybr yn ymwneud â'r ffordd byw ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y neidio ar gyfer y ne Mae'r clasifigrwydd PED PDX yn ymwneud â phroses o'i ddysgu. Dydw i ddim yn gwybod pam y byddai'r stryd fy hun yn cael ei ddysgu fel gwrth-leithiau. Y cwestiwn yw, oherwydd mae'n cael ei ddysgu fel rwythiau diogel i'r ysgol. Felly, mae'r rwythiau diogel i'r ysgol a'r gwahanol ffyrdd oedd yn cael eu ddysgu yn union sydd yn gwrth-leithiau a PED PDX, er mwyn ein gallu cefnogi'r rhaglen hynny. Iawn. ar y fapiau lle mae'n canolbwyntio i ddwylo y ddynion y dynion yw'r strydau hynny yn dal i fod yn gyfrifol i gael gwella hyd yn oed os nad ydyn nhw'n bwriadu angenion ysbytio? Ie, dyna'r ffilter cyntaf. Rhaid i chi fod yn seiliedig ar y rhwydwaith prifysgol i fod yn gyfrifol ar gyfer gwella cyhoeddus ac yna mae'r broses prifysgol wedyn yn cael ei ddefnyddio i'r rhwydwaith i gydnabod pa ffordd y dylem ni ei gyfrifol am y gwartheg hynny. Byddwn hefyd eisiau, os ydw i, ddatganiad ychydig am y broses sydd wedi mynd i ddod o hyd i'r clasifigwyr a rhwydwaith rhanbarth pedaethol. Felly, fe wnaethon ni ddod i gael pob un o'r clasifigwyr hynny i'r coelisiadau y distric i'w llynu a'u llenwi ac dros, dwi'n meddwl, broses ddwy mis. And so we did work very closely with the neighborhoods on that. We also worked, I think as Don mentioned, very closely with Southwest Trails over the last two months to look at every single one of the 105 trail segments that they proposed for inclusion in PedPDX. I think of those 105 requested segments, 70 are included. if a segment is not included, oftentimes it's because there may be a parallel route already on the network or it's not in public right away or it doesn't connect to the network. Thank you for that explanation. In addition to pedestrian safety, I know that Commissioner Daly is also very concerned about climate disruption, as we all are. As you were talking about the safety, the three criteria, and the safety is involved with crashes, What that doesn't measure is where people don't walk at all because they can't. So there's a section of 35th by Jackson Middle School. I live a half a mile from Jackson Middle School. I drove there seven years with my three kids because you cannot walk. There isn't a way to get there safely on foot. there's not going to be any crashes because nobody walks there. On the other hand, you know, Commissioning Hardesty this morning was talking, we had a small discussion about park and rides. The reason we need to park and ride at Barber Transit Center is because you can't get there safely on foot. Yeah, and that's exactly why we elevate risk factors even above historical crash data in our safety analysis in recognition of that very fact. we look at the risk factors, the width of the roadway, the, uh, vehicle speeds and posted speeds, those factors that are associated with risks. That way we can direct improvements to roadways that may not have seen a pedestrian crash yet, uh, perhaps because people are scared to walk there. But Leah pointed out that lack of sidewalks is identified as a need rather than a risk. That's correct. Lack of sidewalks, missing sidewalks is what we are prioritizing. If lack of sidewalks were a risk, we would have no priority anywhere in the city. That's missing sidewalks. That's what we are prioritizing, the gap. Commissioner Hurst. Yes. I would just like to respond. Sure. There's a difference between not being heard and not getting the answer that you want. Southwest Trails has definitely been heard. The public has definitely been heard. We vote on resolutions at the first reading. I don't see why this would be any different. I don't believe that this conversation needs to hold up the PED PDX plan or is necessarily the appropriate forum for it. If the majority of my colleagues believe that we should give more time for public input, I would concede a one-week additional public comment period just in line with how we would handle a non-emergency ordinance, which is a first reading followed by a second reading a week later. But I don't anticipate any substantive changes in this plan, whether we have additional public comment or not. Thank you, Commissioner. That's very gracious of you. I would appreciate another week, partly for public input, but partly because I want to have that discussion, which I think we're all getting tired about what's happened on that particular segment since you worked on it with your previous commissioner, because there's a huge... There's a takings issue there where a private property owner has taken public rights away and people cannot walk there anymore, and that's a problem. But isn't that an entirely separate issue? What does that have to do with the PED PDX plan? Because someone needs to file a complaint, and someone needs to follow up on that complaint. I don't know where we are on that. I can find out. I just don't remember. Thank you. Commissioner Hardest. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you both for your presentation. I just will say I share Commissioner Fritz's concern because when I get a book like this 48 hours before I'm asked to vote on it, that is not respectful of the folks who have to make the policy decision around this, right? I actually like to read what I'm voting on actually before I vote on it. I'm just weird like that. So I'd be very appreciative if there was enough time for me to actually get all my questions answered before I'm asked to vote. So I just wanted to put that on the record. My second question is, one of the... My big concerns, and I don't think this costs money, but Chris, you're the expert, so you can tell me. Especially in East Portland, but this is true all over the city of Portland, is because we allow people to park up to the curbs, it is absolutely difficult to see around vehicles, especially tall vehicles who are parked on the corner legally. if there are pedestrian issues in the street? And I can't tell you how many times that you feel like you have to ease out in the traffic just to see if there's any people, especially little people on the sidewalk, before you pull out in the traffic. Could we, on every street, just do a setback to make sure that people aren't parking at a place where you actually can't see around them? Actually, that's one of the strategies that's outlined with strategy one. I don't see, I can't remember what number it is. But thank you. That's something that's definitely within the strategy and something we're trying to implement. But I think what we're trying to do is implement it in some neighborhoods. But wouldn't that be good to implement all over the city of Portland as compared to just in high crash areas? Well, I think the plan was to implement it at unregulated intersections to begin with, but I'm very supportive of this. We, you missed this part, but it's definitely part of the plan. And I noted that we have like restrictions in the state. We have exempted ourselves somehow from the state standards. But I would like to take the opportunity to say if your vehicle is over six feet tall, you should not be parked within, is it 20 feet of the corner? 50 feet. It's by Portland regulations or state regulations? I believe that's city regulation. Okay. Yeah. So if you're driving a giant vehicle, you should not be... parking on the corner I know that it's not going to do much good at all but maybe 10 people in this room know something new thank you that's that that is all and I support the delay and the vote because I again want to read what it is I'm voting on before I vote on it and I raised the issue with staff I think we're hearing loud and clear that um Commissioners need more time to review these plans, and so I'm fine with delaying the vote for a week. So could I just clarify to make sure I understand the sponsor's intent? So we will be continuing this to presumably next week, is that correct? Next week's horrible. Well, let's do this. Let's decide. We want to continue it. It sounds like there's consensus for that. We need to pick a date, and we need to decide whether the oral record remains open or not. Okay, so the oral record will be closed. We've heard the testimony, but it sounds like we are keeping the written record open. The written record will be open for a week. Very good. It will come back next week. That's what I had in mind. And I guess the hope would we will, we can check in with you in terms of as you have questions during the week. And so hopefully we won't have to have next week. We'll have answered your questions. Yeah, if you could make an appointment. I'd like to have at least half an hour. Okay. Thank you. Great. Okay, good. Well, I want to thank Commissioner Udali and I want to thank. PBOT staff and I want to thank everybody who testified. This is a big, bold vision that covers multiple decades so it's understandable that we wouldn't necessarily get to the final answer today but I want to just acknowledge I think it's fantastic work on the whole and I appreciate your efforts and I didn't say, Chris, congratulations in your new role. That's very exciting and you worked hard to earn it and deserve it. So congratulations. Commissioner Fish. I want to just be clear. I was prepared to vote on this today, and I view this as tantamount to accepting the report. I think there's going to be a lot of issues that come up moving forward where changes will be made or compromises will be reached. Donbach, who is a... Top ten advocate in my book is never shy about inserting himself into ongoing conversations. Don will be well represented in the implementation phase. So I was prepared to, in effect, adopt the report today. Not to say that I give my blessing to 365 pages, but it's a vision. It's a vision document. And there's going to be lots of moments where we come back and talk about this. You know, is this the right vision, piece of the vision in terms of sequencing? Is this the right approach? And how do we pay for it? So it's a very dynamic process. But I also respect the desire of colleagues to have a little more time. Look forward to voting on this next week. I have to say there's something in the air today because we've had some outstanding hearings at this council. I mean, there are days when... I go home and tell my wife Patty, I'm surprised I get paid to do this job. We had a couple hearings this morning which were really interesting and we had first rate panels and testimony. I thought this brought out the best as it often does. Fascinating discussion, I learned a lot. So I wanna thank PBOT for structuring, first of all doing all the hard work and then structuring this conversation cuz I think it's been very valuable. And I have to say, I'm in awe of the staff that's working on this because no matter what question you're asked, you seem to have an encyclopedic knowledge of the city and its streetscape. Kudos to that level of detail and that level of ownership of the plan. It's very impressive. So thank you all very much. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I will obviously save my closing remarks for next week. I just want to say thank you to Michelle and thank you to Director Warner, to the... entire project team, community advisory committee, the pedestrian advisory committee, and everyone who came to testify today. It's a very interesting conversation. Very good. Then this item is continued until next week. The oral record is closed. The written record will remain open, so if people want to email comments, they can most certainly do that. And Director Werner, where's the best place for people to email comments? Or should they just send it to the council clerk as per usual? Yeah, council clerk. Council Clerk, it is. All right. That's continued. We'll read 547 before we take a brief break. 547, please. Approve mini area parking permit program to reduce requirements for initiating an area parking permit program. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Mayor. We have pulled this item back to my office for further analysis. Without objection, we're in recess for five minutes. Thank you, Carla. Okay. We are back in session. Item number 548, please. 548? 548. 548. Authorize settlement agreement with and memorandum of understanding with Portland Firefighters Association to settle a retroactive pay grievance and tort claim and allow for the city to make payments totaling $53,495 to certain former and current bargaining unit members. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. This is a settlement from our last fire contract. There was an arbitration filed, and we have come to what we believe is a good settlement and a good process to make sure that this is not an issue in the current. fire contract that we are now negotiating. And so on that note, I will turn it over to our esteemed panel. Thank you for being here. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. I'm Ryan Gillespie, interim fire chief for Portland Fire and Rescue. To my right is senior deputy city attorney Heidi Brown and to my left Jarell Gaddis, human relations, labor relations manager. And I also want to recognize Alan Ferschweiler, president of Local 43 in the house here today. We're here to discuss a settlement agreement and memorandum of understanding with PFFA. This ordinance today pertains to PFFA members who retired or separated from employment with PFNR after June 30th, 2016, but before the collective bargaining agreement was adopted via interest arbitration on December 29th, 2017. There's 26 individuals. Those individuals are identified in attachment A. The total dollar figure that we're talking about is $53,494.72 for this settlement agreement. I'm going to turn the microphone over to Heidi Brown, and she will provide further detail on the settlement agreement and the MOU. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. So we had two matters pending. There was a grievance that was filed, and then additionally there was a tort claim notice that had been filed on behalf of retroactive payments that the union felt was owed to certain employees who, as Chief Gillespie said, retired after the conclusion of the old contract, July 1, 2016, but before we adopted the new contract via interest arbitration. And And the question would be, the tour claim notice would be resolved via the grievance. So the question would be, how would the arbitrator rule? And I felt that there were issues the way that he an arbitrator could rule either for or against us. If they ruled against us, the arbitrator would award wages and benefits that would total approximately $100,000. And then it would also set a standard going forward that people retiring in this interim period or separating from service would then be entitled to retroactive pay and we would have to track them down and give them their payments. If we won, then there would be no wages and benefits and it would set the standard the opposite that we would not pay. In this settlement, excuse me, and then the final thing would be that if we lost in the grievance, then we would also have exposure under the tort claim notice, which would increase our potential liability because you're not only looking at the wages and benefits, which we would pay pursuant to the grievance, but also there would be penalties and attorney fees that could significantly bump up that expense. So under the settlement agreement, we agreed to just pay the wage portion only, not the additional benefits that could be due in owing. And that totaled the $53,495, as Chief Gillespie said. Additionally, though, what we're gaining is we have a tentative, the parties agreed under the settlement agreement that we'll sign a tentative agreement stating that going forward, anybody who separates from city service, after the end of the prior contract, but before we've adopted a new contract, either via ratification by council or by interest arbitration, that those folks will not be entitled to retroactive pay. So we have it set the way that we'd like to have it, and we don't have to worry about going forward any question about that resulting in a different way than we'd like. So I think, and then dismissing any claims under the tort claim notice, the individuals will individually dismiss their claims and the union will dismiss its claim. So those are the benefits to why we felt that this was a reasonable settlement for council to consider. And if there's any questions, I'm more than happy to answer them. It seems like a reasonable compromise. Commissioner Hardesty? I thank you. I move that we accept. Are we going to back? It's actually an ordinance, so we still have to take public testimony. And as you can see, there are thousands of people here waiting to testify. How many people, if any, do we have signed up? No one signed up. Does not surprise me since we only have one person here. He's just making sure I do it right. Very good. So unless there's any further discussion, we'll call the commissioner Hardesty. I just want to appreciate the fine legal counsel that we have working with us at the Fire Bureau and just how wonderful it's been both to work with legal counsel and with labor and just what good partners they've been in helping us to resolve issues. a lot of issues. When I inherited the fire bureau, I inherited a lot of arbitration that most of it just went away because we just made it go away. And I just want you to know that it's because we've got a fine team that works very hard to get to a win. Thank you for your work. Appreciate it. Thank you. Very good. Please call the roll. Hardesty.
 Aye.
 Udaly. Aye.
 Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Good work everyone. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you.