All right. Are we ready, Carla? Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the June 15th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Ritz? Here. Hales? Here. Before we begin this morning, we just need to take a moment, I think. We had terrible tragedy in our country once again involving...
 gun violence and hatred and the worst yet of this seemingly endless parade of awful incidents around our country and this latest one in Orlando. Our flags are at half mast at the President's request and also at mine for the city flag. And we're flying the pride flag with the city flag at half mast as well.
 Let's take a moment of silence for all the victims and families and for the city of Orlando. Thank you very much.
 They're in recognition of some of the representatives in Congress have walked out after moments of silence, and I'm wondering if we could have a short discussion about what else we might be able to do. Exactly right, and I appreciate the fact that they did that. And, in fact, this council should be proud of what we've accomplished so far in our advocacy for gun sanity. There's more to do. We're going to be working on our legislative agenda for the next session over the next few months.
 I certainly hope and expect that we'll have issues on that agenda that deal with gun violence, particularly assault weapons. So that would be one thing I'd put on the table, is that we should not regard the progress we've made at the legislature on guns. So far, I appreciate closing the background check loophole. I appreciate closing the domestic violence loophole. But we should not regard that as finishing the job. Right. And we've had some additional successes in the –
 hotspot zones and in parental responsibility, locking things up. I would really appreciate the city attorney looking into, are there other things that we can do? Can we tax assault rifles even if we can't ban them? I like that idea. I think we should revisit that. Is there anything we could do to push the limits and send something through the courts to see if it even is legal? Because as we said when we were honoring victims of gun violence last, was it just last week when we had the Orange Day? I think it was.
 We need to do more. It's clearly not getting any better. It's getting worse. Yeah. Yeah.
 I like that suggestion. I'll draft and share a memo to the city attorney asking for options on what the city might do and even where the gray areas are because we are somewhat preempted by state law from taking action on issues related to guns, but I don't think any of us want to concede that we're completely preempted. Well, let's think of something that they haven't preempted and do that. Right.
 Right. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Good idea. All right. Well, let's explore that. In fact, when Martha Pellegrino gets back, we should enlist her in that work as well. Steve, other thoughts? There's another issue that's come up in the context of the Orlando tragedy, which we've actually spoken out about before, which is the FDA guideline saying that gay men should not donate blood.
 I think we actually passed a resolution on that topic last year. The FDA has somewhat modified the position, and now it's you can't donate blood if you've been sexually active in the past year. But there's an increasing amount of medical evidence that that is not necessary. France doesn't do that. Italy doesn't do that. So I think we could reiterate our call for a change to that.
 I called the White House, since the FDA is part of the Obama administration, I called the White House comment line this morning at 202-456-1111 to say that the president should talk to the FDA about changing the ban. Because one of the things that happened is that a lot of gay men's initial generous response to Orlando was to try to donate blood, and they learned that their blood was not wanted, and that's really sad. Yeah, good point.
 Good point. Other thoughts? Other ingredients that we might put on the table? That's very helpful. Thank you. We'll follow up on both of those in terms of our legislative agenda. And I'll also ask both our crime prevention folks and the police bureau for some thoughts that they might want to add to our mix. Because as a city...
 We should do everything we can as a city. Oh, actually I'm on, but the button, there we go. I thought I was on. Anyway, we will look for every opening we can run through and try to run through it. Great, thank you. Thank you. Okay, we have some communications items up front, and then we will get to our regular calendar, including some time certens and the consent calendar. I don't have any requests to pull items from the consent calendar as yet. Is that right? Any?
 Okay, so let's please take communications. I'm just saying that's going to be some kind of a record. No, it never happens. Let's take communications item number 661, please. Request of Michael Withey to address council regarding affordable housing. Good morning, Michael. Come on up.
 So this topic is about the emergency relief efforts that, like Homer Williams has proposed. There's actually that spot, that 15-acre spot on Front Street, there's actually another program that was planned by architects, Sniff Dog Hotel, actually, hired an architect to design an emergency relief effort. Much like you say, after a natural disaster. I personally have set up four of them, three after Katrina and one after Hurricane I.
 So I know that these work. Unfortunately, they are in tents. They're in barrack-type tents, but they're run by professionals, volunteers and professionals, not sort of like what you'd see at Hazelmont Grove, which is somebody with a murder conviction is on the actual permit. So we kind of want to do away with those types of emergency relief efforts. It's nice that they have somewhere to go, but it's certainly not going to help them
 get to where they need to be. So we suggest that you guys pay close attention to what they are suggesting, and I think I actually brought it up to Josh. Maybe he's talking to Corey about it. Not sure. But the $100 million deal with Home Relief is probably not feasible. So we are for the professionally run homeless camps.
 But our organization is not really for just letting anybody pitch a tent anywhere they please because it's not really helping them get off the street. The second thing I'd like to bring up is now that we have inclusionary zoning, I hope that you guys work together to actually stretch those boundaries as well. And that's about it. Thank you, Michael. Appreciate your advocacy. Thank you. Okay, 662. Okay.
 request of michelle beauchamp to address council regarding the city enforcing the noise compliance ordinances and rules in old town please come on up good morning hi good morning welcome really brief
 I just would like to encourage request. I can't hear you now. Get a little closer to the microphone. I would like to encourage, request, or beg if needed that the city follow and enforce its own rules and ordinances that have been brought forth regarding noise control in Old Town, Portland. I've resided there since August of 2015, and music is just constantly emanating up to seven nights a week, at least until 2 a.m.
 So those from the clubs? Yes. Yeah. Okay. If you have a minute while you're here in City Hall, would you do me a favor or do this issue a favor and stop up at my office and talk to Chad Stover? Certainly. Chad has worked on a lot of Old Town issues on my behalf, so he's somebody who might be helpful. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for your time. Thanks for coming. You bet. Okay, 663. Okay.
 Request of Glenda Hughes to address council regarding small business and contracting with the city she has had to reschedule. Okay. And 664. Request of Charles Johnson to address council regarding ransom and extortion near vacant lot. Good morning. Good morning, commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson and...
 Obviously, in light of the tragedy in Orlando, I want to thank you for your moment of silence. And I particularly want to thank Commissioner Novick for raising the FDA's excessively harsh and nonproductive blood exclusion in the context of the fact that what happened is 49 queer people were slaughtered by a person who should never have had access to a gun.
 But while we – so we have two extremely important issues, well, actually even more than that. We have homophobia and violence. There was an incident of one person that came up on Facebook that was recently attacked here in Portland, but I feel very safe. Thank you, Mayor, for coming to the vigil on the night after the event in front of Embers and working with the police department to close down Broadway so that thousands of people –
 could gather in community and say that we're going to do everything possible to make sure every gay, lesbian, trans, queer person in Oregon feels safe when they're in the city of Portland and wherever else we can have effect. The gun safety issue, I know, has been a long struggle, and different people worry about one issue eclipsing another. We all have to work in the area that's closest to our heart. So...
 When I wrote this and I talked about extortion and ransom, that was probably the day that Ms. Barbara Kite came and spoke to you about the property at 7707 Southeast Alder where...
 Beautiful historic tree has been taken down, and 12 condos are going to get sandwiched into a very mixed neighborhood of people of diverse economic background. I can't speak totally to the racial and ethnic diversity in that neighborhood, but there's some risk that with the projects that are coming that the city will lose diversity. Occasionally, there are high-income people of color with tech money that...
 depart from San Francisco and the Silicon Valley. But we want to make sure that as we grow this city, we have thoughtful and aggressive policies to prevent a white flight to Portland. We don't want a white flight. We want...
 a diverse worldwide community of open-hearted, non-homophobic, non-racist people to come and find ways to fit into mostly our existing neighborhoods. As Mr. Novick always points out, growth is coming. Density will have to increase in some places, but not at the expense of complex projects like, as you may be aware, some people are calling it the Death Star Project.
 the yard on Burnside, just north of the bridge where the window issue is. So, so many issues facing the city. You know, I thank you for the work that you do to reach out and talk to individuals, regardless of whether they're able to vote or not. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Okay, we've got a couple minutes before we get to our time certain, so let's go ahead and address the consent agenda again. I don't have any requests to withdraw items, so let's take a vote, please, on the consent calendar as printed. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Britt? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, let's see. Let's move to the regular agenda and take up 679. Okay.
 assign certain city-owned property at Swan Island Lagoon from environmental services to parks and recreation That's the second reading the roll call vote, please I Know that
 Very much appreciate Commissioner Fish and Jim Blackwood and his staff working with my team. Also BES staff, Eli Callison and Link Mann, and Portland Parks and Recreation, Zelaine Nunn and Trang Lam. It's a very significant purchase to keep this boat ramping public ownership while at the same time providing necessary parks maintenance facilities. Aye. Aye.
 very appreciative of this good move I let's take 680 is now 945 this all right I was gonna get rid of the second readings so let me go ahead and do that 685 and then we'll switch 666 85 sorry that was the next second reading I believe
 685, amend an intergovernmental agreement with the Multnomah County District Attorney to reimburse the Police Bureau for overtime costs of officers assigned to the District Attorney's Office as investigators. Okay, second reading. We'll call the vote. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, now we'll return to our 945 times certain. Did you read that item, police 665? Aye.
 appeal of Keegan Flanderka Works Partnership Architecture against the Design Commission's interpretation and enforcement of Section C2, Promote Quality and Permanence in Development, specifically in regard to the proposed exterior cladding material for Jupiter Hotel expansion located at 910 East Burnside. Okay, first, I believe it's the case that
 Both Commissioner Saltzman and I have reviewed the record and intend to participate in the remainder of this hearing if that's acceptable. Council? Okay. And then does anyone of the five of us have any ex parte contacts or conflicts to declare? Hearing none, we're going to move back into the proceeding and allow the applicant to present rebuttal.
 then have counsel deliberation and make a tentative decision. So the one remaining item from the previous hearing was rebuttal, and now is your chance for that. Welcome. Thank you. I'm actually Carrie Strickland at Works Partnership Architectures. Very brief statement. Last week we presented an appeal to you regarding one of the conditions of approval on our proposed Jupiter Hotel project. That condition required that we use a siting material that we feel like is not the best fit
 material for this project. As the hotel owner Kelsey Bunker stated in her testimony that though the type of shingle may seem like a small issue, it is in fact a primary detail that will make the difference between a mediocre building and an iconic building. We feel very strongly that the asphalt shingle is this detail. We are asking for your approval to use this material to create a beautiful, unique building that we can be proud of and will help further their business.
 The Design Commission had three concerns when they considered this material. They were concerned with permanence, quality, and setting a precedent. We've proven that this is a long-term solution. It's a very high quality. Representatives from Malarkey were here last week and testified on behalf of the quality of their material and spoke in support of using it on this project.
 Even the majority of the design commissioners believed that the asphalt shingle was the better solution and more in support of the design statement, but they feared setting a precedent and therefore choose to require an inferior product for the project. For the reasons that commissioners stated, they didn't feel like they could make a decision or a statement in support of the preferred material for the fear of setting a precedent. As city council, you have the ability and the opportunity to make a more decisive statement.
 We are asking that you help us pull off the best version of this project. We do need your help to push the envelope, do something a little unorthodox, innovative, and daring, but again, something that is rooted in careful thought and consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions?
 Okay. Thank you very much. All right. So now we've reached the point in the process where the hearing has been completed, including rebuttal, and it's time for a motion for a tentative decision if someone has one. I have a suggestion, and that is in looking at the approval criteria for the design review, there is the one that was called out, C3-1, looked through buildings throughout the district for contextual precedent, and
 And innovation and creativity are encouraged in design proposals, which enhance overall district character. We did hear testimony that there are roofs that are currently clad in a similar asphalt shingle. And C2 is promoting quality and permanence in development. And we heard that the Malarkey legacy shingles are much more permanent than some of the cheaper versions, plus they're a local firm. So I think...
 And as I mentioned last week, I had a lot of investigation into roofing materials because I'm planning to re-roof my house. And independently, somebody who's not connected with either of the projects had told me about the Malarkey siding, which is much more permanent and good quality. So my suggestion is to honor the design reviews. The Design Commission did have a review
 a preference for the asphalt as far as I can gather, but we're concerned about setting a precedent and also concerned about the quality. If we were to change the condition of approval to specifically allow Malarkey Legacy shingles, and I would suggest that we keep the ore, the metal, because as the hotel owner said, if it turns out that it doesn't work, she's going to be the first to want to change it because if you have an unattractive hotel facade, people are not going to like it.
 So I would suggest that we leave in that they can change to metal as specified by the Design Commission, but allow them to have a try of the Merlaki Legacy. So it would be there under this change, it would be their option ultimately in the construction of the project as to which material to use, but they are authorized to proceed with the shingles if they want to. These particular kinds of shingles, yes. The asphalt shingles, yeah. Mayor, my preference is just to uphold the appeal. Thank you.
 I thought the hearing last week was extremely helpful in framing the issues before us. And I appreciate that Ms. Strickland in her closing statement mentioned the concerns for permanence, quality, and precedent. I think sometimes we get hung up on this notion of precedent. And I think rightly so. We're worried that in saying yes, here we've opened a Pandora's box.
 My understanding is that in every case like this, there is always the consideration of context and geography and history and all the factors that the design commission reviews. So I'm not so concerned about precedent. I'm actually concerned about the reverse precedent, which is where a city that is affirmatively committed to promoting innovation –
 We have a successful business owner that's willing to spend a lot of money expanding their site and wants to invest in an innovative technology for siding. We have an owner that has a huge amount of self-interest to maintain the building in a very high-quality condition since it's an ongoing business. And the best way to test whether this particular material works for the long term is to allow –
 this particular applicant to partner with Milwaukee and to put the siding on the building. And I fear that in some of these cases we're getting too prescriptive at the administrative level. And in some instances it feels to me like we're just substituting personal preference.
 In a case like this where you have an architecture firm that's doing first-rate work in the area, an owner-developer that's willing to stake a lot of their private money on this building, a building that, by the way, is probably about 60% to 65% glass. So it's mainly a transparent glass building. What we're talking about is a minority portion of the face,
 and using a surface that has been used in other buildings as has been cited in the record, although in most of the other examples, the entire building has been clad in this material. I think this is an example where we should reward innovation and creativity and give them the flexibility to do it. If it turns out over time...
 that it doesn't work out as planned, then we can address the consequences of that. And I'm not worried about setting a precedent because, in fact, a one-building case study like this is inherently bound to the record, the location, the specific facts of this case. I'm worried about a different kind of precedent, which is we're telling our design community that we're not open to innovation.
 And I want Portland to be known as a place of innovation across the board, including in architecture. So with that agreement, I would propose that we amend Condition B to say the alternate exterior cladding option of metal shingle in a dark gray or 26 gauge is allowed, or Merlaki legacy asphalt siding in a dark gray or black.
 So are we at odds here, or do you two agree that the change that Commissioner Fritz has just suggested is permissive, and therefore giving the applicant that? Can you read that again? Externia. Externia.
 The alternate exterior cladding option of black metal shingle in a dark gray or 26 gauge is strike required and strike asphalt composition signals not approved, say, is allowed or malarkey legacy asphalt siding in a dark gray or black. The design...
 I'll second that. Thank you. So the design commission, it is important to have the colors and the texture. That's a lot of what the design commission does. As with you, Commissioner Fish, I think we should allow the innovation, but I don't think we should have them come back if it turns out it doesn't work. I think we should give them the other option that they can go back. It's what the design commission suggested, which was the metal shingles. So because I'm operating today, Mayor, in a fog bank,
 and a lot of medication. I would want to know from the applicant whether that change satisfies the issue that they've asked for us to address. All right, with you? Okay. All right. So we have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? So this would grant the appeal and change the condition of approval as has been iterated by Commissioner Fritz. Okay. Roll call on that tentative decision with findings to follow. Yes, sir.
 Yeah, thank you. And thank you, Commissioner Fritz. That seems like the right approach here. And I found the hearing last week fascinating. And I'm glad that we have the chance to be the backstop occasionally on these design commission processes because I think ultimately that's the right outcome as well. And the concerns that the design commission raised are valid.
 And I appreciate within their discretion the way they focused on the three issues of permanence, quality and precedent. But I also appreciated the applicant's testimony and passionate belief that this actually using this surface can make this a distinctive building that is in addition to the East Burnside district in which it falls. And I also appreciate that in taking the action that we are today, we're signaling that we want to see innovation.
 we want to allow things to happen that are outside the box, and that we should not be constrained in every instance with the concern that that sets a precedent, because while everything is essentially precedent, it doesn't set the mark for every other project which follows. And I think the best way to test drive this is to let
 this developer used the material. And there was a concern raised about quality, and I was persuaded when the hotel operator testified that she had probably a greater commitment to quality than anyone in the room since her business depended on people wanting to pay a lot of money to stay in a building, and presumably that building needed to be in a first-class condition if people were to continue to come. So I found that compelling.
 Good discussion. I think it's the right outcome, and I'm pleased to support this approach. Aye. Well, I want to thank the Design Commission and our staff, who staffed the Design Commission for the hard work they do and the long hours they put into that job.
 But I do think in this case that the fear of a precedent shouldn't stifle our ability to be innovative and to try new building materials, especially given the testimony last week about its durability and permanence.
 i do believe i know commissioner hales and i met with design commissioner some time ago to talk about some of our concerns about the issues they struggle with and we were talking about the new affordable apartments being constructed at the former site of the saint francis park and i remember i think it was a chair of the design commission saying how they had to struggle on that project
 which is 12 blocks from the Willamette River, with the goal or the standard that they consider proximity to the river in approving a design. So they're often given design criteria that really require some head-scratching to figure out how that applies to a particular project.
 And I think this one's much closer to home. You know, permanence of materials and durability is something they wrestle with every day. And it's not as abstract as proximity to the river for affordable apartments that are 12 blocks east of the river. So, as I said, I think it's not establishing a precedent. It really is allowing for subjective decisions.
 determinations by the council and and I think this is appropriate decision to make I think it is within our ability to be subjective and to be you know to heed the design standards but to recognize that the design standards don't always answer the question and that's why the design Commission is there and that's why we're here when somebody makes an appeal of a design Commission decision so I'm pleased to support this appeal I
 i really appreciate the discussion and i really look forward to seeing what the building looks like with this material hi
 Thanks very much to staff and to the Design Commission for all of your good work, and to the applicant for pushing the limits a little bit and to see what we could do that would be a little different but still the high quality. And I do want to emphasize I do believe it's within the Design Commission's purview both to set standards for exterior materials and colors and such, and also to be aware of when precedent is being set.
 Every design review is inherently setting some kind of a precedent because of the subjective nature of the approval criteria and the design guidelines. So thanks very much and look forward to seeing the project. Bye.
 What an indication of health this is. That is, that we're having this discussion in this way. As it happens, I had an early morning conversation upstairs with a group of people here studying Portland from Itaji in the state of Santa Catarina in Brazil, and I told them I think part of Portland is that we're having this discussion about health.
 portland's success is that we sweat the big stuff and the small stuff and mentioned that by happenstance We would have a design review case and our comprehensive plan On the council calendar today the big picture for 20 years and a quarter block So we're sweating the big stuff and the small stuff and I think that's part of our success This building is innovative and that's good. Our criteria should
 allow the new and as you said uh... so i i support this appeal uh... design commission does do a great job there heavily loaded right now and so uh... appreciate their amazing volunteer service as well as our staff
 uh... and again we also appreciate the quality of the design community that we have important producing great buildings innovative buildings and i think in each case it is necessarily are our personal preference about what materials are used but whether they meet the criteria i think these do and i also think the building does an especially good job of transparency at street level which is always an important criterion for me that
 pedestrian needs to be the first class passenger in our city so every building needs to support and respect that but i think this does finally i want to say that each of us on the council has our strengths and weaknesses some of us are better at things than others but commissioner fish i have to say that even with a cold that was the best and longest speech about architecture that i've heard you make and i was really impressed and i agree with you i
 Mayor, I can refer you to the prescription drugs I'm taking. Whatever it is, it's working. Yes. That would be helpful. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. So we'll have come back with findings. So typically we would like to come back with findings in about three weeks. This one's fairly minor in terms of the changes. We also have a 120-day issue. It would be great for staff if they had two weeks. That would require the applicant to extend the 120 days by a week. Okay. And I'm not sure I'm going to talk to them to see if they'd be willing to allow us to come back on the 29th for final adoption of findings as opposed to next week.
 That still work? This is usually the moment where being gracious gets you extra points. Okay. Have we got a solution? On the record, the applicant has agreed to allow us to extend the 120-day clock until adoption of findings on the 29th, and then the final order, maybe we can arrange to have that go out very quickly thereafter. Okay. Okay, thank you very much. Is it the council clerk or the city attorney who wants my language written out?
 Got it. The time will be 10.35 on June 29th. I'm certain. MR. That's obviously going to be a fairly simple proceeding on our part. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's move on, please, to the next item on our regular agenda, which is 680.
 Proclaim results of the municipal nonpartisan primary election on Measure 26-173, temporary motor vehicle fuel tax for street repair, traffic safety. Well, this is a very happy occasion, and I have the official document here from the
 From the results of the election, it says, whereas the Council of the City of Portland referred to the voters of the city at the municipal nonpartisan primary election held on May 17, 2016, a measure with ballot title captioned, quote, temporary motor vehicle fuel tax for street repair traffic safety, and such measure was designated on the ballot as measure 26-173.
 And according to the official canvas, 108,191 votes were cast in favor of said measure, and 99,294 were cast against said measure. Now, therefore, it is hereby proclaimed by the mayor of the city of Portland that the measure with the ballot title captioned Temporary Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax for Street Repair Traffic Safety has been enacted and in effect. So I think we should suspend the rules, celebrate, and thank Commissioner Novick. You are, sir. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. And I want to thank the voters for approving this measure, which will enable us to repair streets and to fill in gaps in the sidewalk and address dangerous intersections, especially in areas around schools so that kids can safely walk and bike to school. It will make it safe for seniors to walk to bus stops in areas where now again we have gaps in the sidewalk along busy streets and dangerous intersections.
 And I trust that as the people of Portland see what we're able to do with the funds from this fuels tax, a lot of the people who voted against it will come to think that it was a good thing. And I also really want to thank the coalition of folks who supported the campaign. Thank you.
 the Portland Business Alliance, advocates from East Portland, advocates for bicycle and pedestrian safety, the city's own unions. There's a broad coalition that supported this effort.
 And it's – I'm particularly pleased because a couple of years ago, or a year and a half ago, we had kind of two camps among people that agreed we needed to do something about street repair and traffic safety. There were a bunch of folks who thought that we should spend the overwhelming majority of the money on street repair, and there was another bunch of folks that said, well, we need to spend at least half of it on traffic safety measures.
 There was also disagreement about what the particular revenue collection measure should be. And we had a lot of discussions among everybody who agreed that we did need more revenue for street repair and traffic safety, and we had a meeting of the minds that are coming together among those different groups, and they were able to see each other's perspectives and band together behind this measure. So it's been a long process.
 a very Portland process and a very successful process. And I am just pleased as all get out. Mayor, can I just make two comments? Yes, please. First, Steve, we have a double debt to you because you took on this challenge while you were also on the ballot. And this required you to spend a lot of time you would otherwise be spending on another election on this particular issue.
 And we owe you a great debt for that and for the sacrifice you made. And second, I'm not saying that my family swung the vote for you, but I will point out that the two other voters in my household who were living in Europe did get their ballots back in time. They were happy to contribute three votes from my household. Thank you, and thank them.
 That's great. Good work. Good work. Thank you very much. Okay. 681, please. Do you want to read 682 also? Yes, please. Those two together. 681, authorize a grant agreement with LifeWorks Northwest for
 For the use of U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance Grant Programs funds in an amount not to exceed $220,000 for agency personnel expenses for the New Options for Women Program, and 6.82, authorize a grant agreement with LifeWorks Northwest in an amount not to exceed $100,000.
 for fiscal year 2016 agency expenses for the new Options for Women program. Great. I understand Sergeant Staples is here. There he is. Come on up, please. Good morning. I'm Sergeant Norman Staples with the Portland Police Bureau Sex Trafficking Unit. And for the past few years, we have partnered with LifeWorks Northwest in...
 Helping rescued women and victims of sex trafficking to LifeWorks Northwest for helping them get out of the life of sex trafficking for chemical dependency and mental health treatment. Kendra Harding is here to talk about LifeWorks Northwest. Thank you.
 I'm the program coordinator for the new options for women program with LifeWorks Northwest. And for those of you who may not know the details about the program, we've been partnering with the Portland police for many years to provide services for case management, mental health services, and chemical dependency for women who have been affected by the sex industry and experienced sexual exploitation. So our program, we're really proud to say that we have
 a survivor on staff who can connect with them on a peer level and take them to a lot of different community events and meetings and things that they wouldn't otherwise be able to do if they didn't have that support from a mentor.
 We also have a variety of group therapy that can provide them support and services when exiting the life of prostitution through mental health and chemical dependency needs as well. So they're with us approximately five days per week. So we have a lot of engagement with the women that we serve. And we have a variety of services.
 court mandated women who come to our program as well as a variety of self-referral women as well so even without that court mandate a lot of women are seeking our services and really getting what they need we have women who graduate who have had you know jobs that they've never been able to achieve before they've gone back to school and they've completed their probation which they've never done in the past and getting off paper for the first time which is a huge success
 Thank you. Questions for either of these two partners? I'm just curious. We've funded this program, I think, what, five, maybe six years? Yes, sir. So are we seeing more or less survivors in the last year or two coming through the program? And it's not a reflection of the program, just trying to get a picture of what's going on out there.
 It's been about consistent, I would say, and that's through more women hearing about our program and coming to us through our self-referrals. So it's been the numbers have been, I would say, consistent. So steady over the five years or so? I'm guessing that's because you're full all the time, right? Yeah.
 Full all the time? Yeah. Are all your beds occupied? Fully programmed, fully staffed up. Is there a waiting list? No, there's no waiting list. We're an intensive outpatient program, so our women don't live on site with us. But we are able to respond and get them in for services within 48 hours. That's good to know. So you're not turning anyone away? Mm-hmm. Okay, great.
 And there is a residential components of it that we used to fund, right? LifeWorks North West does have a residential program. It's called Project Network. So if we do have someone who may not benefit from an outpatient level of care, we do have the option to connect them to a residential program within LifeWorks. So, yeah. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Thanks for being here.
 Anyone else want to speak on these items? I have three people signed up. Please come on up. Mary Eng, Charles Johnson, and Laura Vanderkline. Come on up. Vanderlin. Vanderlin.
 Good morning, City Council. My name is Mary Eng. Is the time rolling? I would love to meet with the lady who just spoke. I missed her name and Sergeant Staples, and talk with them and get some cards so I could pass them out on a voluntary basis if I happen to find someone who might need those services. I really appreciate your interest in this, and I think what we have in the Pacific Northwest is an opportunity to move towards services
 a full pattern of what is described in sex trafficking theory as the Nordic model. There's currently a very vibrant debate going on between people who want decriminalization of sex, such as the sort of German Walmart of brothels kind of
 where sex trafficking is rampant at an all-time high. The Netherlands model did not work. Perhaps it was a noble experiment. But I tend to go towards the Swedish model where a lot of incredible women who have exited sex trafficking have come forward and described the incredible amounts of violence they've suffered. And there's currently a controversy with Amnesty International, which the No Amnesty for Pimps
 campaign is working on the fact that amnesty has sort of been invaded by pimp agencies who want to promote the commodification of women's bodies. And from the Nordic model perspective, it's coming from an inherent gender equity basis, which has been more active in Norway and Sweden. And this Nordic model is moving to England in terms of discussion. Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the Labour opposition,
 made some move to say decrim. Well, we all want decriminalization of sex trafficking. The real question is, what kind of attitude are we going to have to pimps, or as they say in England, punters, or johns? And even within the government of England, we have a notorious cocaine addict running the Chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, whose prostitute, or shall we say sex worker, I really don't care for that word, I apologize,
 has written an expose book about his drug addictions, his interest in sadomasochism, and we have such a kind of a lack of leadership, and I think...
 The only way we're going to get through such difficult issues is for more heroic survivors to come forward, share their stories. I'm very, very excited about the fact that there's a survivor on staff because I think people really feel alone when they're trafficked. Often there are issues with refugee status, with documentation status, with passports being held. I think I'm just going to let it go. And thank you very much. It's lovely to see all of you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Hi.
 I'm at a loss of words. Just give us your name first. Sorry. Just put your name in the record. I'm an artist. I'm at a loss of words. We're talking about people that are vulnerable, women that are vulnerable. You hired people that came into the city. You hired people that came into the city to reach out to the community. You hired those people.
 Rosenbaum and Watson, LLP, that are supposed to train our police officers to work in a crisis situation. You, sir, hired them. I know that you've been watching those meetings. Your commissioner was there. It is a zoo. A lot of those people that come there may be victims of sex trafficking, and they're being attacked. Rosenbaum and Watson are creating a mental health crisis, and you're doing nothing about it. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing.
 You have security people walking around harassing people. What are you going to do about it, sir? Thanks, but that's... What are you going to do about it? We're going to talk about sex trafficking. She has a minute and a half. These are victims of all sorts. I still have one minute. Don't interrupt me. Go ahead. You were there, Commissioner Fritz. Why are you smiling at me? I am not smiling. This is not funny.
 People are being arrested for using their First Amendment right to speak, for airing their grievances. You sat there, just sat there the entire time. That whole thing is supposed to be about community engagement, and you just sat there and thanked Watson and Rosenbaum and Kathleen Sadak. Thank them for their work. It was a circus, a circus, a circus, a circus.
 A circus, and you sat there and thanked her. You, sir, brought them into the city from Chicago, from messy Chicago. You hired them. And you're still working with them. You're getting ready to hire another chair with them without the consult of the people. You better listen to the people. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and...
 And as Commissioner Fritz, I'm much more satisfied with your question and attentiveness, pointing out that LifeWorks Northwest apparently has a separate program offering inpatient services. But I think that that confusion, the lack of specific numbers, makes it – we've had a nebulous discussion about there's a nonprofit running a program or two, and they're helping –
 Some of the women that are stuck in a horrible situation. No specific numbers other than the money. And you're all elected with a fiduciary duty to take care of money, to provide maximum good to the maximum number of human beings. The human being number is the number that I wish had been more a part of this presentation. To know how many women have...
 Recidivism is a crappy word for this situation, but it may be applicable. How many women have been successfully able to reboot their lives and work in a career that's the career of their choice without exploitation and oppression from men? That's what we want LifeWorks money to do. Certainly, I'm in favor of you voting for this program, but as the previous testimony indicated,
 We had a settlement hearing about a program that came out of the Department of Justice, the United States of America versus the city of Portland for problems with police misconduct impacting mentally ill people and people appearing to have mental illness. Two people were removed from that meeting in handcuffs, arrested, booked. Instead of just giving citations and walking away, they were run through the booking process in the county jail. Six months ago,
 A person in crisis here, Mr. Barry Jo Stull, who's been on trial this week, had what was clearly a psychiatric-related mental health episode. There shouldn't be any doubts about it. But we as a city criminalized it, paid for a person who's got stabilizing housing, federally financed, to also sleep in the jail for 77 days and then get booted back out onto the street. Fortunately, his supportive housing was still there. So we still have...
 hard work to do to make the rubber meet the road
 for best expenditures and best services to people who are in crisis. But please do vote for this so that all those women who are stuck in whatever situation, whether it's on 82nd, wherever the other hot spots are, or in brothels regarding human trafficking brought to this area. I came to Portland by choice. I'm thrilled to be here, but it's painful to know that there may be women essentially in slavery that need to get connected with this program. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else?
 Okay, these are emergency ordinances. Let's take a vote on the first one, please, 681. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Well, I want to thank Sergeant Staples and the officers who work in the sex trafficking or human trafficking department.
 division of portland police bureau also want to thank lifeworks northwest for running a program i've had a chance to visit this program early on in its inception and i think it has a successful track record of helping women to find life off the streets and we need to continue it's a very tough challenge to get women into different more productive
 lifestyles. There's a lot of issues around it, and it's tough work. So I think LifeWorks and Portland Police have the right approach here, which recognizes that these women are survivors, and they need support to be successful.
 I very much appreciate all of your work, and I appreciate the mayor as police commissioner that this wasn't even considered as a cut when the police bureau was looking at its budget this year, as it has in the past. It does help about 100 women and girls every year, and there need to be options for people to be able to escape the misery and abuse of sex trafficking. So thank you for providing this funding, and thank you for all of your work. Bye.
 Niels? Yeah, this approach that the Police Bureau is taking in this partnership with Like Works is, you know, one of the better things I think that's going on in public safety in our city, just treating the victims of this traffic as victims and then focusing on the crime of purchasing sex rather than on the victim of trafficking who may be providing sexual services.
 So it's just an enlightened approach, and I appreciate it. And it's a couple of examples like this, the service coordination team being another, where we focus on getting somebody out of the life, out of addiction in those cases, out of a criminal record,
 a pattern of criminal records and back into community. And it takes a lot of work. It's intensive, difficult work that the LifeWorks staff do. So we want to thank you and acknowledge you for doing that work. And, again, I want to commend the Police Bureau for just the whole philosophy and consistent partnership that they've had with LifeWorks and other people in the community that want to do the right thing the right way. And that's exactly what this is. Thank you. Aye. Okay, and the second one, 682.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hale? Aye. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to 683.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the state of Oregon for the use of U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Federal Fiscal Year 2015 National Sexual Assault Initiative Grant Program funds of $125,657 for grant program expenses. Okay, so there was a corrected amount there, right? Correct. I had it wrong on the agenda. Okay.
 uh and let's see it's george burke was going to be here is there someone here from the bureau on this item okay uh anyone want to speak on this item 683. i didn't have a side of sheet and
 I want to, my name is Mary Ng, and I'd like to thank you, even you, Nick Fish, for your participation in this. The National Sexual Assault Kid Initiative grant program is so long overdue. I remember the first time I was aware of the controversy in the law was when I found the Nick Kristof article in the New York Times sometime about 2009. And it was something like, is rape serious? Yes.
 And from a personal perspective, I'd like to share something with you, which I think it's very graphic, very embarrassing, very sad. But when I was abducted in Nashville, Tennessee in 2002 in July, I...
 I was eventually taken into a medical treatment due to the fact that I had aphasia. I was unable to speak. I was so traumatized I could hardly walk. I had endured a brutal sort of hostage-taking fight overnight. When I was put into a hospital bed, I was given a catheter to remove urine from my body, and I was under the unfortunate impression, oh, hey, somebody's doing my rape kit.
 And what actually happened is, no, I did not get a rape kit in 2002 in Nashville. If I had, it probably would have sat on a shelf like all these other rape kits of these unfortunate victims of sexual assault. So I want to say from a personal standpoint, I felt extremely betrayed by the Nashville police. I reached out to them numerous, numerous times with witness, with information. We could have possibly gathered surveillance video. I wanted to investigate my crime.
 They're the crime that happened against me, and I was very willing to help. And what I found was that my rape was put on the back burner. I would wait for the police to show up at the crime scene where I had the witness ready to give testimony. And it was just a non-event. It did not happen. I was not a human. My rights didn't matter. And it was very difficult to piece myself back. I had a very severe speech impediment.
 I had anorexia. I eventually just started eating ice cream. I was able to keep some weight on my body. But there is a lot of pain surrounding these issues, and I want to applaud every woman who's coming forward to explain the injustice she's experienced within the sexual assault community.
 system. And I think it's very, very difficult if we do not have women in policing. It is very difficult to report these kinds of crimes to men who are dismissive, if not victim-blaming. So I just talked to some officer, Mike Effie, in
 Gorgini or Gorgano, and then it was Sergeant Jensen about women in policing, and they gave me the number 16%. So that needs to change. We need 50-50. We need women options. We need trans. We need everything everyone needs where anyone, including men or trans people who are victims of a sexual crime, can feel that they can reach out and get justice. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. Again, for the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I do wish that this issue has been on the agenda here in different forms at different times, and it's been at the county. DA Underhill has a special staff assistant district attorney to work on improvement of processing this type of work, but it's almost maybe a mistake that we don't have
 somebody from the city auditor's office and from the city attorney's office here. Because what's going to happen is in a few years, you all may have moved on to the next level of your careers, retirement, whatever. But the politicians who made the promises will have cycled through. We've had a lot of churn at the top of our police department. We have no idea who will be in leadership of the police department. But the liability...
 for the city for women who don't get treated properly during their sexual assault investigation is still there. Those are the issues that the city auditor's office looks at and the city attorney's office is concerned. We've stepped away from the headline that's followed this issue for the last couple of years in that in Multnomah County, we didn't talk about how many rapes there were, but we know that over the last 10 years...
 2,000 kits didn't get tested. Now, that doesn't mean every victim was neglected in that situation. Many of them, their defendants pled, and maybe they didn't pay for the kit or whatever. But NGOs, nonprofits, and especially, as Ms. Ang and the people from LifeWorks have mentioned, survivors...
 need to realize that they're the first line of defense and support in this situation. These chairs that you all are seated in are only a four-year term. Things, as you've learned during your experience, slipped through the cracks. I'm sure the mayor was rather shocked and pleasantly surprised to discover he inherited the mayoral office of a city that had thousands of untested rape kits. And we had to wait for the federal government to find money to rescue us to process that backlog.
 But I want to commend you for your work and your statements to make sure that that doesn't happen again, and I hope we succeed in those regards. Thank you. Thank you. A guest, please. Again, I am an artist, and I have a hard time even trusting this, that you could even make a decision for women that have been suffering from sex trafficking. When you bring in people like Rosenbaum and Watson, LLP, into the city,
 to deal with people with mental health crisis. Going through sex trafficking, young women. I videotaped a bunch of women in Vancouver that had gone through sex trafficking, that had severe experiences. I have a hard time believing that you could make those kind of decisions when you bring somebody like Rosenbaum and Watson LLP into the city.
 who are creating health crisis to sell their little crisis intervention team training into this city and into internationally, everywhere. They are creating a health crisis, a health crisis. Do something. You haven't showed up to any of those meetings. They're out of policy because they're supposed to have a meeting with you and the chief, and there is no chief now.
 Your chief is shooting somebody in the back and you're keeping it a secret and you're supposed to be making these kind of decisions? You, mayor, brought Rosenbaum and Watson into the city. Hired them. You hired Rosenbaum and Watson, LLP. You hired them and brought them into the city. And they are creating a health crisis where Amanda Fritz is part of that. She sat there and she smiled at me. She sat there and thanked the chair.
 for her abuse you're abusing a huge group of people you are responsible and you're not doing anything about it what are you going to do about it sir thank you thanks very much okay anyone else all right these are both this is an emergency ordinance let's take a vote please hi hi hi
 Mills. Sexual assault is one of the most underreported crimes in the city. It's one of the few Part 1 crimes that has increased in the last few years. So this is important that we do a better job.
 Testing, I think, is going to motivate victims to make a report when they are victims, and it will help lead to the identification of serial sexual offenders, and it will provide some justice and some closure for survivors. So I very much appreciate that we are doing this and doing it the right way. Aye. Okay. 684. Aye.
 amend a grant with Central City concern to extend for four years at a not to exceed amount of $8,522,821 to provide services through the Cheers Van and Sobering Station. I think there were some questions on this last time. That's just why Commander Westbrook's here. Are there any remaining questions about this? We also have an emergency clause to add. Yeah, I would move to add an emergency clause. Second. Second.
 okay motion to add the emergency clause roll call please hi hi hi
 anything you need to enlighten us about before we take action just for practice in terms of an emergency it's always a good idea to state the reason for the emergency so that could be added to the ordinance it's already been given to the council clerk there is a section 2 that was provided the council declares that an emergency exists because the city needs to act promptly to ensure continuity of this program
 Therefore, the ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage by the council. Yes, thank you. That's because it's June 15th, and the fiscal year starts in two weeks. Okay. Roll call, please, on the now emergency ordinance. Oh, wait. Test me first. I don't believe so. It's a previous agenda, right? We had a hearing, so we're ready to take action.
 We did not call for testimony. We just immediately passed it on. Oh, I'm sorry. Last week? I wasn't here. Right. So there was not a hearing last week? No, we just read the title, but we didn't take testimony. Oh, okay. All right. Commander, anything you need to add? We apparently do need to have a hearing. So anything you want to tell us about this program? This is a continuation of the contract with Central City Concern for Cheers and the Sobering Grant, and that it extends the contract through 2020.
 Yeah, the amount that's shown is four years' worth of services, right? Correct. Yeah, okay. Great. Thank you very much. We'll see if there are any questions at the end here. I just have a question about does the contract allow for some variation should it be found that we'd like Cheers to do transportation for things other than taking people to the sobering station? No, I think that would be a bigger question. It comes down to authority most of the time, so they –
 I can't remember. There is an authority that they're given in order to take somebody on the civil hold for sobering, but not for any other reason. But this raises an important question, which I think we do need to discuss, which is once the Unity Center is open,
 and there's a need to transport people who are in a mental health crisis to the Unity Center. My understanding, that's all been ambulances are going to be doing that. Only ambulances? Well, that's the current plan, which is obviously very expensive, and since we're already paying for the Cheers van, I would like to have some discussion of whether that could be used to help people get to the Unity Center. Yeah, I would too. I would too. And an ambulance is...
 both expensive and forbidding as an environment so maybe we could do better than that all right so more what's let's discuss that more with the council and also obviously with the county since they are the keepers of the ambulance contract before that before that October opening thank you commander who wouldn't inhibit I think you if you could
 We can always make amendments, I'm told. Right. Cheers will be operating as per this agreement unless we change it. Okay. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on cheers? Three people signed up. Mary Eng, Charles Johnson, and Laura Vanderlund. Okay, folks. And you do need to focus on the subject of cheers. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Hi, Council. It's nice to see you. My name is Mary Rose Lenore Ng. I want to talk to you about an experience that happened that would have been a place where I would have liked to have been able to say, hey, Sarah Westerberg, can you help me here? So imagine this. I'm standing outside a hotel on May 7, 2015. I hear a loud clatter. A man is squealing,
 like as loud as he can, and I start to hear crashing. So I run to the edge of where this crashing is. My goal is to run into the fire, not away from the fire. So I go and I'm thinking, oh no, what is it? It sounds like some kind of protest or gone wild. So I get there and I see a very thin man starting to attack cars and he's putting his whole hand and his whole face on the cars.
 going, but then he basically takes a dive around towards that place by the library where there's that beautiful mural of children behind the library and Habibi restaurant. So he's going that way and I basically take off running and I just happened to have my camera rolling because I love thousands of YouTubes. So I've got my camera rolling. I recognize his face and I say, oh.
 I know him. I know him. I couldn't remember his name. His name is Mr. Patel. Patel is a vegan. He comes from a straight edge background, straight edge punk background, and a Hindu family. And their main gripe with him is he won't drink milk from the sacred cow. So I know this is a good person. So I start vouching for his integrity, saying, I know him. I know him. Come here. Come here. And I basically get in between what might have been a tasering. It could have been a potentially disruptive arrest.
 And I start hugging him. And he recognizes me from Food Not Bombs in 2005 in Colonel Sumner Park because we had bonded many times. And he's a very lovely person. But it became apparent to me when I was close to him that he was intoxicated. And the officers on the scene basically gathered around me watching like...
 We were in the center of it. But the thing was, is I do have a previous friendship with Mr. Patel. I just couldn't remember his name because he had a unique nickname that he had selected for himself, like O something. I know it started with an O. So I was trying to get his name written down. And as the car came up to take him to Hooper, which is a similar kind of detox place...
 the med driver or paramedic or whatever he was, said, do you want to work my job? And I was able to talk to a lady officer named Shawna who we communicated on the other crisis I was helping with at that time. So what it signified to me is that this was the day that our president
 president, president of the United States of America was in town at that hotel and what I take it for was a one man riot, unfortunately his riot didn't work out very well and he was intoxicated when he started it and he caused quite a big kerfuffle, I said oh well you're Sagittarius then I'm a Leo and we're compatible and Obama's a Leo and he's compatible and I know Ms. Fritz is an Aries so we're also compatible in fire and I want to be a police astrologer, this is the new emerging insanity from Co-op. Thank you, welcome
 I want to know what you're going to do about the mental health crisis that is being created by Rosenbaum and Watson, the people that you hired. You hired them. You're out of order. You hired them. I know I did. This is about cheers. Thank you. Thank you for admitting that you hired a mental health crisis. Ms. Johnson, go ahead. Okay.
 Thank you. I don't know how many people in this room or down at home are aware. Cheers operates at least one van, and I think that's something that's going to need to come up in the discussion. It's a...
 $8 million contract, and of course services. All I care about is the effectiveness of the services. I don't care if they have 20 parked vans or one parked van. But I would hope that as we work through the police union negotiation, I think we've had some progress there, that there's also a review of
 in this topsy-turvy world called Portland Police Bureau, where I was pleased to have Acting Chief Henderson come to the vigil and speak, I think, before or after you, and that she can, as she's done with the recent decision of the Citizens Review Committee, the Citizens Review Committee said, oh, cops screwed up. It's going to the city council. The very next day...
 wisely, even if it deprived us of some valuable public hearing, Acting Chief Henderson says, no, it's not going to city council because we're going to take appropriate disciplinary action within our department. So as we have this
 thing where we have people testifying about what's a zoo at the co-op charles i need you to focus on cheers cheer well cheers is going to be coming to the cohab because we're going to be having drunk stressed people in the cohab if we can't get traction with rosenbaum and watson so cheers and we've also and you personally before i came up here and before miss the artist me and her testimony the unity center and ambulances came up so
 This $8 million for Cheers and the millions that's going through Rosenbaum and Watson because of the United States of America versus the city of Portland, there needs to be more public engagement about how Cheers is effectively going to make a safe, pleasant downtown where people don't get injured but get connected to services.
 and how the COAB is going to become an atmosphere where people aren't driven to distress or arrest, and there's progress on making sure that mentally ill people are not traumatized anywhere in the city, whether it's a police account. You need to let other people speak. You need to let other people speak, please. I'm not distressed that she interrupted, but I am through with my testimony. Let's get some progress, please. Thanks very much. Let's take a vote, please.
 Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Well, again, Mayor, I'm really pleased. I think it was the very first budget you did that you put cheers into ongoing funding, and now that we can give them the four-year contracts, which provides stability and allows us to have the further conversations about how we might be able to involve them even more. So thank you for that. Aye.
 Yeah, Cheers does good work. I encourage people to do a ride-along with them, just like with police. Occasionally you see how thoughtfully and humanely they do this work. I appreciate it very much. Aye. Okay, let's see. We voted on 685, right? And I didn't check on my sheet, but I think I did. Yep. Yes, 686. 686.
 amend Portland tourism improvement district code to revise the periodic sunset review and administrative cost provisions provide a new definition and add appeal procedures and correct references okay it's a second reading let's take a vote please
 Well, I want to thank Susan Hartnett for her good work on this tourism improvement district, and most importantly, thank the hoteliers in this city that have agreed to tax themselves in order to provide more effective services to those who come to Portland for business or for pleasure. Hi. Novick? Thank you, Susan. Hi.
 Yes, I also appreciate Susan Hartnett for all of her good work and for Travel Portland and their work with Travel Oregon and the hoteliers for providing this extra income. Hi. Hey, Austin. In the wonderful world of governmental acronyms, we have bids, lids, and tids. Hi. 687.
 except three federal grants totaling $1,023,071 from the Department of Housing and Urban Development for continuum of care planning, the administration of the regional homeless management information system, and OTIS supportive housing programs. Thank you, Mayor. In November of 2015, the Portland Housing Bureau applied to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD,
 For an annual renewal of three continuum of care grants in the total amount of $1,023,071, the funds will go towards planning administration of the regional homeless management information system and for supportive housing programs that will be programmed through Cascadia Behavioral Health and Transition Projects. We have Ryan Divert here. Ryan, do you want to add anything or answer questions? Questions for Ryan? Yeah.
 That's a nice chunk of federal money. Yes. Okay. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? See if I can speak. So, yes? HUD? Okay, come on up. All right, I have three people signed up. Mary Ng, Charles Johnson, and Laura Vanderlin. On this topic, please. Absolutely. Thank you.
 It's so lovely to see you, City Council. My name is Mary Rose Lenore Ng. Steve Novick, it's a pleasure to see you. Amanda Fritz, it's a pleasure to see you. Charlie Hales, I am pleased with your interview with KGW on zombie houses. Dan Saltzman, I really want to commend you for your work on housing. Nick Fish, you know we get along. Maybe it's because I read your Grand Folk's Wikipedia article. It was just so fascinating. But...
 Mr. Saltzman, I wanted to offer you the opportunity
 To really put on your superhero cape and move forward on a level of heroism that has been unseen heretofore. And we don't know where we're going with this housing catastrophe. We have the refugee crisis in Syria. I'm sometimes impressed that the refugees in northern Europe are getting better treatment than our homeless here in the United States of America. So I want us to bring up this.
 bring us up to an international humanitarian aid standard where we have, if people are forced to live in camps and tents, they are living in very high-quality, heated-with-sanitation-services kinds of tents. What we've got, this little shamble, Hooverville...
 type stuff is despicable. It afflicted my grandpa's generation. It's why he joined the Navy. So I want to thank you for this because I think housing and urban development needs to be expanded. We need forward thinkers like FDR who transformed the blight and poverty into productivity.
 A particular hero that I have is Olaf Palme, who for some reason gets blamed with the Million Program, which in Sweden... Olaf Palme went to Detroit, Michigan, and he saw the urban blight, he saw the destruction, the homelessness, the poverty, the rioting, the controversies, and he said, I'm going back to Sweden, and this is not going to happen to my country. I will build housing. And the Million Program, I've been there, they...
 What passes for standard impoverished housing, or just like a regular old blue-collar worker would have, excellent windows, double-paned windows, excellent insulation, excellent electricity, excellent water pressure systems,
 cleanliness, Scandinavian design, which focuses on simplicity, durability, and beauty, elegance. And when I was there, I felt the potential for the riots, which eventually broke out. So I was there in 2011 primarily.
 When the riots broke out in 2013, I said, I can feel this. There has been an unanswered need. So once you meet the housing, you have to also meet the human needs. If there are afflicted populations who feel alienated, they need to be reached out to. So there may or may not be within this data management, systems management environment
 a way of calculating what is the amount of social workers on staff for different kinds of crisis, from alcoholism to domestic violence. What is the amount of cultural centers, libraries, computers, libraries,
 Things that are cultural center related, which the Swedish term for that is culture huset. It's much more interesting than a library, and it's not a de facto homeless shelter like we have in our libraries where women like me are afraid to enter libraries for fear I will be offered crystal meth or sex sales or any other kind of unfortunate activity.
 situation. Our libraries should be sacrosanct because housing is a human right. We maybe need to form a constitution of Portland that solidifies that right as the Swedish constitution solidifies the right to housing. But I thank you for your work and your work on women's issues as well. And I want to reach out to you specifically about the bullying on Facebook of David Keith Davis as a skinhead when he's actually a Jewish man. And guess what? I just found out I have got a Jewish great-grandma, so it's hurting my heart. Thanks, Mary. Yes.
 Okay, you need to say what you're going to say. I'm exercising my First Amendment right. Okay. You want to do that for three minutes? Go ahead. You hired Rosenbaum and Watson, LLP. You brought them into the city to create a mental health crisis so they could sell their CIT, Crisis Intervention Team Training, so they could sell it all over the world, so they could franchise it. You brought them into the city. You sat there, Amanda Fritz, Commissioner.
 Not one time did you stand up for the people. Not one time. You stood up for them. You stood up for them, Amanda Fritz. You stood up for them. You were at a meeting with me one time where you came and thanked me because I spoke up for the people. You thanked me. You shook my hand. And then you were somebody completely, someone else at that meeting the other night. You didn't stand up for the people, Amanda. You didn't, Commissioner Fritz. You didn't stand up for the people, Commissioner Fritz.
 Mayor Hales, you are not standing up for the people when you bring people like Rosenbaum and Watson, LLP, into the city to create a crisis, to sell their crisis intervention training. You didn't stand up for the people, Amanda. You didn't. You're a woman. You didn't stand up for the people, Amanda Fritz, Commissioner.
 You did not stand up for the people. You just sat there and then you thanked them for the job that they're not doing. You haven't showed up, Mayor Hales, and listened to the people. You have not showed up at the Community Oversight Advisory Board meeting for the people. You did not stand up for the people. You did not speak up for the people. You are not speaking up for the people, Commissioner Fritz. You were there. You were there. There was bullying from the board.
 A board member offended somebody in public. The mayor, Rosenbaum, and Watson, and the chair are all refusing to apologize. Why is that? Why can't you own what you did? Why? Shame on you. Thanks very much. Charles? Good morning. Of all those concerns that are very close to my heart, I'm also very much on this agenda item about HMIS.
 I don't know if you noticed, but recently there was some suggestion that Russian hackers had gotten into the Democratic database about Donald Trump. If anybody wants to hack it, the HMIS, the Homeless Management Information System, is a database. If you're homeless in the city of Portland, you'll be given a barcode that associates. We're not barcoding people. It's just a way to scan people and bring the records up faster. So 363-805-2600.
 It doesn't mean a person's homeless. It just means they're in poverty and they're engaging with services at JOIN or at transition projects or maybe Central City Concern. I'm probably not competent to speak on the broad scope of whether HMIS is working and whether it deserves another million dollars. Unfortunately,
 Nobody's here with the experience to speak on a broad scope of how HMIS is and isn't working. We're paying somebody $100,000 to run transition projects, and that's okay. They're working harder than they were a year ago because we've added shelters under the TPI contract. So the guy who oversees most of the HMIS stuff,
 services-related. George, his name is at Transition Projects. He also has to now deal with the peace shelter and the fact that our wonderful, loving city shut down the shelter in Multnomah Village. Multnomah Village, they won't have to worry about HMIS. They chased the homeless out. When you look at this item on the agenda link, at least on my phone, I may be having technical difficulties, a very brief PDF comes up.
 I'm sure Mr. Saltzman could tell us what OTIS is. I didn't see OTIS, the acronym decoded, in there. It's a complex situation. As we've said in the past, we have anywhere from 25,000 to 60,000 people, 10% of the city, living in financial distress because housing costs are disproportionately high. Some of those people will be going to eviction court today, and then they'll wander around after their eviction happens, and they'll be entered into HMIS. So we need to make sure there's...
 resource systems that are there to support the work that needs to be done by transition projects, by JOIN. But when we see – every time you see somebody under a tarp on Fifth Avenue and Sixth Avenue, that's a sign that we're not leveraging HMIS, these federal dollars, to get to where we would like to be. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 okay anyone else then let's uh take a vote please it's an emergency ordinance aye aye well a million dollars is a lot of money but it's not nearly as much as we used to get before the reagan defunding of housing and i hope that the federal government um in the next administration starts stepping up for funding housing appropriately aye all the way all the same thank you for getting it aye thank you commissioner aye okay uh 688
 appoint Kyle Collins, Jonathan Bolden, Idrish Koshnow, and Mark Muttweiler to the Private for Hire Transportation Advisory Committee for terms to expire March 31, 2019. Commissioner Novick. Okay.
 Colleagues, these appointments complete the Private for Hire and Transportation Advisory Committee. In January, Council approved 17 of the 19 members of the Committee, and we plan to come back to Council later after recruiting Executive, Town Car, and Tunnel Drivers for those committee appointments. Since then, the appointed Taxi Driver vacated his seat on the Committee.
 PBOT conducted targeted outreach to taxi drivers as well as town car and shuttle drivers for these appointments. I'd like to tell you a little bit about these appointees today. Jonathan Bolden will serve as the committee's town car driver representative. Jonathan has worked in the limo and executive sedan industry for more than seven years in Portland and Seattle. He works as a driver for limo and sedan companies here in the Portland area. Before working in the for-hire industry, he owned a moving company covering Washington, Oregon, California, and Idaho.
 Idris Wal-Krashna will serve as the committee's shuttle driver representative. Idris was born in the small town of Khorat in Kurdistan in northern Iraq.
 He finished a four-year college degree in the College of Agriculture and Forestry at the University of Mosul in 1990. In 1996, he was evacuated by the U.S. government to Guam and granted political asylum. Settled in Portland in February 1997, sponsored by SOAR and ERCO. Began working as a welder and later a supervisor at a manufacturing company. He started working as a part-time shuttle driver at Knight in 1998, started full-time in 2008.
 in 2000 he purchased eagle shuttle llc with a partner five years later opened hillsborough airport and car service llc uh kyle collins will serve as the taxi driver representative of the committee kyle is a driver for eco cab working for them since they launched operations july 2015. before working for eco cab he worked in the food beverage industry he's been a volunteer in his community since 2008 also has experience as a town car and liver driver
 This action today also replaces Michael Huggins with Mark Weiler as the Port of Portland representative of the committee. Mark currently works for the Port as the Commercial Roadway Systems Manager and oversees the daily operations of taxis, TNCs, and shuttles, including ground transportation, permitting, and ordinance enforcement at the Port.
 Prior to joining the port earlier this year, Mark was airport manager at Bellingham International Airport, where he was instrumental in developing and rolling out a formal ground transportation program for all commercial transportation providers. So those are our nominees today, and Mark Williams from Peabody is here to answer any questions. Good morning, Mark. Good morning. I have a question, if I could.
 My understanding is that a number of appointees from the taxi industry have backed out, and that's one of the reasons why we're appointing someone else today. Can you give us an update on the reasons that prior appointees have given for choosing not to continue their service?
 Sure. My name is Mark Williams. I'm the Regulatory Division Manager. So the original appointee was a full-time college student. We didn't realize he was currently enrolled at the time he applied for the position. He has since then gone back to school in South Dakota. And then we outreached to some of the other taxicab companies.
 We had another individual, I can't remember her last name, I believe her first name was Alice, and she, at the last minute, decided that she didn't want to make that kind of commitment with the time that she had and for other personal reasons. So we called a few of the companies to see if they could maybe handpick
 an individual for us to appoint for the driver of the committee. Kyle Collins was one that had reached out to us earlier expressing his interest to be a part of this process. So after all the other efforts failed, I reached out to EcoCab to see if Kyle was still interested. So there's a total of 17 people on this committee? 19. And there's one designated taxi driver representative of the 19? Correct. So given
 the fact that a significant portion of the regulatory oversight of this body applies to the taxi industry. Do we have an assurance from Kyle Collins that he will take this appointment and make the necessary commitment to this, i.e., attend the meetings and be fully engaged? No.
 I'm completely confident that he will be able to, and he has expressed to me his interest, like I indicated several times, that he would love to be a part of this process. He is very excited to be there, and I should also mention that the other members that we are appointing today have also been a part of this process for the initial three meetings. So they're not walking in brand new. Kyle will be the only one that hasn't attended a meeting before. Along with Kyle representing the taxi industry, we also have –
 the owner of Broadway Cab, who also represents taxi owners in the industry, but the industry as a whole? I have no doubt that the owner of Broadway Cab will be faithfully attending these meetings. I just think as long as it's clear that we're looking for someone to make the full commitment, and I guess with the history of the prior history, it's important that
 that this person and this person fulfills a very important position on the on the committee so if you're confident that that mr collins is ready to make the uh full commitment to this job i'm prepared to support your recommendation thank you any other questions for mr williams thank you very much thanks anyone want to speak on these nominees okay come on up
 Mary, you've spoken several times this morning. Mary? Yes. You've spoken several times this morning. It has to be on the subject of these nominees. Absolutely. I'm going to let Lightning go first because he came up first, but then I'll make sure you get it. I don't need any special treatment. You don't have to handle me. Thank you. Good. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I do agree with the appointments. Again, thank you.
 I think I also heard that the owner of Broadway Cab would be attending these meetings, which I think is very beneficial. One of the concerns I want to just stress to the whole committee is that, as you know, a lot of these companies such as Broadway, radio, have taken a serious loss in their valuations or their businesses. And I want it understood by the new committee members that we need to figure out a way we can help them recoup their losses by, quote, the shared economy, by bringing in Uber and Lyft.
 One of the ways that I've been trying to figure that out is I think Uber just received another $3.5 billion from Saudi Arabia, my understanding, for their expansion. What I'd like to propose to the committee is that make a suggestion to Uber at this time before they decide to do their IPO and allow these companies to have their built-in losses rolled into their IPO of Uber companies.
 and see if Uber will look at it at this time to understand that make a first step forward on doing something great in the Portland, Oregon market by allowing some type of profit incentive that you have made a tremendous amount of money by coming into this city. When you do your IPO and you will become your Supercorn unicorn status, which you're trying to do, Mr. Kalanick, you will achieve that.
 but also pick up some of the people in Portland, Oregon, which I've asked at the beginning of this, and work them into your IPO, either by funding them back low-interest loans long-term to continue to operate and build their businesses, or offer them a buy-in before you do your final IPO to where these companies can also show a rapid increase in profits and a rapid increase in profits.
 as you have done in the Portland, Oregon market, by riding the backs of the traditional cab companies, taking their ideas, creating a simple app, putting it on your platform, which anyone could do. The San Juan brothers are doing that all day long to you at Silicon Valley. So understand, imitation is simple. But step forward and show how you can recoup their profits. You can do it through your IPO. Do it. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mary, is it your next? Hi. My name is Mary Rose Eng, and I'd like to say hello, Council. Again, Steve Novick, Amanda Fritz, Charlie Hales, Dan Saltzman, and Nick Fish. It's a pleasure to see you all. I would like to speak on Measure 688, the measure under the Bureau of Transportation under Commissioner Steve Novick to appoint Kyle Collins, Jonathan Bolden, Idis –
 Mark Koschnal and Mark Lautweiler to the Private for Higher Transportation Advisory Committee in terms to expire March 31st, 2019. What I understand is that Ms. Fritz was isolated in her room.
 testimony and standpoint about her skepticism, which I believe to be a healthy skepticism about the Uber monolith, which I had no idea had Saudi Arabian funding. I find that utterly fascinating. The issues which coalesce are we've got
 a very impoverished generation, on the one hand, that can't afford a taxi fare. So I get that. Every Gen Y and Gen, maybe borderline Gen Xer, that needs a $7 ride and not a $50 ride needs an Uber. I get it. I absolutely get it. It's just like couch surfing, the Pirate Bay, any kind of democratization of a resource. I get that. What I don't get is...
 is why we are not committed to women's safety, children's safety, and the safety of vulnerable persons, disabled persons. I am also concerned from a labor angle when we have cabbies or Uber cabbies getting bashed on the head by even drunk pint-sized women. A woman can be quite furious at times if she's drunk. And did you see that? Med do that on YouTube. It was wild. So when we have our Transportation Advisory Committee, I understand that the
 taxi cab industry is very alienated, and there are some people who really believe that they would never trust putting their daughter in an Uber on the way to the airport. So I hope that the Transportation Advisory Committee doesn't have any pre-existing affiliations or pre-existing lobby arrangements or secret...
 packs and envelopes of cash linking back to Uber or the taxicab industry. And I find it very difficult to believe that there isn't some kind of secret arrangement. So I unfortunately am unable to report to the public whether Kyle Collins, Jonathan Bolden, Idis...
 Koshnaw, that's K-H-O-S-H-N-A-W, or Mark Lautweiler, which is L-U-T-W-I-L-E-R, have any affiliation with the Uber company. I don't know if they're technologists or Silicon Forest people or if they're Dark Ages people or Stone Age people. I don't know what kind of people they are and whether or not we should trust them.
 but I do trust Zach Goldsmith who said he trusts a black cab in London but the man's a millionaire or billionaire or something so I'm not Thank you. Charles I'm going to be the closing the artist is going to speak I'm exercising my First Amendment right to speak I'm exercising my First Amendment right to speak I'm exercising my First Amendment right to speak I'm exercising my First Amendment right to speak
 I'm exercising my First Amendment right to speak. I'm exercising my First Amendment right to speak. I'm exercising my First Amendment right to speak. I'm exercising my First Amendment right to speak. I am airing my grievances in a public building, in a public meeting. I'm exercising my freedom of speech. I am exercising the Constitution of the United States. I am asserting my right to speak. You, Amanda Fritz, did not stand up for the people.
 Mayor Hales, you hired a company named Rosenbaum and Watson LLP at gmail.com. Rosenbaum and Watson at gmail.com. Rosenbaum and Watson LLP at gmail.com.
 Rosenbaum and Watson, LLP, you hired them. And you're doing nothing about them. They're creating a crisis. They're hurting people. They are hurting people. Along with you, with your complicity, you sat there. Amanda Fritz, Commissioner, you sat there, quiet, complicit, while people were being hurt, while people were being hurt, while people were being traumatized. Right?
 A man is being traumatized. A man is being gaslighted by public officials. Y'all better pay attention to this. There are people that are being gaslighted. There are people that are being criminalized because they're speaking up, because they're using their First Amendment right, and they're bringing their grievances to the right place. And they're being arrested. They're being excluded. They're being dismissed. They're being ignored. They're being ignored.
 A man brought a grievance to the co-op, to the meeting. It was a real grievance. It was reasonable. They don't like his voice. They don't like how he speaks. They don't like that he looks gruffy. What are you going to do about it? Shame on you. Charles? For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I always listen to the little audio clue that the mic is live. You all are well aware of this, but there may be some confusion with the way things are going. So we've...
 Mr. Collins was sort of put in the hot seat by Commissioner Fish, but I appreciate Mr. Fish bringing that up because what he's really doing is talking about front-line workers. Of all this massive 17- or 19-person commission, Mr. Fish was good enough to talk about the important work that Kyle Collins, as a front-line driver, a person who's dependent on feeding his family probably through this work, is going to be surrounded by workers
 People are in a slightly different situation. Yes, Broadway Cab, the owner of Broadway Cab, also has a family to feed. His home may be paid, he may have organs, but actually this commission, we should think about if it is properly structured in accordance with Portland values. We have some good signs in the market. We know that a group of primarily Somali immigrant drivers have banded together and formed their own taxi company,
 Not on the committee yet. I have, even though it's going to be a contentious election, Chloe Udaly versus Steve Novick, I have good confidence in Commissioner Novick's work to make sure that this for-hire committee is as robust and effective as can be. But all of us should really be caring about business as a way to have quality of life for families to have good lives. So perhaps this committee should even have better engagement
 with front-line drivers. I don't know if there's a seat for the people who are struggling to maybe have Uber and Lyft driving be their primary income. This three-page PDF doesn't list all the positions. It only talks about the new people, somebody from the Port of Portland. No comment about that.
 although I know they're the regulatory agency for the licensing. Shuttle driver, I want to thank Commissioner Novick for his attentiveness there. Idris Koshna, a Kurdistani immigrant to the United States. Technically, Kurdistan, his part, is under the control of the state of Iran right now. Bad foreign policy by the United States. It should be a Kurdish state. That's a little bit far from the topic of the agenda, though. I want to get back to the issue of
 what we as a city, we as a people, you as a city council and this committee do to make sure that there's a robust spectrum of service jobs and jobs where people can make living income and keep this a vibrant, world-class, world-leading city. Best of luck, especially to Mr. Collins as he's under the microscope. Thank you. Thank you. Steve, before we vote, can I ask you a couple questions? Sure.
 I have forgotten, and maybe I need to just follow up with Director Treat, but do you recall what the frequency is in terms of council updates on the TNCs generally and compliance with the agreement? No.
 I think I know, but I might have it wrong, so let me ask Mark to answer that. When's the next time we get an update on all the conditions that we established and compliance and whatever? We are –
 We're looking at coming back to council in November with an update. Again, Mark Williams, Regulatory Division Manager. But any time council needs any updated information, we'd be more than happy to gather those and provide that. One of the issues that I recall us discussing, and I believe Commissioner Saltzman was the proponent, was the level of identification on any TNC. And I believe...
 Dan, it was your amendment, but I believe it required more than just the symbol of a company. It required a business license. I drive a little bit more now than usual because my daughter left me her car before she moved to Europe. And there's obviously pervasive distracted driving on the roads. I mean, equal opportunity. Everybody seems to be distracted now.
 But I have noticed a significant amount of distracted driving by TNCs. And what I notice identifying on the vehicle is just either a lift sign or a U.
 and nothing else. Is there currently a requirement that the business license be prominently displayed? Correct. So what we do know is happening is that the Lyft and Uber management has required all their drivers to initially write that number on the back of their trade dress, and as they come in to renew, I believe they're getting a more formal trade dress.
 The lettering is kind of small and hard to see from a distance, but during our enforcement actions, we are seeing that a lot of the drivers do have it there. So I just, and I, with the caveat that I may have the worst eyesight of any member of the council.
 To say that the lettering is small is an understatement because it has escaped completely my ability to detect it. And my recollection is that the purpose of having that information was so that a passenger, a pedestrian, another driver could get that number and then take some follow-up action. Commissioner Saltzman.
 I think it was that and also just to ensure that people driving are current in their business license requirements. So it was both. So it just – And the lettering is small, I will be the first to admit, so maybe we can improve that. So this is not directly germane to this matter, but if –
 I have a number of concerns, including the distracted driving, which I think is a function of people driving with their iPhones on, and whether that's allowed or not, because it's not texting but it may be Google mapping or whatever. It's a different matter, but it does promote more distracted driving. But I've not been able to detect any of the business license information. And so is that something that we can at least consider, whether it's prominent enough?
 Yeah, I think we can totally consider that. I think the size of the lettering right now is kind of being determined by the size of the trade dress that they initially mass produced. And so they're writing that numbering at the bottom, and it is the business license with the city of Portland. But we can certainly go back to them and explore options. I'd certainly be open to looking at a font requirement and saying that everybody has to be in compliance with that. And when you say trade dress, you're referring to the sticker that's about that size? Yes. Okay.
 Okay, so that – and I'm not going to speak for the proponent of that amendment, but I thought we were requiring something more substantial than just small print on the bottom of the trade dress, which frankly looks to me more like one of those eye tests you take when you're in the eye doctor, and very rarely do people pick up that bottom line. I thought it was supposed to be something that was more –
 Easier to read for the general public and for someone so If I could come Dave Benson parking services group manager So when we get a compliment or a complaint about a private for hire at least I'd expect most people will use a license plate number and
 With the license plate number, it's pretty easily readable, and if we get that information, we can go right to the driver of that vehicle. I don't think it was ever our intent to use the business license number as a way for a citizen to report. Certainly they could do that, but the license plate number is a slightly more effective way to do that. We can have this discussion. I just think it should be at least as visible as the license plate.
 And right now you need binoculars to pick them up. Yeah, it is very small. I've seen them on all the vehicles out there, and they are – it's within the trade dress. What's the current penalty for driving a vehicle with a trade dress that has a number on it, but it isn't actually the business license? It would be $50, I believe, without having the penalty table in front of me. I believe the first offense is $50. So if you put a sticker on your car with a phony business license –
 not complying with this requirement, the fine you're facing is $50? The initial fine is $50, yes. It goes up after that? It goes up, I believe, to $100 and then $150. I think we need to revisit that as well, Commissioner Novy. But that's for not displaying. I mean, what is the initial fine for simply driving without a license?
 Without the trade dress? Without any business license at all. Without the business license at all. It is the same. It's $50. So without carrying your insurance, I recall, and without carrying your business license on you, you do have to have a paper copy on you in your vehicle. And without having the proper trade dress, I believe those three initial penalties do start at $50. That does seem low.
 It seems like it. I'm certainly open to looking at increasing those. Okay. And that's if you don't carry them with you. What if it turns out you don't have a business license? The only drivers that do not need a business license are those that actually are working as full-time employees. So currently that would be EcoCab and a few of the NEMTs out there that have full-time staff. But what if you just don't have one? You would be issued a sanction of $50.
 So I think we're all in agreement that that's woefully inadequate. Yeah, because in general, the penalty for not having a license ought to be more than the cost of the license, right? In other words, it's cheaper to drive without one. Someone might gamble that they won't get caught, right? But if I'm going to...
 get nailed for 300 bucks for not having a $100 license, I'm probably going to be a better citizen. But I do want to clarify that no driver is onboarded onto the platform for Uber or Lyft, nor will we certify any driver without first verifying their business license in our regulatory division. So they all have them. They don't often carry that copy with them, and that's what we're citing them for. That's different. Here.
 We're confident that every driver has a business license. This is about whether they adequately display it. That's correct, yes. Although I suppose it's theoretically possible for somebody to get hold of Uber or Lyft trade dress and put it on their car without being onboarded. So there should be meaningful sanctions for that.
 Sure. So if you do go out there and let's say, I mean, you can buy these things, I understand, on the Internet. A driver could go out there and pose as a Lyft driver. But as you know, you do request those rights through the app. No person should get into a vehicle without requesting it through the app.
 Once you request that ride or when we go out and we conduct an audit, the information that we have within our database for that day should reflect every active driver on the road that day. So we can confirm any driver on the road with an Uber or Lyft trade dress just by checking into our database. But I thought we didn't have the entire database of who's driving for these companies, that we did it by audit. In the new regulations, we made a requirement that every day they provide us a list –
 of all of their active drivers on that particular day. But we don't know whether they have or not. Yes, they do. We see it every day. I know. You see a list, but you don't know whether that's the list, the whole list, and nothing but the list.
 Because you find that out by audit, right? We do find that out by audit. But when we conduct our audits, again, we are going out there and we are calling an Uber or Lyft driver using the app, and we are conducting that audit when they arrive. We also go out to the airport where they're waiting in the whole lot, and we can conduct audits on a number of vehicles all at once. Okay, that's very helpful. Thank you. That's helpful. Other questions? I guess...
 Would like an update I think I've made this request known about the 50 cent per passenger surcharge that was we put in place to Fund enforcement efforts if you could provide us, you know, I'd like to know you know Hey, you don't do it now, but maybe in writing how much money has been generated today? Sure We can do that for some money going for be happy to provide that. Yes. Thank you. Okay. Thank you both. Thanks very much So is there a motion to adopt a report so moved second roll call, please. I
 Thanks to all of the citizens who have agreed to serve in this important advisory role, and thank you, Commissioner Novick, for continuing to make progress on TNCs. Aye. Aye. No, thank you.
 Thank you, Mark and Dave. Thanks, my colleagues, for their good questions. I did just want to explain what the rest of the membership of the committee consists of, because I think that would be helpful to people watching. We have a representative of the tourism industry, a representative of the Port and Commission on Disabilities, we have an at-large committee member with a disability, general member of the riding public, someone from the port, as we mentioned, someone from TriMet.
 A taxi company representative, a taxi driver representative, a TNC company representative, a TNC driver representative, an executive town car company representative, an executive town car driver representative, shuttle company representative, shuttle driver representative, representative of a tour bus company, and a representative of a non-emergency medical transportation company. So that's how we get up to 19 people. Okay.
 Aye. And one more case. I mean, we depend on volunteer citizens to figure out whether buildings meet our design review standards. What is a historic landmark? And in this case, how do we fit the new economy into an old cab system? So I appreciate these folks being willing to put a lot of volunteer hours into making the city work. Aye. Okay, 689, 689.
 8 Northeast Alderwood Drive, north of Northeast Alderwood Road, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Second reading. Roll call, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hale? Aye. And 690? Accept the report and recommendation to extend and modify the early agenda pilot project
 through December 21, 2016. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. This has been a partnership between my office and the City Auditor, Mary Hall Caballero, and Sarah Landis is here to present. Good morning. Good morning. Sarah Landis, City Auditor's Office. I have your clerk, Carla Morlove, with me for any questions. She's here to object to the new system. So we began the pilot project for early filing and early agenda release in late October of last year.
 The purpose of the pilot was to determine if it was feasible to produce the council agenda one day earlier on Thursdays, and this meant pushing the filing deadline to Monday from where it had been on Thursday. The idea was to give commissioners and the public more time to review agenda items before council meetings on Wednesdays. Overall, the results of the pilot project were mixed, with some benefits for commissioners' offices and some drawbacks for them as well.
 The experiment was extremely difficult for the council clerks and created many workflow and workload issues that could not be resolved. Monday filing deadline was generally seen by commissioner offices and bureaus as a drawback. They reported difficulty meeting the deadline for a variety of reasons. And they also reported that they had to delay or require four-fifths approval for items that were time-sensitive but were not ready for Monday filings.
 Thursday agenda release was seen as positive by pretty much everybody because it provided additional time for agenda review. The problems for the clerks in terms of workflow were many. It created disjointed work as they handled two agendas simultaneously, and this was especially difficult when one of the clerks was absent.
 It increased the number of agenda revisions, especially four-fifths in time, certain cancellations. We saw nine four-fifths items in seven months that we had the pilot project running at the time that we produced this report, whereas in the past there had been a high of three over the course of the entire year.
 There is a greater risk for error and omission. There was more work after hours. There was more duplication of work. We also had some transparency concerns. Revisions and four-fifths make it difficult for the public to track what's going on with the agenda. There is a risk for delay in completion of disposition documents, and there was a correlation between the very early holiday filings and increased agenda modifications and scheduling problems down the road.
 The clerks feel strongly that the early agenda approach, as it is currently outlined, is not sustainable for our office. However, we really appreciate the desire to have earlier access to the agenda so that more review and research can take place prior to council meetings.
 So what we are proposing in this report is that council extend the pilot project for another six months through December with the following changes. The filing deadline would move from Monday at 5 to Tuesday at noon, allowing more time to submit documents. Thank you.
 The agenda will be released as early as possible on Fridays, hopefully by noon or earlier. Our ability to do this depends largely on the length of Thursday meetings and on staff coverage. We track data to see how this process goes and discuss with council at the end of the pilot period.
 And then finally, a draft agenda could be produced and provided for the Council Chiefs of Staff on Thursday evenings for additional review time. This would have to have limited circulation, would be subject to change, and would not have supporting documents attached. The benefit of this would be additional time for Commissioner offices to ask questions of other offices, prepare for the Friday Chiefs of Staff meeting, and review.
 And generally get ready for the next week's council meeting a little bit earlier. But we are concerned about having drafts of agendas out there and the confusion that that might cause. So we'd have to think that through a little more, but we'd be willing to do that further.
 So that is the report, and the option before you is to approve the report and accept the recommendation to extend the pilot project with the modifications, or I guess do nothing and we revert back to the original filing deadlines that are in code.
 I just want to add that I greatly appreciate Sarah, Carla, Sue, the city auditor, your patience and willingness to try to make this work. And I strongly support the revised pilot to see if we can get that done.
 a little bit more even a few hours of time on a friday afternoon is good for my staff and for the public to be able to review and i appreciate your shared um valuing of that principle yeah i think this might thread the needle pretty well on the so the first the first two recommendations the tuesday by noon filing and the early friday release of the agenda those are firm but the the draft agenda that chiefs of staff on thursday evenings is kind of a maybe
 I think we can go ahead and give it a try. If we run into some real problems, we can walk back on that. What I am concerned about is
 Like I said, multiple agendas being available and having misinformation for the public when they could wait six working hours and have a good clean draft. We're very good at balancing multiple agendas on the City Council. Well, and the other advantage is that if we have something on a Thursday afternoon council that needs to go over, it will now be able to go over to the following week instead of for two weeks. That's right. I have two questions. One is with...
 With these proposed modifications, will we likely decrease the current usage of the four-fifth agenda items? Yes. Dr. Curley, you have to turn your mic on. Carla. Carla. Carla. Turn your mic on.
 Of all people. You're welcome, our distinguished clerk. Thank you. The four-fifths coming on, the leftovers from the Thursday were a real big concern for us, a real problem for us. And this will solve that because we're going to be able to put anything carried over from Thursday, as Commissioner said, onto the next week instead of that two-week kick-out. And that's very important for a lot of reasons, including the fact that we've run into some problems with four-fifths where we haven't had a requisite quorum on the Council. Correct. And that gets more complicated.
 Carla, I wanted to ask you one other question that's not off the report, which is in addition to the proposed modifications, which we're going to adopt today, are there any other things that you would like our offices to focus on that make your job easier? Thank you, Commissioner. What really helps is that a lot of you, or most of you, when you have items for filing, you bring them in early. That really helps, and we really, really appreciate that.
 And checking the items for thoroughness, even if that's just the backing sheet, making sure the dollar amount is there, that what agenda you want it on is correct. That's, you know, a check of the backing sheet by your offices is appreciated. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Sounds like a solution. The public will still get earlier notice than the old way of doing business, and I like that. That's obviously the heart of the matter. So anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 on this item i'm exercising my first amendment right to speak i'm exercising my first amendment right to speak i'm using my freedom of expression to speak i do want to thank the clerks the council clerks for their service thank you very much amanda fritz you were there
 at a community oversight advisory board meeting where you were complicit you sat there silent you thanked the board for their job for the job that they were doing you you think in particular kathleen sadat the chair well you saw her using her power to bully people you saw her and i'm pretty sure that you were part of that group that decided to bring security planned security to be there ahead of time in a public meeting
 I'm pretty sure that you were part of that. Were you part of that? Don't answer. I don't even want to know. But I know, Mayor, that you were. The city was part of those. They planned on bringing police presence to a community oversight advisory board where they're supposed to be reaching out to a community that has been traumatized by police for using excessive force.
 You hired the people, Rosenbaum and Watson, LLP, from Chicago. You brought them here into the city to traumatize people that have been traumatized by police use of excessive force. James Chassie was murdered because of excessive force. The conversation in those meetings is about murder.
 And every time we want to talk about the reality of excessive force, we are shut down because they are trying to make the meeting nice and beautiful and pretty. We have officials that constantly show up and never engage with the public. And yet they say engagement is the most important thing. Engagement is the most important thing. It's the most critical thing. Captain Michael Marshman said that. Critical. Critical. While he sits there every month,
 Every month and never engages with the public and walks out to people and ensures that they get taken away in a car, in a police car, for exercising their First Amendment right to speak, for airing their grievances. You, Commissioner Fritz, watch that whole thing go down and you thanked Kathleen Sadat, the chair.
 for that type of work shame on you thank you very much shame on you mayor hales shame on you thank you very much don't interrupt me i still have three seconds i want my three seconds back i want my three seconds back it was counting down oh i'm sorry it was beeping now go ahead you have three seconds on you mayor hales thank you very much okay let's take a vote please no i'm i'm here to speak sir so i thought you had mary okay okay i wasn't just here to film
 misunderstanding. Hi, my name is Mary Rose Lenore Ng, and I'm here to speak on the measure under Commissioner Amanda Fritz, Measure 690, to accept the report and recommendation to extend and modify the early agenda pilot project through December 21st, 2016 report. So here's just some friendly feedback from a consumer of the city governmental services, or a citizen, as they used to say in the French Revolution time, citoyen. So when people
 thing I've noticed about the meetings, more generally speaking, is sometimes the terms are not quite user-friendly. So I had my aha moment towards the end, and I was like, oh, I get what this measure is about. This is about the preparation of this Magna Carta of the meeting. So this
 comes out, it's also printed in our fabulous DJC Oregon. So any young emerging activists who need to get an agenda can pick one up at the door or also pick these up in the city boxes and outside in the hall. So I just wanted to draw attention to Carla Moorlough for her incredible kindness and sensitivity to me through my years being an activist here in Portland.
 and apply to any measures which will help the citizens participate in governance in an expedient and friendly and
 harmonious way. And I'd also like to point out that my unruly schedule where sometimes maybe I'll apply to speak and then I'm not in town, don't interrupt now, that she's very sensitive about that. And when I first wanted to speak about police brutality against a blind brain injured man who I was helping, she was very sensitive about emailing her a request to speak
 So that's fabulous, but what I was under the understanding from a very noted activist, Lone Vet, also known as Joe Walsh, was that there was some kind of move where the concept of the open mic at the meeting was, in your predecessor, Sam Adams, the notorious pedophile who had abused that poor fellow who came out on his blog, Rad Breedlove, when he was underage, the underage sex pedophile, Sam Adams, had removed the possibility of raising
 citizens to just come in and speak. So down at county, they still have the open mic, which I much prefer. Less premeditation, less agenda making, less written in stone. So say the tragedy in Orlando happens, you can go in and talk about the tragedy in Orlando, sign up that day. And I would highly move that the council, in a move towards true democracy, move towards a less exclusive aristocratic
 reading-centric. Dyslexic people don't understand this. And make it more user-friendly for us and more disability-friendly so we can get more opinions up here, more ideas, more communication styles, verbal styles, linguistic styles, and get just more outreach to all kinds of communities, including across different age groups, so we can have more fun. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Yes.
 Again, on this situation, I do like the pilot project being extended. Again, I want to commend the work and the efforts of Carla and the auditors, which I think do exceptional work. And why I say that is it's the way that they like and how they deal with the public. And when this speaker by the name of Artis is making statements to you, Mr. Rosenbaum and Ms. Watts do not know how to deal with the public.
 And the reality is, is when we're talking freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and trying to allow people from the public to speak, they get cut off every time they try to do that. They end up getting arrested. They end up getting intimidated. They end up receiving things over the Internet of harassment, almost hate speech toward them. And the reality is, if you do not step in and change that immediately –
 In my opinion, the settlement agreement, and I'm hoping Federal Judge Michael Simon will step in and take that agreement and void it immediately, and understand that you're in a position right now that if the public is speaking out against these individuals, I would highly recommend you look at making changes immediately immediately.
 and understand that you are still bound by that settlement agreement on how you treat the public, how you treat people that are mentally ill, how you allow people to exercise their freedom of speech and to speak in front of you is part of the settlement agreement itself. And if you don't want to follow that, I think that settlement agreement is in jeopardy, and I think it will fall apart, and this will be a historic situation that takes place.
 And it's going in that direction right now. Thank you. Good morning. Charles Johnson for the record. And on both sides of these tables, I'm sure we have abundant respect and love for everybody in the clerk's office, especially Ms. Carla Love Moore. So that the heads don't get too swollen in the awesome clerk's office, I will say it's tragic that there wasn't a sign-up sheet for this particular item.
 But, you know, there's so much work being done there. It is unfortunate that as Commissioner Fritz brought this item forward, this city council has not...
 had a public discussion about the effectiveness of the communications policy regarding democracy. It's great as a controlled forum for you. Today, we had four people sign up for five possible slots. One slot was never filled. Of the four people that signed up, one was absent.
 I try not to be any more dictatorial than the mayor or any of you, so I'm not telling people they have to come and use these slots. If they're not using them, the problem is not maybe as bad as I make it sound when we come up here. But I do think on the idea of timely engagement with the public, you should construct a working group and think about, Ms. Fritz has addressed this sometimes, the advantage of being
 able to be abreast of the issues that people raise in their communications. So I don't have a definitive opinion on that, but I do think that
 to an outside observer, if de Tocqueville comes and looks at Portland, he's going to say that the county has a better democratic communication process of engagement with their citizens than the way we handle the open communication. So I encourage you to, with all the other work you have ahead of you as we adjust to this new six-month trial program, to also possibly think about that. I do think that...
 Mayor Sam Adams and his relationship with a person who wasn't 18 doesn't rise to the level of the way some people have described it. I think that was a bigger tragedy with prior Mayor Goldsmith. But we will...
 Appreciate your engagement with the public. And doing better here, you know, it's just you elected people and us, and we're having a saner, less police-influenced conversation than what Rosenbaum and Watson is able to manage with Kathleen Sadat present, who I deeply respect her earlier work on marriage equality. This isn't about demonizing people. It's about getting process that works without inflicting trauma. Thank you very much.
 Okay, is there a motion to accept the report? So moved. Second. Call, please. Thanks. Well, thank you for this thoughtful report and for the suggested modifications. And Carla et al., you don't hear enough from us how grateful we are for the professional way that you handle your day-to-day work. And you have one of the hardest jobs in City Hall, and you perform your job with grace and with respect.
 high professionalism, and we're the beneficiaries. So thank you. And if these modifications work, then we should continue them. If in six months you believe we should do another course correction, I hope you don't hesitate to come forward with those suggestions because we want to get it right. Thank you. Aye. Well, I also want to thank the clerk's office for the outstanding job they do and
 care and feeding of the city council and the public so thank you so much and i'm pleased to support this correction and i hope it will improve the process and i too will be looking with critical eye five or six months from now if it's if these changes still are causing undue problems i
 appreciate Commissioner Fritz's desire to make sure that the public has more notice of what we're doing I actually appreciate myself but myself my staff having more notes what we're doing but it's also very important not to make life hell for the clerk's office so I appreciate these about this modification hope that it works
 Well, thank you very much to Sarah Landis, Carla Moore-Love, Sue Parsons, your whole team in the Council Clerk's Office and indeed in the Auditor's Office. Thank you to the auditor for being willing to try this approach to get more time for both the public and council offices to see what's on the next week's agenda. I particularly thank Jasmine Wadsworth on my staff who is now off doing great works with the presumptive Democratic nominee.
 and I very much appreciate her three years in my office being our constituent services specialist. So she knows better than anybody else in my office, I think, how important it is to have accurate information going out as quickly as possible. Thanks to everybody. Aye. Good work. Aye. And we're recessed until 2 o'clock.
 Okay, good afternoon. Welcome to the 2 p.m. meeting on June 15th at the Portland City Council. Before we call the roll, as anyone who was here this morning might have noticed, the City Council has been attacked by some kind of spring cold, and several of our members are suffering from it, particularly Commissioner Fish, who made it in this morning in person but wants to participate this afternoon by telephone.
 so pursuant to Portland City Code 3.02025, Commissioner Fish is participating by telephone because of illness. The efforts to inform absent council members of their opportunity to do this have been made, and he's taking advantage of that. Do any of the council members who are physically present object to having Commissioner Fish participate by telephone? Assuming none, then he will be included when you call the roll. Please, Carla. Thank you.
 Fish? The audio connects him. Fish? Here. Okay. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Okay. Welcome, everyone. Let's take up item number 6S691. Adopt new and amended supporting documents for an update of Portland's comprehensive plan, accept report of the Citizen Involvement Committee, and amend certain ordinances. Go ahead and read 692 while you're at it, please.
 adopt a new comprehensive plan for the City of Portland, Oregon, which replaces and supersedes the comprehensive plan adopted with Ordinance 150580 and amend certain ordinances.
 So as we get ready to start with first the presentation and then our action this afternoon, I just want to first take stock of where we are. We've worked for a long time as a city to try to grow intelligently. In many ways, I think we wish we didn't have to grow, and we certainly understand the anti-displacement coalition was just downstairs.
 celebrating their good work on this comp plan, but also noting the stresses that come from growth and change. But that's what we're trying to do with the comprehensive plan, is manage change to our purposes with all the tools that we have. And this is really kind of a once-in-a-generation opportunity that falls to us now to act for the next 20 years, to act on what Portland will be like when we're a city of 850,000 people.
 which is the population that this plan anticipates 20 years from now, which is a daunting number, but nevertheless one that has driven a lot of very hard work by citizens, by activists, by volunteers, and by city staff.
 I mentioned earlier, you know, these groups come to study Portland, and there's one here today from Brazil, and they asked, you know, how have you sustained this over time? And I said one that as far as I can see, one, we have a shared vision of what the city should be like. We disagree on some of the details, but we have a shared vision about compact, walkable growth there.
 livable neighborhoods, access to parks and nature, equity. We have a vision that we try to put into words and then into documents of what we want Portland to be like. And then we have a very strong tradition of citizen activism that pushes the city, as maybe the Bicycle Transportation Alliance did early on in bicycles, or maybe as the Anti-Displacement Coalition has done in their work on this plan, along with many others.
 And so if we have a secret sauce in Portland, it's because not just those of us that get to make these decisions hopefully make them well, but also because we're being driven and pushed and challenged by citizens who care a lot about planning and who know a lot about planning. So that's a blessing of being involved in Portland. And speaking of the citizens, I want to start by thanking the members of our Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 the most demanding, time-consuming volunteer job in the city, I think bar none. I think even being on the Portland Development Commission Board pales in comparison to the hours that these folks put in and the complexity of the work they have to do and sometimes with great controversy. I remember hearing about some propane thing where there was a few people there to talk to you, for example.
 So thank you, Planning and Sustainability Commission members. Thank you, neighborhood leaders from across the neighborhood system in the city who have been deeply involved in this, down to the details of lots and blocks and then thinking about the big picture of the future of their part of the city.
 And then certainly I want to thank my colleagues because we have, as a council, put in a great deal of time on this plan. I think we know that that has been worth it because of how carefully we've tried to shape this plan. And then most of all, Susan and your staff, Susan Anderson and your staff at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, great work.
 We have the best planners in the country, and they happen to work here in the city. And they worked really hard on this plan, and they care a lot. And you can tell by the sometimes passionate discussions that we have in our offices or here in this room as we work through the plan. But it's always a privilege to work with great people, and we have them in BPS. And I want to thank you all for really dedicated work on this plan.
 And so with that, let me call Susan and Eric forward and others and tell us what we need to do today to finish the job.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. Thank you so much. I want to just spend a brief amount of time, five minutes, and tell you a little bit about my perspective on the plan and then say a few thank yous and then turn it back over to you. When we first set out to develop a new comprehensive plan for the City of Portland, the first thing we did was look around the world and see who has done the best plans. What are those plans? What can we...
 look to for inspiration. And what we found were plans around the world that focused on land use and transportation and housing and streets and sewers and all of that.
 And it was at that point that we decided that Portland's plan should really be flipped 180 degrees and that we should focus first and foremost on people and create a framework to help people thrive, from East Portland to the West Hills to Portlandia in between. And so that's what we did. We focused on people in all neighborhoods, in all types of businesses, and especially with people who had not traditionally been part of the discussion before.
 We totally refreshed our public engagement strategy. We broadened our reach. We began to work with people that had not really been a part or had not been inside of this room before, with people of all races, of all incomes, young people, old people, immigrants, small business owners, people with disabilities and others. And the result of all that work is our new comprehensive plan.
 So from my perspective, it's a plan that thinks big and focuses small. It's big. It's big with results citywide, looking at new opportunities for housing, for jobs, for affordability, for environmental protection, and more. Okay.
 But it's also small. It's focused down at unique areas and parts of the city, each unique neighborhood, each unique business district, and each unique area that needs protecting from open space to our prime industrial lands.
 So as you know, and the mayor just mentioned, one of the primary goals of this comprehensive plan, and really as we worked through so many plans in the city, is to have at least 80% of the people by 2035 being able to live in wonderful, walkable neighborhoods. And these are neighborhoods with a variety of housing types, strong neighborhood business centers, great transit, bike, pedestrian, you know all of that. And we talk about it now.
 as if it's just something that's – it's just how we do it. You know, it's just how we do it here in Portland. But it hasn't always been that way. We took our first steps towards this model back three decades ago, more than three decades ago, with the adoption of the 1980 Comprehensive Plan. It soon became a national and really international model. Many of the things that we love best about our city were set in motion with that plan. And it's amazing, really.
 the great insight that they had 15, 35 years ago. I'm shortening history here. 35 years ago, and at that time, you know, the city leaders, the community, we paused and took a look at what was happening in Portland and in so many other U.S. cities at that time.
 People were fleeing, heading to the suburbs. Jobs were heading to the suburbs. Downtown was dead at night. Car was king. You know, it was a different place, and in response, Portland created a plan that really took us in a different direction. And that plan encouraged housing, and it encouraged more businesses downtown in the central city and in our vibrant neighborhood. And so today, it's paid off.
 It's paid off with a couple hundred thousand more people since 1980, thousands and thousands of new businesses, and dozens and dozens of wonderful, wonderful neighborhoods. So it's been a success. And in fact, as you know, it's been such a success that we're now faced with a whole new set of problems and a whole new set of opportunities. We're popular, and that means there's less affordable housing, and we have more traffic congestion, and there's people and businesses that are being displaced.
 But that popularity also means that we have a lot more opportunities. We have highly educated people who are starting up companies here. We have more innovation. We have creativity. We have the capacity, because of the number of people here and the strength of our community, to actually put resources into protecting the environment and creating a low-carbon economy. And we have the capacity to be a world-class city. Thank you.
 So the new comprehensive plan reflects all of these changes and all of these challenges and all of these opportunities. It provides a framework for the next 20 years. The plan will help us increase housing supply and affordability. It will help us reduce the need to drive, protect our natural resources, provide for parks and open space, and ensure that there's land for industry and middle-income jobs.
 And it also branches out in new directions and in many new issues, things like climate change, environmental justice, and better access to technology, things that weren't at all a part of a plan 35 years ago. So the plan before you today is a plan for the next generation. It continues our great planning legacy, and it literally provides a map to the future that we want to see. And it's for a Portland that's equitable, healthy, and prosperous for everyone.
 So those are my thoughts sort of in terms of all the work that we've done now over many, many years, pulling this all together from very much the big picture down to the plan we have. And now we go back out. We've been big, and now we're down into the details. I just want to close by saying a few thank yous. First to my lead staff, Eric. Thank you.
 You have been the master of content. Without a doubt, you are the most knowledgeable planner in the city, perhaps in the United States. And I want to thank you for that. It has been amazing. Joe, who is on vacation right now, Joe has been the great mediator. Joe brought people to the table, got them to sit down, got to see their commonalities, and helped make good decisions happen.
 Sally, you always reminded us about the importance of a healthy and working river. Sandra, you always reminded us about the rules and keeping the process straight. Tom, you and your team ensured that we got the demographics and all the facts right. Kevin and Mark, your teams brought the plan to life with illustrations, with maps, with graphics and all the wonderful details of the map app.
 eden and julia you got the word out and built relationships with all the reporters in the city teaching them about the details of the comprehensive plan and what goes into making a great plan plan courtney from pivot and marie from bes we couldn't have done this without you and finally deborah you and your team the district liaisons you have been the eyes and the ears on the ground and you have truly been the heart and soul of this plan so thank you
 And thank you to the rest of my staff who are now watching all this back in the office. I'm not going to name all of you. But each of you had some specific influence on the shape of the plan, and so you truly will have some influence on the shape of the city for the next 20 years. And then I want to thank really what could be considered our extended staff, people like Linda Nedikovan and others. Thank you.
 The couple hundred people who were on committees, and I'm not exaggerating, there were more than two or three hundred people who were on committees over the past six to eight years,
 building up, building broad policy and getting down into the details, the policy expert groups, the community involvement committee, and the dozens and dozens of neighborhood land use committees. So thank you all for your insights and your diligence. And finally, I want to thank all of you, my boss and my co-bosses. It's
 It's been a long haul and you listened carefully to hundreds of people at hearings, providing testimony, you spent hours working through the issues at the work sessions. Your staff literally spent weeks and weeks with my staff working on some tough issues and as we all know there were some tough issues, you often were required to take
 a really good idea and balance it with a really good idea and have to make a choice. And that wasn't always easy. So I appreciate that in the end, the decisions that you made, the decisions that you made together really will now be the framework for development in the city for the next 20 years. And I think that's something we can all be proud of. So thank you, especially to you. Thank you. That's it. Yeah.
 Eric? We might want to tell you the details of where we go next. Just walk us through what we are doing. Yeah, just the technical details of today is to remind you you're voting on two ordinances. The first adopts the supporting documents, as Carla mentioned in reading the item. That includes the Community Involvement Committee report, the Economic Opportunities Analysis report,
 updates to the buildable lands inventory, growth scenario report, and citywide system plan. The comp plan itself is the separate ordinance, and that includes the policy document, the land use map, the list of significant projects, including portions of the TSP. So that's the two votes you're going to have today on the second reading. Great. Questions? Concerns? Maybe there aren't any at this point. Okay.
 So maybe just give us the next big steps in terms of once we do this today, what –
 Are those other little pieces that Susan alluded to? Sure. As you know, the Planning and Sustainability Commission continues to work through the early implementation of this plan. And so that includes a number of changes to the zoning code and the zoning map that we believe are necessary to put the spirit of the new plan into code and make it effective. That includes updates to the mixed-use commercial zoning, the campus zoning, the
 a number of residential zoning changes, updates to our community involvement program, and further updates to the TSP. So that's happening now. We expect them to make a recommendation to you this summer. And then we've scheduled some placeholders on your calendar this fall to start working through holding hearings at your level on those implementation measures. Thank you.
 And then you might want to just, not just for our benefit, but for those that are, again, engaged in this and thinking about next steps, talk about some of the other planning projects that are going to be scrolling in over the next six months, like the residential infill project.
 Either way. So we have, as Eric mentioned, the institutional zoning project, and that's coming through the residential infill project, which is looking at the size of homes, looking at homes that are on smaller lots and how we should be dealing with that, and looking at
 opportunities for new kinds of housing types within the residential zones that may provide some more opportunities for smaller buildings, ADUs, duplexes, triplexes, and such, within our traditional residential communities to allow more people to take advantage of the amazing amenities of many different neighborhoods. Soon after, the Central City Plan that's beginning to go through, in fact, the Central
 I think on Monday we will release the draft of that plan. So everything's moving now. We've had to wait for this to come through. You can't adopt all the other bits until you have this in place first. So central city plan and residential infill. We also will be starting or we will be bringing to you mixed-use zoning plan, looking at our mixed-use zones.
 So all of that's happening really in the next six to eight months. The other two I maybe would mention is the residential, multifamily residential project that is also a metro grant that we'll be initiating in the next six months, similar to how we're overhauling the mixed-use zones to look at our higher density multifamily zones. And then also working with Housing Bureau to move as quickly as we can on the inclusionary housing implementation.
 So no rest yet? Not much. Great. Okay. Questions or any other requests before we take our two votes? Then let us do that, please. Second reading on adopting the supporting documents, 691. Fish? Well, thank you for allowing me to participate by phone, and I'm going to reserve my formal comment for the next vote. Aye. Saltzman. Aye.
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Ailes? Aye. And then 692 on the plan itself. Fish? Aye.
 Well, first, I want to thank the Mayor and Susan for their earlier comments, because they basically were everything I wanted to say, but said it more eloquently. This is the first and presumably the last time I will have a chance as a member of Council to vote on a comprehensive plan.
 unless I set some kind of record for service. And it has been a wonderful experience. And at the end, I have a number of people to thank. But I've learned a lot. I think it's fair to say that it's brought out the best in Portland, and I'm proud of the final document. And in terms of the comp plan that we're voting on, I believe that it walks...
 fine line between preserving the character of our neighborhood and planning for new neighbors, that it reflects the needs of institutional partners like universities, hospitals, and the Port of Portland, and also reflects the values of our community partners, including housing advocates, older adults, neighborhood leaders, and environmentalists. I believe it thoughtfully plans for both a growing Portland and an aging Portland
 with more options for people to age in place, and a focus on neighborhood centers where people can walk, bike, and take public transportation. It keeps an eye on East Portland to help it thoughtfully grow without displacing the longtime residents in Portland's last affordable neighborhood, and it addresses very thoughtfully two of our most urgent challenges, advancing equity and responding to our housing crisis. I want to begin by thanking my colleagues.
 for what has been a terrific process. And after attending all the meetings and listening carefully, particularly to Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Hales and their questions and comments, I think I'm now ready to get college credit for this grant. Obviously, I want to thank the hundreds and hundreds of community members.
 and groups who showed up to testify or who submitted emails or documents and helped to shape the final product i think we can say without hesitation that this plan was shaped by the community and reflects the community's values i want to thank elders in action aarp h friendly portland and others for the
 their thoughtful feedback on the case for older adults in connection with middle housing, drive-throughs, and a host of other important issues. I'm grateful to the passionate neighborhood leaders and environmental voices who helped guide our final decisions on issues ranging from the Broadmoor Golf Course, our open space inventory, our river, and holding West Dayton Island harmless.
 I could not, in my last remarks, resist thanking Joe Rossi, who attended every single hearing. He's here. His good stewardship and community-minded approach will make his property an asset for generations to come. As the mayor has done, I'd like to thank the Planning and Sustainability Commission, who worked so hard and provided us with an excellent draft.
 and that is one of the hardest assignments that we ask volunteers to take up in our community, and we're very fortunate to have such a talented group. I wanna thank our attorney, who on a number of occasions helped us steer the, stay on the straight and narrow, if you will, and guided some of the final language in this document.
 Of course, special thanks to Susan and Joe and Eric and all the planners who have done such a wonderful job managing this complicated process, educating the council about the various policy choices, and I think deserve a ton of credit for their work. And I don't remember a more complicated process that we've been a part of.
 And I've just been amazed at the way they managed it and helped us get to this point. And I hope Susan and Joe and Eric and Deborah and Sally and everyone feel as much pride as we have in their work. And finally, I want to thank Jamie Bumpy on my team, who in the course of this has become a minor expert in planning issues.
 And if I've ever said or done anything during these hearings which is thoughtful or intelligent, it's either a complete mistake or it's completely attributable to material he gave to me. So I'm very proud today to be part of a council that gets to adopt this comprehensive plan.
 And I think it's a very sound vision for a prosperous, equitable future. And it's a roadmap to a future and a city that I hope to grow old in. And today I'm proud to lend my support for this plan by voting aye. Well, let me start off by thanking our incredibly engaged community that made this plan what it is today.
 So many times over the past few years, I've been amazed at the level of knowledge and interest in this plan shown by a diverse array of residents. I'm constantly amazed how many people show up for these hearings and these meetings. The phrase, only in Portland, runs through my mind constantly.
 over and over and over again. I think only in Portland could people, could you generate hundreds of people to talk about some very, you know, at times very arcane, detailed zoning issues. But it shows how much Portlanders do care about the city that we all love.
 And that, of course, follows into thanking all the planning staff who have been just amazing throughout this process. Susan, Eric, Joe, Deborah, and so many other planners involved. Our city attorneys, Catherine, Lindley, Lauren, Carla, and Sue, our council clerks, have often been amazing as we host these meetings at various locales throughout the city. And all the point people in the council offices who...
 uh absorbed all the information on behalf of those of us sitting up here at the dais people like jamie dunphy like katie claire matt in my office camille thank you for all the great work and making our jobs up here appear easier appear make us appear smarter
 And finally, and I also can't let the Planning and Sustainability Commission go unthanked either. I mean, the effort that they put into this plan, as they do into this job, is serving on the Planning and Sustainability Commission is truly astounding. I am constantly in awe of the amount of time they invest in issues that are so important to our city. So special thanks to all those members. Mike Houck is here in the audience today. Special thanks to Mike. And...
 And finally, before I vote, I want to set some markers down for the code packages that are making their way through the Planning and Sustainability Commission and soon to come to us this fall. I think most of you know that I like height. We're a city and we need to plan for incredible growth. And the incredible growth we will see over the next 20 to 30 years and a big part of accommodating that growth is to increase the height of our buildings all over Portland.
 So I think it's a very sound strategy. As I said, I am a supporter of height. Perhaps that's why I like to visit New York City in my spare time. We need more housing, and all height and floor area ratio bonuses should be tied to affordable housing, all of them. This is a huge priority for me, and I will be watching closely to see if any of the bonus programs coming out of the current processes are watered down for affordable housing. I don't like downzoning, as many of my amendments to the plan showed.
 The last thing we need to do is decrease density in Portland. And to this end, I strongly support middle housing efforts and the idea of utilizing what has been single-family housing zoning over the past 50 years for more flexible uses like multiple accessory dwelling units or courtyard apartments. I hope the effort around this is fruitful, and I will be a strong supporter on the council when these ideas come to fruition in our zoning code. So finally, let me just say that...
 when i was just starting out in college i wanted to be a city planner i had no idea really what a city planner did but i kind of thought the city planner was like it's like going over to the second floor of the portland building to that hearing room c where you have that wooden model of the city and i kind of thought you know i want to do that i want to take this building here and say this should be over here
 or we need to make this space here. That's what I thought city planning was. I did a couple internships with what was in Metro, or what was now Metro, what was in the Columbia Region Association of Governments, and I soon found out it's a lot more detailed and a lot more sophisticated than sort of just moving wooden models of buildings around and saying this is what the city should look like. And all the people in the planning department
 Bureau planning sustainability have even proved that even further. This job is a lot more complicated than I ever thought, and I was probably never cut out to be a planner anyway. But it helps having colleagues who were, like Commissioner Fritz, Mayor Hills. I think you guys were cut out to be planners from day one. You have a great level of understanding and detail. So it really helped having a couple colleagues that really helped bring, maybe I can speak for the other three of us, along. Yeah.
 so i just have a lot of respect for the profession and the work and i look proud i look forward to uh living in the city that uh i feel i have had some small role in helping to create uh over this uh for the next 20 years and i'm pleased to vote aye no thanks first of all commissioner saltzman you're not always the most talkative member of the council it's delight to hear you hold forth on this issue very eloquently
 I first want to apologize for the fact that I've got a lot to say and I'm also sick and rather incoherent. So I don't know how understandable what I'm about to say is going to be. So I just want to apologize for that in advance. This comprehensive plan reflects an assumption that we are going to have more housing built and different types of housing built in this city.
 And that raises concerns for a lot of people. I'd like to talk a bit about the advantages of having some more housing and different types of housing built. The biggest challenge we face as a species, along with a lot of other species who are along with the ride with us, is climate disruption.
 And surprisingly and counterintuitively, I think, having more compact development helps us reduce our carbon emissions. When you have more people living closer together, for one thing, it makes transit more viable. It makes it easier for people not to drive. The reason the New York City subway system is economically viable is there's a bunch of people per stop. And also, for example, if...
 It takes 7,000 people, I've been told, to support a grocery store. So if 7,000 people are living within walking distance of each other, a grocery store will spring up that people can walk to rather than drive to. The number of people in my neighborhood are concerned about the idea of having more housing in Multnomah Village. I actually would like to have more people living in Multnomah Village because that increases the odds that a grocery store will spring up that I can walk to.
 The issue that's on the front of a lot of people's minds, I think most people's minds in Portland now, is housing affordability. Lots of people want to move here, including a fair number of people with high incomes. If we don't allow for more housing to be built, those people will keep on bidding up the price of existing housing beyond the capacity of a lot of people who already live here and more moderate-income people who want to move here.
 But I don't think that there's an unlimited number of high-income people that want to move to Portland. So I think if we allow enough housing to be built, we should have room for those high-income people and for people with more modest incomes. Let me give you an example. Suppose...
 a couple with kind of an upper middle class income, is moving to Portland, and they look at the inner east side, and they like it, and they like to live there, but they discover that given the way housing prices in single family homes have gone up there, they can't afford it, even though they have a pretty decent income. If they don't have another option, they might go and buy a house east of 82nd, thus helping to drive up prices there and contribute to the gentrification of east Portland.
 But if we make it more feasible to build things like or convert buildings to duplexes and triplexes in their inner east side, that same couple might choose to do that, and then they're not driving up prices and contributing to gentrification in these portlands. Of course, we are going to build some affordable housing with tax dollars. In this budget, we made a major contribution of city funds to building affordable housing.
 but we are not going to address the overall problem of housing affordability just with taxpayer-funded housing. We're going to have to allow for the market to help. Not incidentally, I'd like to take this opportunity to apologize for something I said in the course of these comp plan discussions. Some folks in Eastmoreland proposed increasing minimum lot sizes in Eastmoreland, and I jokingly said that that would be creating an R1% zone.
 And a number of people in Eastmoreland took offense, and they reasonably interpreted my remarks as suggesting that everybody in Eastmoreland is in the top 1% and they only want to associate with other 1%. And that's not true. The folks proposing that zoning change simply want to preserve their neighborhood. So I apologize. But here's the thing.
 Eastmoreland is already changing because of rising prices. Many of the people who live in Eastmoreland now would not be able to buy their own homes at current prices. That neighborhood is gradually transitioning from being an upper middle class neighborhood to, yes, in fact, a wealthy neighborhood. And that's happening all over the city. My wife and I make a very good income, but if Zillow is to be believed,
 the house that we bought in Multnomah Village just three years ago would be beyond our reach today. And the concern I had about the proposed downzoning in Eastmoreland is that if we increase minimum lot sizes, I think we're further limiting who can live in parts of Portland to people who can afford big lots.
 to some extent there's a conflict between our desire to preserve the look the physical look of our neighborhoods and our desire to preserve portland as a place where wide people the wide range of incomes can afford to live to some extent but i don't think that conflict has to be a duel to the death if you walk through the buckman neighborhood
 you see a lot of duplexes and triplexes and garden apartments that fit in well with the single-family homes in the neighborhood. In fact, with some of them, you have to look closely to realize this is a duplex, not a single-family home.
 That density does not have to be ugly. That's one of the reasons I'm really passionate about allowing for more middle density housing, because we don't want apartments everywhere, and not everyone wants to live in an apartment, but as the price of single family homes in this area goes up, I think we need to allow for other options that are compatible for neighborhoods. A number of other points that I wanted to address, some of which would be duplicative of what my colleagues have already said and will say,
 The anti-displacement provisions we incorporated into the plan are important to ensure we keep Portland open to all. The Council supported all the measures proposed by anti-displacement PDX for the final plan. I congratulate them for their effective advocacy. In fact, I just had an opportunity to re-present the Spirit of Portland Award to the anti-displacement PDX coalition, which rejected it when we first proposed it because they wanted to see if we actually would incorporate their proposals into the plan.
 We must keep our focus on displacement. Implementation will be the true test of those policies, and I know that the folks in anti-displacement PDX will come back again and again to keep the pressure on. I'm glad that we adopted the middle cargo forecast and the economic opportunities analysis. I was concerned when we saw that the draft plan would use the low cargo forecast because of the signal that could send to harbor businesses that in some cases employ many people in good middle-wage jobs.
 New analysis by staff showed that we could increase capacity on some lands and move the load of the middle cargo forecast. That sets a course for continued investment in the economic engine that is the harbor. I was pleased – I think Commissioner Fish already said this – that we maintain the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendation to preserve Broadmoor Golf Course as open space. Broadmoor is a unique ecological resource that should be preserved as habitat. Thank you.
 I was pleased that we adopted a transportation strategy that prioritizes design of the right-of-way for pedestrians and cyclists, staying the course we've been on in how we invest in our transportation network.
 The transportation strategy is critical as your population grows, and we're making those investments. We need to make investments in infrastructure that make it safe and easy to walk and bike for short trips, opening up capacity for longer trips by transit and car. And I'm pleased that we prioritized disability accessibility as its own policy in Chapter 9. Thanks to my colleagues for supporting those important policies.
 And, of course, the Bureau of Transportation project list identifies multimodal projects that address the needs of pedestrians, bicyclists, transit users, freight movers, and motorists. The list of investments is needed to maintain existing facilities and ensure the system meets the needs of Portlanders for decades to come.
 Finally, like my colleagues, I have a long list of people to thank for their participation. Thanks to all of the advocates and community members who took time to testify during this process, in many cases coming to repeated long meetings and waiting until they finally got a chance to speak. And we also received a mountain of written testimony. Thanks for everybody who took the time to weigh in in any way.
 Thanks to my colleagues, their engagement and discourse throughout this process. As Commissioner Fish said, I think we've learned a lot together. Commissioner Saltzman said the same thing. And special thanks to Mayor Charlie Hales for his leadership and vision. I remember reading Charlie Hales' exit interview as a city commissioner at Willamette Week in 2002, where he said that it's important to have people on the council who think about what the city physically looks like.
 and I'm glad that he came back to lend his vision on how a city should look in this important process. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Thanks to the Planning and Sustainability Commission, especially former Chair Andre Baugh, to Chris Smith for his advocacy for smart transportation planning, as well as open data and digital equity, and to Howard Shapiro for his commitment to the public involvement process, and all of the PSC members served on policy expert groups who are essential in bringing this plan over to the financial audience.
 Thanks so much to BPS staff for their calm and consistent leadership on this very big project. Thanks to Susan Anderson, Joe Zender, Eric Engstrom, and Deborah Stein in particular. And if I weren't sick, I'd come up with some joke about returning to Zender later on, but since I'm sick, I haven't been able to come up with one.
 Thanks to PBOT staff for their contribution on the TSP and transportation policy notes of this plan, especially Director Treat, Art Pierce, Courtney Duke, Peter Hurley, and Zef Wagner. And thank you so much to make me understand issues that were far too complicated for my small brain.
 Congratulations to everybody. And as people said already, we have a lot of work left to do, but this is a great milestone and it's an honor to be here with all of you.
 Our speeches are even longer than usual today because this indeed is a milestone for all of us, and it's a huge undertaking that does, as Commissioner Fish said, only happen once in a lifetime or once in a career. So thank you to the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff for making the most of your once-in-a-career opportunity to shape Portland until 2035. I'm going to start my remarks by thanking Grandma and Grandpa Fritz.
 And the reason I'm going to thank them is because 20 years ago, then Commissioner Hales asked me to be on the planning commission. And I would not have been able to do that with children ages 6, 8, and 10 if grandma hadn't come over to watch them so that I could spend hours and hours at the planning commission.
 So I really appreciate that this, for many people, there's a lot of sacrifices that go into the long hours that the staff work, both in the bureaus and in our offices and in the community, that it's not easy to get to public hearings and to take time to send in cogent testimony and to just trust that it might be read, even though you don't know whether it would be or not. And people did. And we did rate it. And we did consider it. Yeah.
 One of my formative experiences was when the Metro President, Judy Wires, said there's no point in having a public hearing if it doesn't matter what the public says when they show up.
 And certainly when people came and people testified and people sent in their written comments, staff did an amazing job of coordinating it, and we, I think, have done a good job of sifting through it. There are probably some mistakes in this plan. I would think that none of us could be 100% sure. We got absolutely 100% of everything right. One of the reasons I find such joy in planning is, for the most part, you can go back and fix things if you discover errors or if we discover errors.
 I also want to thank Mayor Tom Potter for doing the Bureau improvement projects, including Community Connect, which is one of the main reasons that we had such a diversity of folks participating in this plan, that all of us in the cities have been thinking over the years of who's not at the table, who needs to be empowering, not only the Anti-Displacement Coalition, but also young people, Coalition of Communities of Color, all kinds of
 who participated in this plan, and the Public Involvement Advisory Committee, who helped with the reshaping of Chapter 2, the Community Engagement Plan.
 chapter, which I'm particularly proud of. I thank Sam Adams for his work on the Portland Plan, and that was four years of really hard work, too, following on from Mayor Potter's Bureau Improvement Project, and now Mayor Hales with this as the signature achievement, I would postulate, of your administration to bring this comp plan home with six months to spare, so we've got plenty more time to do more, right? Yeah.
 One of the things that's in it that I most treasure, of course, is protecting West Hayden Island, which I hope we have locked up, and I'm grateful to the voters of Portland to give me another four years to be vigilant on that because that's something that could come back again, and I'm glad that I hope I'll be here to do that. I need to state that I was disappointed that I didn't succeed in one aspect, which is to specify that parking can be a key function of the public right-of-way, particularly in street vacations.
 And I understand that additional components of the systems development plan, including the glossary and street design classifications, which don't currently have parking listed, will be coming to council this fall. And at that time, I will be interested to see parking as an important function of streets and a consideration for street vacations as well.
 And I know that we all have a vision for more biking and more walking and less cars in our city, and that's going to be necessary in order to avoid even more congestion and to protect ourselves.
 get the climate action plan goals met. There are many people in our city who live far away from public transportation who cannot use, they don't have bike lanes or sidewalks, and they cannot use those modes of transportation. For them, it would be a privilege to be able to walk and bike to work, and it's a privilege that they don't have. So in the meantime, we must ensure that parking is a consideration because this is an important equity issue.
 In addition to all the other thank yous, and I won't repeat them all, I want to thank our park staff, Brett Horner in particular, put a lot of time and effort into this. Office of Neighborhood Involvement, Amalia Alcarn de Morris, and Public Involvement Advisory Committee, Camille Trummer and Jackie Dingfelder on the mayor's staff were absolutely essential in doing a lot of the designs, the sedent's work. My staff, Claire Adamsick and Pooja Bhatt were absolutely phenomenal. I appreciate...
 could not have been better served by my staff and also by two chiefs of staff, Tom Bezo and Tim Crail, who also have been huge in coordinating all the many changes that we got in this plan to, I think, I believe, make it even better. Thank you so much for all of your work, and thank you to our community for all the work that you've done on this. Hi. Niels. Hi.
 Well, Commissioner Fish postulated that he probably won't be involved over a 25-year span in planning work like this, but, of course, I've already been outed as somebody who actually has. I was here in the early 90s when we were adopting big planning documents, sort of, if you will,
 trial efforts at what we're doing here today, things like the Albina Community Plan and the Outer Southeast Community Plan and Southwest Community Plan. And at a time when there's so much negative noise about government, I think it's important to look at our situation here today and realize that progress is possible.
 You know, there's newspaper editorials that make government look bad. There was one infamous editorial in a local paper that quoted me using the word placemaking in quotes as if it was some airy notion that I'd made up instead of something, a word that every planner or neighborhood activist understands.
 We have political candidates who make government look bad and ineffective and feast on that. And, of course, we have the Twitterverse where people expect to have things like the comprehensive plan explained in 140 characters, and you just can't.
 Sorry, I'm not smart enough to be able to do that in 140 characters. So there's, you know, in the background of maybe some of those negative notes, you know, progress really is possible and that we've gotten better at this, better than we were in the Outer Southeast Plan or the Albina Plan or the Southwest Plan. And we should acknowledge that, that we've all gotten better at this as we've gone along. And we should remember that it sounds conceited for modest Portlanders to say this, but we're the best.
 I mean, the whole world comes here to study us. They don't come to all those other cities to study them. They come here. We're the only city that has a first stop, Portland, and the only city that needs one. And when you talk to planners or colleagues in the rest of the country, they say, oh, you're from Portland.
 Now, they're mostly celebrating what we've done in new urbanism, the ability to take an old rail yard and make it into a neighborhood or to take the south waterfront, transform it into a medical research powerhouse and neighborhood at the same time. The ability to figure out these difficult questions of infill and transit and all the rest.
 But the part of Portland that I always try to remind people about, and it was a very big factor for me in this plan, and in the remaining work we will do this year on things like the residential infill project, is that we also need to remember that we're the best for old urbanism. Other cities have a few neighborhoods, like Laurelhurst or Arbor Lodge or Eastmoreland or Westmoreland or Ladd,
 Other cities have a few of those neighborhoods. Thanks to an amazing boom of craftsmanship in the early 20th century, we have a fabric of old urbanism that's unmatched in the country. I've had the chance to work all over the country in my career as a consulting transportation planner. And nobody's got this. We've got it.
 We'd be crazy to lose it. So the work of historic preservation, which has been partially advanced by this plan, needs to continue to be at the front of our effort. Yes, we need to accommodate density, and we're doing that in this comp plan, but we also need to preserve the great old buildings, perhaps repurpose them, because we're in a big old house that's too big for us. It might be thoughtfully rebuilt into a duplex, but for God's sake, don't lose that built craftsmanship if we can possibly keep it.
 So that work is ongoing. So we have gotten better at this, and we've gotten better at it because some things that are always good about Portland have been especially good in this process. We've had neighborhood activists that have been deeply involved. Linda, Malter, Stan, others here, you've put a lot of time into this. We've had activists like the Anti-Displacement Coalition or housing activists like Diane Lynn who've been involved.
 on us the whole way about making sure we get this right. We've had activist planning commission members like Mike Howe, who never let us forget the environment. And between him and Commissioner Fritz, I have no worries about Hayden Island in the future. So we've had people that have really worked hard to make sure that this plan is a good one. And it's just in time.
 You know, they say that about just-in-time delivery. I think this plan is just-in-time delivery. In a week when we found out that the average housing price has risen above $400,000, when we've gotten the dubious honor of having the fastest year-over-year housing price growth of major cities in the country at 11%, when we have a downtown office vacancy rate that's single digits and there are small digits at that,
 You know, we're booming. We had 1,000 people a month move to Portland in the last year. So the need for this plan is acute. We're doing it just in time. And so I'm very, very happy that among the other reasons that I decided to not run for another term was to be able to pour myself into this work, and I have, and I'm glad of it.
 And then finally, I'm especially glad of not only the other folks that have worked so hard on this, but of being very well advised in my office by a couple people that have already been mentioned. Jackie Dingfelder, who's possibly awake in New Zealand and watching this on her computer, and Camille Trummer, who had the difficult...
 job of not only succeeding Jackie Dingfelder in this work, but also having to work for a planner wonk as mayor. So, Camille, you've done wonderfully well in proving yourself as a great planner, and I appreciate your good counsel every step of the way in this plan. Thank you very much. Aye. It's done. Can we suspend the rules in class? Let's suspend the rules. We're recessed for a few minutes. Good job. Thank you, Amanda. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Hey, bravo. I'm shaking with this hand today. All right. Well done, Eric. Thank you. Bravo. Thanks.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Would it be perfect if I came to the conference? Or not. Congratulations. Thanks.
 Okay.
 So we'll return to order and take up the next two items, if you could go ahead and read both of those. Item 693, update collection and foreclosure code to align to changes in ORS 205 and 223, and 694, foreclosure list report 2016-01.
 well thank you i think the whole afternoon council calendar could be described with this combination of words hooray at long last we finished seven years of work on the comprehensive plan and now we're taking up a question that has lingered for some time around our community so i'm very very pleased that we're here and at the team of people in city government from the auditor's office to the police bureau to oni to bds
 to my office that have been working so well together. I want to thank a couple of people at the outset, one who's on his honeymoon, Zach Lanosky, and then there he is, Chad Stover from my office, who worked really hard on this, and then Officer Aaron Schmautz from East Precinct, who's still recovering from a very scary car accident, but about a year and a quarter ago took me on a ride-along and said,
 and opened my eyes to the fact that we still had in our city, even in 2015, what was already a very healthy real estate market and people desperate for affordable housing, now it's more so, even then we still had hundreds of houses of this type that are vacant, abandoned, and toxic for their neighbors. So I'm very glad that we are now focusing on this problem and moving forward on solutions. Thank you.
 I had the pleasure of leading a tour last Friday of five vacant and abandoned houses that were all within two miles of each other in just one neighborhood in Lentz. One of those houses is on the list for foreclosure today, and this house involved the tragic death of a 27-year-old female from a heroin overdose. So it shows that housing that is not really in proper use can also be a dangerous place for people, including vulnerable people, to live.
 The issue of vacant and abandoned, or sometimes what we call them zombie homes, has no single solution. But thanks to the hard work of a team of people here at the city, we're dusting off old tools and creating new ones that will help move us forward on this. We are committed to solving this problem.
 Our fiscal year 16-17 budget includes new positions in the Bureau of Development Services to deal with extremely distressed properties. It includes a new position in the City Attorney's Office. And now we're going to be acting on new tools, a streamlined plan for foreclosures and receivership.
 So again, we have two main tools before us, and we'll be hearing from our auditor and from others on these tools. First is foreclosure itself. The city has the authority to foreclose on houses that owe the city money for liens on past violations. And so we are bringing today five houses scheduled for foreclosure.
 We also have the option of receivership, which allows the city to petition the court to appoint a housing receiver to temporarily take ownership while a house is repaired and put back out for affordable housing. So I believe that receivership will complement the foreclosure program and work to make sure that no one is gaming the system, but that instead we're getting this housing back out into responsible ownership and affordable use.
 So these are changes before us today. I'm very glad, again, that we have this before us. I want to call on a series of people to come up and talk about this. First, our auditor and her staff to talk about code changes. I guess our auditor is letting her staff go on her behalf. She's here. Thank you. Okay. Good afternoon. The first item on the agenda. Put your name in the record, Sarah. Oh, I'm sorry. Sarah Landis, Chief Deputy City Auditor. Okay.
 The first item on the agenda today is to discuss necessary changes to Portland City Code 530. The intent of these changes are really housekeeping in nature and to align city code with changes to Oregon Revised Statute that set foreclosure regulations at the state level.
 Just to walk through the changes, the first substantive change comes in 530.020 subsection N, which is changes to the sales price definition. Currently, city code only allows a foreclosure sales price to equal the total of the lien principal, interest, penalties, collection costs, and sales costs.
 And that means that a property with liens and associated costs would sell for potentially a fraction of the value of the property. Our code was in compliance with state law when it was written. It is no longer in compliance with state law, and so this change would make it so. The second substantive change is, just to go into detail there, the revision would...
 allow for the sales price to be the greater of the amount of lien principal interest penalties, collection costs, and sales costs, or 75% of total assessed value. The other major change to the code comes in Section 530.170 and is related to the conduct of the foreclosure sale. Again, this change aligns city code with ORS.
 The proposal here would delete the section that covers multiple acceptable bids as the new sales price definition allows for a highest bid, so that language is no longer necessary. A new section is added that directs the treasurer to apply proceeds first to pay off the cost of conducting the sale, then to unpaid lien principal interest and penalties, then to anyone with a court-recorded interest in the property, and then to the debtor or the debtor's heirs.
 Other changes are really housekeeping in nature and meant to clarify or correct details in the code. So we have this as an emergency item to ensure that we're in compliance with state statute prior to a council vote on foreclosure, which is coming up next.
 And I'd be happy to answer any questions or have Marco Maciel, who's the foreclosure program manager, or Simon Huang, who was the attorney who assisted us with this, answer those questions. I just have a clarifying question. In 530-120, purchase property by the city.
 It says that the city may purchase any property on the foreclosure list for the amounts of the lien principle plus interest and penalties. So we can do that before it goes up for sale to the highest bidder. Is that correct? Yes. And then we could sell or give it to a nonprofit or whatever we want to do with it. Is that correct? Right. We could transfer it to a receiver, right? Okay.
 I'm not sure of the details of that part of the code, since that occurs after our jurisdiction ends, but I would ask that maybe Simon could answer that question. Simon, do you want to come address that? What is that? How would that particular code provision about city purchase be utilized? Let me be clear. I'm very happy to see it, because I don't...
 I think that since we're going to such a lot of trouble and since we have such an affordable housing crisis, there's a lot of potentially good uses to rehabbing the properties and putting them back into serviceable use rather than getting demolished and have McMansions built on the site. Not working? All right, there you go. Sign up on. Just to be clear. Maybe you should come and sit at the table. Come up here. Sorry, Simon. It's just not cooperating.
 Just to be clear, the code change really contemplates only the purchase of the property for the lien amount by the city. The change is silent with respect to what the city does with the property afterwards, and that's something that would still need to be discussed.
 developed. So this is really about the purchasing of the property, and that's also something that aligns with Oregon Revised Statute. Okay, great. I just wanted to make that clear, because I'm happy to see it. Thank you. Okay, other questions for Simon or Otter's staff, or Jennifer Cooperman's also here, our treasurer. So...
 Okay. Thank you very much. We'll stand by. We may have more questions. There are some other folks from city bureaus who've been involved in this issue that I want to call on, both the Police Bureau and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, I think, want to speak to this. And then we want to invite public testimony. I know there's some folks that have been living with this problem who are here with us this afternoon. So come on up, Commander. We'd like to go first. Thank you. Thank you.
 Commander Dave Henry Portland Police Bureau East Precinct First of all, I just like to thank the mayor and council for hearing about this project today East Precinct as we've talked about the mayor came out about a year and a half ago and did a ride along with one Of my officers and he saw firsthand the amount of these homes that we have citywide but really they have deeply impacted the precinct that I am a that I oversee out in East and
 We have probably 400 properties that flow in and out of ownership and disrepair that our folks are managing. But the ones we're talking about here are the worst of the worst, the ones that have become a constant blight to the neighborhoods and in often cases have turned into a crime hub where we do see spikes of an increase in property crimes and assaultive behavior and things like that that kind of resonate outside of them.
 I think one of the frustrating things for our officers is coming to these homes and realizing, without having the ability to have somebody who's in charge of these homes to help us with trespass and working through those ordinance pieces, law enforcement officers are oftentimes unable to work through the solution just by ourselves. And I think this program that we're talking about here is exactly what is needed, which is all the city entities working together in order to make our community safer. And I know when I'm talking with the residents, especially who live right next door to these properties,
 They are very thankful for the work that's being done here. So that's all I have. Thank you. Mayor, commissioners, I'm Stephanie Reynolds, the manager of the Crime Prevention Program with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. And I'm also just really pleased to see this tool coming forward, this set of tools coming forward. This has been – vacant and zombie houses have been on our radar in the Crime Prevention Program for a number of years. Vacant houses have always been challenging, but starting in 2008 with the mortgage crisis,
 They just became really overwhelming, frankly. The number of them and the severity of them and the difficulty in getting anything done on them. So I'm just really pleased to see that we're going to have some more tools in our toolbox. It's really important. The stress on neighbors of these properties is pretty extreme, and they're just astonished that more can't be done and can't be done faster. So we're just really pleased to see that there are going to be some more options for this.
 Thank you. Thank you both very much. And is it Mike? Are you going to walk us through the list of the – who's going to walk us through the list of the houses? I just have another question for Sarah, if I may. Sorry. Okay. I'm good. This is, again, back on the code for purchase of the property by the city and for the foreclosure sale and the –
 Redemption. So can we have something in administrative rules that says where it says under B that any person having an interest in the property is given an opportunity to pay the lien in full. Is there somewhere where we can codify or put in administrative rules that the notice is sent in different languages?
 We just this week received our translation insert to go into those letters. So we will be sending, along with all of our correspondence, a generic in the Safe Harbor language as a generic. If you need help in another language, this is how to get in touch with us. And that will go into both the before the sale and the after sale? It will go into all of our correspondence. Great. Yes. Thank you so much. All right.
 So, gentlemen, would you like to walk us through the list of properties that's shown in the report? Foreclosure list 2016, number one. I like the ring. It has a ring to it. I will start on this. So, again, Sarah Landis, City Auditor's Office. With me is Mike Liefeld from Bureau of Development Services and Marco Maciel from the Auditor's Office.
 We are here today with a report on five properties that we're recommending for foreclosure. An affirmative council vote today to accept the report will authorize the city treasurer to proceed with foreclosure sale on these properties. The properties on this list are the first batch that have been processed through the mayor's initiative to address vacant and abandoned homes that are significant problems for neighborhoods, a drain on city resources across multiple bureaus, and a waste of housing stock in a city that needs more.
 Because foreclosure is a very time and resource-intensive effort, and the decision for a government to take property is not one that can or should be entered into lightly, we agreed to come to council with a manageable number of properties for consideration. The foreclosure process will not be a quick fix, nor will it be appropriate for every blighted property with delinquent liens. It is one of many tools that must be applied to address blight, so I hope that even as council moves forward with foreclosures, it continues to look at other options to address these properties as well.
 Okay. Each of the properties we are presenting today is among the worst of the worst. They are part of the Extremely Distressed Property Enforcement Program and the Bureau of Development Services. In total, they have 37 liens and owe over $375,000 on those liens. Each has had multiple violations and liens that have been open for a long time, and each represents an opportunity to make progress toward improving livability, health, and safety.
 Mike, is there anything you'd like to say before we start walking through these individual properties?
 Just a few comments. Mike Liefeld, Bureau of Development Services Enforcement Program Manager. We started the Extremely Distressed Property Enforcement Program in BDS in 2011 with a focused attention on these unmaintained, abandoned homes that were causing severe livability impacts for neighborhoods. And I think what we're finding is that even after all the resources that we put in, code hearings, vacate orders, demolition orders, re-securing properties, nuisance abatements,
 Five years into the program, we still have many of the original properties that are in the same condition. And so we're just really excited about another tool in our enforcement tool chest to try to get some action moving on these properties. Thank you. Okay. So the first property is at 7101 Northeast Prescott Street.
 It has eight delinquent liens, and the dates of delinquency range from December of 2012 to June of 2015. Total amount owed on the lien is just over $99,000. The ownership is listed as David Tift LLC as the legal owner with Multnomah County at the time we prepared this list. There's apparently been a recent ownership change to Fannie Mae. What does that mean for the process?
 We sent notification to the legal owner as listed on the county records, and so we're fine with that notification. Any ownership issues will be delved into in some detail after the council vote. The title reports will be pulled, and there will be a lot of effort to contact those folks before a foreclosure sale goes through. And there's plenty of notice given on that to public notice and also tracking down the owners.
 One of the next steps is a commercial title report, so we get third-party validation of who the legal owner is. Okay. If it's the Federal National Mortgage Association, we know where to find them. Yes. Yes, we do. The title has not been conveyed yet to Fannie Mae, and so it's still listed as David Tift. So if it turns out that it has already gone over just a delay in reporting, does that change what we would do?
 I don't believe that it should, because your vote today would be just a vote to send this list to the treasurer for foreclosure. The property owner still has from today until the date of the property sale to pay their liens off. And so there's still ample time for that to happen. And then even after the sale, the property owner has that one-year right of redemption to pay the liens off and redeem the property. So there's plenty of safeguard there.
 I believe that it shouldn't be a problem for us to vote today, for you to vote today to send these to the treasurer. And that one-year redemption, does it sit like that for another year then? It doesn't have to, right? No.
 It doesn't have to. And Mike might be better off addressing this since BDS would be the lien holder at the point of sale. So they will have to do basic maintenance on the property. And then if there's a purchaser...
 There can be arrangements that the redemption rights can be sold or given up, and the purchaser could make improvements on the property, but they would do so at their own risk because of the rights of the original property owner in that redemption period. Mark Maciel, just to clarify,
 the fact that we are foreclosing on the property or we have foreclosed and it is going through the redemption period does not preclude the two parties, the one that's holding the certificate and the still proper owner to reach an agreement between themselves. And, okay, I...
 is that there is a period, a redemption period. I'm willing to give you $2,000 or $5,000 if you give me the right to start working on the property. So the city does not get involved with that, but by law they can guarantee a contractual agreement to do that. Good. Okay. So you want to keep going? Sure. I'll let Mike talk through the details of this property. Okay.
 Well, this is one of our original EdPet cases. This property has been in violation since 2012. On the slide, it notes the magnitude of the violation, over 75 violations cited, 25 fire life safety, seven health sanitation violations. When we start working these cases, you have to imagine these homes are occupied. They're occupied with people.
 without basic utilities water electricity causes significant hazards to occupants and surrounding property owners and i do apologize these slides cannot replicate the conditions of the property property even a 5 000 square foot lot with the violations that we have slides don't do it justice and i've actually taken out some of the slides that are really um you don't want to see those slides they'll be kept in our files
 So essentially we have some illegal business operation going on here. We have an illegally occupied structure without basic utilities, and BDS had to proceed to a code hearing to secure a vacate order, which we obtained and then executed to remove folks and secure up the property.
 What we find with many of these properties is that after we take that action, we secure it up, the problems don't go away. They reoccur, so they're almost chronic. The homes become attractive for folks because they know there's not a responsible party, so it's the city that's maintaining the property. So this slide shows the amount of abatements that we have completed at the property, and they span consecutive years, five separate city abatements,
 done by the City of Portland in 2014. And those abatements do amount to some of the lien costs that were in that total figure on the property. Is that a swimming pool?
 That is a swimming pool, right? And that swimming pool was filled with trash and garbage. And then as the rainfall started, it became even worse. And I think on this one, we had to do a special bid to pump out the water. And in this case, we may have actually boarded over the swimming pool just to try to prevent this type of reoccurrence so it wouldn't be as bad next time it filled up with water.
 Okay, moving on to the next property. This property is at 4112 through 4118 Southeast 91st Avenue. It has eight liens, and delinquency ranges from June of 2011 to most recently in March of this year.
 Total amount owed on the liens is $105,000. And the ownership here is Trang Nguyen and Van Tran. There may be bank involvement or ownership, but we could find no records. We had some contact with folks who said they were representing the bank, but
 or the field inspectors did, but there's been no title transfer that occurred, so the record shows these folks as the owners. So another original Ed Pepp case cited in 2010. The conditions remain, minus most of the nuisance conditions, because the city has continually removed those items from the exterior yard area. Sixty-three violations, 17 fire life safety violations, eight health sanitation violations.
 No contact – well, I should say we did have contact from the property owner in 2011 and a property owner's relative. After that, there's been no contact from the property owner. We have had sporadic contact from property reservation companies beginning in 2012.
 and continuing, we pretty much had some contact from a property preservation company or a financial institution each year, including 2016, with no action. So the violations remain uncorrected. So in this case, another code hearing to secure a vacate order to remove occupants and future occupants. The code hearings officer did determine that this property is an attractive nuisance.
 What we found at this property is that after the board up, there has been heavy transient activity at the property, which has forced us to re-secure the property repeatedly. And this is why we get a lot of calls from neighbors, concern about unauthorized folks on the properties, dealings at night. And that's kind of the criminal aspect that can enter into these abandoned properties.
 The next property is at 15803 Southeast Powell Boulevard. It also has eight liens and has delinquency dates ranging from December of 2009 through June of 2014. Total amount owed on the liens is $96,000. U.S. National Bank foreclosed on the property on February 1st of this year, but the property title has not been conveyed and may have been sold to another servicing company later.
 The owner on record with Multnomah County is Trevor Brown.
 This may be the first EdPep case that we had. And this one was ranging, dating back to 2009. We had an occupied structure without basic utilities, 34 violations cited, many fire life safety, health sanitation concerns. This property did not have working or active water service, which was, I can tell you firsthand, was producing health sanitation concerns at the property.
 which was concerning to the adjacent neighbors. We did secure a vacate order from the code hearings officer, and with Commander Henry's assistance of PPB, we did vacate nine individuals from the home, from the illegal attic space, from RVs when we served that vacate order and secured the home.
 We have had ongoing trespass issues at this property. Once BDS secures a vacate, we essentially hold control of the property about who can access it. We do that to work with individuals who are interested in making repairs. In this particular case, we did provide access agreements to make the necessary repairs. Unfortunately, that access agreement turned into another illegal occupancy, which forced us to revacate the property.
 We've re-secured this property a number of times, and the slide shows again the number of nuisance abatements that the city's had to complete. Hey folks, please don't interrupt. Go ahead.
 Next property on the list is 8515 through 8517 North Portsmouth Avenue. It has 12 liens. Dates of delinquency range from summer of 2009 through February of 2016. Total amount owed on the liens is $66,000, and the owner is Norman Yee.
 So this property owner, let me put this in context for you. This property owner, at last count, owns 12 separate properties in the city of Portland, has outstanding liens of over half a million dollars owed to the city of Portland. We've received 127 complaints. That's a very large number of complaints for one property ownership.
 this bds has completed 29 abatements at these properties and that number continues to grow because we have active cases as of today with more nuisance abatements pending so at this property on north portsmouth avenue
 We essentially have had 18 complaint cases at the property since 1992. We do have an active violation case today. The violations range from exterior structural violations to exterior yard violations, overgrown grass, obstructions of the sidewalk, the public right-of-way, illegal dumping or trash and debris on the property. This property had a fire at one point, and so there was damage to the structure that still is uncorrected.
 This property is also interesting in that BDS took this property to a code hearing in 2012, and the property owner did appear with legal counsel. Through that proceeding, we were able to enter into a stipulated agreement with the property owner for correction of all the violations and future maintenance of the property with BDS.
 agreed penalties if the property went back into violation. Unfortunately, not soon after that stipulated agreement was signed, the property did go back into violation. So the terms of the agreement that the property owner agreed to were not met, and BDS has been completing nuisance abatements at the property ever since then.
 The final property on the list is 9120 North Tioga Avenue. It currently has one lien. Dates of delinquency on this lien was January 2014, and the total amount owed is $11,000. And the owner, again, is Norman Yee on this property. Okay.
 So this property, we've received 10 complaint cases since 1994. We have two active cases. One is for property maintenance regarding the conditions of the structure, and the other is a nuisance case for conditions of the exterior yard area. Again, more of the same with unkept yards, obstructions to the right-of-way. The current citations are more significant in that we have determined that there is a
 deterioration of the structure. It has essentially been abandoned at this point.
 so that some of these houses have been sporadically inhabited but this one's not habitable and by the terms of the code got a hole in the roof doesn't have any plumbing you know that kind of thing right yes all of these with their conditions would have a notice not to not to occupy there would be additional penalties for occupying in their current condition you're a building inspector mike are any of these houses salvageable these five i mean somebody downstream is gonna have to make a
 a judgment call. Is this house too far gone and must be demolished? I mean, I realize some of these probably are subject to demolition orders, so maybe you've already answered that question in some cases. But are any of these houses salvageable, in your opinion? I think some of them are. I mean, on the two last properties, we haven't had an interior inspection, so we really don't know the condition. We vet those properties for a
 rehab or demolition at the time of a code hearing. And we try to make that determination at that point because we want to secure that demolition order at that time to be efficient with resources. And in these cases, we have not secured demolition orders. So at the time we did the code hearing based on the knowledge and the condition of the property, we did feel that perhaps rehab was an option. But the longer they sit in this condition, the worse that condition gets and the chances of rehab become higher.
 much more difficult, I would imagine. Okay. So the next steps for these particular properties, first, council will vote on whether to foreclose. If that vote is affirmative, then the auditor's office transfers responsibility to the treasurer for the conduct of the foreclosure sale. And as I mentioned earlier, the property owner can pay the amount owed up to the sale date, and after the sale date is conducted, the owner has one year of redemption period.
 And I just wanted to briefly bring up what our next steps are for foreclosure on other properties. The Auditor's Office, Development Services, and the Treasurer are meeting weekly to prioritize properties for foreclosure, to share information and ensure that we have good communication about the properties. It takes a lot of work to bring that information to the foreclosure.
 these files to fruition and to bring these cases to council, and we want to make sure that we are current on the best information that BDS has and that BDS is current on the information that we have to troubleshoot the process and to monitor workload.
 And then our intent is to have this be the first of many foreclosure lists that we will bring to council as files are completed and a sufficient number of unresolved cases are available. It's been the case with this list. There were many more properties that we had worked up, that Marco had worked up cases for, and we'd gotten fairly far along the process, and something came up to either resolve the issues with that property, a new owner who was making efforts,
 or the property was going to foreclosure sale through the county or something else. So there are a number of reasons why a property can fall off of what we think as a good candidate for foreclosure, and we want to try to minimize the amount of work that we put into such properties so that we can be most efficient about bringing properties to you. Am I understanding correctly, all five of these have been to the Collections Committee? All five of these properties have been to the Collections Committee. That's true.
 And you don't have to go back to it, but you had a checklist up earlier on your slideshow. But I just want to make sure everybody understands that the properties that will get scrolled up for action by the council on foreclosure are ones that are vacant, abandoned, have a long list of violations, and an unresponsive property owner, right? That's right. So if somebody has a rundown house that they're living in, we're not talking about them.
 If they have a rundown house that they've bought and are now trying to fix up and they're on some kind of reasonable schedule to get it fixed up, we're not talking about them. We're talking about houses where it's vacant, abandoned, has a whole bunch of violations, and you're not getting your phone calls or letters returned from wherever this owner might be. That's right. That's the subset. We're only focusing on that subset of houses. Great. Anything else that you all want to add? Any other questions for staff? No.
 Great work. Thank you very much. And let's see who's here to speak on this item. Do you have a list? And anyone who's not on the list is free to join them as well. We have five on the list. Okay. Will these three please come up? Artist, Jesse Spoonberg, and Mary Ng. Okay. Come on up. Go ahead. I'm an artist, and I am using my constitutional right to speak.
 Sir, you hired a consultant group called Rosenbaum and Watson. You brought them here to start a public meeting called the Community Oversight Advisory Board. They're selling a product, and they're using people that are traumatized, that have been brutalized, brutalized by excessive force. Amanda Fritz, Commissioner Amanda Fritz-
 You were at a meeting on Thursday night where you thanked the co-op, where you thanked the chair. You were not there for the people. You failed the people. You, sir, Charlie Hale's mayor, you failed the people, failed them. And you continue to fail them with your complicity, with your silent complicity. You are failing the people. You owe a man an apology.
 You owe the whole city an apology for bringing Rosenbaum and Watson, LLP, to brutalize and traumatize a whole group of people. That group reaches out to people that have been brutalized, and we enter that meeting and there's lines of police officers outside of that building. Lines of people of police inside of an office ready to...
 to grab people that are traumatized speaking about police brutality. Activists getting arrested because they're speaking up, using their First Amendment right to speak. People being censored because they're saying what they want to say. Stay on subject, stay on subject, stay on subject. You're saying this to people that have mental health issues. Shut up. Don't talk.
 You're about to get excluded. You're about to get excluded. You're about to get excluded. You're about to get excluded. Threat after threat after threat for three fucking hours. Excuse me, you can't use profanity. I am using my constitutional right to express myself. I am using my First Amendment right to express myself. You're sorry. Show them a good example. I am using my First Amendment right to express myself. I am using my First Amendment right to express myself. I am using my First Amendment right to express myself.
 Thank you very much. Okay, next. Go ahead. Hi, my name is Mary Eng.
 I am so grateful and honored to be here to speak about this measure. It's been kind of exciting to me. There's a little known thing you don't know about me, is that when I was down in paralegal school in Los Angeles City College, I took the three necessary courses that would get me in the first door of becoming a real estate agent. So I haven't taken them up on the offer. But another little known fact is that I helped in a squatting operation at the Occupy –
 UBS Bank at Occupy London, which was
 thrilling and interesting because I got to meet squatting defense lawyers. And what I found out is that after World War II, London was so devastated and so grateful for the United States financial aid to help rebuild in the aftermath of the Nazi incursions that squatting was liberalized as a measure, as a community response for rebuilding. And I think mischaracterizing old squatters as negative or drug addicts or whatnot
 kind of fails to see that if we are on a race to the bottom in a fiscal sense, we might turn our eyes towards alternative modalities of rehabilitating buildings or subsidizing constructive real estate projects. But I have about three main points, and then I think I'll be done, and I think I can hit those in all 137 of my seconds, especially if I can find my notes. Okay.
 We've got to deal with the slumlords because these are worst-case scenario houses. It took years to get them into this dilapidated condition. And I was appalled by the bed bug crisis. The housing management is not done properly. And I work with the Betzetic Foundation.
 legal defense fund that had worked on Holocaust reparations for one of my lawsuits against one of my slumlords in Hollywood, California. So you've got to understand that there are good people in housing defense who could give us some appropriate reaction to Portland's anti-peasant attitude towards the peasants.
 And then we've got the Wall Street trading of these properties as they go on the market in this new initial public offering type stuff or whatever it is where they're trading our property values. It's keeping the rents really jacked up and we know that so don't act like we don't know that. And
 And then having a neo-Nazi attending an eviction is really hard on Jewish eviction defense type people. But I'm enjoying this because I don't like mold and I don't like bedbugs and I don't like cockroaches, which I heard they weren't allowed in the Northwest, but I moved into a property
 where I eventually got the fire chief in on it, my landlord committed suicide because I made a report to the fire chief. She was possibly having her own mental crisis, her own drug addiction, and there's a lot going on there before we get to this worst-case scenario. But I appreciate the legal education. I found it enjoyable. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, guys. At first I was just going to tell you. My name is Jesse Spalberg. Nice to see you guys. Come here, sir.
 You okay, Commissioner? You don't look so good. I'm all right. You got a cold. Joke. I just want to say thank you guys for initiating. I don't come up and say thank you a lot. For initiating this process to deal with these foreclosures. My only concern is, as I was listening to this, when I first came, I was really excited. I was like, what?
 A year to give these people, you know, it's been about 10, 11 months since we sat here in these same exact seats and had, you know, the declaration of a housing crisis. And, you know, within that year, you're going to be gone.
 And I just would hate to see this awesome promise turn into another toothless tiger. You know, we still don't have a solution to the homeless. You know, we've targeted five houses. And while that looks good on paper and it looks good in the newspaper, I just really urge you guys. I know you're going to be here for the next 50 years, but the rest of you guys might not be. So with that said, thank you. And I'd like to give Laura my last two minutes. Yes.
 I think we're stuck with... I can't give you minutes because everybody gets three. I just want to see you guys jump. I think we're stuck with the one year. That's not something that we've decided. I think that's in state... Is that state law or our code? State law. So there's...
 legal structure around us that some of which we can flex and some of which we can't. But I think the one-year redemption is in state law. We should check that. Well, I also noticed that you guys, that nice woman that sat here, I wasn't even sure who owned a couple of the houses, you know. I mean, so it's good that we're going to have a vote. It's symbolic. You know, we do this every once in a while. Well, it's not symbolic. If we take them forward into foreclosure –
 And we proceed to foreclose to the treasurer's office. That's real. They'll get his foreclosure notice, and it will be sold. Even the ones that have gone to Fannie Mae? Yeah, Fannie Mae. It's just another organization. A criminal organization, isn't it? Oh, yeah. Oh, I thought so. They're just another organization. So are you into organized crime? Let me answer his question. They're just another owner as far as the foreclosure. It could be a bank. It could be Fannie Mae. It could be Fred and Mary. You know, it could be anybody. We'd like to take a minute.
 All right. Thank you. I was born that way. I like the way that he acknowledges you and your compensation. Thank you. He had a question. Okay. Let me add one thing. I watched that COAB video from the other day. That's an embarrassment all around. Everybody who participated in that should be a tiny bit embarrassed. That's all I'm going to say. Thanks, guys. Thank you all. Okay. Next, please. And the next two are Robert West and Steve Boyles.
 Mr. West, you're next. Okay. My name is Robert West. I'm with the police 911. And me, of course, I'm going to use my First Amendment rights, too. And I'm going to say that the co-op thing was a straight joke. It was a straight fuck-up. Hey, please, not here. And that city council as a whole should be ashamed of what happened. They should be ashamed of the co-op leadership. And...
 Everyone that was there, all the leadership in there should be ashamed of themselves. I think Amanda Fritz made it even more fucked up. Please, I'm going to exclude you if you use profanity in here again. That's it. No, it isn't. Not here.
 Not when it's on television, lady. Go ahead. I'll uphold the Constitution of the United States. Go ahead. I'll uphold the Constitution of the United States. And I look at it this way. It was a straight fuck-up from the beginning. All right, you're excluded, sir. You're done. Turn off the microphones. I warned you. I'm going. I'll uphold the Constitution of the United States. I'll uphold the Constitution of the United States. Let's just... Rosenbaum and...
 Let's resume the meeting, and let me warn anyone else here, if you interrupt, you'll be excluded. Sir, you're here to speak on this issue, I believe. I'd like to give you a chance to speak on this issue. Please go ahead. You're a neighbor of one of these houses, I believe. Go ahead. My name is Steve Voiles. I'm a neighbor of three of the houses that were on the tour. I...
 I just want to say thanks for starting the process. I, too, am a little concerned about the one-year deal where people can receive the house again. It seems like they've had an opportunity. But aside all that, it's been a huge impact on the neighborhood. Frankly, my wife and I worked very hard to have the house we do have. Frankly, I didn't know I was going to be involved in such exciting company here.
 Yeah, sorry, welcome to our world. Anyway, it's been a huge impact. My neighbors and I, we believe that community starts local in our own block, so we take care of each other, look out for each other. The problem, though, comes in to where we can only go so far and where...
 do we need to get police involved or BDS involved to take action? But, again, I appreciate all the help that we can get. Thank you. We appreciate you being an advocate for this, and we're glad that we're finally getting to at least one of the houses on your block. Yeah. More to come. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I was very glad to see that in today's discussion you spoke vigorously about taking care of these properties no matter what the...
 the ownership records may indicate because there's sometimes procedural and technical glitches. We know that the county was engaged in a million-dollar-plus lawsuit related to roboprocessing of mortgages and stuff like that. There was some settlement there, so maybe there's room for a – sometimes I think I hear the words intergovernmental agreement, but we know that this issue is not limited to within the city limits of Portland. I was glad to see that one of the –
 earlier speakers who I think was able to abstain from profanity was a participant in one of our recent circuit court cases, 16LT05254. That was a case against the Federal National Mortgage Association, which we as citizens need to continue to pressure that organization to do its primary mission of housing
 First, secondly, worry about the technical details of evicting people. First, worry about sheltering people. We've talked before in this council about how since the Reagan administration, our government has not really done what it should do about assisting people in financial distress. I do want to say that even though there's been some profanity here recently,
 There are important issues about people with mental health and trauma. And the police department, those employees in the police department, are subject to having to hear the F word under a constitutional rule. So please take that into consideration. Thank you. Children hearing this on television might not want to be subjected to it. Welcome, Lightning. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I'm completely against proceeding forward with the foreclosures.
 you didn't do a foreclosure since 1971 it was due to a sidewalk maybe 500 bucks you foreclosed on that property they turned back around you and sued you for the value of their house you did a payout of 18 000 learn from your mistakes when you begin to foreclose on these properties you're going to get sued you're going to be challenged based upon the constitution
 These property owners have property rights. They own the properties. And when you start coming in and saying that you have a right to buy that property before it even goes...
 into the foreclosure process to get fair market value for these property owners. You are not impartial on that sale. You are stepping in, bringing in nuisance, fines, fees, violations, garbage. Well, look at the pictures up there. You're not picking up too much garbage, but you sure are finding these owners, these property owners who may have mental illness, may be elderly people, may have numerous problems that we're not bringing to it.
 this group to attention at this time, and you are moving in as a vulture to the most vulnerable people in this city who do not want to lose their homes. And whether they're there or not, they're in somebody's name. It is their property. Now, again, issue number two, your main primary focus is to protect the interest of the public, to go in there, be reasonable, negotiate with them to help
 fix up these properties. And by the way, when you go into these properties, instead of you trying to exercise the right to pull this property out from underneath these property owners using your nuisance liens, which I consider almost unconstitutional, and I will love to challenge you on every one of these cases in court. And I want to have attorneys lined up to challenge you on these cases because point
 Blank. You're talking about people being removed out of their homes, losing their properties, rent control, this and that. Well, what do you think you're doing right now by throwing out fees on these people and then trying to take their home at a discount and they can't do anything about it? Well, guess what? You think you have activists out there for rent control? No.
 You haven't seen anything yet on this foreclosure proceeding as of this evening. You didn't foreclose since 1971. Quit being greedy because you couldn't get your tax pushed through and you wanted that extra $12 million, and you've calculated on these liens as well as I have, there's about $10 to $20 million worth of valuations on liens on overall properties that you want that money. Well, guess what?
 you're not going to get that money. You're not going to get these people to walk away from these properties. You're not going to get these people to just give them away to you to exercise first right to purchase these property based upon nuisances.
 It's not going to happen this day and age. Property ownership means something to people, and I'll guarantee you when we have conversations with these owners, they're not going to be happy about this process at all. And City Hall to sit back like vultures waiting to take these properties from the most vulnerable people in this city.
 who are in their homes or want to keep these homes and maybe give to their kids in the future, that's their business what they want to do with these properties. But for you to think you can take these properties out from under them, it's not going to happen. It's going to be challenged by the ACLU, and it will be challenged by half of this city that care about the most vulnerable people. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else like to speak? Come on up. Hello. Good afternoon. My name is Sally Bowman. Get a little closer to the mic, please. Oh, sorry. Thank you.
 If I can get this chair to go forward. My name is Sally Bowman, and I have been very involved in this process. I live next door to a home that was considered a zombie home, and also there's one next door to that that was also considered zombie.
 nuisance home and living near one of these homes is very distressing to the neighbors it brings in a lot of crime to your neighborhood and it makes it a lot less safe for the people who live near the home I tried very desperately to get a hold of the owner the bank somebody who was in charge of the house and
 I would like to respond just a tiny bit to the person previous to me. It's going to be hard for him to find the owner of these homes. A lot of people have tried to find them. If you can find that person, I'm sure that the city would not have a problem with them taking responsibility for these houses. And...
 taking care of the problem. And I mean, even if they didn't pay the liens, if they were taking care of the problem that's causing the liens, then there wouldn't be this issue in the first place. So thank you very much from the bottom of my heart and from all of my neighbors who couldn't be here for doing something about this problem that's just really close to my heart. Thank you. Thanks for being patient. Thanks for taking the time to come down.
 Okay Anyone else then I think we're ready to take action on the first item unless there any further questions for staff from the council So the first item is the emergency ordinance and the second is a report So I just had one question which I think is relevant the owners of these properties have all been notified of today's hearing Is that correct? Okay. Thank you. I see heads nodding that from those who know Okay, thanks
 Okay, so let's go ahead and take a vote please Awesome, this is the emergency ordinance the ordinance on the code changes. I really want to thank Mayor Hills and the auditor's office for bringing these code changes forward. They're long overdue and I think to people that Think that what we're doing is throwing families out of their houses. Nothing could be further from the truth These houses are abandoned. They are not in habitable conditions and
 They have no water. They have no electricity. Garbage piled up. So to evoke the image of a family being thrown out of their house is nothing could be further from the truth. These are putting this... Don't interrupt, please. Lightning, lightning, you know the rules. No interruptions, please. These are properties need to be put into the hands of families. They need to be put in the hands of families who are going to work hard to be good neighbors.
 and to be very responsive to their neighbors and restore these homes to family ownership. So I'm very pleased to support this ordinance. Aye. No, sir.
 Well, thank you to Auditor Mary Hale-Coballero and Deputy Chief Auditor Sarah Landis and your whole team for your good work on this. And thank you, Mayor, for pushing this issue. It is, as we heard from our last speaker, it's really challenging for neighbors, and they have a right to their property rights as well. And so thank you. Thank you very much. Bye.
 So this isn't an abstract issue for me. I've walked through some of these houses, and I've talked to neighbors like Sally that have had to deal with this. And again, to all of you who've had to put up with this while the city got its act together, my apologies for the delay. Okay.
 Of course there's a property right. Of course there are multiple property rights. There's also a responsibility of property ownership to your neighbors. It's elementary, and it's obvious that you can't be dumping your problems on your neighbors. Now, let's talk about who our neighbors are in this case. They are absentee owners who don't live in these homes, who haven't lived in these homes for a long time, if they ever did.
 And what they are doing is cynically manipulating the system and the real estate market to enjoy the rise of property values, but leave the problems to the city and to their neighbors. So it is really a necessity. Lightning, thank you. It's a necessity that you take care of your property.
 And in this real estate market, it's quite possible to do so. Ma'am, you don't get to interrupt in this chamber. And the next time you're here, if you interrupt, you'll be excluded. So this is the right thing to do. And I really appreciate the good work that's gone into this. I want to thank our auditor and her staff. They've really rolled up their sleeves and figured this out. They do good work every day. But this is above and beyond. Thank you.
 Mike Liefeld and the others at BDS who are out there in the field dealing with these houses. I hope you feel that some help is finally on the way for the good work that you do. Commander Hendry and the folks at East Precinct and everybody else at the Police Bureau that ended up being property managers as part of their job.
 I could sense the relief in them that the city is finally going to act in this case. So, again, I want to emphasize what we're not doing. There are no homeowners that are going to be evicted because of this program. There are no renters that are going to be evicted because of this program. There are empty houses with boards over the windows, or in some cases, boards that have been pried off repeatedly.
 and toxic situations, both for the people that have, in some cases, squatted in these homes, who need better shelter than this, and for the neighbors who had to put up with all the side effects. So this is the right thing to do. It's been a long time coming. I'm really proud that Portland has gotten to this day, and I'm really happy to process the first of these changes. Aye. And then a motion, please, on the report. Move adoption of the report. Second. Roll call, please.
 Councilman. I also wanted to thank, in addition to the mayor and the auditor's office, Portland Police Bureau and Bureau of Development Services for the great work they've done in getting us to this point today. Aye. No thank. Thank you to the police bureau, to BDS, and to the auditor's office very much. Aye. Thank you.
 and thank you to stephanie reynolds and our team with the office of neighborhood involvement crime prevention specialists you try to mediate between neighbors and to get to successful conclusions and indeed or sometimes the glue between development services police and other services so thank you very much for that also thanks to mike lee field who i know from my um being in charge of development services cares passionately about this issue and has been working on it for a very long time so thank you very much
 And again, thanks to Jasmine Wadsworth on my staff who was on the collections committee and asked some very careful questions about whether people had received notice in different languages and whether they had truly understood what their property rights are. Good job. Hi. Hi.
 I'm going to embarrass someone, but there are times in this business when you like to be proven wrong. And I haven't asked him, but I think Simon Wong is happy to be proven wrong today because I understand that at one point he might have told Chad Stover in a conversation, we'll never foreclose on houses. I'm glad you're wrong. I think you are too. Aye. Thank you all very much. And we're adjourned until tomorrow. Good work. Yeah, that is such a...