good afternoon everyone and welcome to the june 16th meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll fish here talksman here novik fritz here hails here commissioner novick is ill hopes to join us at three but will not be here until then um okay would you please read the first three items for the afternoon time sir
 Item 695, accept 2015 Arts Oversight Committee report on the Arts Education and Access Fund
 696, establish criteria for assignment of delinquent arts education and access income tax accounts to outside collection agencies. And 697, direct the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services Revenue Division to report on options for a permanent resolution to the issue of the 5% cost limitation on administration of the arts education and access income tax. Okay, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 I'd like to welcome and invite to come forward our honored guest today, Stan Penkin.
 the arts oversight committee chair nancy helmsworth who come forward uh also a member of the committee and a portland public school art teacher and craig gibbons who is a arts oversight committee member and executive director of the multnomah county tax supervising and conservation commission have you already blessed our budget or is that still in the works the budget is blessed i'm sorry that you weren't there it was a good session
 Thank you. And, Mayor, I have some comments that were prepared. And Stan abruptly told me I could dispense with this because he's going to take over from this point, walk us through the run of show, and then lead us forward. So, Stan, welcome. Wow. And I don't want your job, honestly. So, good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. Before we get to the report, we thought we'd have a little bit of fun. Not that the report itself isn't fun. No.
 but we are going to kick off with a little video that's a sample of the kind of activities that are going on across school districts across the city. So we have, with school year over, we have a little video of a music program that's happening in the Sacramento School in the Park Road School District.
 This is a ukulele concert. It doesn't get any cooler than that. So with that said, let's see if we can... How much is that dog in the window for sale? She has a dog for sale. And the dog is... That's great.
 And that was wonderful. The only possible thing that could top that is if there were school kids to give us a live presentation. Well, maybe we can make that happen. We shall see. I listened to this for an hour while I was trying to put it into PowerPoint. I could give you . So I just want to say that prior to the arts tax, one full-time music teacher served all four elementary schools in Park Rose. Now each school has one full-time teacher.
 The tax also leveraged additional investment by the school district. This past year, $12,500 in district funds were allocated for the purchase of musical instruments. Next year, that amount will double to $25,000. So the arts tax, as you can see, it also serves to leverage additional dollars. So that's really great stuff. So now what you alluded to, Commissioner Fish, I'd like to bring up some –
 School kids from Capitol Hill Elementary, third graders, who have a little something to say to you. So kids, come on up. They're going to introduce themselves. Come on up. Welcome. You can come up here. Don't be afraid of them. They don't bother you. Yeah, we're not that dangerous. Hi, girls. Hi, ladies. How are you? So yeah, you can face that way, and that way it'll be on television. We'll watch you there. Sure.
 Hi, my name is Audrey. I go to Capitol Hill School and just completed third grade. Hi, my name is Kaylee and I go to Capitol Hill School and just completed third grade. Hi, my name is Anaya and I go to Capitol Hill School and just completed third grade. We wanted to give you a gift as a thank you for supporting the Earth task. Because of the Earth task, our school now has a full-time teacher.
 As third graders, we study the bridges in Portland. So in our class, we connected that study to learning about Joseph Stella and his Brooklyn Bridge. I abstracted the shape of the bridge. I abstracted the shape of John's bridge. I abstracted the shape of the bridge. Thank you. Thank you very much. So these are a series of note cards with four bridges for everyone up here. Wow, thank you very much. Beautiful, beautiful. Thank you very much.
 Beautiful. Give one to Carla, too. Our council clerk. Oh, thank you. I didn't know I was getting that, too. That's really nice. Oh, yes. Thank you. He will really appreciate that. Thank you, guys. It's great stuff. Nice job, ladies. Appreciate this very much. Thank you.
 So after that, you really don't want to hear this report, do you? Move on. These are great. Okay. So I appreciate that you chose the bridges of our city as the subject of your artwork. So we –
 We actually have an official city gift that we give to people. You know, when we have a ceremonial occasion, some mayor of our sister city from Sapporo or somewhere like that will come visit us. And so it's normal protocol to have an official city gift. So we actually have a city tie and a city scarf with the image of the Tilikum Crossing woven into the fabric.
 And so we also believe that our bridges are a great symbol of our city and a great subject for art. So nicely done. Thank you very much. Good job. Let's hear it for these artists. Okay. I guess we have to go on with the report. We have to follow that. Yeah. Good luck. So the AOC is pleased to report, make its third annual report.
 to you guys up there, the Arts Education and Access Fund, the AEAF. I just want to note that this will be my last presentation as I am stepping down from the committee in December. And I also just want to do a shout out
 to another committee member, Mark Lubold, whose term had expired after three years last December, as mine had, but we both kind of made a blood oath that we would stick it out one more year because we wanted to make sure that the committee was moving forward on its work, looking at the quality of education, not just the numbers that we will be talking about today. So that's a real focus going forward.
 I'm also happy to say that we're presenting this report today with the question of the legality of the arts tax lifted after the recent decision by the appeals court. So we're happy to move forward without having to think about that anymore. Thank you.
 I am going to dispense with the history of the Arts Tax, which you will see in your report. I think you all know the history of it and what the context is. I do want to say a few words, though, about the actual committee and a little bit about our meetings. So we started out with 20 diverse community members in December of 2012, December 19th to be exact.
 And through three and a half years now, we've had some attrition, and we're down to 16 members after one recent resignation. Moving forward with more resignations or term expirations coming up this year, I just want you to be aware that it's important that we look for more people.
 And I'm kind of concerned about the committee getting too small and not having a diverse representation from across the city. So that's something I think the committee as well as the city should focus on in this coming year. I do want to...
 recognize our four recent people who joined the committee this year, and that's Shamika Ansley, Amy Baggio, Neil DuPont, and Dunja Jennings. I don't think any of them are here today. A quick word about our meetings. This past year, we- There is one. We have one here. Hi, Andy.
 Oh, hi. Oh, you did make it. Hi. Great. Thank you. Thank you for joining us.
 In past years, we've spread some meetings around to different parts of the city. This year, we've had all our meetings at the RAC conference room, as that seemed to be a good venue and convenient for many people. But going forward, we'd like to, again, get some of our meetings out into the community rather than just having them here in the city. So I just want to say a few words about that. I do want to acknowledge with great appreciation –
 the help, guidance, and administrative support provided by the Revenue Division, led by Thomas Lanham, Terry Williams, Scott Carter, and Megan Fertile.
 RAC has also been an integral partner in our work, and we wish to thank Eloise Damrosch, Jeff Hawthorne, Marta Stalkop, and Maya McFadden, who between them have attended all our meetings and offered valuable input and guidance. All our full meetings and our metrics meetings as well. So a real good shout out to them.
 uh lastly but just as importantly we appreciate the collaboration with the six school districts that have attended many of our meetings we will now move on to the nitty-gritty of the report i will present the revenue information nancy will talk about the schools craig will talk about rack and then i will talk about our recommendations and a few closing comments so first the revenue division
 The Revenue Division continued to be a major source of information and provided complete updates on all aspects of the tax at every committee meeting and in between. A little bit about the tax year 2015. While it is still too early in the 2015 filing season to forecast revenues, early indications are that 2015 will be the best year yet in terms of payment compliance.
 As of May 27, 2016, over 230,000 Portlanders had filed their tax returns and paid over $8.1 billion. This is more revenue than any other year at the same date in the prior three years. I want to give you a quick snapshot of the data from revenue. So if you look at the slide
 The net tax collections for 2015 were $8,149,000. The net revenues were about $7.6 million. And since disbursements have not yet been made, there was a balance in the fund of $7.5 million. So that's pretty straightforward numbers.
 I just want to talk a little bit about the revenues tax year 2015 outreach to taxpayers. They included sending email reminders to over 142,000 taxpayers, sending paper tax forms to all taxpayers and households that had filed in a previous tax year. They made the arts tax form available in 10 languages in addition to English.
 The arts tax return is now available in leading tax preparation software products like H&R Block and TurboTax. And revenue received an $8,350 grant from the Office of Management and Finance to enter into agreement with Elders in Action for assistance and outreach in the elder community. So a quick snapshot of what has happened over the three years of the arts tax.
 So again, if you look at the numbers just briefly, the four revenues through April 30th, 2016, there were total revenues of $27,500,000, with net revenues amounting to $24,635,000. Total school disbursements were a little bit over $20 million,
 Disbursements to RAC were about $4.2 million. So total disbursements, again, as of April 30th, 2016, were $24.5 million. Let's talk a little bit about the expense cap. The tax ordinance stipulates that administrative expenses should average no more than 5% of gross revenues collected over a period of five years, not including the first year startup expenses.
 The first-year expenses were 3.9%. Tax years 2013 and 2014, however, the total expenses were 8.8% and 9.8%, respectively. As additional revenues are collected, tax year 2013, 2014, and 2015 percentages are expected to fall somewhat, but not likely to hit the 5%.
 The combined three-year average cost is currently 7.5%, 2.5% above the stipulated level. As we noted in our two previous reports, we cannot know if the 5% cap could be maintained. As revenue continues implementing new features of the tax, such as receiving taxpayer data directly from the IRS, we expect revenues to increase. This will lower the cost percentage over time
 but we are currently doubtful that the 5% cap can be met. Thomas will speak more to this shortly, but I want to briefly outline some proposed city resolutions addressing that issue. So I'm going to outline two resolutions that you'll be hearing more definitively about shortly. The Revenue Division, first, the Revenue Division has worked diligently to identify those individuals who
 who are subject to the arts tax and to collect from those who have not paid in various tax years. To fulfill its duty to collect revenues, the Division is seeking a City Council resolution to engage outside collection agencies to begin a collection process for delinquent taxpayers or at least one year overdue in the amount of $100 or more.
 with a final demand letter to be sent allowing the taxpayer at least 30 days to respond. Number two, in addition, due to the anticipated difficulty in meeting the five-year, 5 percent administrative cost cap, a figure that we questioned in our first annual report is likely being unrealistic,
 The division is seeking a city council resolution to direct the revenue department to report on options for the permanent solution to the 5% five-year average expense cap. It should be noted that the originally conceived 5% cap was based on projected revenues of $11 to $12 million. Due to changes made by city council in the first year...
 relating to exemptions and minimum income requirements, revenues have decreased, thus increasing the administrative cost percentage. It should be further noted that compelling the revenue division to strictly adhere to the 5 percent cap would be counterproductive. It would reduce staffing and other efforts which would have a consequence of decreasing the ability to maximize revenue collections.
 The AOC recommends that the City Council adopt these resolutions. Finally, we wish to note, as we have previously, that under a short startup time frame and with the subsequent issues and changes that took place, the Revenue Division did an excellent job. The Division has been open, transparent, and always receptive to questions and concerns from the AOC.
 The Division addressed our recommendations to expand outreach in more languages at now number 10, and is continuing efforts to further expand outreach services. Finally, and very importantly, the tax return can now be filed through multiple software products on the market. We will now, Nancy, move on to our school report.
 welcome Nancy thank you do you have my name or do I need Nancy Helmsworth okay thank you where do you teach I'm at Capitol Hill School got some good students there I know they're super smart you noticed the metrics committee continues to monitor the arts tax monies and
 as they are apportioned to each district, auditing how the money is spent for the arts teacher FTE per student. We individually and as a group review the data collected from the districts, and the narrative and the numbers are in the appendices B7 through B12. To look at a broader snapshot of the Multnomah County-wide progress,
 There's a slide. Oh, excuse me. The first is this looks like this is an example of the form that's sent out to each district. Okay. Here is a sample. And here's an example of what you'll look at when you look at the reports that are in the appendices. This is Centennial School District, and the three graphs show the ratio of teachers to kids,
 And you can see that it dropped precipitously in the first year of the tax and has remained pretty stable since then. The second chart is grades 6 through 12. And you can see that our work has had an impact there. The arts tax has had an impact there as the ratio has decreased. Then the large chart is just the current year, K-5 student per arts teacher. And the solid line is 500 and every school but one.
 met that standard. So that's what the charts show. And then... The countywide chart. Okay, in the countywide chart, which of course would take a few minutes to really look through all the numbers, we want to point out that when you look, you will find from the base year, which is the pre-arts tax year, to this school year, there's been an increase of over 60 teachers. We went from 31 teachers to 91 teachers at the K-5 level.
 We're also pleased to point out that an additional eight teachers were hired this school year. So as a county, we have continued to improve our numbers from year to year. And at our base year, the ratio of teacher to student was one to 1,000, one teacher to 1,000 students, 997. And this year, it's one teacher to 380 students. Clearly, the 1 to 500 ratio has been successfully achieved for the past three years.
 Our primary focus has been to monitor the implementation of the AEAF for the K-5 students, but part of the IGA agreement specified that the school districts would support and continue the education begun at the elementary level. This year, our first arts tech students have completed seventh grade. Next year as a committee, we'll be looking more closely at the arts FTE offered in the middle and the high schools,
 in support of that IGA intention of arts offerings being available to the students as they progress in school.
 Now that these mechanics of gathering and monitoring the money data are in place and have become routine, we're looking deeper into the impact of the arts tax. We know the numbers, but what does it look like in the classroom and for the children? In our discussion as a committee, we have suggested that each school district make a state of the arts report annually. Such a public report would no doubt be in an effective internal status taking, as well as give us an informative window
 to view the positive efforts and outcomes resulting from the AEAF, information that's not obvious in our audit form. For instance, in a state-of-the-arts report, we would hear about when the arts tax passed, Portland Public resurrected a dormant position of TOSA, Teacher on Special Assignment. Someone who has their full assignment is to support the teachers in the arts, meaning it was an arts subject area, TOSA.
 That shows PPS's commitment for the Arts Tax implementation and to support the IGA agreement for scope and sequence development at the K-12 level. This year, a K-5 visual arts team spent over 200 hours writing their new standards aligned with the new National Core Art Standards. That was in addition to their teaching hours.
 They define program mission and goals and develop curricular resources for their fellow arts teachers. This development agenda continues this summer with the K-5 music teachers writing standards and with the K-5 dance teachers writing standards in the fall. There are large tasks that take significant time, but it's a strong example of follow-through on the promise to properly implement the tax. Thank you.
 Another example can be found in Park Rose, as Dan mentioned. Between last year and this year, they have spent and committed $37,500 in support of their music program, and it was the music program that was jump-started by the AEAF funds.
 While not reported in our metric data collection form, these are noteworthy indicators of district commitment to their K-5 programs, and these are indicators of success. Lastly, the metrics committee has plans to further engage with the East Portland Action Plan, and I will look after they voice questions and concerns about the AEAF money, how it's used in their community. And a subcommittee has been formed, and Dunja Jennings is the point person for that.
 That's my part. Okay. Thank you. Thanks, Nancy. We have a couple more slides here that just show how the arts tax has worked. This is the ratio of K-5 students per arts teacher for each district in the catchment area. And you can see that, except for a couple of the schools, they made terrific progress in decreasing that ratio. David Douglas was already ahead of the game, it appears, and so was Riverdale.
 This chart looks at it from the other direction. This is the FTE of arts teachers. The base year is in blue again, and then the following years, and there's an increase every year. The third chart over here is the annual increase, which was significant the first year but has been steady in the last two years. So now we want to talk about RAC.
 All the money is distributed. The money is first distributed to the school districts, and then the remainder is distributed to RAC. We just want to recap RAC's distribution of its funding over the last three years. This first slide, slide 16, I have to preface this. We have two data sets here. One is as of April 30th. The other is as of June 6th.
 so there is some contradiction in the numbers but we wanted to get you the most recent numbers we could the june 6 numbers to make the report as up to date as we could some of the old numbers still linger um the numbers on this sheet are as of last week shows a total distribution and use of funding for the three fiscal first three fiscal years of 3.6 million
 The second chart shows that some of the funding they have received, RAC has received this year, has been programmed for next year. So that's the $618,000 programmed for next year. Total distribution, $4.2 million, and that ties back to slide number two, receipts for the three years. So $4.2 million to RAC. To break that down a little bit, RAC provides two types of grants.
 pursuant to the ordinance. One is operation support, and the other is access for underserved communities. The split is 95-5, and this is the money that has been spent annually on those two different grant programs. The middle chart, you can see that the number of grants has stayed pretty steady. The bottom chart,
 The math from the first and the second chart shows that the average grant size has increased over the three-year period. Then the next few slides are detailed slides just to show you what's in the annual report. Here is a detailed list of the equity slides or the equity grants that were distributed and they vary from about $1,000 to about $5,000. Most of them are one-shot grants. So these are the equity grants.
 We really want to study this one closely. I'm just advertising that the chart is in the report. This lists all of the general support grants alphabetically and how much was received each year by the organization. The next chart, which is also in the report,
 takes the previous chart and sorts it by total grants over the three years with the jurisdiction that got the most grant money over the three years at the top. And the top three districts, I'll just tell you, are right here. Portland Art Museum, the Symphony, the Opera, Portland Center Stage, Oregon Ballet. And they all got a total of more than $100,000 over the three years. So that chart is in there for you to look at.
 They each received 100,000? They received over 100,000 total. So if you want to look at data, that's an interesting – those are interesting charts to look at. Any questions on the data or the numbers? Okay. Okay. Anything else on RAC? Nope. Great. General recommendations. Okay. So each year we have made some recommendations, and what we like to do is –
 review our recommendations from the previous year and see what has happened to them. So a review of our 2015 recommendations. Is it up on the board, Craig? Yes. We have a slide for that, I think. So number one recommendation last year was to provide a clear definition of certified arts teachers via an administrative rule procedure.
 This rule is expected to be completed during 2016. Our second recommendation, provide arts tax or other funding for the Southwest and Ivy Charter Schools so that they equally benefit on a proportionate basis with the other school districts. This was accomplished with Portland Public Schools providing the funding for 2015-2016 year.
 City Council has now established by definition in city code that allows these two schools to receive funding in the future. Third recommendation, the school districts and RAC, through its education coordinator, should collaborate towards creating a model program that aligns with recognized national standards for quality arts education and which addresses the concern about FTE allocations.
 We further recommend that this be undertaken over the course of the following year, with a report to be submitted to the Arts Oversight Committee by no later than this time in 2016. To the status of that, through the Arts Coordinator position, RAC has made excellent strides in meeting with the school districts to provide developmental support.
 The question of aligning with national standards and measuring quality of education and outcomes is and will be an ongoing process in collaboration with the school districts. RACC has provided reports on its progress on a regular basis during the course of the year. Number four, AOC to add a request for hours of instruction in each arts discipline in its data submission form.
 After further discussion following this recommendation, the AOC and RAC determined that this information could be better acquired by RAC. In its cadre meetings with the school districts and through surveys, this metric is slowly being developed. Number five, the revenue division should provide projections of revenues and expenses at a time when it becomes viable to do so.
 The Revenue Department, then known as the Department Now Revenue Division, has been providing this information as available. Number six, the legislative intent of the AEAF was to add new resources on top of the city's current levels of funding. We recognize that the city is on track by continuing its general fund investments in RAC and should continue to do so. Happily, the city has continued to provide that steady funding to RAC.
 Lastly, from our 2015 recommendations, the AOC to work with RAC to create a more comprehensive way to track how different AEAF tax year dollars are used in any given RAC fiscal year.
 This will continue to be an ongoing need as the Revenue Division becomes even better equipped to collect taxes from late and non-compliant filers. Part of that problem, that issue, was the fact that the arts tax was a calendar year and RAC worked on a fiscal year. So there was a lot of reconciling that had to be done. This has been accomplished, but there will still be an ongoing effort to simplify reporting to the extent possible.
 but we have come a long way. So, on to our recommendations this year. Number one, RAC and the AOC should further develop the measurement of the hours of arts instruction taking place in the schools, which is eventually to be included in the school district's yearly data submission to the AOC. Two, RAC to continue its arts coordination work with an eye to the quality of arts education in the schools,
 and to collaboratively work with the school districts towards developing metrics for the evaluation of outcomes. Three, the AOC should further track arts instruction taking place in middle school and high school by breaking data down into individual schools as it does for K through five. Four, a suggestion that school districts consider providing an annual state of the arts, which Nancy referred to earlier,
 annual state of the arts report so that there can be a better understanding of what takes place within the districts relating to arts education. Five, city council should approve the proposed resolution to engage outside collection agencies to begin a collection process for delinquent taxpayers or at least one year overdue in the amount of $100 or more with a final demand letter to be sent allowing the taxpayer at least 30 days to respond.
 Six, city council should approve the proposed resolution to direct the revenue division to report on options for the permanent solution to the 5% five-year average expense cap on administration of the arts tax. Lastly, the city should continually be messaging the positive results of the arts tax and dispel misinformation as it arises. So a few last words moving forward.
 we've talked about this before but i'm going to repeat this again because it's really important so qualitative impacts as we have stated in previous years while the committee's charge is to oversee and review the expenditures and outcomes of the arts fund we continue to strongly believe that our task goes beyond just a quantitative measuring the word outcome in the code language is not fully defined
 but we feel it should include a qualitative evaluation as well. We want to look at questions such as, what are the ultimate impacts on children? Are children doing better in school? Are children doing better socially? Do we see an effect on graduation rates and student attendance? Do we have qualified and diverse arts teachers, not just more teachers? Has there been an effect on parent involvement in the schools?
 Have arts institutions been able to open their doors to more underserved communities? Are our multicultural communities more engaged with the arts? Working together with the RAC school coordination team, arts teachers, and the school districts, the AOC will continue to dive deeper into the questions of quality and outcomes.
 As always, we welcome input and suggestions from all sources. Thank you, and we will entertain any questions or comments. Okay, great report. Questions? Dan, let me kick it off. This is a superb report, and there's a lot to process here. I'd like to go to your recommendations for 2016. Okay.
 And just want to ask you a couple questions off them. First, the suggestion that districts consider providing an annual state of the arts report. That would be a written report that would be submitted both to your committee and to the city council? Or how do you envision that being transmitted? You know, I don't think we've thought it through to that extent. There has to be more discussion about it. But we feel that certainly to the parents, I think certainly a report that's public. So, yeah.
 the aoc and the community can understand what is happening in the schools arts education wise not just the fact that there are x number of teachers but we as a committee don't really know what is what is going on at a day-to-day basis and we're trying to understand that better
 I think that's kind of our general sense of it. Yeah, I think it's an excellent suggestion. You know, when we do evaluations of bureau directors, we first ask that they draft their own evaluation and so that we can work off of a document. And having the various school districts document what they believe are the successes and celebrate those successes and communicate with parents and teachers and students and then the community, I think, is...
 I just want to say, Commissioner, that it's a suggestion. From day one, we didn't want to be seen as the police over the school district. Everything we've tried to do has been collaborative, and we've worked well together. And as we developed our metrics, they were very helpful. So we've worked together. So this is a suggestion. It's going to involve more conversation as to how it's actually done going forward.
 Two other quick points. Your seventh suggestion is continually message the positive results of the arts tax and dispel misinformation as it arises. I don't think any of us can think of anyone who has been more vigilant in that category than you.
 uh continuously submitting pieces to local newspapers to respond to editorials and to news stories so thank you for your vigilance and i think you've done an outstanding job highlighting the successes and i think in some ways because of your position in the in the community and that you're not an elected official you probably have in some ways more
 credibility in making that case than the elected's. I'm not saying that to just puff you out, but your pieces have made a difference, and we want to thank you for being so attentive and getting the word out. The final thing I wanted to ask you, since this is your last year, and you've specifically called out that we need to appoint some new members, what
 In our different boards and commissions, we have different rules about how we appoint people. So one of our newest boards, the Portland Utility Board, we actually have delegated to them the responsibility of identifying candidates for membership. That's not the typical way we do it, but we have a lot. What has been in your tenure, Stan, the most effective way to collaboratively identify and recruit talent for membership? Sure.
 Well, I think in the past year, I've actually done some recruiting myself just through communications from people who showed an interest. And some of the new members that came on this year had contacted me about various questions. And we would sit down, have coffee, talk about what they're concerned about. And then I'd say, hey, how would you like to raise your hand and be a volunteer? Sure.
 But that is not the best way to do it because that's a very small reach out. I feel there has to be a broader reach out so we can reach across the entire community. And I think there is a process through the city whereby put out requests for applications. I've seen that in many bureaus. And we haven't done that in the past year or two. I think we did it early in the second year when Jenny was still on your staff.
 But I think we have to get back to a great, great outreach effort. Because otherwise, I wouldn't want the committee to be composed of friends of mine or people that I happen to know. That's not the way it should be. Well, this sounds like something that –
 we could get some guidance from Oney and Commissioner Fritz, because this is something that she's passionate about, identifying new talent, and the whole community, and figuring out how we support this goal of recruiting and appointing new members. Well, I just want to say, having been on the Community Involvement Committee for the Portland Plan and Com Plan, which was adopted yesterday,
 There will be an ongoing, and I'm changing areas here, but it's similar. There will be an ongoing community involvement committee, and I understand the process for that is going to be done through ONI. And I think, as you say, I think that's what we should be looking at for the AOC as well. I leave that to you guys to figure out. Other questions or comments for this panel? No.
 Mayor, procedural question? Sure. We're going to find out whether we have people who signed up to testify. And the question, I guess, is do you want to vote to accept the report now or continue with the two other items and come back? I don't know what the availability of our panels is. I think we should accept the report after testimony and then see if we want to proceed with it. Carla, has anyone signed up? No one signed up, but you do have an amendment on this item.
 I'm sorry, you do have what? There's an amendment for this, the AOC Metrics Committee Analysis Year 3. That was submitted in the Tuesday memo. That's an amendment to the report? To the report, yes. Okay. I'll move the amendment. All right. Is there a second? So let's first take a vote on adopting the amendment, and then we'll see if there's anyone else that wants to testify. Okay.
 Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. And is there anyone else that wants to speak on this report before we take action on it? If not, a motion please to accept the report. So moved. Second. We'll call. Bish. I got out of my deathbed today to attend this hearing. Let's hope not. Because I didn't want to miss a chance to thank each of you for the work that you do. And as Stan knows, in prior years there was a little more drama.
 around this. And we hope the Court of Appeals decision has decided the question. I don't want to encourage any further appeals, but there is at least one more rung of the ladder that theoretically someone could go. But we have a perfect record in terms of courts addressing the legal question that was brought about whether it's a poll tax or a head tax. And I think given the resounding, very strong decision of the Court of Appeals, I think we now feel like we're on very strong ground going forward.
 I was talking to Deborah Kofori recently, and she expressed sort of an irritation about some of the criticisms of the arts tax. And she's very clear about celebrating the benefits of the arts tax to our community. And when you think about it, 40,000 children in our community now experience arts education at a much higher level than they did before during formative years.
 And Jeff is here from RAC, and the kind of companion piece of data that we get presented with every year is the enormous, is the wonderful and inspiring data of the Right Brain Initiative, which keeps documenting at a very high level that arts education impacts all of children's development, that kids exposed to the arts do well in all the disciplines. And there's something about stimulating the right brain that just benefits kids in every discipline.
 And so we have a funding mechanism that is not perfect, that is providing children with something that is essential and that all of us, say, over the age of 40, remember a day when it was part of the curriculum and not considered extra like PE and other things, which now, because of budget cuts, are almost considered luxury items.
 And the aggregate data in the nation says that children are more successful in schools where there is robust arts education. And that's separate and apart from the possibility that some child exposed to the arts early is going to become a painter, a singer, a musician, a designer, is going to have a creative impulse that catapults their life forward. So, Stan, you've been really vigilant about defending and celebrating the success of the arts tax. Yes.
 And this is your last year. And I know we'll have another occasion to embarrass you. But this is what you've done is real public service. It's not glamorous. It's long hours. It has been controversial. But I think a lot of the credibility of this tax and this program is due to the work of you and the committee. So we owe you a great debt for your service. And thank you.
 And to Stan and, excuse me, to Craig and to Nancy, thank you for your presentations today, and thank you for really one of the better reports that we get every year in terms of clarity. I must say on the PowerPoint I have trouble reading the tiny print, but it is in a bigger font in the written materials, and it's very thorough. And thanks to all of your committee members for the work you do, which has been vital.
 And I want to close by thanking the young people that are here today. We love it when young people come to City Hall for lots of reasons. We hope that some of you someday think about sitting in these chairs. They did before you came in. Was it me in particular or just me filling the seat?
 And, you know, we've got a council here. Everyone here is slightly over the age of 50, so there will be some vacancies in the next 10 to 15 years when you are of age. And we hope you consider public service. But to the young people, this entire effort is about giving you exposure to the arts. And when you come to us and you showcase what you've learned so beautifully –
 and you're so articulate, and you're so poised, and you're such great ambassadors for what we're doing, you bring it all full circle. Because at the end of the day, you are the reason that we have an arts tax, and you are the people that we have great hope for in the future. So to the young people that were here and the loving, caring adults in their lives that brought them here, congratulations. You really cheered up this room today.
 And to all of our friends who have supported this effort, thank you. And, Stan, we look forward to working with you both on the recommendations and on a more robust recruitment program so you have a full complement. Thank you all for your good work. Aye. Healthsmith? Thank you for the great report. Thank you for your service, Stan. And it really is a well-organized and –
 Putting the small font aside, it's a very well-organized report in terms of the information presented. Very clean and easy to follow. So thank you. Hi. Thank you so much for your work, and thank you for the work that you've done over the past several years to get this organized and off the ground so that this routine report is now routine. And you've done a lot of work to make sure that citizen oversight of this report
 large amounts of money has been diligent and the people of Portland can know that we have sent it appropriately for the promises and kept the promises that we made over 20 million dollars so far dispersed to schools that is something that we need to remember when people say about how the city doesn't support all of the school districts enough well yes we do and maybe we could do more but we already do a lot and I appreciate both the effort that it took to get this passed and now the implementation of it and
 Thanks to my neighbors and others who are here and just
 Thanks for the note cards. That's very nice of you. I feel like I should make a note card out to say thank you for the note cards. But it's after school is out, so I just take my thanks for that. I understand that you're working on a definition of certified arts teachers and that the intergovernmental agreements may be amended to make sure that charter schools specifically respond to that. Thank you for that detail. My future daughter-in-law works at the Ivy School, which is one of the two schools that was recently brought in and made
 made clear that they also get coverage. So I have personal knowledge that you certainly look at the details, and that warms my heart. Thank you, everybody who's here. Hi. Niels. Well, thank you. This report, I think, is a chance for us, obviously, to see how we are with respect to this particular public policy and where we're going.
 and a look back at where we've been. And I think it says a lot about where we are now. You know, I ran for this office on the same election as the arts tax campaign for both. When I first took office, there was still some grumbling from the, what, 35 percent of Portland voters who didn't vote for the arts tax, but a very large majority, of course, did. Right.
 And that grumbling, with the exception, I think, of a single editorial writer who seems to inhabit his own universe on this subject, maybe others too. You know, the noise, the negative noise has gone away. But what are we left with? First, did we give the voters what they expected? They expected significant dollars flowing to the arts and particularly to schools. Check. Check.
 That's what's happened. And that it would be new effort by the school districts, not backfilling against what they were already doing. Your report demonstrates that that's the case. And that the ratio of arts teachers has radically changed to the good because of this reliable source of funding for a key educational component.
 The voters expected that a small percentage of the money would go to overhead and administration. Check. It's true. Whether it's 5%, 7% is relatively inconsequential, again, when you look at the overall effort. People expected that the tax collection would be regularized and easy and that the city council would work out any problems in the tax, which over the course of a couple years we did.
 And they expected that there would be continued real citizen oversight, not just the elected officials, not just the folks who work for the city, but citizens would be looking over the shoulder of government here and saying, is this doing what it's supposed to do? And you have done all that. So I think this is a great opportunity to celebrate. And as your last recommendation emphasizes, keep trying to get the good news out
 of how much of a success this is. And I think if anybody could hear both the ukulele performance or meet the young women who are here today, I think that would end any further argument among those arguments.
 finally again ladies thank you for these my daughter is 29 and getting married in New York this summer but the reason she's in New York is that about your age she decided that she was going to be an artist she decided she was going to be a dancer and so she started dancing and went to college and majored in modern dance and then went off to New York to live her dream of being a modern dancer in New York
 are. So as the parent of at least a couple of artists, but Caitlin in particular, I'm going to send her one of these note cards and tell her about you. So thanks for being here today. Hi. Let's take a break. Hey, I just want a quick note about this report going national today. So this morning, I was sending the report out to all the respective school board members in the six districts. Yeah, good. And then I got one board member sent me back an e-mail saying
 and said, hey, I don't think you meant to send this to me. I'm on the board of the Centennial School District in a town in Minnesota. But she added, you're doing some great work in Oregon. It's nice to hear. I want to leave with that. Yes, we are. Well, thank you all. We'd love to take a photo with our students that are here. We're going to take a break and take a photo and then move on to our other two items, I think.
 Aren't we? These are both connected with the Arts Tax? No, but they might have to leave. Oh, the resolution. Yeah. Okay. Can we get the young people up for a photograph? Please. Girls? Thank you, Doug. Parents, if you have to get your cameras out. Here you go. Why don't you hold these just so, you guys hold a few of these. Whatever one you did. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Well, let's smile. I've got very much to say. All right. Yeah. All right. Yeah. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right
 Okay, so we're going to move on to the other two resolutions on the subject of the arts, but some of these folks I think needed to leave. So we'll bring up Mr. Lanham to explain these two items. I think we've already heard quite a bit about them, so I'll forego any further introductory remarks and let you take it away, Thomas. Okay, great. Thank you, Mayor and Council. My name is Thomas Lanham. I'm the Director of the Revenue Division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services.
 Before I talk about the resolutions, I'll briefly say that we get a lot of mail from people at the Revenue Division every year, thousands and thousands of letters, and this is far and away the nicest thing I've ever received. Thomas, it says in my notes that you will be performing. What musical instrument will you be? You don't want to see that.
 So the two resolutions before you today set up, there's two resolutions before you today. The first sets a threshold for referral of delinquent arts tax accounts to a collection agency, and the second directs the Revenue Division to report back to Council in 2017 with options concerning resolving the 5% cost cap issue. As Stan said, the Arts Tax Oversight Committee has unanimously recommended passage of both of these resolutions.
 So I'll speak first to the collection agency resolution, and then I'll come back and talk about the cost limitation resolution. Use of collection agencies to ultimately collect unpaid debt has been a key assumption underlying arts tax compliance estimates since 2012. Taxpayers that are voluntarily compliant have an expectation that those that are not compliant will ultimately be held accountable.
 Failing to hold non-compliant taxpayers accountable will ultimately lead to increased non-compliance more universally. The Revenue Division's budget for the arts tax is constrained by the 5% cost limitation and does not allow for any additional internal collection efforts. We estimate that compliance rates approaching or exceeding 80% are still attainable with the use of collection agencies.
 Increased compliance is expected to boost the revenue yield from the current low $9 million range into the $10 to $11 million range. And those additional revenues would flow to the Regional Arts and Culture Council. Many public agencies use a collection agency to collect debt, including the Oregon Department of Revenue, Multnomah County, other tax programs of the Revenue Division, the Water Bureau, the Fire Bureau, OMF. This is a straightforward business decision and should not be controversial.
 The most common referral threshold used by most public agencies in Oregon appears to be $100 of debt owed, and that is the threshold that we are recommending that the council approve today. If the council approves this threshold, our next step will be to mail what we call final demand letters to those taxpayers owing $100 or more, beginning with those owing the most.
 There are approximately 95,000 taxpayers that owe $100 or more. Of that 95,000, 25,000 owe $260, which is to say have never paid for any tax year. Taxpayers that are exempt due to low income or poverty can file their exemption, and that will clear the debt, and they will not be referred to a collection agency.
 Taxpayers that pay the debt or enter into a payment plan with the Revenue Division within 30 days, again, will not be referred to a collection agency. Prior to any referral to a collection agency, the Revenue Division will attempt to verify taxable income with the IRS so that we can focus our efforts on those that owe rather than those that do not. And finally, the Revenue Division will retain the ability to freeze collection activity on any account that is incorrectly referred to the collection agency.
 So there are a range of different tools, safeguards that we have in place to do our best to make sure that the right people are referred to the collection agency. Ultimately, we anticipate following, working through those 95,000 accounts that we're
 Probably around 30,000 to 40,000 would be referred to the collection agency. That's about 5% of the adult population, and that's very much in line with what Multnomah County referred following the personal income tax that they administered from 2003, 2004, and 2005. They referred 32,000 accounts in 2011. There is no cost to the city or the arts tax fund for referring accounts to the collection agency.
 The agency will add 23% fee on top of the amount referred, and that is the amount the taxpayer will owe, and that is how the collection agency is compensated for their efforts. And lastly, I would note that the city is not selling or permanently consigning these accounts. We retain full authority and control to bring them back at any time we choose. So those are my remarks with respect to the collection agency. I'll just move on to the cost limitation resolution and then entertain questions at the end if you have any.
 Recall, again, as Stan said, the 5% cost limitation is 5% of the revenues collected over a five-year period. For the first three years for which we have complete information, expenses are at about 7.5% of collections. If this trend continues, and we expect that it will, we will be in violation of the city code as of January 2018.
 The cost limitation has absolutely no relationship to the workload or revenue yield maximization for the arts tax. To provide a sense of workload, the arts tax has less than five authorized positions for 450,000 taxpayer accounts. That's a collector-to-account ratio of 1 to 100,000.
 Every other city of Portland revenue collection program that we're aware of, including those within Revenue, Water Bureau, anywhere else you may choose to look, have ratios that are well below 1 to 10,000. In other words, we have 10 times the number of accounts that those other programs do. The cost limitation also works against more common sense efforts to maximize the revenue yield because it limits the amount we can spend to 5 cents for every dollar collected.
 Spending $0.10 to collect the next dollar makes perfectly good business sense, but is discouraged by the current city code. We cannot cut the budget to meet the 5% cost limitation without losing revenue and setting up a negative feedback loop because it's that same revenue that drives the limitation in the first place. The close of the first five-year window will be December 31, 2017, and this will be the last date the city can act to correct the 5% cost limitation.
 So the first and best option for partially closing the cap between the allowable and actual expenses is to raise increased revenues so that that cap is also raised. And we believe taking this step will move the current cost burden from 7.5% to around the 6% range, leaving a relatively small figure for us to look at in 2017 when a correction may be necessary.
 So the resolution, the second resolution before you today, directs the Revenue Division to close the gap by collecting additional revenues, and it also directs revenue to report back to the City Council with options to finally and fully resolve this issue in 2017. So that's all I have. All right. Thank you, Thomas. Questions? Thomas, just a couple of – Okay. Yeah. Okay.
 I continue to be, as you know, concerned about the threshold by which we're referring past due collections to a collection agency, just over concerns about people's credit history and things like that. So when we refer these accounts, past due accounts, to a credit agency, the credit agency will add a 23% surcharge? That's correct. Okay. Can they sell the debt to another collection agency? No. They cannot? No.
 So it stays with the agency unless we, the city, decide to take the debt back. That's right. There's no selling. There's no consignment. We retain 100% of control over every account that we refer. Okay. And the $100 past due, is that the past due balance on the arts tax itself, or does that include the arts tax, $35 plus tax?
 any penalty for not paying it on time? It's $100 all in, so it's the tax and the penalty. So a person who only owes for one year would be $35 plus $35 in penalty, $70. They're not going to go to the collection agency over $70. They will get a letter from us encouraging them to pay. The following year, if they continue to not pay the tax, at that point they would be subject to referral. Thanks. So it really only takes one year.
 That's correct. I mean, so it's one year plus not being in compliance the following year, 70 plus 35, 105. And the next year comes around another $35 or $5 over the threshold. Right. Thomas, did you give any consideration in terms of going to the next step of building in any kind of amnesty program to seek better voluntary compliance? That's an excellent question, Commissioner. I'm glad you raised it. By the way, you did not prompt me to ask it. I did not.
 In 2014, we did exactly that. After the second year of the tax, when we didn't see compliance figures that we were hoping to see, we offered to waive all penalties for anyone that came forward and paid the tax at that point. So the deal was people with penalties and tax all in owed $120 at that point in time in 2014. We waived the $50 in penalties and just made the amount due $70, and tens of thousands of people took us up on that.
 Since that time, we've collected about $1.3 million in penalties from people who ultimately did the right thing and straightened out their account. So if we were to now offer a second amnesty, that would create a problem in terms of the equity of those that have paid the penalties and puts us in a position of determining, well, do we need to refund this?
 those penalties before we could do that. So the answer is we've done that and I wouldn't recommend doing it again. And just to be clear, the measure that was referred to voters included language which would authorize the use of collection agencies, correct? That's correct. And the benefit here, if we're successful, is at least threefold. It will help us get closer to the 5 percent administrative cap by expanding the pie.
 It will achieve more tax fairness by spreading the burden over a larger group of people and reinforcing the message this is not a discretionary tax. And the additional money will flow to RAC, Regional Arts and Culture Council, and will be used for things like general operating support of organizations that, at least based on the original forecast numbers, expected to get a more robust contribution from the city. That's all correct. Thank you.
 Thank you. Okay. Other questions for Thomas? And anything else you need to say on the second resolution while you're here? I spoke to both. I know you did, but we're asking questions about the first. So covered on both? Thank you. Okay. And then we'll take testimony on both and act on them together. Thank you, Thomas. Okay. So does anyone want to speak on either of these two resolutions? No one signed up. Anyone want to speak on these items? Okay. So let's take a vote, please, first on 696.
 I want to thank the Revenue Bureau, Thomas Lanham and the whole team for bringing forward two very thoughtful proposals. It's obviously not our intent to use strong-arm tactics with taxpayers to collect, but when the voters adopted this, there was the expectation that the tax would be borne by all, and we don't get to pick and choose what taxes we pay.
 And the money that we've not collected is money that hasn't been dedicated to a purpose that the voters intended, which is the amount above fully funding arts in the schools was intended to go to support community arts organizations and to provide both access funds and general operating support.
 and as we know portland historically has been on the low end of public general operating support for arts organizations and that was a companion piece of the vision embraced by the voters so thanks for bringing this forward and i support 696. hi well this is a very close call for me i appreciate all the work the revenue division has done on this issue but i continue to be troubled by uh referring
 $100 past due collections to collection agencies because I do think it ultimately will mess with poor people's credit histories. And it is the poor people because I know in this council we have the opportunity to elect to publish the names of those who didn't pay the tax, and we chose not to. And I think that's the most effective way out to people who can afford to pay the tax. This is only going to go after people who are on the margins of life, and I don't believe that's what we should be doing here. And therefore, I vote no.
 I have people in my family who don't make very much money and who believe that this is a very important tax that they and everybody else should pay. And so knowing the lengths that the Revenue Bureau goes to to give people every opportunity to pay and sets up all kinds of assistance and knowing that notices are going to go out in different languages. Okay.
 I'm supporting this. I do believe we need to do another round of education about the arts tax to make sure that everybody understands that it's each person in a household, not one per household. Each person over 18 who makes over $1,000 is responsible for the tax. And, yes, indeed, everybody needs to pay it, and we need to have consequences for those who don't. Hi. Niels. I'm going to make a somewhat strange, but I don't think that much comparison to what we did yesterday, and that is...
 government has to use the power to collect money or send something to collection or foreclose on a lien very carefully. We have to do that the right way, and we have to have administrators who we trust who are thinking about the human impact of what we do, and I know that we have that in the Revenue Bureau. But in both cases, if we fail to act...
 then not only does the programmatic function of funding arts programs start to suffer, but so does the credibility of government. If we can't get people to maintain their houses that they've boarded up, or if we can't get people to pay their taxes, then why should I bother? Right.
 So I think the credibility of what we do is at stake. If we don't do this, we have to do it very carefully. We have to make sure there are lots of safeguards, because you're talking about the power of government over people's lives, and in this case their credit rating. But again, I have a lot of confidence in Thomas and Terry and their staff for the way they will do this, and that will matter a lot. So thank you for thinking this through. Can we just yield for one point? Sure. Because this is a self-contained record, I just want to –
 respectfully respond to something Dan mentioned. There were two reasons why this council rejected the idea of publishing the names of taxpayers that don't pay. The first is that we as a majority did not believe in publicly shaming people. And second, we got a legal opinion from the city attorney's office that was not lawful. So while I respect and appreciate Dan's view that that would be an alternative, the council rejected that based on legal advice. Right.
 And I also think shaming people by publicly giving out that information sets us on a bad path. Well, there's a time and a place for that. Maybe if you've let your house get to the point that it's falling on your neighbors, we would publicize that. But in this case, right, it's not so much. So, again, I want to appreciate the good work that's being done and look forward to getting it. Obviously, the council should get a report for how this works out in practice, but it makes sense to give this good idea a try. Aye. Aye.
 And now on the second of the two resolutions, again, no one here to testify. I don't believe on the second of those. Let's take a vote, please, on 697. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Ritz? I appreciate this direction. It's pretty clear to me that we should have this tax cover the cost of administering it. We know that the Revenue Bureau staff does very good work, and so I hope I'm going to indicate right now that when you come back, my –
 preference would be to remove the caps and have the fund pay for the administrative costs rather than the general fund. Aye. Well, one of the functions of city government that maybe not a lot of people get to see is the work of the Revenue Bureau. Because I'm the Commissioner in Charge of Finance and Administration, I've been over there and seen their staff at work at the peak times of when tax payments come in. And let me tell you, these people work hard and the taxpayers are getting their money's worth. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you both very much. Okay, let's move on to our time certain, remaining item time certain for 3 o'clock, 698. Before you read that, we found a lost pair of keys. If you've lost your keys, they're up here. Okay. All right, 698, please. Establish a construction excise tax to fund affordable housing initiatives from an inclusionary housing fund. Commissioner Salzman. Thank you, Mayor. As all of my colleagues know,
 The lack of affordable housing is the greatest crisis facing our city right now, and the current market conditions are increasing the crisis. We have thousands of people literally living on our streets. We have unprecedented rent increases, more than 15% on average year over year, the highest in the nation. The rising rents, coupled with extremely low vacancy rates, have made affordable housing options scarce for low- and middle-income Portlanders.
 And quite frankly, new development, both residential and commercial, is continuing to put more stressors on the need for affordable housing. We have worked hard in this city to ensure that jobs are located close to where people live. And I think that was one of our cornerstones of the comprehensive plan that we adopted yesterday, is people need to be able to live near where they work. And we have been succeeding, but we need to ensure that more people can actually afford to live in our city near to our jobs.
 We need to ensure that people who comprise our workforce have places to live and raise their families. We need to ensure that seniors who have lived their whole lives in the city can afford to stay here near their support systems, their family, and their places of worship. We have a documented need right now for 24,000 units of affordable housing, and that need is growing as the city continues to grow. In the comprehensive plan that we adopted yesterday,
 we acknowledge the need for an additional 10,000 units of affordable housing on top of that 24,000 units of need right now over the next 20 years. New commercial and residential developments in the city must pay their freight towards supporting affordable housing, both commercial and residential development. And that's what we're presenting today to you is a proposal to do exactly that,
 we are proposing to establish a 1% commercial excise tax on residential construction and on commercial construction. This is not the solution to our housing crisis, but it is an important cornerstone of funding new affordable housing in the city of Portland. Some of the other things this council has done is last year we increased the amount of urban renewal money dedicated to housing projects.
 by nearly $67 million for affordable housing. Before the end of this year, the council will consider an inclusionary zoning program for adoption, which will include some increases for developers, incentives for developers, excuse me, which this construction excise tax will provide some funding for. And I will be bringing to council a referral to the voters in a couple weeks to ask them to help solve this affordable housing crisis even more.
 by supporting a general obligation bond for affordable housing development. Our city's workers, our families, our seniors are struggling to stay in this city. It will take all of us stepping up to help stem the tide, to help turn the tide.
 And I'd now like to introduce our Housing Bureau Director, Kurt Krieger, and Matthew Schibold, our Equity and Policy Manager, who will run us through the proposal in more detail. And then we just have one panel, invited panel, that I'll bring up after the PowerPoint and the presentation by Matthew and Kurt. And that is Dyke Dame, who is a member of the Portland Housing Advisory Committee.
 and who was instrumental in the city's lobbying effort regarding the tax and inclusionary zoning, Vivian Satterfield of OPAL, who also helped lead the charge in Salem on getting the inclusionary zoning ban lifted, and Jess Larson of the Welcome Home Coalition. So we'll start with Matthew and Kurt and the PowerPoint. Thank you very much, Mayor Hales, members of council, Kurt Krieger, Portland Housing Bureau. It's my pleasure to be here today with Matthew Scheiboldt.
 And I want to frame this briefly by saying that today we come to you standing on the shoulders of giants, and that is our legislative leaders brought us to where we are today. You, as a council, made the passage of an inclusionary housing program, a mandatory inclusionary housing program, your top legislative priority in the 2016 session.
 And in 32 days, we were able to get that passed, due in large part to your energy, your enthusiasm, and your commitment. And although Martha Pellegrino is on leave, Martha, I know, worked 12 hours a day on this because I got calls from her after 8 p.m. and on weekends. But specifically, Senator Allen Dembrow was the prime sponsor of Senate Bill 1533, Representative Alyssa Kennedy-Geyer, chair of the House Senate.
 Human Services and Housing Committee and Speaker Tina Kotek were all directly involved in the details of this bill and the creation of the construction excise tax option for all cities and all counties in the state of Oregon. The underlying purpose was to tap the hydraulics of the private sector to deliver a wider spectrum of affordable housing than we could do with direct public financing.
 To summarize, the Senate Bill 1533 provides for mandatory inclusionary zoning above 80% of the median family income, and it allows for and recognizes that the use of voluntary inclusionary zoning below 80% of MFI is statutorily permitted.
 At the same time, they lifted a preemption on the levying of local construction excise taxes for affordable housing. This authorized all cities and counties except for Bend, who had previously enacted a construction excise tax prior to the preemption. And I think it's noteworthy to say that with Portland's leadership, every city and every county was benefited from this action.
 With respect to the recommendations of the Housing Commissioner and the Bureau, we're bringing forward to you the residential tax of 1% of the permit valuation on all new residential development. That is the maximum rate set by statute.
 We're also bringing forward a recommendation that simultaneously that a tax on commercial and industrial property be levied at the rate of 1% of permit valuation for all new commercial development And I would add that that is authorized by statute, but not not so limited As far as how the funds would be used we have broken this down into a couple of program themes one is a
 The legislature allowed for a 4% allowance for administration. That would be administered by the Bureau of Development Services as they are the transaction counter for all building permits.
 the remaining sum would be divided as follows. Fifteen percent of the residential tax would be sent to Oregon Housing and Community Services for purposes of down payment assistance in the state of Oregon. I've already begun talking with OCHS about how that might be used in Portland. If the council levies the tax, we'd very much like to see that spent within the city of Portland. We have many culturally specific nonprofits doing this work already.
 Of the remaining sum, 50% would be set aside for inclusionary zoning incentives, which are meant to be offsets to the cost of private development compliance with mandatory inclusionary zoning. And the remaining 35% would be made available for affordable housing for households under 60% of the MFI.
 The commercial tax revenue, we are recommending that 100% be allocated to housing for households under 60% of the MFI.
 Just to clarify on that previous slide, for the residential, those percentages are set in state law? Those are statutory requirements, yes. And what's the statutory requirement for the commercial? The commercial statutory minimum is that 50% has to be spent on housing. The other 50% is not so governed by statute. It's fungible. Does the state legislation speak to the issue that the city budget office has raised about whether multifamily housing is commercial or residential?
 Well, the issue, for those of you that are not so well familiar with BDS as Commissioner Fritz would be, is that multifamily permits in the city of Portland are classified as commercial. Permits for mixed-use buildings are classified as commercial, and that is how they treat them in the context of building permit approval.
 The legislative intent to us seems quite clear that the drafters, Senator Dembrow and Alyssa Kennedy-Geyer, that were directly involved in the creation of the bill.
 had focused on use of the property. So there are at least three references in the bill that we believe uphold the allocation of funds according to use, not permit classification. The other thing that's important to realize is that this is a statewide bill. Different cities, different counties process permits differently. And were we to take a standard to which worked in Portland, it would actually be the more liberal construction.
 this might sound counterintuitive, but by focusing on residential, we are indicating that the more conservative definition would apply. So if there was a court challenge later on, we don't have to refund anybody for funds that may have been misallocated. I was just clarifying. I know you have the rest of your presentation. I just wanted to know, was it in statute? Because I'm going to come back to this.
 Yeah, there was a lot of, just so you know, a single-family residential is exempt from mandatory inclusionary zoning, but in this context, we are recommending that the CET apply to it. And because the homebuilders were at the table with the realtors, there was actually quite a lot of intensive negotiation around the residential portion of this bill. And so we're very confident with that legislative interpretation.
 With respect to exemptions, the first category are required state exemptions. Affordable housing at or below 80% of the median family income. Public improvements under public contracting codes. Public or private schools or hospitals. Worship, agriculture, or nonprofit care facilities are all exempt. Okay.
 We are proposing at least two, well, in this case, three additional. One is affordable for sale housing. As a council, you're providing incentives to contractors to provide affordable housing. It's the HALTI program. We think that this should work in concert with the HALTI program and recommend that households that are affordable for sale be exempt from the excise tax. Okay.
 In addition, as a council, you've also provided a waiver to the system development charge for accessory dwelling units, and we think that these should work in tandem, and we're recommending that accessory dwelling units be exempt for a period of two years, which is the same period of time that you've exempted them from SDCs.
 We gave a lot of thought to the minor home improvements that households make. The statute speaks to increased square footage. So if someone encloses a porch or finishes out their attic, we don't think it's necessarily appropriate to be taxing that use. And we would recommend that improvements that have a value of less than $100,000 be exempt from the CET. Okay.
 We looked at both 10- and 5-year historic trends, and the next chart, slide 6, goes into the detail of both commercial and residential revenue trends. We selected in our modeling a 5-year trend because it included the worst of the recessionary period of 2010-2011. So in the, and I must add that this is permit value by use, not by permit class.
 In the historic estimates, the next slide imputes what that raises. The five-year annual average for residential would be about $2 million. Of that, 15% would be provided to the Oregon Housing and Community Services Department.
 50% would be made available for inclusionary zoning incentives, and 35% remaining for other affordable housing programs. And as you can see, of the commercial revenue, 100% would be allocated to affordable housing programs. So that's about $8 million per annum, and I think it's important to focus on per annum because some of the press have taken this slide to mean that it means $8 million over five years, which is incorrect here.
 To put this in context, in the Bureau's budget of $150 million, this would constitute about 7% of the total budget going forward. The other thing I'd like to say is that with the Council's prior action having to do with short-term rentals, Airbnb, VRBO, which is taxing tourists for affordable housing, your efforts to harness the budget,
 tax increment financing for affordable housing. Now with this construction excise tax, everyone is paying. That is, private developers of both housing and commercial and industrial property would be contributing. The next two slides give specific case studies. Working with the Bureau of Development Services, we were able to pull specific single-family permits, specific multifamily permits in
 industrial and – excuse me, big box retail and commercial permits. And it's useful, I think, on slide eight to note that the housing commercial excise tax would total about $3,700. It's in context with the other fees charged by the City of Portland.
 It is less than many of the other fees and STC waivers. With multifamily new construction, the example given would raise about $114,000. Again, compared with other STCs, that is a smaller sum than both the schools and the parks amounts. Big box retail, $1.
 Again, a new construction would generate, in this instance, about $111,000. You can see the SDCs for transportation are obviously much higher. And in the case of commercial construction, about $60,000 would be raised with the instant example in context with the other fees and SDC charges. Okay.
 So to put this into context, and I know you've seen these numbers in different forms before, but to frame the need, we have at present in the Housing Bureau portfolio about 14,000 housing units. We're adding to this all the time, and I think the last time we met Commissioner Fish, you asked about the Brauna. Residents are now moving back into the Brauna. It is fantastic.
 basically preserved as an affordable property, part of your 11 by 13 portfolio. So this has grown since the last time we met because we're completing projects as we speak. And we have about 1,500 new affordable units in the production pipeline, up about 50% due to the fall super NOFA that we processed in October.
 So we have a remaining deficit, a shortage of some 24,000 units, which was stated in the consolidated plan that was before you last week. And in addition, the comprehensive plan that you enacted yesterday identifies an additional need of 10,000 affordable units by 2035. So that's the universe of need.
 We pair that with these various funding sources. As Commissioner Salzman mentioned, the recalibration of TIF, the so-called TIF lift, increased the amount of TIF money from 30% to 45%. That would generate $155 million from 2016 to 2035.
 about 1,550 units. The short-term rental funds, thanks to your approval of our 2017 budget, we're going forward with the securitization of that revenue with a revenue bond with the finance office this summer. That would generate, over the period of 2016 to 2035, about $18 million.
 With respect to the residential inclusionary zoning incentives, using the trend analysis that Matthew prepared and that we've just summarized, we would generate between $47 and $57 million as offsets and an additional $31 to $41 million in affordable housing revenue for residential only. And then the commercial sector would be contributing between $45 and $55 million. So...
 Each of these are important parts of the solution to affordable housing. The mandatory inclusionary zoning was contemplated in the 2035 comprehensive plan. I know for some folks this might sound like something new, but it was really framed in the context of your 20-year vision. And so we are now implementing the day after you've enacted the plan, we are now moving to implement the plan, wasting no time.
 Developer offsets are stipulated requirements to mitigate or partially compensate developers for the cost of compliance, and the proposal before you today begins to accumulate the funds necessary to provide the necessary offsets. So by the time we come back to you in the fall with a mandatory inclusionary zoning program, we'll have money accumulating to provide the developer offsets.
 It's important to mention that the threshold income of 80% of the median family income and above contained in Senate Bill 1533, as enacted, in and of itself does not help Portland fulfill our equity goals. We were seriously concerned about the bill as drafted, but the CET, both the residential and the commercial construction excise tax, will be instrumental in helping us to buy down affordability for residents.
 households at 60% of AMI and below. And finally, and in conclusion, perhaps most importantly, these funds can be used anywhere within the city of Portland. We're not confined to a specific geographic area as the open urban renewal areas is often in the case of TIF. So this is a momentous day. We're here to answer questions that you might have. And of course, the panel coming up behind us will further elaborate. Thank you. Let me...
 Let me jump in, if I could, with some questions. And we've got three members of the panel up here that are fighting some kind of flu or cold, so we'll all struggle through this. Charlie and I have scarce time. Yeah, it's like we're surrounded. And I believe that we've traced the original source of being Dan Saltzman. Always my fault. Yeah.
 Otherwise known as patient zero. I think that's a HIPAA violation. So I think this is a momentous day, and I want to drill down on a couple of details. And I'm tempted to offer a couple of friendly amendments, but I first want to make sure I'm on the right track. Of the 24,000 units in one of your earlier slides that were short,
 What does the Housing Bureau estimate are the number of units for people who have either no money or up to 30% of medium family income? Are we short? And I just want to, because I think we talk about numbers and they seem very abstract. Zero to 30 MFI means someone with no income, means a full-time minimum wage worker, means an older adult on disability. So let's put the human face on it. It's a lot of people in our community who are now completely priced out. Of the 24,000 people
 that we need, how many of those do you estimate are for people at 0 to 30 median family income? Well, specifically, 17,530. Okay. So a majority of those units are – and I think that's important because I think we're going to have to – in order to make a dent where the greatest need is, I think we're going to have to be very clear about where the money is directed. So that's helpful. Okay.
 The ordinance in – I guess it's the recitals under Section 1 – says the City of Portland has a critical need for housing affordable to households earning at or below 80 percent of the median family income. The impact statement that accompanies the ordinance says –
 The purpose of this legislation is to authorize a construction excise tax on residential and commercial development to fund the production and preservation of affordable housing at or below 60% MFI. I want to see if we can avoid confusion here because the ordinance talks about 80 and below. The impact statement makes clear we're talking about 60 and below. Is there a reason that we don't just amend Recital 1 to make clear that the need is at 60 and below?
 Well, the need is at 60 and below, but I think since the statute is driving us towards assisting households at 80, that we encompass 80 in the recital. That's the one thing I want to avoid is a general statement of 80 and below that conflicts with our specific intent to go 60 and below with a heavy focus on 30 and below. I don't want there to be a future council that gets confused. And for the record, Matthew Schaubold at the Housing Bureau, what I would –
 offer on the first recital is that for the revenue that is sourced that the Bureau would be able to use for affordable housing production and preservation, the intent would be to be 60 and below, but the incentive fund associated with the mandatory inclusionary zoning program would be at both the 80 percent and below 80 percent levels.
 So, Kurt, maybe at some later point, could you see if there is a friendly amendment to be acceptable to the sponsor that takes the very clear statement in the impact statement about the purpose of the legislation and just incorporates it into the ordinance? Because we generally don't use impact statements as being legislative history. So, yeah, I mean, this is the first reading today, so we have a week here to perfect any desired changes that my colleagues –
 have and i'd also say that we will bring back to council this fall a proposal to on how we should allocate the funding below 60 percent median family income and commit to not spending any of these resources until the council has approved that policy other than potentially spending some of these funds on the purchase of the oak leaf mobile home park
 So that was – Dan is telepathic, and so thank you, Commissioner Salzman, for putting that on the record. So just to be clear, these additional revenue sources that we're going to be debating –
 All of these funds in the aggregate would come back to council for a discussion about how the money is targeted. So what percentage goes to the poorest of the poor and what percentage goes up the ladder. And so we don't – what I think Dan is suggesting is we don't have to have that debate now. We can have that discussion when we know the total amount of money that's available, and then the council can weigh in on how it's spent. Kurt, is that your understanding? We agree. Okay. Thank you.
 I'd like to ask you a question about the so-called inclusionary zoning incentives. And it's under your residential improvement proposal, it's where 50% of the net revenue would be dedicated. Kurt, could you remind us what exactly the legislature provided in terms of incentives
 our opportunity to buy down from 80 percent, and how flexible was the legislation? Is our only recourse to buy it down with money, or are there other ways at our discretion that we can offer a benefit that has the effect of buying down the rent? Well, the statute basically contains a list of
 tools that we must provide, and then an optional list of items that we may provide. For example, we must provide developers with the opportunity for whole or partial fee waivers or reductions, whole or partial fee waivers of system development charges or impact fees, finance-based incentives, or full or partial exemption from ad valorem property taxes."
 It's important that you know that this is all or in part, this is not meant to be a dollar for dollar offset. And we spent a lot of time, probably two weeks in Salem on this very point because we're not underwriting their projects. Therefore there's not a dollar for our dollar offset but there is a good faith effort in
 In addition, in order to provide for affordability at or below 60% of median income, we can provide optional additional services, including density adjustments, expedited service for local permit processing, modification of height, floor, or other site-specific requirements, and
 additional financial incentives, which would either allow us to increase the number of affordable housing units over and above the base of 20 percent, which the statute allows for, decrease the sale or rental price of affordable housing within the units, or
 or build affordable housing units that are equal to or lower than 80% of AMI. So they've given us a menu of choices. We have the A list in the –
 if you will, of mandatory requirements and the B list of optional requirements. And the CET offsets the compliance with the A list and it helps provide the necessary capital to buy down rents below 80% of AMI on the B list. That's an incredibly comprehensive and clear answer. And my recollection is that while the city would have preferred...
 a lower ceiling on inclusionary housing. That is, the City original proposal said 60 percent and below. The legislature adopted the 80 percent and below. And so the fallback position was to create as much flexibility as possible in what constitutes a buy-down. At what point in the process do you come back to us with your interpretation of that language and recommendations for what meets our good faith requirement?
 Well, Matthew is co-chairing the panel of experts for inclusionary zoning. Some of the speakers later today are on that panel, and we thank them for their time and talent. By the end of September, the basic construction of the inclusionary housing program will be complete. So we'll be coming back, I believe, after September 30th. Isn't that correct, Matthew?
 I believe that as a land use action, there'll have to be some hearings with the Planning and Sustainability Commission in advance of coming back to council, and council couldn't take action on an IZ program before the end of November. I think it's our hope to have something before council in early December. Two more quick questions. This proposal anticipates that all the revenue would go into a new fund, the Housing Bureau Inclusionary Housing Fund.
 And what was the thinking behind creating a new dedicated fund and putting all these revenues
 rather than using a portion of these revenues in the existing housing investment fund, which you have established as a very flexible fund for lots of purposes. Well, I think we wanted to compartmentalize the funding because the HIF, as you know it, includes program income from the sale of real estate. It includes other revenue, and we didn't want to commingle that revenue. Is it more of an accounting thing? Yes, it is. Does it?
 In making that decision, does it bind you, does it limit you in any way, or is it more of an accounting? MR. It's an accounting segregation issue, if you will, for internal cost control. MR. My final question is, in the – you mentioned in response to Commissioner Fritz that the allocations for the residential CET are guided in part by the legislative requirements.
 But my understanding is the 15 percent for the Oregon Department of Housing and Community Services was prescribed, but the 50 percent, 35 percent split was not legislatively required, was it? Yes, it is. Both? Yes. So that we can't alter. Correct. Correct. We have the discretion of how we spend that 50 percent and how we interpret the legislation.
 And then on the 35% that goes to affordable housing under the residential improvements and the 100% of the commercial improvements, Commissioner Salsman will be coming back with a recommendation of how those are allocated. Final question, there's a proposal that's been floated to create one or more exemptions for otherwise laudable purposes. The one that caught my attention is brownfields. And have you had a chance to evaluate that, and do you have a view on it?
 Well, it was discussed as we were presenting or preparing this for your review. We had conversations with Planning and Sustainability. We had conversations with the Portland Development Commission. And frankly, even when we did the study tour to Denver, I had conversations with Central East Side business owners about how this would factor into their work in the industrial sanctuary area. We decided to leave those out.
 and let them make their own case to be exempted from it. One of our concerns was that while there was a great deal of interest in exempting all of the economic development sites from the city, was that many of those sites are being occupied by global corporations for which a 1% construction excise tax is a negligible issue. For example, the Cascade Station property
 would have included IKEA. I'm not sure that 1% makes a difference to IKEA. So we felt that policy choice needed to be yours after you hear the testimony. And so do we have the option if the council want me? The reason I mentioned brownfields is it's the centerpiece of our industrial land strategy in the comprehensive plan that we just adopted. And one of the
 The principal barriers that we've identified to meeting that goal is the cost of reclaiming brownfields and the difficulty mixing together the financing necessary to convert brownfields to productive use. Could the Council, through this exercise, decide to carve out a discretionary exemption, unlike the ones that you have on the chart where there are certain categories that are exempt by class?
 Could we come up with a brownfield exemption that has some discretionary component where on a case-by-case basis, if you meet certain criteria, you might be eligible? Well, I think the answer to that is probably yes. Matthew might have a different opinion. Certainly the city attorney would want to probably tell you for sure. But there's nothing in the statute that would prevent you from exempting people.
 indigenous small business. I think you might want to look at the wage structure of some of the businesses that go here so that we're not inadvertently exempting businesses that are perhaps unaffected. So I know we have people waiting to testify, so I'd like to have a follow-up conversation about options for tailoring a brownfield exemption in order to advance the city's policy.
 industrial land strategy. Thank you. Any other questions? I share that desire. In fact, I have the city attorneys working on a Brownfields potential amendment, which we'll need to bring next when we have the second hearing.
 I want to go back to the issue of classifying commercial, multifamily as either commercial or residential. And I want to start out by saying that unless somebody has some reason for not dedicating 100% of the commercial to affordable housing, that's where I start from because I do believe that tax is worth less when there's a nexus between the purpose of the tax and what you use it for and what's taxed. So given that...
 Given that, and I haven't heard anybody else on the council saying that we shouldn't have 100% of the commercial going to affordable housing, although I think we have some discussion about what purposes that might be. But given that, why would we want to classify multifamily as residential when we know that that means 15% of the taxes collected in Portland will go to the state and may never come back?
 Well, we do think that the drafters intended that residential use be treated as residential property. Frankly, we didn't explain to Senator D'Ambro in drafting this bill, and some of the drafting occurred in this building, that the city of Portland processes every multifamily commercial permit as commercial rather than residential property.
 So as they worked through the details of the bill in the 32 days of the short session, I think the residential use was always intended. There's at least three references to it in the bill, which we think upholds that interpretation. The city attorney has looked at it on behalf of the council budget office, and I think that
 The recommendation is that your legislative intent in this deliberation be made clear as part of the record so that if a future council wants to discuss it, at least they have that background. Well, I think we should have some more discussion about that right now because –
 We know that at least last time I checked, 40% of Portland's property taxes never come back to the Portland area. And I'm, for one, I'm not happy about three-quarters of a million dollars a year going to do affordable housing in other parts of the state. If there's a possibility that by classifying multifamily as residential, that means that if we can keep it as commercial, that means all the money stays in Portland and all that money can be used for affordable housing.
 The other concern I have is that the ordinance says that it's for production and preservation of affordable housing, the 50% of the commercial that's not dedicated specifically by the statute.
 And I'm wondering if there's an interest from the community and on the council for including operations as a potential use, operations of affordable housing. If we pass the general obligation bond to build a lot of publicly owned homes.
 affordable housing, we're going to need money to operate it from. And so I'd be interested in allowing future councils to decide how to use that money for affordable housing and broadening it just slightly.
 I understand the point. All I would point to is that the volatility of this fund source is such that in bad years, if we're funding operations, they will put pressure on the general fund. Because if the money declines, and we know it will because it's tied to cyclical conditions,
 construction, that there will come a time when you're going to have to hedge that with the general fund, which will be the same time the general fund is under extra pressure during business losses. Yeah, but that also goes that unless – if this can't go through, that all of it has – puts pressure on the general fund. So I would suggest that there's – especially when it's not mandatory, which percentages are going to what purposes, future councils might –
 be given that option. Yeah, I think you would want to be judicious in how you apply this so you didn't create a bow wave on the general fund at a later date. I would just add, for perspective, I think there's nothing that prevents a future council from coming back at any point and saying we want to revisit how we allocate the commercial excise tax.
 between operations and capital, but I would also argue that right now the most urgent imperative need is capital. We need to get more units on the ground, either preserved or new. And so I would argue that we save the operations argument maybe for a later date and focus on new affordable housing production 100%.
 Okay. Presumably, since this is a dedicated fund, the Budget Advisory Committee of the Housing Bureau will be making a recommendation to future councils as to the allocation of the money. The Portland Housing Advisory Committee? Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
 Yes, and we'll be reporting on this in the context of the annual state of housing. So as the funding is accumulated and dispersed, we'll be counting those units and reporting in a robust manner so that you can see how we're fulfilling both our geographic and our equity goals. And even in a perfect world, the new affordable housing that might be funded by the bond that we haven't passed yet wouldn't be online for a couple of years, right? Right.
 i think i would like us to consider that at least okay more questions for kurt matthew if any all right thank you thank you very much okay so yeah panel to call yeah uh dyke dame who's a member of the portland housing advisory commission uh vivian satterfield member uh who works for opal and then jess larson of the welcome home coalition and as kurt or matthew said both uh vivian and dyke
 also serve on the panel of experts that are advising the Bureau and myself on the inclusionary zoning policies that we'll be bringing forward in the near future. So, yeah, Dyke, you want to kick things off?
 May I borrow a Kleenex from one of you guys? Loaded with Kleenex. We've got three people with colds. You guys are just waiting for the testify? I have not had a cold for ten years. I don't know whether it's the subject matter or you guys. Blame us. Blame us. We're spending more time with Dan than the rest of us, so I think we now have nailed this scientific inquiry down. Okay.
 Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak about this very important issue. I think some of us that have worked on this are pretty passionate about this. I'm going to limit my comments to the commercial excise tax component. I think the other side of it is pretty well set in stone and important.
 is not going to be interpreted much differently than what you see it before you. The key thing for me is that 96% of this commercial excise tax revenue be devoted to the production of affordable housing. The city did a great job. They worked hard with the state legislature to get inclusionary zoning done.
 Those efforts produced a bipartisan support from the state legislature, and that 96% is going to be critical in order to make inclusionary zoning work. It's our job, the city's job, all of us, to make it work, because I know from my trips to Salem, we're not going to get another shot at this. We did a pretty good job of getting this approved.
 Now it's up to us to make it work, and we can't make it work unless we got enough money. And so unless we devote all of these funds to accomplish this, we won't get the job done, and we don't have another chance to go back and ask. We're certainly not going to be able to ask some of the bipartisan support that we got on this deal. That'll be the end of it.
 Thank you, Jane. Do you have a – excuse me. I'm catching it already. Do you have some feedback on whether multifamily should be commercial or residential? Sure.
 I think if the city has already processes multifamily projects as commercial, then I guess it's commercial. I wouldn't parse it that way. I'm not looking at that side of it. I'm just looking at the resolution on the left-hand, I guess it would be the right-hand side. Where does the money go? Okay.
 And I hope it all goes to where I think it should go, and that's to affordable housing. I think we're all agreed on that. I'm just trying to get more to go to affordable housing in Portland. Can I just ask you a question? We got a couple letters from trade associations objecting to this proposal on different grounds. You're a respected developer, private, who have done commercial and residential development projects.
 What is your reaction to some of the pushback we're getting? Well, I don't know what the pushback is, but if there is some, I would speak to it this way. We all live here. We all have an obligation to help our community continue to be a good place for everybody to live. And if we're going to push people out of the city because we're unwilling or unable to all collaborate and work together and try to make things pencil and do the job,
 then we're not really doing our job as citizens, if you will. So I'm not real interested in listening to people gripe about, well, we shouldn't do this, we shouldn't do that. We've got a problem. You want to be 75 years old, get kicked out of an apartment, and have no place to go? No. And just for context, on the commercial side, you've been in the real estate business for how long? Five years.
 40-plus years, probably. In the last 40 years, has there been a period of time in Portland's history where the commercial market has been hotter and there have been more aggressive rents and profits? Well, I'm no expert, but, you know, I think your statement's probably accurate. I think that your statement is that it's as good as it's ever been right now, and we also know there's a business cycle and nothing lasts forever. So...
 I don't know if I'm answering your question or not. Thank you. Thanks very much. Vivian? Mayor, council, good afternoon. Vivian Satterfield, I'm the deputy director of Opal Environmental Justice Oregon. Opal builds power for environmental justice and civil rights in our low-income communities and communities of color. We work at the intersection of transportation, housing, and health, fighting for greater self-determination, equal protection, and access to opportunity where we live, work, play, and pray.
 I just want to give a little bit of context as for how we got here today. It's been described as being a momentous day. In the late 1990s, Metro initiated a process to really analyze a broad range of housing and land use tools to ensure both an adequate supply and equitable distribution of affordable housing across the region. At that time, they had identified inclusionary zoning as one of those potential tools.
 However, in 1999, a state prohibition passed the state legislature preventing jurisdictions from adopting policies that require housing set-asides in private developments at target income levels. In earning 15 years with rising rents and housing prices across the Portland metro region and other housing markets across the state, low and moderate income families have been increasingly pushed out to the fringes further from jobs, good schools, and healthy community centers.
 At OPAL, we first took up the issue of lifting the ban on inclusionary zoning in 2010. At the time, we were seeking for a clean lift alongside the Community Alliance of Tenants and the Center for Intercultural Organizing, now known as Unite Oregon. We led efforts through three legislative sessions, building momentum in a large and diverse coalition that brought racial, social justice, and health equity partners to the cause.
 as the lack of access to affordable, stable housing in areas of high opportunity increasingly became the number one issue for communities across the state. So with SB 1533, passed recently by the Oregon legislature, we've cracked open both inclusionary zoning and the construction excise tax. And I believe the intent all along by legislatures was that the CET be used towards affordable housing.
 I want to acknowledge, however, that with all this hard work, we are still far short of where we should be and where most other places are with IZ. And the statutory limits on the CET make it weak as well. There's an ever-increasing urgency here, both in the City of Portland to address our housing needs, as there is across the state. And I appreciate the deliberate intention to implement the CET tool as soon as legally possible to capture revenue.
 Many essential systems that serve the public are supported through impact fees by the way of SDCs, such as transportation and parks, but affordable housing doesn't have one. Collecting a construction excise tax in the midst of a booming housing market and reinvesting in our community's greatest needs is the right step to ensuring that our communities are accessible by the way of affordable homes.
 As a member of the Inclusionary Housing Panel of Experts working to provide input on the city's development process for IZ, it's good to see that the city is moving quickly on the CET, half of which is dedicated towards the incentive funds needed for when a mandatory IZ policy is adopted in the future. It's good that we are maximizing the residential side of the tax as allowed under the state statute, and we are supportive of the city's efforts to move quickly to implement this revenue source for new affordable housing production and preservation.
 On the commercial side, however, while I can understand why it's also being capped at 1%, despite having no such limitation in state statute, I remain unconvinced that we're truly maximizing this revenue source. I look forward to the findings in the upcoming nexus study and financial feasibility study in the inclusionary zoning process to see if there's a basis for a higher tax rate. Many of OPAL's members are the low-wage workers who will labor inside these new commercial buildings, yet are forced to live far from their jobs because of the lack of affordable housing.
 The impact of these developments in a hot housing market needs to be captured and maximized in every instance and quickly. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman and the team you've assembled to work on housing issues. I recognize these conversations have moved quickly, and we appreciate your leadership during a crisis time and when inaction on housing policy results in real-life consequences for individuals and families. Overall, I'd like to impress upon Council that we need a comprehensive strategy to address housing affordability.
 We need a variety of policy tools working in concert to address the full spectrum of housing needs, from ending homelessness with investments in affordable housing infrastructure to ensuring that fair housing laws are upheld so that housing discrimination ends now, in our lifetimes, and isn't passed on to future generations.
 It includes the construction excise tax, general obligation bonds, inclusionary zoning policies, and legal challenges. All the pieces need to go together for a comprehensive housing strategy because everyone deserves a safe and affordable place to call home in the city of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Jeff? Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for having us here today. It really is a momentous and exciting day to be able to talk to you about this first impact fee for affordable housing, essentially. Usually – so I'm Jess Larson with the Welcome Home Coalition. We are a coalition of over 140 organizations today. We're all the usual suspects, like the frontline workers in homeless services and the developers of affordable housing –
 but we're also neighborhood associations and healthcare workers and educators and small businesses, because as you know, our housing crisis is impacting all of us. And at Welcome Home, we're working to address the historic affordable housing crisis that has been before us.
 with our community members with the lowest incomes. And in order to address this part of the housing crisis, we know that the only solution to getting rents down to $200 and $300 and $400 a month, which is what is affordable to a senior on Social Security or a mom raising a couple of kids on a minimum wage job, the only way we can get rents at this level of affordability is by investing money.
 in the public infrastructure of affordable housing.
 and so that's what's very exciting about this day is we're for the first time saying affordable housing is part of our public infrastructure and like the infrastructure systems of parks and schools and roads we are going to make affordable we're going to add affordable housing to that list and give affordable housing its impact fee because we value it as part of the infrastructure that makes our community great for everyone and that's how we need to start building our city and i believe this is the right step
 So we at Welcome Home are calling for you to keep it 100 with the construction excise tax, and that means dedicating all 100% of this revenue to affordable housing. We're glad to hear that support. And we know this won't go the full distance. We know we have thousands of more homes that we need to be able to build, and we're going to have to ask Portland voters to support a bond measure next. Thank you.
 And we'll be calling upon you to help lead and support that effort. And when we do, we have to show voters and Portlanders that we're doing all we can with all the tools that we have. And this is the next step we need to do in making sure that the booming market is a part of the solution, as well as Portland property taxpayers. So thank you for your support. Thank you for keeping it 100.
 And we look forward to continuing this work for building back our city's infrastructure of affordable homes. Thank you. Thank you all. I do have one more question for Mr. Dame. Dyke, before you leave, you not only have done a lot of development in Portland, but you've done a lot of development on brownfield sites. Do you think there should be an exemption in this tax for brownfield development? No. And why not? No.
 There are brownfields and there are brownfields. So at some point, I would love to have a discussion with you, but I could cite you some illustrations of something that might be called a brownfield, but because of circumstances, it probably should not be treated any differently than anything else.
 And you don't – having developed projects on brownfield sites, you must not – I'll put these words in your mouth and take them or leave them – you must not think that this is going to make the difference in their feasibility. Right.
 That this 1% tax would make them infeasible to develop? Maybe I answered your question the wrong way or something. Yeah, so you think it is not going to make the difference as to whether they're developable or not? I don't think so, but you've got to be, again, I'm having difficulty getting on the same page with your question. I guess I'm trying to answer it a different way. Okay.
 So let me use an illustration. Please. If a Portland Development Commission piece of property is going to be sold to somebody, and we know that it's contaminated, but the property cannot be excavated, right? So you can't have underground parking. And the only thing, the dirt that's going to come off of there is from, let's say, auger cast piling. And it's going to get hauled to Hillsboro. Okay.
 and then you're going to submit your bill to PDC who pays it, and they're going to submit the invoice to the railroad. Do you give that a break? Yeah. I say no. That's why I said no, because there's so many different circumstances regarding these things. Let's go back. Hang on. Let's go back to over a decade to South Waterfront. People wanted to call the land that we bought a brownfield.
 Kept saying, why do you want to do that? Well, we can get a $70,000 grant if we call it a brownfield. Well, okay, we're going to build a mega million dollar project here, and we're going to hang a bad name on the dirt for you to get $70,000? Yeah.
 It didn't make sense to me then. It still doesn't make sense to me. So you've got to be very careful about spreading this thing widely over everything and say this gets a break because somehow there's a tag of brownfield on it. That's very helpful. Thank you. Can I clarify my question? I haven't seen an analysis of what the impact is. So I appreciate trying to get to a yes or no, but what I'd settle for is –
 looking at the sites that Metro has identified as brownfields by some agreed-upon definition, recognizing that in our comprehensive plan we've just committed to an extraordinarily ambitious plan of remediating those brownfields, many of which are in areas served by underrepresented communities, and also understanding that we've been told by everybody, including the legislators leading this effort, like representatives from inner northeast,
 that the only way this is ever going to work is if we come up with a financing scheme which creates adequate incentives, and that's what the legislature has been hung up trying to figure out what that is. My only interest is if we're adding an additional cost, is that going to be a barrier? And if not, are we going to end up picking it up through the back door through an incentive plan? I don't know the answers, so that's why I've asked staff to take over. I don't either. And I think your point about brownfields and brownfields is –
 It's perfectly valid. We have the benefit, though, of Metro identifying lots of brownfields that we have in turn said are brownfields and we're proposing over a period of time that they're going to be remediated. So it may be that there's not enough of a
 of a cost barrier through this tax. My question was, has anyone done an analysis so that we can evaluate that question? If they have, I don't know about that. And we all know that, you know, you don't want to hear my speech again. The world runs on Arismatech, and unless this stuff pencils, none of it works. Yeah. Thank you.
 Thank you all very much. Actually, Mayor, I have a question for the panel. First of all, Jess, as a Larry Wilmore fan, I appreciate the use of the phrase, keep it to 100, which I only learned the meaning of from Larry Wilmore. I just wanted to get the panel's reaction to something that Portland Business Alliance said in a letter they sent, which I bet you've seen, which is increasing the cost of development has a potential to further exacerbate the affordability problem we're facing in the city.
 While the tax may be used for additional affordable units, doing so at the expense of driving market rates up will not lead to a sustainable solution. Senator, I just wanted to give you an opportunity to give your take on that argument. Well, we all may have a slightly different opinion, but –
 somebody's going to pay, right? And if the person that can pay $3.10 a square foot for an apartment instead of $3, if that's what it takes to help someone in need, then they can afford to pay $3.10 a square foot for their apartment. Is there an impact? There's bound to be, because if it doesn't pencil, they're going to raise rent someplace else. Yeah.
 And I would just add that it doesn't all trickle down. We're not, the market is not building deeply affordable housing, and we can't leave it up to the market to stand aside and let the market or expect the market to be able to build these $200 and $300 and $400 apartments. We have to find the resources to invest in this public infrastructure, and this is one of them. I think the idea that there's going to be a chilling effect on the market is a lot of fluff, quite frankly. Thank you.
 Thank you all very much. Okay, let's move to the sign-up sheet, please. I think we have quite a few people signed up. Let's start taking them in turn.
 We've got 15 people signed up. Let's go use some hand sanitizer now that you've had contact with us, Dyke. Is it 15? Two or three minutes. Fifteen total, yes. I think let's – folks, if you can try to keep it to two minutes, that would be helpful. But let's try to move swiftly through this list. You've waited a while, so we want to give you a chance to speak. So go ahead, please. First three, please, coming up are Felicia Higgins, Ruth Adkins, and Amy Chow Yun.
 And they'll be followed by Tara Prince, Julie Massa, and Rhonda Polk. Good afternoon. Thank you. Mayor, commissioners, for the record, my name is Felisa Higgins. I'm the political director of the Service Employees International Union, Local 49. Thank you.
 SEIU worked diligently on this legislation in the last session, and we are very excited to be here supporting the outcome of that legislation, including the construction excise tax, and we look forward to the proposal on inclusionary zoning. Affordable housing for our members who sit right in that middle income range between the 50% to 80% of MFI is absolutely critical. Thank you.
 Those are hospital workers, state workers, janitors, and security officers. As we have seen, there's been a migration of them to the outer edges of the city as the city continues to become more and more unaffordable for those folks.
 And the transportation infrastructure to get them in and out of the city has not kept up with that unaffordability. We now operate a 24-7 city where those folks come in at 7 p.m., they leave at 3 a.m., and there's no transportation out of the city. Many of them are here for hours sleeping on benches around the city because they can't get out.
 Cassiel, Casper, I spent some time with her recently. She works at the Port of Portland. And she was homeless for six months because her landlord evicted her so that he could increase her rent. And she was unable to pay. So now she lives in a two-bedroom apartment on the edge of the city with six people.
 We think that the thousands of development, the millions of dollars in development that has come up around the city isn't keeping the jobs that can afford, frankly, the rents that have gone up. So although we're building larger and larger commercial office space, which we obviously support –
 the janitors and the security officers who clean and secure those buildings aren't making the income to then afford $70,000 in rent. Sandy McDonough from the PBA, I think, summed it up in a quote for the Oregonian, where she said that when the Portland Business Alliance said middle-income jobs in Portland are declining, at the same time, housing has become more expansive.
 where are the workers going to be? And I think the PBA and SEIU may not agree on the solution here, but we definitely agree on the problem. And so we're hoping that the council can support this proposal and the inclusionary zoning proposal coming in the fall.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Actually, you talk about members being between 50% and 80% of MFI. So would you argue that we should be comfortable allocating at least some of the money to people in the 60% to 80% range, not just 0% to 60%?
 I think that I would be comfortable with the zero to 60, but I also feel like the buy-downs that were discussed earlier on the inclusionary zoning work was a very critical piece of the legislation for us. Because what's happening is if you don't bring enough markets on on that lower income range, then higher income folks are also consuming those units. Right.
 And then you have that 60 to 80 group who is buying – or the 30 – I'm sorry, the 30 to 50 group who is stretching their incomes to buy into that 60 to 80 range because there's not enough apartments there.
 and then you have the above, and then you have that 60 to 80 stretching there and comes buying into the 80, and it sort of puts a continuous pressure on the entire market. And so we feel like if you bring any units on, some of that pressure will be lifted in all of those income ranges so that more workers can move back to closer to where they work. Thank you.
 Thank you. Jean, welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Ruth Adkins. I'm Policy Director at Oregon Opportunity Network. We're a statewide association of over 150 affordable housing and community development nonprofits, along with public housing authorities and lots of partners and advocates. And we're all working towards equitable, affordable communities across the entire state.
 So I really want to commend this entire council for the bold steps you've already taken to address the housing crisis here in the city of Portland. And we're here to ask you to continue that by supporting this proposed construction excise tax and by committing to dedicating 100% of the funds to affordable housing.
 In regard to further exemptions, we would ask that you keep with the proposal from the Housing Bureau and limit any further exemptions. This proposal already includes more than the current schools at CET, so we feel that's an appropriate level where it's at.
 And really, in general, we want to point out that it's long overdue for the parties that are seeing their profits soar due to the increase in development, the historic unprecedented boom in our city. As the crisis continues to worsen, that those folks who can will pay into a new funding source for affordable housing.
 We know that strong and equitable communities have to begin with a staunch commitment to providing affordable housing opportunities. So we're here today remembering the people who couldn't be here because they're leaving one job and heading out to another one just so they can continue to barely make ends meet. And we know that you are also going to be leading with the new general obligation bond coming to the ballot. So we're super excited to come back and support you in that.
 So, Commissioner Saltzman, we want to thank you for your fearless leadership in continuing to bring forth innovative policy solutions and much-needed funding to this crisis. Commissioner Fish, we wanted to thank for his continuing commitment to housing and ensuring that the most vulnerable members of the community have a chance. And, Rahel, we want to thank you for your continued leadership.
 We believe this vote and every vote you take on housing between now and the end of your term in office is going to be the centerpiece of your legacy. You've stepped in the front of this crisis and said that we as a city can and will do better. Thank you all, and we urge a yes vote. Thanks so much. Thanks. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor. My name is Annie Xiao, Xiao Ying Xiao, and I work at the Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization at Asian Family Center.
 At ERCO, we currently provide different kinds of housing-related direct services to immigrant and refugee families, individuals, and also the community at large.
 Some of these housing services include our mobile housing program, where the team works with other agencies to try and house those who are currently homeless. We also have a school-based housing assistance program at Earl Boyles Elementary School. And also, lastly, we have a rental assistance program where we help families pay for their rent and help them achieve stability through different means.
 And in the last reporting year, we have served 84 families in this program alone. But we know that this demand is much, much higher. Each time our rental assistant hotline opens, within 10 minutes, we receive at least 50 unique messages from different families and individuals in need of rental assistance. We just don't have enough resources to help everyone who needs it. And we simply have to turn them away.
 And because we're a wraparound service agency, all of our, over our 160 plus staff help connect clients to housing resources as needed. And we have seen a huge need for affordable housing from our staff's interaction with thousands of community members in the immigrant refugee communities. We appreciate the efforts by the city and the county through a Home for Everyone's initiative to house the homeless and adding hundreds of emergency beds in the past month so that people have a safe place to sleep at night.
 Still, what we continue to see and hear every day is families doubling up and couch surfing because they can't find affordable housing.
 Families have to move far away to find affordable housing. That causes them to be far away from their established support networks and causes their kids to have to constantly change schools. What they need is a permanent place to call home. And what we need right now is a more permanent solution, a systemic long-term strategy to create more affordable housing through the construction excise tax and dedicating 100% of it to affordable housing.
 so that our vulnerable immigrant and refugee communities can find a place to call home and do not have to be displaced and removed from their communities again and again, so that as Portland becomes a thriving city, our immigrant and refugee communities can thrive together with the city. So thank you for your support in keeping it 100. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Tara Prince, Julie Massa, and Rhonda Polk.
 They'll be followed by Brennan Mikey Brian Park and Nick Sovi. Good afternoon. Welcome Who would like to go first? Okay, you're on Thank You mayor hails and counselors for the opportunity to speak today My name is Julie Massa and for the past five and a half years as a developer for Casa of Oregon I have worked with nine groups of ambitious hard-working determined homeowners with a shared vision very similar to the oak leaf residents and
 here today. They sought to purchase the land underneath their homes, and they wanted to own and take control of their collective futures as a non-profit cooperative. Those cooperative communities thrive in nine Oregon towns and cities, and I'll name them for you. McVinville, Redmond, Gold Beach, Leiburg, Clackamas Bend, Boardman, Idlewild Park near Roseburg, and Dexter near Eugene. Notice that Portland's not on that list.
 I started when only two cooperatives existed, so I personally worked to transform seven of the nine communities into successful resident-owned manufactured home communities that own and operate their cooperative business together. I mentioned that Oakleaf residents have a shared vision for their community. As an experienced cooperative developer, I also see a tremendous opportunity
 cadre of leadership skills, courage within the existing group of Oak Leaf residents. Although that vision is still forming in the normal stages of community development, they have come so very far from the threat of losing their homes to coming to you today to request $1.5 million.
 So I think in their shared vision they see stability, cooperation, affordable space rent, pride in their community and their accomplishments, structural improvements to their home and their community, and the ability to have very local control of what they collectively own. While Oak Leaf is unique, these are the same things that the nine other communities that I've worked with saw in their vision. I'm here to ask you to grant the request for $1.5 million so that they can put their vision into action.
 like the other manufactured home communities have done. Additionally, I request that the funds come from a source that contains the maximum amount of flexibility and the least amount of restrictions.
 There are other communities that face the same threat. I want the council to be aware of that, and hopefully this request can also filter out into those communities. Please adopt Commissioner Saltzman's proposal for the CET, and these funds will help spark vision into action for this community. And thank you for your leadership. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you all for coming. Welcome. So, Commissioner, could you just give us a brief update on what's happening with the Oak Leaf, please? Well, yes.
 The owner has agreed to entertain an offer from the residents, and CASA is playing a key role in that. And we would propose that, as I said, we would not spend any of the construction excise tax until there's been an approved plan by council, except for the Oak Leaf Mobile Home Park. That's one I would recommend we move ahead on as soon as we can. And do we have to have the construction excise tax, or could we use the funds in the HIF? We could probably do that, too, but...
 one way or the other we'll get it done thank you good afternoon city council my name is tara prince i am one of the 30 families living at oak leaf since january of this year we the residents have been fighting to keep our homes that's why i'm here if city council approves this new tax the oak leaf residents have an opportunity to save their homes in december of last year i bought my home in oak leaf mobile park i'm a single mom i'm a single mom i'm a single mom i'm a single mom i'm a single mom i'm a single mom
 I moved here to Portland to the Oakleaf residence to build a foundation for myself and my boys, which is something I never had. After a month after purchasing my home, we were all told that we were about ready to lose our homes. Most people facing this kind of loss would give up, but we Oakleaf residents have stood up and are not giving up. Oakleaf residents are hardworking families, seniors, vets, and people with disabilities.
 the threat of losing our homes along with our daily struggles would breed chaos i have seen the exact opposite though our oak leaf community has formed formed a bond that i feel is empowering and growing daily i have seen my neighbors take pride in our park and now have a new confidence i recently obtained my first management position and now i feel like i can give my children a better life having having a stable home means i can succeed so again that's why i'm here
 We, the Oak Leaf residents, are fighting for our homes, and you, City Council, have an opportunity to help us do that. So thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, my name is Rhonda Polk. I am a resident. Rhonda, just move the mic a little closer to you so we can hear you. Thank you. My name is Rhonda Polk. I'm a resident at the Oak Leaf, and a single mother as well. And we're just appreciative that you guys are taking the time to support us in this as much as you have, and we want the opportunity to show the community that
 We as a community in itself want to be shown better than what has been in the past of the oak leaf. We want to make it look like the images that we have. As far as trailer parks go, people have a negative opinion of them in general. We want the opportunity to show the community that we're not that negative. We have a beautiful image of what we want to share with the community. And so we just want to say thank you again for your support in helping us with this.
 Thank you. And you have, as a group, done an amazing job of organizing. So the fact that you are at this place with support here at the city and a lot of other folks behind you is really because you've done such a great job of coming together as a community. So no one can fail to be impressed by what you've done. I'm certainly impressed. So we appreciate you as Portlanders. Thank you very much. Julie, can I ask a quick question? Yeah. 30 families? And 30 families, how many children total? I don't know.
 I have 12. 12? 12. I have two. I have two. Twelve kids. And they're all school-aged kids? Yes. And infant. And infant. I have a two-year-old. I have two teenagers. But they're mostly school-aged kids? Yes. And what we know is that kids that have to move a lot, it's very disruptive to their
 So a compelling reason to provide some stability is so kids can continue to go to school and have that continuity. My whole knowledge is, because my school was here, I was born here in 55. My school is not there. My elementary school has changed since I moved to Panara. They're not. And my high school is no longer on 42nd and killing verse. There's been a lot of changes in my life in 60 years. The trailer park's been magnificent.
 I became a senior and it fits into my budget due to my disability. I get disability checks once a month. It allows me to be just like everyone else. So we need low housing. We need it here in Portland. Because I can't even say I want to go camping. We love camping. We're insulting someone because they're homeless. You know, it's a sad thing.
 Mayor, just one other point. Mayor, you've pushed the envelope on sustainability during your tenure and laid out a vision of a green and sustainable Portland. I hope that when this trailer community, park community, is saved and preserved, the city can look at this holistically perhaps as a test case of how we can bring our whole toolkit to bear.
 to help create a healthier more sustainable community within a trailer park community yeah that's great well good work i bet we haven't seen the last of this group thank you very much yeah you're right
 become, it ain't just the open. I lived in Pertinall, I lived in the old Pender Park, and I lived in Oakland. Yeah, good point. Thank you. My mom was a single mom. Thanks very much, everybody. Bless you guys. Amen. I just want to say I was so happy to see all you guys here because all of you are angels in your own rights. I've watched what you guys have been doing in your works here and there. And to see all you on one panel
 Thank you. Nice of you guys. Would you consider coming back on a weekly basis? Yeah, it doesn't usually get this good. We don't hear from enough people like you, so we appreciate that. Wow, okay. I'm not sure who wants to follow that, but three people get to do that. The next three are Brennan Meinke, Brian Park, and Nick Sovey, and they'll be followed by Mr. Lightning, Missy Baxter, and Bev Logan. All right.
 Members of the Council, thank you for the opportunity to speak here today. My name is Brennan Minky. I'm co-chair of the Affordable Housing Research Action Team with the Metropolitan Alliance for Common Good. MACG is made up of more than two dozen labor, faith, nonprofit, and health equity institutions that work together to bring about change in our community. MACG members and leaders, will you please stand? It's not Oak Leaf, but we brought some people. Good turnout. Good turnout.
 our members hail from all across portland they're as diverse as our city but the one thing that we've heard again and again as you have cutting across geographic and social boundaries is that the cost of housing in portland is too high you know this as well as anyone you've declared a state of emergency and we thank you for the commitment you've shown in taking concrete steps to ease our housing crisis but despite the gains made in the past year both locally with the increase in tiff funding which we thank you for your support on
 And at the state level, with the loosening of the inclusionary zoning restrictions, the housing situation here in Portland continues to worsen. The water is still rising, the gap is still widening, and that state of emergency continues. There are other needs in Portland beyond housing, and we recognize that. But in a crisis, one must address the most critical needs first.
 In Portland, that need is clear, and so we strongly support Commissioner Saltzman's proposal to allocate 100% of the construction excise tax money to housing. The money generated by the CET can't make up the difference, as you've noted, but it can help fill in gaps in our affordable housing infrastructure. Many Portlanders cannot afford the workforce housing that inclusionary zoning is designed to provide, and most Portlanders do not live in an urban renewal area eligible for TIF funding.
 We must provide housing opportunities for all Portlanders, and especially those most vulnerable between 0 and 60 percent. The CE tax, the construction excise tax will help with that, and we must continue to explore the innovative approaches like we've seen with the Oakleaf community here. So thank you for all the work you've been doing, and we look forward to working with you in the future. Thank you. Welcome. Member?
 Members of the Council, thank you so much for having us today. My name is Brian Park. I'm a family medicine and preventive medicine resident at the Oregon Health and Science University. Sorry to hear that you all are sick. I'd offer you my services, but I think that could be construed as a conflict of interest possibly. But I work and train at OHSU Richmond Clinic, which is a community health center that serves as a safety net clinic for
 for the Southeast Portland neighborhood. And we treat all patients regardless of their insurance, income, and background. And that really is a fabric of our identity, both in the clinic and certainly a fabric of my identity as a provider as well.
 I really love what I do, the relationships that I get to form with my patients over the weeks and months and now years, and the privilege to work with them through some of the most troubling parts of their lives. As I progress in my residency training, however, I am struck repeatedly by how health care does not occur solely within the walls of the clinic or at the exam room, but largely outside the clinic walls.
 and i thought this just last week when i saw a patient of mine his name is david over at richmond i met david during my first month of residency two years ago now and in that time david has been to the emergency room 14 times for a bad skin infection in his foot that he is predisposed to because of his diabetes and i'm a little bit embarrassed to reveal to you that it wasn't until after his fourth emergency department visit that i thought to ask him point blank what you're all likely wondering already which is
 David, why all these infections? Brian, he said, you keep asking me to take my insulin and keep my leg elevated. Now, how am I supposed to do that when I have, how am I supposed to keep my insulin refrigerated and keep my leg up when I'm sleeping out on the streets?
 David is really special, dear, and unique to me, but in a way I also have many patients like David, whose life circumstances preclude them from living happy and healthy lives. And these circumstances are so entangled with what we do in medicine, we call them the social determinants of health, that a colleague at the Richmond Clinic and I started an initiative to organize patients and community partners to better identify and address these social determinants.
 In organizing meetings with over 60 patients just this past year, we quickly found that the most prevalent and significant influence in the health and lives of our patients is lack of secure and affordable housing.
 This overwhelming need for stable housing in our community resonated with us, so much so that we went and asked our Department of Family Medicine over at OHSU to join MACG as a member institution, and so that we residents could better understand the social determinants that affect our patients here in Portland. And I'm glad to say that the department quickly agreed to that. So I understand the irony of me as a medical provider sitting in front of you today asking individuals outside the healthcare sector to keep our patients healthy.
 But I hope you'll also see that your policy decisions directly impact the social determinants of health for many Portlanders. And I want to empower you with that truth. You shape policies that can forge and uphold a just society. And in a truly just society, we can all pursue health, wellness, and happiness. So here I sit in front of you asking you to help us, help David, help Portland.
 by maximizing the funds for affordable housing. Thank you. Thank you. Nick, welcome. Mayor Hales and City Council, thank you for what you've done and what you will do to promote affordable housing here in Portland. I'm Nick Sovey. I'm the Director of Rose Community Development here
 And I'm the co-chair of the East Portland Action Plan Housing Subcommittee. At our EPAP Housing Subcommittee meeting this week, we voted to support 100% of the construction excise tax going to affordable housing. And I hope you'll pass that today.
 resources for affordable housing are an important part of East Portland's anti-displacement strategy. Rose is doing a project called Baby Booster now to support pregnant women and families with young children because that helps them in their lifelong health. And when we talk to parents in the neighborhood, what they tell us is we need more affordable housing. That's what we can do to promote healthy babies.
 If you need another reason to vote for this, I'm just reading a book called Evicted, and it's just a horror story of what happens when we don't have affordable housing in our city. So I hope you'll vote today to adopt the Construction Access Tax and devote 100% of that to affordable housing. Thanks very much. Thank you.
 Do you have any comments about whether multifamily should be commercial or residential? I mean, it's your call. I understand the argument that we could keep the money here in Portland, and I think that's a really compelling argument. Thank you. Nick, just two other points.
 We'd never like to disappoint you, but today's our first reading, so it's going to go over to our second reading. We're not withholding the vote. Rome wasn't built in a day. And just I don't want to speak for my colleagues, but there has been a tremendous amount of effective lobbying advocacy work on this, and my sense is that there's now strong support up here for the 100 percent dedication.
 So I know you want to reinforce that and make sure that we don't backtrack from that, but my sense is that that now enjoys strong support on this side. Thank you for all your good work. Thank you. Thank you all very much. The next three are Lightning Watchdog PDX, Missy Baxter, and Bev Logan, and they'll be followed by the last three who signed up, Sarah Farmer, Marion Haynes, and Emerald Bogue. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Lightning with Lightning Watchdog PDX. I was a little hesitant on this at the beginning, but after listening to Mr. Dame and also knowing Homer Williams would be at agreement on this, I definitely give it a yes and support this. A couple disagreements I have with Mr. Dame is I would like to also see the brownfield exemption put into place. We do need to offer more incentives on these type of more challenging properties,
 And again, why I was hesitant on this at the beginning is I prefer to have more incentives to the developers. I'm always hesitant on anything mandatory, exclusionary zoning. But again, I've changed my mind. If Mr. Dame agrees with that and the developers don't have an issue, then why not? Absolutely. Now, another commitment I hope that Mr. Dame and Homer Williams will stand by is their proposal on the $100 million homeless campus.
 I hope that the city will also understand that they need to step forward on that Northwest Front Avenue property. Be reasonable. Don't sell it to them like your PDC director wanted to buy that property out of Troutdale. Be reasonable on your assessment of values and use the public taxpayer's dollars reasonably. Do not take advantage of them. And the only other issue, again, like I say, is that Mr. Salzman, don't get too aggressive on that obligation bond.
 Stay around $100 million. Do not get overly aggressive. Commissioner Novick understood what happens when you do that. Thank you. Lightning, can I just point out that...
 uh as the commissioner in charge of the bureau that uh owns that that currently owns uh what we call t1 terminal one north yes um i want to be clear and i'll issue i'm issuing a memo tomorrow that will be a public record and it'll state uh more clearly i fully support the vision that mr that homer williams has put out there joining with a lot of other people in the community who applauded him for his private sector leadership and willingness to bring
 private dollars to support this effort, because this would be a sea change in terms of the amount of private investment. And I'm going to lay out in a memo what are the legal and practical obstacles to using T1, and I'll let – for the purpose of letting people like you and others make your own judgment, and I want it to be as transparent as possible. Thank you.
 If there's a path, I'd like to know what it is. I think when you see the full array of challenges at that site, including the zoning and the comp plan and the ownership and some other legal issues, it will give you a full picture to make your own judgment as to whether that's the appropriate location. And if I might just add real fast, Mr. Dame and Mr. Williams have the potential to do
 deals that very few people could ever do in this city. So I have the utmost confidence in them putting this deal together if that's the direction they want to go. And I hope City Hall will work with them and understand this is important to see this happen. Thank you. Thank you. Malcolm, good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Council Members, for your support and the chance to speak today. My name is Beverly Logan, and I'm a leader with Metropolitan Alliance for Common Good. Thank you.
 MACG leaders and others have testified about our position on the issues before you today and some of the reasons why we believe 100% of the commercial construction excise tax should be devoted to affordable housing. I want to speak more directly, though, to why the construction excise rates should be established at no less than 1%.
 more if possible, for both residential and commercial construction, lest anyone suggest a lesser rate. And it sounds like industry folks have already offered some resistance to that idea. For 17 years, a ban on inclusionary zoning prevented construction of affordable housing on any meaningful scale in any city in our state. That ban has a large share of responsibility for the housing crisis that we stagger under today.
 It was put in place in the interests of industry lobbies at the expense of our communities. This year, our legislature considered a bill to finally lift the ban on IZ. MACG testified in support of that bill, as did the city of Portland and every other jurisdiction in Oregon who testified, along with a broad spectrum of other community nonprofits, all of whom feel the crushing effects of the housing crisis on the people and communities we serve.
 It's important here to recognize that some developers, we heard from one, responsible developers also went out of their way to testify in support of lifting that ban, the bill in its original form. So we were distressed to see a decent bill loaded up with amendments, weakened and constrained from accomplishing the good that was intended originally, and
 The final legislation seemed, according to testimony in those hearings and questioning from Senate Finance Committee members, the bill seemed to have, in its final form, seemed to have been shaped largely, again, in the interests of industry lobbies, in strong-arm deals without the presence of virtually any community voice. Groups like ours were forced to hold our noses and urge passage of the legislation anyway, in favor of getting the chance for a little more affordable housing rather than no improvement at all.
 The bright spot, though, in the IZ compromises was the ability to institute a construction excise tax and have some way to pay for affordable units for people earning below 80% of median family income, for which the final IZ legislation made no provision at all.
 We urge you to ensure that here in Portland, no powerful industry interests will bring the CET rates to any level below 1%. The home builders and realtors lobbies already have their way with the state legislation, hampering our ability to begin closing the gap of dire need for more affordable housing. We hope you'll draw a line for Portlanders and provide courage to other communities.
 by establishing both residential and commercial CET rates at the maximum possible and with no additional exemptions. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Keep it 100. Thank you. Others? The last three who signed up are Sarah Farmer, Marion Haynes, and Emerald Boag. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Councilmembers. My name is Marion Haines, and I am with the Portland Business Alliance.
 We represent nearly 1,900 businesses in the region. We couldn't agree more that housing affordability is an absolutely critical issue facing the city right now. It's a challenge, as you heard, not only for individuals and families, but it is a growing challenge for businesses as well who need to attract and retain a qualified workforce for whom having to live so far from where you work can make things really difficult.
 Couldn't agree more that this is something that we need to address. We did work on and support the inclusionary zoning bill, which the construction excise tax is a part of. Our main effort there was to ensure that there are incentives that relate to the requirement for inclusionary zoning.
 wasn't so much to achieve absolute proportionality, but we know that if the balance is not struck correctly, that it could limit the amount of development that would actually go forward. It's math, really, and it's a science.
 simple as math. So it doesn't all have to be financial incentives. That was one of the pieces in the bill, and that question came up earlier. There's different kinds of incentives that can be brought to bear, but those pieces are important to making those developments pencil and move forward so that we don't inadvertently exacerbate our situation because a lot of what we have, as we heard, is a supply problem.
 So we do not object to the construction excise tax per se. We would prefer that we looked at it a little bit more closely and took the time to do so in conjunction with some of the other things that are being developed and proposed, like the inclusionary zoning program, like transportation to man management fees, and all of these things are interrelated and come into play when you're doing that math equation, looking at your development.
 So, that is our preference. There are, when you look at some of these things together, if the inclusionary doesn't have the appropriate incentives without an incentive, you could see rents go up 15 percent and more people forced into needing an affordable home that needs support rather than just being able to afford the market rate on their own.
 That is our preference. We do also would be very interested in the brownfield discussion that you are having. I think converting those lands back into productive use, often industrial use and things that do contribute to family wage jobs so that people can afford a home. Karen, can I just follow up with one question? I understand the reservations you've identified.
 Do you, though, support the focus of Dan's legislation that says the money should be targeted at 60 percent and below? Putting aside the question of whether you think it will have an unintended consequence in terms of exacerbating some market conditions, do you support the focus of taking the revenue and applying it to where the greatest need is at 60 and below?
 Think that's the answer is a little bit complicated I would say I think that part of our preference in looking at this more broadly with the inclusionary zoning is Whether the 50% of the residential Component of the construction as excise tax is sufficient in order to make the inclusionary program successful. I
 So I think that's one piece that needs to be looked at. Generally, I recognize that there is a large need there. We've always been concerned about the middle income portion that there is a need for as well. And so it's something that we haven't had the time or the ability or the data to really look at in a comprehensive way. And that's really our point, that we don't object to this. We'd like to spend a little bit more time structuring it and understanding how all the different components fit together.
 I appreciate you raising the question of context. I did in my due diligence in thinking about this proposal. I was looking at a Group McKenzie report on total development costs. You know, we're in a good place with or without this additional cost, given the data that they found. For example, an $11 million warehouse project in Hillsboro would pay $1 million in fees in Tualatin, $1 million.
 and Wilsonville, again, over $1,800,000 in Woodburn, and $573,000 in Portland. So we have an enormous cost advantage, $2.80 a square foot versus $5.25 against the suburbs for that project. Similar numbers for a multi-tenant mixed-use project where we're at $11.52 a square foot versus $18.00 in Woodburn.
 beaverton and 19 in sherwood so the total cost of development in the city really reflecting the fact that we're more compact and we don't have to build miles of roads out into fields
 is now really starting to manifest itself, which is maybe one of the reasons why our vacancy rates are so low. So I think it's certainly an environment in which we can bear this cost and still be market competitive. But I think it's good that you raised the context question. Mayor, I got an irate email the other day from a gentleman who was very critical of the fact that we had sent him a notice of his opportunity to get a water quality report from the Water Bureau. And in his notice back, he said,
 He was outraged that we would waste taxpayer money sending it to him because he no longer lives in Portland. And in order to escape the outrageously high water rates, he had moved to Lake Oswego. Oops. And so I sent him a very polite response, and I said, thank you for bringing to our attention that we may have sent the notice to the wrong address, although we actually do have people in Lake Oswego who are part of our service district. But I didn't want to argue the point. And I said in my response, I'm sure there are many good reasons to live in Lake Oswego.
 But I regret to inform you that you're paying more for your water in Lake Oswego than you are in Portland. Yep. Thanks, Marion. Actually, I did have one question. Marion, in Sandy McDonough's letter to Commissioner Saltzman, it says that the alliance urges an overall dollar cap be added to the non-residential CET.
 And what that would mean potentially is that whereas we'd have a 1% tax for most non-residential developments, if it's a really humongous development, then it might be a half a percent tax. And I just wanted to ask you, if you were us, how would you justify giving special treatment to humongousness? Commissioner Novick.
 Every other construction excise tax that has been enacted in this area, the Portland Public Schools construction excise tax and the Metro construction excise tax, has adopted a dollar cap on the non-residential component. And I think that is an acknowledgment that we continue to want to create jobs.
 and that some of the commercial developments that do that and bring good, high-paying jobs into the area are substantial amounts of money for those developments, far more than you would see in any typical business.
 residential or mixed-use kind of environment. So I wouldn't suggest that that cap is tapped at the same place where they did for the schools or for the metro construction tax, but I think that was the acknowledgement of both of them, and we think that there's some value to exploring that and being able to, if we had the full context and knew some of the costs of
 of the developments and the potential that were coming here, we could better understand that and discuss it. But is the argument that the biggest projects are more effective in terms of job creation...
 so like a percent dollar per dollar basis not necessarily um and i think what we suggested in the letter is that this should be explored um and and it sort of goes to the other pieces of my testimony that i think all of these things need to be looked at in totality and i appreciate what mayor hale said i've seen that report from group mckenzie myself i think there's
 other costs and fees associated with the City of Portland that drive up the costs. I think there's other benefits and amenities to developing and locating in the City of Portland that make it beneficial for people who want to do that. I think ultimately when you're looking at these issues, they were very complicated. The property tax bond, the inclusionary zoning, the construction excise tax, demand management fees.
 changes to far bonus systems changes in heights and different things like that that were contained in the comprehensive plan are complicated and they and they come together when somebody's looking at a potential development and wanting to just fully understand that is really was really our objective in our comments not that we have any fundamental opposition to a Support for affordable housing, which we agree is a tremendous need in the city. Thank you
 Welcome. Hello. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Emerald Bogue, and I'm with the Port of Portland. I think all of you received a letter from our Deputy Director applauding your leadership on the topic and asking for a couple of considerations. I'm not going to spend time going through that today. I just want to call out specifically appreciation for the desire to take a deeper look at brownfields.
 and call out a little bit of confusion that I felt was illustrated earlier around industrial land and brownfields. And coming out of the comp plan process, I can understand the gray area there. Certainly the city is looking to...
 Brownfield does as a big part of the industrial land supply. But for the sake of a consideration as an exemption here, these are pretty different things. Brownfields right now are polluted pieces of property that are doing nothing for your tax rolls, nothing at all. And just from the 30,000-foot level, there's a couple different types of brownfield. There's a brownfield where the cost of a cleanup...
 greatly exceeds the market value, or maybe you're at a break-even point. And then there's a brownfield where, you know, the market value might be more than the cost of a cleanup. And in that case, the private market tends to pick it up.
 But where government has to work really hard is in the first example, where we have to really look hard at incentives toward developing these properties. And these properties are not – they don't tend to be prime real estate, right? They tend to be in neighborhoods that need it the most. So I really encourage you to take a closer look at this, and we're happy to offer some of our technical experts who have a lot of experience in this. Emma?
 Emerald, I heard Dyke essentially say there's good brownfields and bad brownfields, I mean, to really overly generalize. And to be clear, and I don't know what Commissioner Fritz is planning, but I'd like to get all of our heads together, what I'm interested in is on the good brownfields,
 where there is a compelling public interest in providing an array of subsidies to jumpstart the development so that, let's say, a brownfield that's in Representative, now State Senator, Lou Frederick's district that has been an environmental justice issue for too long and could be converted to productive use, creating economic opportunity.
 that we not inadvertently put another barrier in the way of accomplishing that goal now we've set big goals in our comp plan about brownfields so that's why so i'm interested in the good brownfields
 and the ones in which the barrier to moving on this has been the inability to come up with a package of incentives in Salem that get buy-in. And one of the objections, of course, is some of our environmental friends believe that polluters should pay, and they object to the idea of a subsidy. But if we're now essentially on the clock to get these brownfields into productive use to comply with the comp plan, I want to make sure that on the good brownfields this doesn't become another obstacle.
 Yes, and we share that interest. And, you know, the legislature has granted us a couple tools that we can use, tax abatement and land banking. And I think that there's a coalition working on how do you apply these things? How does that work? And there's certainly no shortage of brownfields.
 One particular challenge that the city will need to look at in this scenario is defining a brownfield appropriately to make sure that not anyone could just say, hey, I'm a brownfield. I'm exempt. That's why. You want to look really carefully at a definition. And our attorney, who works on this really closely in-house, crafted some language that he thinks gets you there. Because what you don't want to do, you want to reward the people who are doing something with brownfields, who are cleaning them up. So we want to...
 consent action here. That's why I'm also, I would be open to the idea that we set some criteria and provide an opportunity for someone to seek an exemption if they meet the criteria, rather than trying to get into the morass of defining every possible contingency. That's great. We'd be happy to help. Yeah, if you could send us your proposed language, that'd be really helpful. Of course. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you both. Anyone else? Yes.
 If not, then let's get some questions for staff, and then we'll bring this hearing to a close. This comes back for a vote next week. Is it next week or the week after? I think it's next week, right? Is it next week? It'll come back next week. We're holding each other right now. Yeah, whatever your preference is. Come on up, Kurt. How may I help? Thank you.
 Well, first, you've helped by providing a really clear framework for our consideration and outstanding testimony, so thank you for that. And what I just want to better understand is if there is interest in exploring, let's say, some kind of discretionary exemption for brownfields,
 What's the timeline for us to bring that forward? Does it have to be done by next week when this comes up for a second reading? Can that be carved out for further consideration and brought back later? What advice do you have for us?
 Well, it's probably a city attorney question, frankly, but this is scheduled to go into effect on August 1st. So transactions at the BDS counter would start to take effect on August 1st. If someone were to best of.
 Well, with someone who were to apply for a construction permit, not a grading permit, because we parsed out grading permits and demolition permits. But if someone were vesting and applying for an actual construction permit, this would apply beginning of August 1st. If they were applied for a grading permit or a demolition permit, it wouldn't apply. So it really depends on where they are in that process. Okay.
 The exemption would have to be in place, I think, upon enactment for it to apply unless you were in some way able to consider a rebate or something like that. We have to figure that out. Why did you pick August 1st rather than July 1st? Well, I think there was the –
 I think Matthew is approaching us. It was a timing issue with all of the changes that are happening to the track system in advance of the SDC increases. BDS needed additional time, roughly a year.
 four to five weeks to make the adjustments to the system. And from a transactional standpoint, the preference of BDS is that new fees, taxes, or increases occur on the first of the month. Right. No, that makes sense. Thank you. This is like a sick ward looking down here with all this Kleenex. Can I make a suggestion? Perhaps in the next couple days, Kurt, you and Dan can –
 determine whether there's a strong enough sense of the council to explore this issue. Obviously, there'd have to be at least three motivated people. And then what are the options for either seeking to get some language now or a placeholder, and then thinking it through? My guess is there aren't a lot of people in the queue right now.
 are going to be doing brownfield work as of August 1st. I mean, the last project BES did took 10 years, and these things are few and far between, and there's enormous obstacles. But we could get a sense of whether there's an appetite for such an exemption and then what our options are. And the other thing I just want to preview is that, while I really appreciate that at the appropriate time, the Bureau's going to come forward with a menu of options for how to spend the new money,
 I hope that in the preparation of a recommendation to Council, we go back to the very stark number you gave us earlier, that of the 24,000 units that were short that you've identified, that's not including the additional 10,000 over the life of the comp plan and the growing number annually that were short. Thank you.
 I hope we take into account that 17,530 of those or more than three-quarters are for households that are really struggling at the very low end. And so I'll be looking for, if not a strict proportional allocation, a substantial investment in meeting those needs.
 that the challenge you face is that that housing to serve people who are very poor requires subsidies through services in addition to the additional costs of developing. I know there's a tradeoff in terms of units built and the cost structure, but
 because the need is so graphic i want to make sure that these new dollars which which you and dan should be congratulated for leading us uh to this point and achieving new new funds goes to where the where the greatest need is i pulled the the chart of incomes and for those people that don't live with this data on a regular basis i think it's worth mentioning that
 You know, a couple at 30 percent of median income has got an income of $17,600.
 family of four, 22,000. So these folks have income. In fact, a single person at 30% of AMI would have $15,400. That's a full-time minimum wage worker. Indeed, it is. And if you're on Social Security, you're going to be more like 13% of the area median. So when we talk about this classification, it encompasses a lot of real people who
 who are struggling, obviously, not just to pay rent but to cover other daily expenses. So we are mindful of that, and we'll take that into consideration.
 And next week still makes sense for you? Yeah. Sorry. Go ahead. I want to come back to this issue of classifying multifamily as residential or commercial because the $778,000 on the line that I would prefer to keep in Portland rather than to go back to the state unless that's specific. I'd like to be able to have the opportunity to talk with Speaker Kotick and the sponsors of the resolution. My understanding is the industry standard is the multifamily is commercial
 And that gives us not only $778,000 a year more to spend in Portland, it's more flexible than the dollars in the residential bucket. So I don't know why we would not want to do that. Well, I guess, I mean, that's a legitimate point of view to pursue. And, you know, we can seek more clarity from the legislative leaders. But I guess I also just want to harken back to the legislative debate and remind us that at any time, Portland could have,
 bailed out of this statewide solution, and we could have gotten a Portland-only solution. And I resisted that because I feel that this crisis is truly a statewide solution. And so I don't feel bad about 15% of the 1% of the residential going to statewide affordability because it truly is. We're all in this together, so that's just my own perspective on it. Yeah, and 40% of our taxes already go outside of Portland and don't come back.
 So I'd just like the opportunity to come back next week after having had some conversations to see, you know, and if other jurisdictions are making their multifamily commercial rather than residential, then probably we should do what everybody else is doing.
 They're all waiting for us. All right. Yeah, I would also mention that the schools that levy construction excise tax do it by use. So that precedent has already been established. The permit is by permit category, but the occupancy is how the schools levy their tax, by occupancy type, residential versus commercial type.
 a question i'd like to ask the city attorney is does it matter to the interpretation of state law what characterization we put on it it seems to me that state law is what state law is and whatever we call um multi-family housing here shouldn't have an effect on what that is i mean so what i would guess is that
 We can call it whatever we want, and then we can ask for a clarification of legally what we're required to do. And do we have to pay that 15 percent? Or we might decide we choose to send the state 15 percent, if that makes sense, I guess. But I wonder whether it really makes a difference what we call it. Let's research that question. There's a lot of money on the line. Okay. So we're going to return to those questions as well next week and bring this back for a second reading and a potential amendment next week. Okay.
 Thank you all very much. We conclude this item, and we're adjourned until next week. Good job, Dan.