Okay. Thank you. Do they have copies of them up? No. All right. Oh, sure. All set? Okay.
 Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the June 10th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone. We have some celebrations, proclamations, and communications up front. Our council calendar involves sometimes...
 mayoral proclamations about people or issues that we care about, and that's part of our agenda this morning. Then we have five people signed up to speak to the council, and then we'll talk about the regular council agenda after that. So let's start, please, with a proclamation that Commissioner Novick would like to introduce.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and I do have a proclamation to read, but I have a whole bunch of other stuff to say first, so get comfortable. I've ordered, the council has ordered to host a day of recognition and appreciation for Midge Purcell, who for nearly 10 years has served as the Urban League of Portland's Director of Advocacy and Public Policy. Midge, along with her husband, is returning to the United Kingdom, where she previously worked as a social justice organizer and where her son and daughter now live.
 Since 2005, Mitch Purcell has led the Urban League of Portland's work on community organizing, civic engagement, and social policy advocacy. During her tenure, she spearheaded the State of Black Oregon Report and coordinated the Urban League's efforts to implement the report's policy recommendations on employment, education, health equity, housing, child welfare, and criminal justice.
 The State of Black Oregon wasn't published simply to chronicle the persistent disparities that African Americans experience in this city and throughout this state. No, Midge Purcell is a woman of action, a leader and a true believer that we can and must do better to build a thriving community for all of us and our families. The State of Black Oregon is a roadmap for action.
 In his introduction to the 2009 State of Black Oregon report, Marcus Mundy, former executive director of the Urban League, describes the report as, quote, a bold policy agenda unveiled in the depths of a severe recession and said that we must empower all our children here in Oregon with that knowledge and with the tools they need to put it to work.
 Midge Purcell led much of that work on many of the Urban League's initiatives over these last 10 years. And a lot of Midge's work has directly affected the City of Portland and has challenged us to institute policies and practices to improve workforce and community equity. Under her leadership, the Urban League was a founding member of the Diversity and Civic Leadership Partnership within the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. And I think that we have Amalia Alarcón de Morris here to say a little bit about that later on.
 The Diversity in Civic Leadership Partnership pioneered community engagement and leadership development for communities of color, which are underrepresented within Portland's traditional neighborhood involvement structures.
 To support the DCL, Midge established the Social Justice and Civic Leadership Program that has trained and supported nearly 200 community leaders, many of whom have gone on to make considerable contributions to boards, commissions, and other leadership roles within organizations and make changes within the county, regional, and regional governments in the state legislature. During her time in Portland, Midge was also a founding member of the Public Involvement Advisory Council,
 She helped develop guidelines and policy recommendations for citywide public involvement and provided support and advice to the city on implementing shared public involvement guidelines and best practices. Midge was the convener of the Partnership for Racial Equity in the City of Portland, which produced the Racial Equity Strategy Guide. This guide was integral to the formation of the Office of Equity and Human Rights and is increasingly used in city bureaus and regional government to help craft racial equity policies and practices.
 Most recently, Midge's work with the city has been around initiatives to improve employment opportunities for those with criminal histories and ongoing efforts to increase the minimum wage and efforts to improve workforce equity. I also want to thank Midge for her support around our initiative to implement a socially responsible investment policy for the city of Portland. In the state legislature, Midge was part of efforts to raise the visibility of communities of color and their issues in the state legislative process. Midge is the founder of the Racial Equity Report Card Project.
 which tracks legislative progress on racial justice issues in the state legislature. The report was produced by a coalition of organizations, including the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, Basic Rights Education Fund, COUSA, the Center for Intercultural Organizing, the Partnership for Safety and Justice, the Western State Center, and, of course, the Urban League of Portland.
 Midge is also an integral to coalition efforts such as the Oregon Health Equity Alliance and Fair Shot Coalition that have made a significant impact on the rollout of Oregon's health care reform by elevating equity and promoting cultural competency training for Oregon's health care providers. Finally, Midge is a humble leader whose urgency and passion is infectious. Midge has been at the forefront of Portland's movement to create an equitable and sustainable community for all Portlanders and Oregonians.
 I'd like to close, well, not quite close, but a comment that Mitch made back in 2012 right here in these council chambers. In reflecting on the tremendous outreach effort that led to the Portland plan, Mitch said, Portland is going to look very different in 25 years, one way or another. We have a choice. Either we leave communities behind and we allow poverty, poor health, and social and economic disparities to worsen,
 or we build a city that hundreds of Portlanders said they wanted to see, where everyone has the opportunity to prosper and contribute to a creative, innovative, and globally successful city. I am inspired by Midge's vision and hope that we can all commit to continuing to build that community where everyone has the opportunity to prosper. Finally, I have to say that I think today represents the fifth great moment in U.S.-British relations.
 We won the first round in the 1770s and 1780s. Then we took over as the dominant world power after World War II. Then the British invasion in the 1960s represented a step forward for Britain and a step back for the United States as their music took over. Then we won a round when we got Amanda Fritz to move to the United States. Hmm.
 But now today, they went around, they won two out of the last three, I guess they're coming back. Thank you, Mitch. And now, the official proclamation. Whereas, the Urban League of Portland was established in 1945 to empower African Americans and other Oregonians to achieve equality in education, employment, and economic security.
 And whereas, Midge Purcell has advanced this mission during her tenure as the Urban League of Portland's Director of Advocacy and Public Policy. And whereas, at the Urban League of Portland, Midge Purcell has led the organization's work on community organizing, civic engagement, and social policy advocacy. And Midge has also established the Social Justice and Civic Leadership Program that has trained and supported nearly 200 community leaders, many of whom have gone on to make considerable contributions to boards and commissions and assume other leadership roles throughout the state of Oregon.
 And whereas, Mitch Purcell spearheaded the seminal 2009 State of Black Oregon Report, which sparked the exponential growth of a social justice dialogue in Portland, and guided the publication of the second State of Black Oregon Report, released in 2015, which provides an important update and a roadmap to address longstanding inequities in our city and state.
 And whereas, Midge Purcell has coordinated the Urban League of Portland's efforts to implement the report's policy recommendations on the intersection of issues affecting the well-being and progress of black communities, including employment, education, health equity, housing, child welfare, and criminal justice. And whereas, Midge Purcell convened the Partnership for Racial Equity at the City of Portland, which produced the Racial Equity Strategy Guide that is increasingly used by city bureaus and regional government to help craft racial equity policies.
 And whereas, Mitch Purcell founded the Racial Equity Report Card Project that tracks and evaluates legislative progress on racial justice issues in the Oregon State Legislature. And whereas, through her endless energy, vision, and demand for social justice, Mitch Purcell has inspired a new generation of community leaders and social justice advocates committed to the civic participation and forward thinking needed to ensure Portland's socially sustainable future.
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, do hereby proclaim June 10, 2015 to be Midge Purcell Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. You're here. Midge, we're going to give you a chance for rebuttal. Come on up. Please come up if you'd like. Love to hear from you. There's Amalia. Good. Got reinforcements. We all got the memo.
 Good morning. Good morning. I will be brief, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Nikenge Harmon-Johnson, the new President and CEO of the Urban League of Portland. Commissioner Novick, I want to thank you and your aide, Brian Hockaday especially, for spearheading this proclamation in celebration of our own Midge Purcell. I am delighted to be here today. Thank you.
 Along with the chairman of our board, Alonzo Poe, and members of our board who are in the room with us today, as well as two of my predecessors who are here, current and former staff who have also joined us in this room, I'd like to say that this is a testament to your leadership, to the passion that you have shown, and that we try so hard to emulate in our work.
 that all of these folks have shown up here today to celebrate you. And many, many more have done so online, on Facebook, on Twitter, and via email to say, this is such a great idea to have a Mitch Purcell Day, and we should have done it sooner. Thanks. We know that you are leaving us, but we know that your heart remains. And we certainly appreciate all that you have done for the Urban League, for the city of Portland, and for our state as a whole. Thank you, Mitch.
 Thank you very much. Amalia, you want to have the next word and give her the last word? I will. Good morning. Unless there are others that want to speak too. Mayor Hales and Commissioners, my name is Amalia Laraconda-Morris, and I am the Director of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. It gives me great joy to have been asked to speak today about Midge Purcell, a woman I love and admire very much. Midge has been working with ONI's Jerry Jimenez, formerly known as Williams,
 managing our DCL partnership with the Urban League. But I personally got to know her during our efforts at the Portland Plan Equity and Civic Involvement TAG. For over two years, a core group of us bonded over the joys and sorrows of trying to convince our bureaucracy about the importance of equity for Portland's future. Midge's insights, clear analysis, strategic thinking, and her sense of humor
 kept us going through the endless rewrites and frustrations of having our rewrites rewritten. During that time, someone began calling our group comprised of Midge, Lisa Bates, Danielle Brooks, Dora Perry, Desiree Williams Rajee, the late, great Afifah Amit Shafi, and me, the Equity Ladies.
 On days that were especially frustrating, Midge dubbed us the somewhat less dignified sad bastards. And on days when we wanted to walk away, we would organize a sad bastard happy hour and recharge our batteries and come back to the table. Midge will tell you that all her efforts were team efforts, and that is true, but it leaves out the fact that every team needs a leader, someone who points the way, jumps into the work,
 Someone who inspires the team to keep going until the work is done. And that is Midge Purcell. Leadership development, wildly successful get-out-the-vote efforts, policy changes, not one but two State of Black Oregon reports, and the ban-the-box efforts are just some of the ways Midge has worked to make Portland a better place for all Portlanders.
 Her work and that of the DCL colleagues from the Latino Network, ERCO, NAYA, and CIO was recognized this year by Harvard University Kennedy School of Government for being one of their top ten identified innovations in American government. I cannot say that enough. It makes me giddy. I'll probably say it again. Top ten innovations in American government. That's Harvard University.
 Midge is a brilliant woman. She taught me about getting clear and being strategic, about letting go of the battle in favor of winning the war, about releasing personal hurt from injuries caused by systems in service of changing those systems for the better. She taught me that if you can't change it right now, you can find fellowship, laugh at it, and yourself, and get up and try again tomorrow. All this she did with the utmost humility and generosity of spirit.
 I spoke with Mitch yesterday and asked her if there was anything she would want me to say today. True to form, she said that none of the work she has done in Portland during her tenure would have happened without the Oney DCL grant that seeded the creation of her department. Though I doubt that, I will take it and maybe put in for my retirement. Waiting while I'm ahead.
 I feel privileged to have been a part of Midge's movement during her time here. Glad to have worked with her and planned with her and grieved with her and celebrated with her. Saying goodbye to such a positive force is not easy, but it is mitigated by the knowledge that the next sad bastard's happy hour will be in London. Thank you, Midge Purcell, for your brilliance, for your friendship. We will carry on your vision. Portland's loss is London's gain. Safe journeys and Godspeed.
 I'd like to turn it over. Well, Mayor Hales, commissioners, I want to thank you all so very, very much for this recognition. And also have the opportunity to thank Nikenge, the...
 Past presidents and CEOs of the Urban League that I've had the privilege to serve under, who have supported my work unstintingly, who are in the room, Marcus Mundy and Michael Alexander. And we have several of our board members here. So I would like to thank them. I am so aware that whatever achievements that have been made,
 They are not the achievements of one person. Never can be. But of many. And many of them are in the room. I will, however, call out my staff.
 Again, I've had the privilege of working with the best team in the city of Portland. They are dedicated, they are smart, they are young, and they are invested into making Portland and this state a better place. When I came to Portland 10 years ago, I had no idea what I would find here.
 What I found was one of the most engaged communities that I had ever experienced in my 40 years. Yes, I did say 40. 40 years of working in social justice.
 I found communities that were passionate about being strong advocates to address the needs of their communities, which, as our state of Black Oregon shows, are many. And also the partners that we've worked in within DCL and our coalitions, communities of color. The needs of our communities are many. I found a city leadership in the council group.
 in our current mayor and our former mayors, Potter and Adams, that want to do the right thing and understand that racism and poverty and disparity is unsustainable for a city.
 When I came here, our slogan was the city of Portland, the most sustainable city. And we had a discussion that it can't be sustainable if the disparities that we revealed continue. And I think that this council and our former leaders understand that. They get it. There's still much to do. I won't speak very long. But there is still much to do as our 2015 State of Black Oregon has revealed.
 And I know our organization and many people in this room will continue to do that work. We're looking forward to passing a strong ban on the box ordinance, plug, in the city of Portland. We're looking forward to continue to expand workforce diversity and employment opportunities and affordable housing in the city of Portland.
 We're committed to having strong and equitable contracting and procurement policies. And we are also committed to continuing to work for accountable policing in this city.
 So I won't be here physically, but I will be here in spirit. And I'm also accessible on Skype. I'm very opinionated about what happens to this city. And I hope people will continue to ask me.
 Wherever I will be, Portland will always be in my heart. So thank you very, very much for this honor and thank you very much for supporting the work that we've engaged in over the last 10 years. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Council members, any comments? I'd love to take a photo with you and perhaps current and former Urban League presidents, CEOs and your board, but let's hear from our colleagues. Very briefly.
 Midge, you will be greatly missed. I hate to overgeneralize, but I think the world is divided into two kinds of people, people who talk about problems and people who roll up their sleeves and try to address and solve problems. And you are so conspicuously in the latter camp. And I was just reflecting as Steve read the proclamation on all the good fights that you've led and all the change that you've brought about. And there were some things that weren't mentioned, like the work you did to make sure there was a community garden with the Urban League.
 something that didn't get a lot of attention but wouldn't have happened without your passion, and all the causes. We're losing your voice, but we're losing more than your voice. Today we learned the Coalition for a Livable Future is closing its doors. So when we talk about what kind of sustainable future we want, we're losing two powerful voices. So as we say goodbye to you today and thank you for your service, I think we also have to acknowledge that we're all going to have to step up to fill the void, and that's the challenge that I think you leave us with.
 So thank you for your service, and thank you for your friendship, and thank you for just the outstanding way that you addressed the fight and the cause. And all of us are rooting for you in the next glorious chapter of your life. I just want to thank you again for all your service to our city, and I think you've really helped the Urban League to sort of right the ship. And you and the previous executive directors and the current executive director, I think,
 you've sort of been there through some leadership turmoil, and I think that the ship has been righted, and I look forward to the solid leadership that the Urban League has been providing over the last five, six, seven years and have really become a very effective voice in our city. Thank you. For all people in our city. Thank you. And you've been part of that voice, so thank you.
 I was reflecting when Amalia was talking about the Portland plan and the endless rewrites and the reports I got from both Dora Perry and from you and from Mitch about how things were going. It was difficult. This has been really difficult work, and we're certainly not where we need to be yet. But as my colleagues have said, I think we're on the right path, and that's
 in large part, thanks to you, Midge, and the work that you and the Urban League have done, establishing a partnership. And that's what we're hoping to do in the Department of Justice settlement process, is to figure out how do we work together to acknowledge past hurt and correct it and make sure that in the future everyone has the opportunity to be their best selves. So thank you very much. I'll be in London in mid-August, so maybe we can get a head start on the rest with the
 The pub crawl. Thank you very, very much. Well, Midge, I had a couple of chances to say thank you and bravo, but let me add this, and that is I think I'm proud of our city because of what you've proved possible, that it's possible for someone to come here and with passion and energy make a difference. And I like living in a city where that is possible, and I want to reflect your comments about that. And I think you've also shown people how,
 how to lead so that I think you also are going to leave that pattern of effectiveness behind you, that you lead with both facts and numbers and hard and fast things, which the state of black Oregon shows us. Here is a clear empirically valid picture of reality, and you've been very insistent about that. But then you have to use your heart.
 And we've got the facts here, but here's why it matters. And I think that model is how you get things done. And you've really shown people that. And, again, you can show up.
 get your facts in order, make the case, and then with passion move people's hearts. And I hope we're always a city where it is possible for someone to show up, make a difference if they are passionate, if they are true to their beliefs, and if they are relentless like you've been. You really can do it. And I so salute you for showing people the way to lead. And I think that's a great legacy that you've left here and hopefully we'll keep finding new leaders who will reflect that
 that approach and how they take on the challenges that you've pointed out. So thank you. We'd love to take a photo to commemorate this with Amalia and Nkingge and if we could invite Michael and Marcus and your board members to join us. We'd love to get everybody in the room who's your friend in the picture, but I don't think we've got a lens that wide. So come on up front. Can we get in a place where we can really talk
 All right, one, two, three. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you, Steve.
 All right. We'll transition now to communications items. Let me talk through the procedures that we use for council meetings. They apply to everything except proclamations, as you'll see. So the purpose of council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business. We try to make sure that everyone can be heard in this chamber, and that's why decorum and our procedures matter.
 Obviously, we welcome the community to come to these meetings. We allow people to sign up for individual testimony or communications on any subject they choose, but then once we get into the regular council calendar, we're working our way through discrete items and we ask that people testify about those.
 There will be opportunity for public testimony on items that are on the council agenda, with the exception of the consent calendar. If you're here to speak on one of those items, you just need to put your name on the record. You don't have to give us your address. If you're a lobbyist, under the city's code, you're required to disclose that, and please do. If you're here representing an organization, let us know so that we know what organization you're with.
 Unless otherwise informed, each community member will have three minutes to speak. At two minutes and 30 seconds you'll hear a buzzer and a light will flash on the box before you. At three minutes you'll hear four beeps and the lights will flash again. That's the point at which you need to yield the floor and let the next person speak. And again, we'll have to remind you of that. We hope not, but we will if we need to.
 We ask that you respect that time limit, and we ask that we respect the ability of people to come to this chamber and have their say. Sometimes there are controversial issues on the calendar, so if you agree with someone and want to signal that, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. If you feel compelled to show your disagreement, do likewise, but we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' opinions in this room.
 If you have things to distribute to the council, handouts, please give them to our clerk, and she will distribute them to the council members. Again, these rules are here for obvious common sense reason. If some people choose to disrupt that process, you'll be warned, and then you'll be asked to leave the chamber. And if you don't comply with those obvious common sense instructions, you may be excluded from City Hall.
 Lastly, if needed, the Council will be taking a half-hour break at either 12 or 12.30, depending on our schedule. So we watch the calendar and give the Council a break if we're going to run into the noon hour. So that may happen today, depending on how our business goes. So with that, let's move to communications items, please. Number 575. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT- Request of Adam Brunel to address Council regarding public policy and future sustainable economy.
 Bruno, welcome. Good morning. Just go into it. So as was mentioned, my name is Adam Bruno. I'm a first-year MERP student at Portland State University. When I first signed up to testify on this day, it was to express my strong opposition to the citing of a propane terminal on behalf of a destructive foreign corporation. The people of Portland will never again support fossil fuel infrastructure, nor the politicians who fail to take a stand against it.
 Acknowledging this, the city should thoroughly involve the public in exploring a fossil fuel export ban that includes coal, oil, and natural gas like propane. We face twin crises here in Portland. One is catastrophic climate change. The other, racial justice and inequality. But they are intertwined. I fear that in our attempts to solve the former, we exacerbate the latter. Portland is now the fastest gentrifying city in the U.S.,
 While we have seen a commendable emphasis on process, we end up with toothless community benefit agreements, lofty equity goals, and action plans without the resources to implement them. I worry that Portland will eventually achieve its equity goals on paper, but once low-income residents and communities of color have been pushed outside the city limits.
 I implore the city to prioritize anti-displacement strategies as a primary method to build climate resilience. This means more affordable housing, living wages, job training for the new economy, and a just transportation system for all. I also want to challenge the city to lead the world when it comes to climate change. Vancouver, British Columbia committed to 100% renewable energy by 2035.
 France instituted eco-roof mandates for new construction. Boulder, Colorado took over its electric utility to provide more renewable energy to its residents. These are all policies that I think the city should consider pursuing in terms of feasibility and implementation.
 One opportunity to confront the aforementioned dual crises while building resilience is through the Climate Action Plan program, Solar Forward. The city should provide and consider providing more direct funding with a mandate to supply solar systems to low-income residents.
 In Seattle, the Capitol Hill Community Solar Project sited a solar farm atop an affordable housing complex. And in Oakland, grid alternatives provide solar panels for little to no upfront cost and trains low-income residents on the skills necessary for solar installation. But that's just one of the many possible ways to build resilience. And I'll end with a quote from...
 Naomi Klein, the famous climate movement author, we're fighting to leave it in the ground. No new fossil fuel frontiers. We're fighting for societies powered by 100% renewable energy. We're fighting for free public transit. We're fighting for the principle that polluters should pay, that how we pay for the tradition has to be based on justice. We're fighting for the principle that the people who got the worst deal in the old economy should be the first in line to benefit in the new economy. And thank you for the opportunity to testify. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming.
 576, request of Nick Caleb to address council regarding Pembina propane export project. Good morning.
 My name is Nicholas Caleb. I'm an adjunct professor at Concordia University, and I also am the local climate law fellow at Our Children's Trust. We're a small nonprofit based in Eugene, and we have a large mission, though, and it's to secure the legal right to a healthy atmosphere and stable climate for all present and future generations. We're also part of the Climate Action Coalition, which, as you know, is fiercely opposed to the Pembina Propane Expert Project, so I want to say thank you to the mayor for taking that off the agenda. That was obviously a difficult decision, I'm sure, and we really appreciate it.
 We also requested a series of amendments to the Climate Action Plan. Several of them were incorporated into the most recent draft.
 Today, though, I'm here to encourage the Council to look beyond the Climate Action Plan, much like Adam was mentioning. Despite recent awards, our leadership on climate action really can't be considered world class when you take into account what's going on elsewhere. Adam mentioned some examples. Nothing in the Climate Action Plan even approaches the audacity of trying to come up with 100% renewable city in 20 years. And it's also not binding in a lot of ways. So we need to move beyond it and start to work on binding policy.
 I think it's the responsibility of cities like Portland to continually set a new high bar so that others can be inspired. However, we are in a position to be leaders again. The local debate over the propane export terminal has revived community interest in pushing the bar beyond what has been considered possible or realistic. Though propane was initially celebrated as cleaner transitional fuel, more intense scrutiny has showed it to be anything but.
 and as such, if propane, which is supposedly the cleanest of fossil fuels that we could deal with, is not clean, we need to enact a strong local policy banning all new infrastructure for the storage, transfer, or export of fossil fuels, including natural gas and propane. This would set an extremely important precedent in the region that's already resisting the expansion of the fossil fuel economy in both rural and urban communities, and tribes are also rising up against this very strongly. Thank you.
 As you may be aware, Sightline Institute estimates that burning all the fossil fuels currently proposed for Northwest export would constitute 5.5 times as much carbon as was slated to travel through the Keystone XL pipeline. And as you may know, the Keystone XL pipeline's contents, if burned, most climate scientists say that's climate game over. We have no ability to, as human beings, to try to stop runaway climate change at that point. So our region is extremely important in this fight, even though we're small.
 So Portland has a duty to do our part to block activities that could destroy future generations' chances of a habitable future.
 Going further, Portland should also actually enshrine in law the legal rights of present and future generations to a healthy atmosphere and stable climate. Last year, after a sustained youth campaign for strong climate action, Eugene, Oregon passed the nation's first climate recovery ordinance, which bound the city to reducing carbon emissions to its share of 350 parts per million. It tied the city to the best available climate science and unleashed a wave of creativity in their planning apparatuses for how to achieve those goals.
 We're going to have a youth training in Portland on August 25th, and I would like to make an invite to all the commissioners to join us if you'd like. Mayor Kitty Piercy and Eugene spent a lot of time mentoring youth on climate action, and we would like to welcome you to that as well. In conclusion, very quickly, we stand at a serious civilizational crossroads.
 The city of Portland, as small as we are, is in a position to set major precedents for worldwide action. The fossil fuel economy is a road to ruin, and we need to leave it behind as fast as possible. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Next, please. On 77, request of Angela Van Patten to address council regarding Pembina Propane Terminal. Good morning. My name is Angela Van Patten. I've been a resident of southeast Portland for 26 years, where I've raised two daughters, including Caroline, who's here today.
 I'm here to comment on an uncertain status of the Pembina Terminal proposal and related issues up for council. I urge a binding climate action plan which includes gases, including propane, as listed fossil fuels, not bridge fuels, and that our city works towards divestment from these fuels. I thank Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz for taking a stand against approval of the Pembina Terminal and urge other commissioners to do likewise.
 There's two erroneous assumptions that come into play in these considerations that need to be made explicit, that gases can be considered bridge fuels and that we have more time than we actually do to address global warming. Gases are not bridge fuels, and here are two reasons. One, life cycle greenhouse gas emissions from natural gas are looking as damaging to the climate as coal.
 By the strict but distorted standard of looking at which fuels burn the cleanest, indeed gases such as methane and propane burn cleaner than oil and coal. The problem with these measurements is they're only a small piece of the bigger picture. Greenhouse gases are released at all stages of the fuel life cycle, exploration through end use. Studies published in Scientific American found natural gas fields may be leaking enough methane to make the fuel as damaging as coal to the climate over the next few decades.
 Two, economically gas exports fail as a bridge fuel on a number of fronts. An international study looked at the effect of a projected increase in worldwide natural gas usage. The study showed that unless there were explicit worldwide public policies expanding and protecting renewables, the political economic infrastructure for pushing gas would prevail.
 The model showed that long-term gas expansion through 2050, made possible through the use of fracking, would escalate the climate crisis because gas replaces other fossil fuels but significantly also renewable energy. One of the most insidious ways fossil fuel projects affect the climate is contractual lock-in.
 These projects are expensive and require long 20-year and greater contracts, as to quote Naomi Klein, these investments won't be recouped unless the companies that make them are able to keep extracting for decades, since the upfront costs are amortized over the life of the projects. There are many more aspects to this contractual lock-in, too many to name here, designed to ensure fossil fuels retain primacy in the economy for decades to come.
 A myth we tell ourselves is we have more time than we actually do to address global warming. As a people who've benefited to varying degrees from an industrial economy based on fossil fuels, we have a moral obligation to face the climate crisis and do whatever is necessary to keep younger generations from having to do all the heavy lifting of making the switch to renewables. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you.
 579, request of Ben Poe to address council regarding... 578, I think. Oops, sorry. 578, request of April Smith to address council regarding Pembina. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for hearing us. I'm April Smith, and this is my home. It's my dream home. I live on the Columbia River.
 My husband and I have experienced Portland seasons here with our children and four grandchildren. We've hosted weddings, vacations, and even a memorial service from our deck, the river, our witness. I'm a nurse, mother, grandmother, and one of over the 3,000 Portlanders who wrote to you, the commission, to oppose the Pembina Project.
 I was overcome with excitement and pride for our city when our voice was heard and Mayor Hales removed support for Pembina. Listening to the public, making decisions that are difficult and yet in the best interest of our city makes great leaders and a great city. I am grateful that the city is not considering this issue today. How wonderful to live in a city where our leaders listen to their constituents. Thank you.
 My hope is that Portland can put Pembina behind us so we can return to the important things we need to do in our city. Our focus should be on creating new job programs to retrofit our homes and public buildings, making them energy efficient. We should be improving our mass transportation infrastructure and bike safety lanes, putting fewer cars on the road and decreasing our carbon footprint.
 I live in the closest community to Pembina, just over one mile from what could be massive storage tanks of explosive liquid propane. The quiet beauty of the river is my joy and the place where I want to live out my retirement years. I want to leave this beautiful place for my children and their children. Thank you for ensuring that Portland's conservation habitat zone is not altered for a company whose project is not welcome in our city.
 Thank you. Thanks for coming. 579, request of Ben Poe to address council regarding Pembina Project. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Ben Poe, and I chair the safety and livability team for the St. John's Neighborhood Association. I have submitted a resolution by the Neighborhood Association noting our opposition to the Pembina Project. And you've...
 You've heard all that before, and it's been stated eloquently here this morning, and I really want to commend Adam's big picture look on all of this. But you've heard it from many voices. What I want you to understand is that no matter how you arrange the data, whether the level of risk is high or low, whatever risk assessment tool they choose to use,
 I need you to understand that the folks in my neighborhood find the risk too high for their peace of mind. Sometimes it seems to us up in the northern provinces that the great city-state of Portland sees us as little more than landfill. But this time we insist on being heard. This is our backyard.
 We ask the Portland City Council to stand firm in denying any variance to code that would impose this nightmare on our community. Our environmental regulations are there for good reason, much like the laws that protect privacy, that protect person and property. They shouldn't be set aside for the sake of special interests, foreign corporations, and a handful of jobs.
 Thank you very much. Thank you for hearing us. Thanks for coming. Thank you very much. Okay. We're going to move into the rest of our agenda. First, let's take care of the consent calendar. I don't...
 I think we have any requests to remove items off the consent calendar. Is that correct? None. Okay. Then a roll call vote, please, on the consent calendar as printed. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. And now time certain item 580. Accept report on the work of the diverse and empowered employees of Portland. Good morning. Good morning. It's a big day. It is. Good morning.
 Hi, my name is Debbie Castleton. I'm the chair of the Diverse and Empowered Employees of Portland. We are a employee group that's all volunteer. Some of us have the support of management to incorporate this into our jobs. Some of us don't based on our billable hours. So I'm here on my own time, personally. The Diverse and Empowered Employees of Portland
 is an employee-driven group. We're employees for employees. We've been working for the City of Portland's over 8,000 employees since 2007. We actually started meeting in 2006 to incorporate this group of people during lunch hours. We met and we have actually several, I think five out of the 13 of us on the executive committee, are founding members of that group.
 This progress report is, this is the first time we've actually reported to you in eight years on how we're doing. I think it's about time, is what we were thinking is, maybe we should tell them how we're doing. So our mission statement is that we're dedicated to enhancing a work environment that is inclusive and supportive of the City of Portland's diverse workforce that is committed to quality public service.
 And as some of you know, I do definitely take public service personally, and that is my job working. Commissioner Fish is my commissioner for my bureau, environmental services, which is what I do is public involvement in community outreach.
 Our executive committee, which most of us are here today, we have 13 members. And like I said, there are about five of us that are founding members. And if they're here, I'd like to thank them and have them stand for recognition. Good morning. Thank you for your excellent work. We actually just had our...
 work retreat. We have an annual work retreat, so we usually meet monthly for an hour, the group of us. And then on a biannual basis, we meet with all of the leaders of the affinity groups as an affinity group council and get information from them. And a lot of the leaders of the affinity groups are here as well, and I'd like to thank them and have them stand if they could. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 So I'd like to kind of call out who our executive committee is. We have a really broad range of committee members that represent every, you know, gender, orientation, race, different bureaus and different ages. And that wasn't.
 just intentional, that is representative of who we are at the City of Portland. So Janice McDonald is our new co-chair with me. We just elected her, she's with Transportation. Greg Woolley is our vice chair, he's one of our founding members, he's with Purchasing. Mary Hansen, our secretary, is with the auditor's office, she works at Archives.
 Delphine Kennedy Walker, she's our historian, and she's a founding member as well, and she's with the Attorney's Office. Maximo Behrens, he's with Parks and Recreation. Dylan Carmody, he's with Transportation. Jim Fairchild, he's with Human Resources at the Fire Bureau. And Yvette Giamali, she is with Environmental Services.
 Angie Harris is with Water, Carolyn Kwan Lee, she's one of our founding members as well as Angie is, and she's with Parks and Recreation. Dennis LaGuardice, he's with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, and Thomas Nancaro, he's with the Police Bureau. So I want to, without them we wouldn't be able to do this, and they've been very dedicated, so thank you. And as I said, we were established in 2007. Thank you.
 We work independently under the umbrella of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and I want to really thank the Office of Equity staff, and especially the director, Dante James, and Deputy Director Joseph Wall for their support. They're always there when we have questions or needs. They offer to help when we need it, especially reminding us of the...
 cultural celebrations and proclamations that we should be doing, which is great. So I want to thank them for being here. Thank you.
 DEEP oversees at least nine affinity groups at this time. We arrange for speakers and workshops and educational opportunities and trainings. We assist with the city's cultural celebrations and events, and we work with bureaus, individual employees to kind of combine committees to create these and the affinity groups that put on the cultural celebrations as well.
 We provide peer support, we provide resources to employees, and like I said, we're an all-volunteer group of city employees for city employees. Our affinity groups that we have at this time are the City African American Network, the Faith and Friends Affinity Group, the Filipino American City Employees, which we will be merging into one group for Asian American Pacific Islanders. So there'll be one bigger group, which is great.
 The Freethinker Atheist and Agnostic Secular Humanist Naturalist Group, which we like to call FASHION.
 And believe it or not, the Faith and Friends in Fashion have worked together at a conference even. They did a moderated group, and they have a lot of similar adversity. So it's very exciting to have them work together. The LGBTQ and Friends Affinity Group, PDX City Mamas, which is working moms or working parents, Unidos Latinos Americanos,
 Veterans Empowerment Team, the Women's Affinity Group, and the Disability Awareness Group, which is in the works. It's not an official group yet, but we are working on that. The affinity groups are voluntary and employee-driven. They're organized around a particular shared interest or dimension. And we actually...
 One of the things that we envisioned with affinity groups would be organized around the protected classes set forth in the non-discrimination laws that we have. And so most of those groups are organized around that.
 It's a networking opportunity to promote professional development and advancement, and we discourage stereotyping, so it's really, I think, helped a lot with the affinity groups and people being able to have questions and kind of breaking that stereotype of what the different groups mean or do. Promote a positive work environment. We bring concerns from their respective groups to top management groups,
 and we work with other entities to address broader organization and community concerns. We usually have about five active participants, usually in leadership, with the affinity groups who organize all of the speakers and luncheons, et cetera, with up to 100 members or more. There is low meeting attendance for affinity group meetings unless a speaker or topic is arranged because everyone's busy usually.
 And it is on volunteer time. It's not part of the work schedule.
 hour. Um, most affinity groups work together. Uh, so the, like city mamas and, uh, the veterans team, uh, for instance, would work together or faith and friends and, um, can, you know, they'd work together on a different type of, um, celebration, um, such as the cultural celebrations. And a good example is the city African American network and the women's affinity group, um,
 work together during those two months to create panels of speakers for the respective Black History Month and the Women's History Month this year.
 There is a lack of leadership periodically, which we have to try to revive the affinity groups due to change in employment status. Retirement is a big one, and medical leave, et cetera. So sometimes the liaisons from the deep executive committee, which all of us are assigned to different groups, and some of us are double up, to assist the affinity groups in continuing their work
 So sometimes we end up taking up some of that leadership. So over the years, one of the biggest things that DEEP is known for is arranging for many international and locally renowned speakers to speak to employees and the public.
 We've had Tim Wise, which we had to have him speak twice in one day because the auditorium was full. We had Luke Viscani, Walida Imarisha, which we want to bring back this next year, Damali Ayo, Ash Beckham, Lee Munwa, Gary Karp, Simon Tam and the Slants, and many more. I've kind of given you a rundown of who we've brought over the years in the report that I gave you. And attendance of those speakers was...
 usually range from 50 to 400 people. DEEP also organizes events, like I said, usually centered on the designated cultural months. Our one kind of signature event
 event that we do and I want to thank Mayor Hales for loaning us your wife for Kwanzaa this year I know you were supposed to attend but you were not feeling well and Nancy was fantastic as always you got an upgrade yeah I wasn't gonna say that but she was fabulous
 and we celebrate at City Hall in December. It's a non-religious holiday and it's more of a community celebration which is why we celebrate Kwanzaa and we get more than 100 members and employees that gather together at City Hall and a lot of the people that attend have never been to City Hall and didn't know it was so welcoming which we all know that it is.
 So as far as trainings and workshops, et cetera, DEEP tries to purchase tickets to trainings and workshops or conferences for employees to attend. It's usually like a lottery type of thing, first come, first serve. And it's based on manager approval if these employees can attend. We've also provided trainings.
 at various bureaus and other jurisdictions and conferences. Some of us have spoken per request, and we have done that for free. We provide a peer support, which I think is one of the most important things that we do, because we're fellow employees and we're peers. So...
 Most employees feel safe, anonymous, and do not feel retaliation when questions or concerns arise. And some of the topics employees have sought DEEP's advice include transgender health care, which we now have, thank you very much, and a potential layoff due to race, you know, questions that come up. Debbie, I just have to acknowledge that you've selected a photograph that obscures me behind Charlie. Thank you.
 It highlights my son, and to that, which I would say, bravo. Oh, okay. I know what I'm doing. That's a little guy off to the side. I remember that. That was actually last year's Pride, and I was the Spirit of Pride winner, and I was riding in the car, and it downpoured that day. And I also accidentally stole your jacket. I remember that. He held my hand the entire parade and had a blast. That was great. Well, I hope he'll come this year, too, which we'll talk about after this.
 Random drug testing was a question that came up. What is that about? How random is it? It is very random. Bullying, language translation, and just resources in general are concerns that people have and they don't know who to ask. So a lot of times they come to DEEP, which is great. And we usually know who to ask and get a pretty quick response.
 Some of our resources that we have available is obviously our website, which is the PortlandOregon.gov, and then we have slash deep, which
 Believe it or not, it took many years to get. We're not a bureau and people didn't know what to do with us. We're this employee group. Who the heck are you guys and what kind of jurisdiction do you have? And we don't. So even getting a P-card or purchasing card took like five years to get.
 and you can also email Deep directly at deep at portlandoregon.gov. We also have a Twitter account, which isn't as active as I'd like it to be, and that's my fault because I work a lot.
 And then we also have been, we just started this year, the Vimeo account. You can look up some of our speakers that we've filmed, like Walida and Marisha. And we're uploading more and more when we can. Again, that's on my time. So sometimes they appear late at night.
 We also, Janice McDonald and I worked very hard in getting our deep library up. We have a track it forum where you can electronically check out books. We have about 45 books and videos, very diverse topics. It's all on our website. So I think, am I under time? That's unusual. You might be. That would be good. Do you have any questions? You may have a suggestion from one of your colleagues there. Okay.
 Sorry. Okay. So questions for Debbie, for the other members of this leadership group? Well, thank you. Well, the one thing I did want to say for sure is –
 When we started this, it was when Mayor Potter was in office, and he had actually, we didn't have a place to meet, and he had us meet in his conference room, which was great. And we felt really supported by city council, but specifically, I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for all of your support over the years.
 and with you oversaw us for many years and provided advice and counsel and have always been extremely supportive, and I appreciate that. And also, it's really great when I see some of you at some of our events. We haven't specifically invited you. I think it's kind of funny when I meet somebody for the first time related to my work, and they're like, oh, you're Debbie Castleton. I get all your e-mails. Ha, ha, ha.
 But, you know, Commissioner Novick, I saw you at some of the events this year, and people actually bring that up to me, how nice it is to see council members just as an audience member as one of a fellow employee supporting this kind of work. So thank you for that.
 And I know you could try to sneak in. I was there for the Wonder Woman Awards, which was a wonderful thing to witness. That almost went under because we didn't have anybody to take that on. And we have a new affinity group chair for the women's affinity group, Megan Fertal. She's fantastic and has the energy. And so her and I worked on that together. And that was our sixth annual Wonder Woman Awards. So I think...
 Sixth or fifth. Yeah. So thank you. Great work. Well, while you're here, we have a proclamation because it's Pride Week. Pride Week.
 So I have the honor of reading this. Whereas the City of Portland has been the site of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer pride celebrations since 1970. And whereas the City of Portland is committed to diversity, social justice, equality and mutual respect as a fundamental aspect of a healthy community. And whereas Portland's LGBTQ community contributes significantly to our city's economic, artistic, political and social well-being.
 And whereas the long and ongoing struggle of transgender, queer, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and other sexual minorities for basic civil and human rights continues to provide inspiration to all those who work against discrimination and oppression. And whereas Portland is home to three annual Pride celebrations, Pride Northwest, June 13th through 14th, Black Pride, June 17th to 21st, and Latino Gay Pride, July 25th to 27th.
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim June 2015 to be Portland Pride Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month and to thank deep for your great advocacy. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 I want to invite all city employees and council, of course, so much of you have responded already and will be at the Portland Pride Parade. It really means a lot to the gay community to have all of you there. And I've never had any hesitation from any of you about attending, which is great. And I...
 I just want to thank you for that. So we will be marching again this year. We're number 56 in line, as far as I know, at this point. And we'll be meeting at around 10 a.m. on Sunday, June 13th. So all of you have received the email. So thank you. And can we invite other team members up and take a picture? All right. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, I think we motion is in order to accept the report mayor. We have a request for public testimony Charles Johnson blow past that sorry public testimony, please come on Sorry Charles. It's quite all right I've definitely want to thank her for her and all the people in deep for the strong work they do I do think we want to take note since we are here important on Clackamas land that hopefully I
 Dante and some of the deep staffers or deep volunteers will look at Native American employment within the city. I think through the Grand Ronde and Warm Springs, they have strong jobs programs for their people. But I think here in their original lands, when we celebrate the diversity of people who've come to a wonderful city of Portland, try and make it a more wonderful place.
 that we would like to also make sure that Native Americans feel welcome to work for the city of Portland and those that do are strongly supported. For those who don't know and want to find out more about Pride and aren't comfortable just Googling that, there is pridenw.org on the web. And I think that while we saw a great spread of diversity, one thing that Deep and Dante could work is,
 Every time I come here and I see Amanda kind of stuck up there with you five guys, I wonder about the original glass ceiling issues in Portland. So I hope that another report that we'll soon see will talk about the challenges that women still feel they face in promotion work.
 Perhaps we'll see a change with that with the next election cycle in the mayor's office. We'll rotate around depending on what you choose. But I know that you have strong representation there with Gail Shibley and Jackie Dingfelder. But I think that there are still institutional barriers in the broader society, hopefully less in the city, and that we can, as well as we've done to recognize the rights of gay, lesbian, trans, queer people, we can still look at that basic issue of
 paternalistic, patriarchal structures that sometimes don't advance women as well as they should. Thank you very much. Charles, thanks for your comments. I'd be remiss if I didn't observe, Mayor, that we are under the charter of five commissioners and an elected auditor. That's right. And, in fact, we have two women who have been elected and four men. So I just want to correct that. Thank you. We're a little closer to equity than equity.
 than four to one, but nevertheless, opportunity for progress. So motion, please, to accept the report. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Fish? Well, Debbie mentioned when she gave the report that she's employed by the Bureau of Environmental Services, and I could spend all day talking about what a value –
 team member she is. And I'll just acknowledge that Debbie has helped transform substantially the way we communicate to the public, and she's become probably better known than anyone up here because whenever we have a capital project, capital construction project that she's responsible for, we send out a newsletter that has a cover letter from Debbie in which she gives out her cell phone number and signs it personally.
 And that's part of the innovation that she brought to our bureau, so that instead of having a nameless, faceless bureau connect with the public, there's a person who's responsible for managing the process. And she does a great job both as an employee and obviously as a leader in DEEP. And we're very proud of her and everyone else who stepped up to do this worthy work. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 I had a wonderful time at the Wonder Women Awards. It was just fantastic to hear about all the wonderful women that we have working in the city and their lives and accomplishments. And I will try to make more deep events this next year. And Nick's right. Debbie's fantastic in all sorts of ways. Hi. Prince. Prince.
 Well, it's remarkable to me that most of the employees who are part of this have now left the chamber because their lunch hour is up and they have to get back to work. So I ask my colleagues to look into how we can provide some more work time for these employees because cohesiveness and furthering solidarity amongst different affinity groups is really part of our work, in my opinion. So I...
 appreciate their diligence and I appreciate the taxpayers investing a whopping $10,000 per year to support all of the wonderful things that they do. It's quite remarkable the
 investment of volunteer time that our city employees do to make sure that everybody feels welcome and informed. I will have to say that I appreciate the reference to Mayor Potter and his establishment of the Diverse Empowered Employees of Portland, putting it in the Office of Human Relations. It was one of my brilliant decisions to keep it in the Office of Equity and Human Rights and
 along with various other choices which the council made under Mayor Adams and which Mayor Hales has now supported to recognize and support the Office of Equity and Human Rights and all of the work that we do both internally and externally. It's great that this
 presentation followed on our proclamation recognizing Mitch Purcell and the Urban League because we really have, over the past six and a half years, established a much closer working relationship with communities of color and underrepresented communities, both within the city and in our community. Certainly not done yet, and there's a lot of work to do, but it's partly because we have great city employees who want to make a difference that we are making such progress, and thanks to everyone who's involved. Aye.
 This has been a warm and in some ways lighthearted presentation this morning, but there's really serious stuff here, which is that if employees feel welcome, they are productive.
 If they feel isolated or, worse, harassed, the employee has a bad deal, but so does the organization that they work for and the people that they serve. So it's a really good and healthy thing that we have DEEP and its affinity groups and that our employees, all of them, feel supported in who they are and the work they do. So I'm very proud of this work. I'm very pleased to accept their report and look forward to hearing from them more often. Hi. Hi.
 Okay. Item 581. Appoint Damian R. Hall and reappoint Mary Ann Mickey-Herman to the Home Forward Board of Commissioners for terms to expire June 9, 2019. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor Hales. I'm pleased to invite our two new appointees to the Home Forward Board.
 Board of Commissioners and I think the Executive Director Michael Bonacore is also going to join us so if Michael and Mickey and Damien Hall would come up Mickey is re-upping for another term but Damien is a brand new appointee of the City of Portland to the Home Forward Board of Commissioners and I'm sure my colleagues are all familiar with the important work that Home Forward does and I'll turn it over to Michael for a few words and then maybe Damien and Mickey could each say a few words and they're here to answer any questions you may have.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. Thank you for having us and happy Pride Month. Thank you for that as well.
 I'm going to cover three areas really quickly for you today. I'm going to talk to you a little bit about what's about to happen. I'm going to talk to you a little bit about some of the important work that Home Forward is doing right now and talk to you about how I think we could work together going forward.
 So Home Forward was founded in 1941, which sounds like the beginning of a really boring story, but I'm going to rock it through history and just tell you that eventually there was an intergovernmental agreement that between the city and Multnomah County, we began to serve the entire county. And then in 1992, the city of Gresham entered into that intergovernmental agreement. So we are now governed by a nine-member
 commissioner board, five of which are city of Portland appointees, but all of our appointees, regardless of which jurisdiction they represent, come through this city council for approval. And Damian and Mickey, as Commissioner Saltzman said, are both city of Portland appointees. There are two appointees from Multnomah County and two from the city of Gresham as well.
 So a few words about some things that we're working on that are important to us. We recently completed our third and final HOPE VI project out in southwest Portland called Stevens Creek Crossing. I know many of you have toured it. And that sort of moves us into a new era as a developer of affordable housing. HOPE VI's are behind us. And so...
 We are now approaching the role with curiosity and an interest in partnership and, of course, a deep commitment to increasing the amount of affordable housing that's available in our community.
 We are engaging supportively and productively in conversations about how the development of affordable housing can be done more quickly and less expensively. And we will certainly do our part and our role as a developer and owner, we believe, is to make sure that we're creating high quality,
 apartment communities that will be sustainable for the long term with a deep commitment to long-term affordability, and with a particular emphasis on the lowest income members of our community. We recently introduced an initiative to project-based 500 vouchers over the next three to five years,
 in developments either that are new or existing, recognizing that in this really hot rental market, the ability of voucher holders to meaningfully have choice in what neighborhoods they live in is dramatically vanishing because the rental market is so
 It's kind of crazy right now. And we think that that is a trend that in some important neighborhoods will not change. And the project-based vouchers gives us the opportunity to ensure affordability in places where otherwise it's being lost. And we're doing that in conversation with you and with the community about what's important to them in terms of where those resources are placed.
 We also have a very significant preservation initiative before us. It's an effort we've been working on for a number of years now in a variety of ways. Again, having been founded in 1941, it means we have a pretty old housing stock, and we've been successful in doing important capital work on a lot of it, and there's a lot of work that remains. And so we...
 We will be doing that aggressively and communicating as much as we can about the implications for the community as we do that work. And we'll be asking for help in doing it.
 And then finally, I'll just touch on the obvious importance of our engagement with you in the Home for Everyone effort to end homelessness in this community, ultimately. And I think we are on a really strong path. I appreciate all of the leadership and support that's been provided to that effort. And...
 particularly that it has shown up as a financial commitment in your budget. And I know that's a big push to make. And it is, as you know, incredibly, incredibly important to this community. And we are, of course, deeply committed to working with you in service to what the city of Portland needs and our other jurisdictions as well. And then finally, I just wanted to...
 Actually, before I close, I did want to pause long enough to take a moment to say that we're also joined today by our board chair, David Widmark, and our vice chair, Jim Smith, who are in the audience with us as well.
 So my closing thoughts are that we have all linked arms in a really important way around Home for Everyone and, again, appreciate the commitment to that effort. And I think the next thing that we really have to put our shoulders behind together is around the work that the Welcome Home Coalition is moving forward. We really desperately need...
 a local permanent revenue stream that will fund affordable housing. Affordable housing is our long-term systemic solution to homelessness. And as much as we are doing with what we have, we need more than that. And we can't give up on the thought and the effort that the federal government should show up in a way that it has been –
 It hasn't fully been for quite some time. We have to hold on to and fight for the resources that we need in that regard. And we know that we have to do something ourselves to change this. And I don't envy you the challenge of figuring out where to put your political effort when there are
 incredibly difficult issues that you are grappling with and need to ask the public to pay for and when to do that and how to do that. I can only imagine how difficult that is. And I just want to tell you today, not that I think one thing is more important than another, but.
 Just to pluck one thing out, we need to fix our streets, absolutely. And if there was a check I could write today for my share, I would do it. I'm all in with you.
 And I just hope that we can not cast any of these choices as pitted against each other, because as we face those difficult decisions, people are dying on our streets, as they have been for decades now. And this is a path that will help us change that trajectory.
 We are here for you. We are your partner, and we work in service to you, and we will show up how you need us. Thank you. Thank you. Damian, would you like to introduce yourself? Yes. Thank you. My name is Damian Hall, and I'd like to start off by thanking Commissioner Saltzman for nominating me to potentially be with the approval of the council board member for Home Forward.
 The availability of quality, stable, and affordable housing, I think, is very important to social justice in the city and the county. It's one of the leading determinants in both physical and behavioral health, as well as...
 educational achievement and i think is one of the main ways that the city can help in along with the county and home forward to try and break the cycle of poverty that a lot of our citizens a lot of the citizens face so
 Hopefully, with the approval of the commission, I'll be able to assist Home Forward in the valuable work that they do and helping to meet the demand for that good affordable housing. Thank you.
 Thank you. Becky, would you like to say a few words? Thank you. Good morning. I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman for letting me be re-upped and re-appointed. My last year has been incredibly valuable, and it really makes me realize that human capital is the most important thing we have to offer in the city of Portland, and all citizens should find ways to get involved and to stay involved in meaningful ways. Home Forward is such an innovative organization.
 agency. They do really good work. It's a complicated process. There are not enough pieces in the pie, but I've been really impressed with what they do with so little and how innovative they are. And I've been very fortunate to participate in ways more than just sitting on
 the board i'm also part of the finance and audit committee as well as their real estate read committee so i'm getting to put all my private sector knowledge to work so thank you very much thank you thank you all questions for the nominees thank you very much both of you for your service i have a question are there term limits on the home forward board
 There are term, oh, why a quiz? I should have studied. I'm sorry. There are four-year terms. I believe folks can serve indefinitely, but there are term limits in our officer positions, how long a person can hold an officer position. Thank you. Other questions? Yes.
 Thank you all. Thanks very much. Thank you. Anyone else that wants to speak on this item? Yes, we have two people signed up. Okay. Well, we'll get you to yield and we'll hear from them and then we'll take action. Thank you very much. Rebecca Bacon and Charles Johnson. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. So my name is Rebecca Bacon. I'm a student of PSU. I've lived in Portland my whole life. I've watched the housing market, the Section 8 come through with Home Forward. I watched it go from a nonprofit to a profit.
 Home Forward has a list that is, to say the least, it's just so long that nobody can really get on it. The section wait list for Home Forward is impossible. People are looking for emergency housing. They come to Home Forward looking to sign up on some type of Section 8, and they're denied. The list is too full. People are still waiting. The other problem I have with Home Forward is I lived out in an apartment in Gresham. There was a veteran that was placed in one of the apartments that I lived in.
 The manager decided he didn't want them here anymore. He wanted turnover rate. So he evicted these people. After he evicted them, they called Home Forward. Home Forward said their mandatory reporting book that he gave the manager. He took this man's benefits away. He stripped him of his Section 8. He evicted him, and Home Forward came in and did an assessment of the department and taxed him over $3,000 because the department wasn't up to par.
 They have a lot of other issues that I wanted to speak about here today because I'm only going to get to speak to this one time. We have a new emergency meeting here called for, I'm guessing, the council meeting's board race. Is that what's going on? I'm sorry? Do you have an emergency meeting here today for the council member's board race? Oh, I guess that wasn't put on the agenda this time. It's not an emergency meeting, no.
 Okay, well, I'm going to speak about the water issues real quick and the new grant. No, no, you need to stick to the Home Forward issue. Yeah, we're going to stay on this topic. Okay, I won't be able here to stay for the whole entire meeting because I wanted to speak on the other issues. Yeah, we have to take topics one at a time. Okay. We now have a big proposal coming in, a home for everyone. It's $1.1 million. You're asking for an extra $65,000 for a response team for a landlord sort of management agency that helps with people that are having a hard time being placed or having a hard time with management. Okay.
 The problem we have with that is most of the people that are in management are looking for the high turnover late. They're looking to move people out. If we were to create a landlord response team, we need to find better ways to suit these veterans. If you're going to put them in with your Operation Veteran 402 plan by the end of 2015 to house all the veterans...
 you need to create more permanent housing. Apartment complexes are not the answer for these veterans. They fought for our country, and going into apartment complexes where they're not able to adapt is causing problems. So we need to look at better solutions. We can't build tiny homes. That's not a solution. We can't put our veterans in a box. But in the same sense, we can't put them in apartments that are so overly priced that it takes up most of their wages. What I'm asking the board to look at is you need to do a rental cap.
 An SRO should be 400, a one-bedroom should be 500, a two-bedroom should be 600, and a three-bedroom should not go over $700. This can create a better place for everyone to find an apartment and be able to live in a minimum-wage job and be able to sustain their apartment. Okay. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. As you know and was mentioned by the testifiers, we have –
 a problem with the lethality of homelessness, of people dying on the streets, and I was very glad to hear that that was acknowledged.
 in the testimony. Many of the citizens of Portland have been concerned that during the past couple weeks there have been sweeps going on, and that regardless of what the Home Forward budget is, we all know that there are waiting lists and limits on the capacity, and that most of those people are not avoiding services. They're wait-listed for services. And so I'm
 While I have some concerns about the operation of Home Forward, I don't want to diminish anyone's good intentions. But I want to encourage the people who have been reappointed who are on the Home Forward Board to develop some elevator speeches. Because they keep telling us that there are obstacles, a shortage of federal money, and these things. And I think one of the responsibilities of being on the board of Home Forward is if you're not accomplishing
 what you hope to do, a home for everyone, which we haven't done with the previous 10-year plan, that they should not at least be shy about knowing specific, under this Republican Congress, there won't be very many, but specific pieces of legislation and just realizing that
 When we want homes for everybody, that means not just looking to home forward, but also constantly engaging with Blumenauer and Wyden and getting to know the Republican contingents so that our federal budget can be more sensible with less money going to drones and F-35 fighters that we don't need and more money going, as the fellow testifier just mentioned, to the federal government.
 providing homes for people who have put their lives in jeopardy for the national interest, or supposed national interest, but not just veterans. We need to realize that most veterans, when they fought for the United States, didn't fight so that they could get a subsidized apartment that overlooked somebody sleeping on the sidewalk. I think any veteran worth their salt wants to see a government that puts people in, if not basic housing,
 emergency shelter. We know that we're not going to fix the housing problem before this time next year when there might be more appointees, but we also know that the city has no plan to put those people in clean, hygienic cots with access to showers and such during the next year. So I hope that other homeless activists outside of Home Forward and within, that these board members will be
 agitators who not just look at the complicated issue of funding MFI-capable apartments for 30% MFI and 60% and 0% MFI, but also respect basic human rights so that the people we walk past at 10 o'clock at night in the doorways of 2nd and 3rd Avenue
 are there by choice instead of saying there's no cots, there's no showers, there's no beds available for them. And I hope you'll also continue to expand programs like R2D2. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. Anyone else? And roll call, please, on the resolution. Fish? Well, first, I want to thank Dan Saltzman for putting this on the regular agenda. Historically, these often are on the consent. And so we are deprived of the opportunity to have this discussion.
 And so thank you, Dan. And I think that's an important change, and I hope we do it consistently with all members and reappointments. And I want to thank the leadership of Home Forward for being here to join us for this occasion. And I want to thank Damian and Mickey for agreeing to serve. Damian, you have an amazing resume and background, but when I saw that you were a USC graduate, that sealed it for me.
 And, Mickey, thank you for doing a second term. Having served on the board of what used to be called the Housing Authority of Portland, I know that this is service at its highest calling, and it is not easy work, and you're not serving at an easy time. So it makes it all the more important to us that we thank you for your service and support you as you go forward.
 I also want to thank Michael Bonacore for doing something that we often don't do in this chamber, which is coming forward and acknowledging the success that we've had working together. And there's something about progressives where we leave that out of the conversation, and we feel virtuous in doing so. And I think it's a big mistake. And I think the more we do it, the more we are actually seeding the ground to people that don't even share our basic value systems.
 So I think it's very important when Michael comes forward as the executive director and talks about the success. And, you know, the home for everyone, which we started putting in place two or three years ago, has great promise. And it really is potentially going to change things because it's going to bring an unprecedented level of collaboration among the key players. The decision by your board to project-based 500 vouchers is a huge milestone.
 Your predecessor was a little more parsimonious with those vouchers. And to connect the dots, because of that initiative, Commissioner Saltzman is going to be able to deliver on the council's commitment to affordable housing in North McAdam. Without those vouchers, it becomes very difficult because obviously the biggest challenge we face is on the service side.
 The collective efforts that you and the city have done over the last few years to reform the VASH voucher program and to go from an underperforming to an overperforming jurisdiction, which means we're getting more vouchers, which means we're going to likely meet the goal we've set, audacious goal of ending veterans' homelessness, is possible.
 You haven't just closed out your third Hope 6. Stevens Creek Crossing is sort of the culmination of everything that the agency has done, and it reflects a values proposition that we cannot forget, which is opportunity housing. Stevens Creek Crossing is in a desirable neighborhood with strong schools and great services.
 And we must insist that even though that may be a little more expensive in the long run, that low-income families have the choice of where to live. And that includes not just being on the margins of our community, but living in strong neighborhoods. And I hope we never walk away from that principle. Your preservation agenda is important because you do have an aging stock. We could go on and on and on. But I just want to close by acknowledging the elephant in the room. If...
 a growing chorus of people in Washington, D.C., or who are serving as candidates for high national office have their way. There will no longer be a home for it. And when the principal candidates for major political parties get up and say we're going to end the federal role in housing, it means we would no longer have a home for it. And let's not kid ourselves. If you take all the housing dollars, which we keep shrinking because of sequestration,
 and we bundle them in a block grant, what will happen is over time it will continue to wither, and you will have some very tough choices to make about your long-term survival. But it seems hard to me to imagine in 10 years that we're going to have a home forward if we go down that path.
 So we're entering into an election season, and I think it's about time that collectively we raised our voices again and said that if we're going to make progress ending homelessness and providing a range of housing choices for Americans, there must be a strong federal role. And I cannot believe that we're having a conversation in this country about ending a federal role at the very time that the federal government's role is needed more than ever. And let's also be clear.
 The Welcome Home Coalition is doing great work in laying a foundation. Home for Everyone is very promising. We will not succeed without a strong federal partner. Let's not kid ourselves. We cannot locally solve a national problem. I can't think of a national problem that actually we would be charged locally with solving. And it's actually outrageous to suggest that it is our problem to solve. It is a national problem.
 So, Michael, thank you for laying out both the accomplishments and the challenge. Thank you, Dan, for bringing this forward. Thanks to the mayor and the council for putting real housing dollars in this budget above and beyond our ongoing money. And welcome and thanks to our two board members. Hi. Saltzman? Well, I want to welcome our returning board member and our new board member, Damian and Mickey. Thank you, Michael, for your great remarks and also want to acknowledge the chair and
 Vice Chair David Widmark and Jim Smith, thank you for being here today too. And Michael, I just wanted to also, and I think Nick more or less alluded to it just a minute ago, but stepping forward with project-based vouchers for South Waterfront or North McAdam affordable housing is really a tremendous opportunity. It's a great opportunity area, and we will have some good mixed-income housing there.
 And also recently your commitment of project-based vouchers to our Pearl District property that we just acquired from Hoyt Street Properties. That will allow us to do some low-income, very low-income family housing, again, in an area that has lots of amenities and opportunities. So it's a good working relationship we have, and I know our board members will – our board commissioners will make sure that we continue to have good relations. So thank you. Hi. Novick? Hi.
 Thank you, Damian and Mickey. Thank you, Michael. Thanks for all of your work. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. And I also appreciated Commissioner Fish's pointing out that unless we have a strong and, in fact, stronger federal partner on these issues, we are going to continue to struggle. Hi. Fritz. Hi.
 Thank you very much to the Home Forward board members. It's a huge commitment of time, and I really appreciate your volunteer effort and your partnership with the organization and with governments. We need to work together, and there aren't enough resources, and that's very difficult for all of us. So working together to make sure we spend the resources as wisely as possible is hugely important. Thank you. Hi. Hales. Hales.
 Well, neither the housing market, which is an inexorable, enormous force, nor the beleaguered citizen like the one we heard from today who's trying to find affordable housing, acknowledges or cares about housing.
 bureaucratic turf doesn't matter the market cares not whether we have one housing agency 15 housing agencies good coordination or the lack of it and the again the citizen trying to find a foothold here
 doesn't care either but what they ought to have a right to expect and what the market might respect a little bit is if the city and the county and the housing authority are an effective partnership of public agencies doing coordinated work and i believe we have the structure for that now and i appreciate home forward's engagement in that and then now having created that um
 effective management structure that's incumbent on all of us, the housing commissioner, me, all five of us, and you and your board, to be very innovative and very aggressive in trying things, trying new things, trying to find more ways to address this problem with the resources we have.
 The city's a big player here. You know, I think sometimes we think it's normal that there's a housing bureau in city government. I think we may be the only one in this state, but there certainly aren't a lot of them. There are 22 housing authorities around the state, but there aren't a lot of housing bureaus. And as Commissioner Fish noted, we're dedicating $100 million or nearly that in city funds towards housing.
 that's great that's to be celebrated but we better make sure that we are using all those dollars and the ones that you have creatively and effectively in a red hot real estate market to try to find opportunity for more people whether it's to get indoors because they're sleeping in a doorway or to be able to afford housing now that they finally got a minimum wage job so there's a lot of work to do we appreciate the the
 the volunteer role that you as board members play it's the same thing here with the planning commission and the design commission and the human rights commission the others that we rely on for citizens to help guide policy so look forward to working with you very much and appreciate very much the partnership that we have hi thank you okay let's move on to 582 another housing issue
 Authorize the Portland Housing Bureau to dispose of property at 1306 Northeast 2nd Avenue and make a loan of up to $7,100,000 to develop the Miracles Central project. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor Hales. We're very excited to bring this project forward for your approval. This will bring 47 new units of affordable housing to inner northeast Portland. And again, it's a good opportunity area.
 And it will provide much-needed services to people in recovery from drug and alcohol addiction. Here to talk more about the project are our assistant director, Javier Mena, and Carl Dinkelspiel. And then we'll also have Ed Blackburn from Central City Concern and Michael Booker from the Miracles Club will follow them. So, Javier. Thank you.
 Good morning, Major Hales, Commissioners. It is a great pleasure that we are here today to present for your approval the funding of the Miracle Central, which is a great project and it's a great segue from what you previously saw in terms of collaboration.
 and partnerships that we have in front of you today in regard to this project. And with that, I'm going to very quickly turn it over to Carl. He's going to give you some project detail, and then we can answer any questions. And obviously, we'll also have presenters regarding the project. Thank you.
 Mayor Hales and Commissioners, thanks very much. I'm Carl Dinkelspiel, and I'm the program manager now at Portland Housing Bureau. I just want to say some brief things about the project, because I really think this is about partnerships and stuff that we have already talked about this morning. So I want to have enough time for our partners to tell about why this is such an important project. But the bureaus are excited about the project. It really is about partnerships with the community.
 And so Central Cities Concerned, as well as the Miracles Club, are our partners in this deal. And Ed and Michael will talk about what they – how they see this project. But I do want to say, as we've seen recently through both the State of Housing Report, which you just got, as well as the point-in-time street count,
 that there remains, and there still is, an alarming disparity for people of color in terms of housing opportunities. They're disproportionately representative in terms of people that are homeless and in certainly greater need of housing affordability in general. So this project really, in a lot of ways, addresses those kinds of issues.
 We chose the project on the 2012 Notice of Funding Availability. The project was awarded in 2013. As Commissioner Salzman said, we have 47 units total. All those units will be affordable at 60% of median family income or less, so that means...
 folks that are earning $25,000 or $30,000 a year maximum. So a lot of people will be earning a lot less than that. There's ground floor space that will be for programming for Miracles Club and for Central City Concern to work with folks that are dealing with addiction issues and recovery.
 And then it's on land, as I think you've already mentioned, it's the land that the Bureau owns, and it's a great location, sort of the intersection of the Rose Quarter and Lloyd District, so super convenient, great place to be, and lots of amenities there.
 As with all of our projects, lots of funding partners involved here. In this case, it's National Equity Fund, Chase Bank, Oregon Housing Community Services, PHBs. Participation in the project will be $7.1 million. It leverages another about $6 million in other funding. And then, well, last thing I'll just say is that with your vote today, we expect a close on the project.
 within the next few weeks and then construction should start in July or August at the latest so coming soon to a neighborhood near you so I so Ed Blackburn is here executive director for Central City Concern as well as Michael Booker's interim executive director for
 Miracles Club, and I believe Pastor Hennessy's here as well, and they're going to want to talk about their roles in the project, and we're happy to answer questions after they're done. Why don't we bring them up? Let's take some questions first, if we could. We have staff here. So $7 million, roughly, of TIF, right, from the Urban Renewal District. Is this a grant or a loan or some hybrid? It is a cash flow dependent note. So that means that it's a loan, and whether there's payment on it will depend on the cash flow from the project. Okay.
 So, Carl, put that in plain English, because when we had the audit, there was, you know, one of the issues that came up is just being clear about when is something a grant alone or some hybrid or effectively becomes a grant since the cash flow may not support repayment. So where does this fall in the spectrum? So this is a loan, absolutely. Let's start with that. And our projection is that there will be some cash flow that comes off the project probably in year 50,
 15 or something like that, that the Bureau will be partially repaid on that loan. And we'll go on for 60 years depending upon the financial stability of the project. We may continue to get, I would doubt that the $7.1 million will be paid by the end of the 60 year term. So why not just make it a grant? What's the, why the structure?
 So it's important for the Bureau to support other projects and having cash flow, it does a lot of things. One of the things is it obviously allows for the potential to support other projects in the Oregon Convention Center. And it also, I think, has an appropriate balance between our mission to provide affordable housing as well as our mission to sustain that housing.
 And so it's important for all of us to share in those responsibilities. And the Bureau and the city cannot support projects if we don't have any money. So it's important to have money that's available. And, Javier, do you want to? If I could add to that, last year we brought forth an updated loan guidelines that specifically details how we should move forward in underwriting projects, which spoke to the audit that was provided. And we...
 As we underwrite this project, the criteria that met in terms of the terms of the project, it was the cash flow loan, which it is a loan, and it is, depending upon the performance of the project, there will be repayment on that loan. So just so we're clear, because I think if anything I took away from the audit is just being clear about the product and our expectations. Yes.
 The truth is that this could be a very successful project and we still would not recover most of this loan within 60 years, and the council could still declare victory, correct? Correct. Thank you. Okay. Other questions? Thank you both. Okay. Let's invite up the other three panelists. Please, come on up. Michael Booker, Pastor Hennessy. Good morning. Good morning. Do you want to start off? Okay.
 So I want to thank you for having us here today. My name is Ed Blackburn. I'm with Central City Concern. We are the sponsor, the facilitating sponsor of this project. I just want to comment on what Commissioner Fish said. For the record, it's not unique to this project, this financing methodology that was just described.
 I want to make that clear for the record. It's commonly used in affordable housing at this point. Yeah, no, but what we learned last year, Ed, is there's complete confusion about the range of options we have. And, frankly, I might err on just making it a grant and not a loan where it effectively acts like a grant because we don't have an expectation of payment.
 My only intent is to be clear that we have minimal expectations over 60 years of being repaid and that the public benefit is so great that that's okay. And if we say that, then I think we're clean. Thank you. Thank you for clarifying that.
 This project, as you know, is very important given all the data that's come out on homelessness and disparities particularly affecting people of color and in particular the African-American community. You know, Central City Concern provides about 1,600 units of very low-income housing, a fairly robust health care delivery system, alcohol and drug treatment, mental health services, and employment services. Thank you.
 But what attracted us to this project, in particular in the very beginning, was this idea of a low-income housing project in the Lloyd Center District, which really needs more diversity in the types of housing, particularly when it comes to income levels in that area. But it was also the location of the first African-American community in Portland. And it was through efforts to...
 through urban renewal many decades ago in building the Coliseum, that that community was moved out of this area. The area now is full of amenities. It's got streetcar. It's got light rail. It's got a lot of bus service. It's got a lot of services in the area. It's got a lot of access to healthy food.
 And to me, there's an element of rectification here and providing this kind of housing project, particularly available for African Americans to come back in this community and be able to take advantage of those amenities that are available with this project. The second issue that was very important to us was our particular association with the Miracles Club, and this is a real honor to be in collaboration with the Miracles Club community.
 Many of our staff and many of our clients participate in the Miracles Club. It's an organic relationship that's gone on for many years. Some of our staff were founders of the Miracles Club.
 And when we were deciding about this RFP and how to approach it, a group actually asked for a meeting with me at Central City Concern and asked us to collaborate with the Miracles Club on this project. So there's also an equity issue that we're trying to address here. So this is the first time that Central City Concern has developed a property where we said another nonprofit –
 can, if they choose within three years of closing this financing on this project, be equity owners in the building.
 So we look forward to that day. But the other thing is the cooperation and collaboration on the services. Miracles Club will be providing mentoring services for individuals and families that will be living in the building. Central City Concern will be providing employment services. 100% of the residents there will have access to our employment services. And they'll also have access to the Old Town Health Care Center if they choose to go there.
 So there's a lot of reasons to be for this project, and we're looking forward to the work here. I want to really appreciate the work that the Portland Housing Bureau has put into this because it is a unique approach to low-income housing, and they showed a lot of insight, I think, in supporting this project and been very helpful in getting us this far. And I want to also express my appreciation to Commissioner Saltzman who has been –
 making sure we're doing the things right and we're moving forward in a way that the city can support. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, to members of the City Commission. My name, for the record, is J.W. Matt Hennessey, the pastor of Vancouver Avenue First Baptist Church here in Portland, and also a member of the Board of Directors of Miracles, along with my colleague Ross Cornelius, who is also here today as well. Our board chair, Eric Martin, was not able to make it.
 But we wanted to be here to, on the one hand, again, thank you for the amazing amount of support that has been there for Miracles historically. The great work that the community feels about the work that Miracles has done as well.
 this tremendously unique opportunity for Miracles and Central City Concern to work together in a wonderfully collaborative partnership which, on the one hand, as Ed has described, on the one hand from a services standpoint but also a partnership standpoint which is really important. And then the last thing I want to say is really it's great to know that this project has come together in all of its unique ways from a competitive process
 as well. And we are certainly sensitive to that and appreciative of that. And certainly, again, thank you, Commissioner Salzman, for your great leadership and help over the years and certainly for the great work that we believe will come of this partnership. Again, we know that there is and cannot be emphasized enough adverse impact from a housing standpoint anyway, but particularly in the African American community. This will be very, very helpful. And we thank you.
 good morning good morning my name is michael booker i'm the interim director at uh executive director of the miracles club to the mayor the commissioners i just like to say i'm very humbled and grateful to be here this morning to speak on behalf of the miracles club the miracles club is afro african-american uh social club uh been around 23 years for the last five years we've been in a building that's five stories
 Thank you, Dan Salzman and Ross Cornelius, for your efforts. What we do is we specialize in peer-to-peer services. We help people to come out of institutions. We help people who come out of recovery treatment programs to find jobs.
 to put families back together we help people as far as better education we try to help people as far as continuing recovery one thing is very important that we have 17 different meeting groups that come in here 365 days a year and do 12-step meetings the housing we have second floor to the fifth floor is 37 units we have people who are in recovery
 I feel the collaboration with Central City Concern is so important because we have people who are trying to change their lives, but they have nowhere to go. I think the importance is that them knowing they have efforts and them being accountable and putting efforts forward to try to be a part of that, to keep them from staying on the streets, that they feel that their self-esteem will grow. I think it's very important, especially for people of color, that the opportunities...
 are more so enhanced now than they've ever been. The Miracles Club has been very instrumental in the Northeast and North community, even though the gentrification has changed, but we still are the treasure of North and Northeast Portland.
 We're right in the heart of MLK. It's important for people. We have people who are homeless that come through there. We have people who are now on staff at Miracles, came through there that were homeless. There are now mentors to peer-to-peer services. So by the grace of God, last month I celebrated 21 years, and I've been a part of Miracles since then. So it's a program that works.
 given the opportunity with this collaboration with sensitive concern, I think it would enhance people's lives. People are looking forward to it, and we're just grateful for the opportunity to make this happen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you all very much. I have one question, if I could, for anyone on the panel. We funded LifeWorks.
 a couple years ago, and it took them about three different tries to get the funding. It had to keep improving the proposal. But one of the things that the city looked at was viability of the proposal, it competitively scored, and then LifeWorks had to demonstrate that they were effective in doing what they do. Mr. Booker, you've said that you've talked about the success that your organization has had
 We're a little handicapped in this regard because there's nothing in our packet that really talks about the success of your nonprofit. In fact, I don't ever remember us getting a presentation on the work you do and outcomes. So I think it's fair at this point to ask what does success look like and what objective measures do we have to give us confidence that you can reach those goals? Thank you.
 Well, this is a permanent housing project, and it's recovery-oriented housing. It's very comparable to some of the other buildings we operate for people in recovery. And the building that's most like it, Sally McCracken Building, has an 85 percent retention rate in terms of people coming. They're coming into recovery, and they're getting placed in that building.
 Out of that 85%, there's 15% that are discharged on a yearly basis, but more than half of those are positive discharges to permanent housing in a community. They've chosen to leave because they have developed a relationship. It may be that they got a job in another part of the region, and they're going to move to that region. So it's well over a 90%.
 success rate. We also work with about 350 employers in the region. And we place annually about 500 people in jobs.
 So the things that we're going to be looking at is that housing retention, that long-term recovery, permanent placement outside of that building of people who so choose, but also their employment and their income outcomes. So there are measurable outcomes. And we obviously have a long history with the city. So what are the goals for this project that will determine whether this is a success?
 Because this is the first time you've worked together, is that correct? Correct. And so there's this, and this is a unique opportunity. So in five years when we get a report, what does it say is, what's the benchmark that we're shooting for?
 I think part of that is what Central City's concern has to offer and what Miracles has to offer. Again, our success rate has been based off the peer-to-peer service that we provide for people where people were able to, 50% of the people that live in the Miracles complex now apartments are people who went through the peer-to-peer services through Miracles.
 I think that in a five-year term where people have opportunities, not what will happen at some point, we will lose people that are housed there because their credit will be better. They have opportunities to buy homes. I think the opportunities as it's doing peer-to-peer service at the new building will help people enhance their lives and families. And I think it's a growing relationship. And what some cities are concerned has done over the years. And I think with this,
 Part of what Ed mentioned, a lot of their employees come out of miracles. And so I think us trying to collaborate and build a relationship to help people save their lives, continue recovery, it's an ongoing basis. It's true. Everybody's not going to get it the first time. But the opportunity will be there. The workers will be there. The services will still be provided to help people. And what miracles has had, had a 90% success rate as far as helping people change their lives.
 oh i i support the program i applaud dan for bringing this forward i'm just reflecting on the fact that this is a housing bureau and the housing bureau tracks uh things like getting people into homes keeping them in homes creating pathways of opportunity and other kinds of things they're not really in the business of measuring the success of service providers and since this is so integral to this i think at some point the council will be interested to know
 What are the goals? And then how has this partnership – how have you achieved those goals? And if not, what are the barriers? Because it's housing plus services here in a very profound way, and it's unique. But I'm still not clear – I guess I'm not clear what the core benchmark is other than you both have reputations for the work that you've done coming into this project. But it's no different. It's housing retention –
 It's permanent housing placement over time. It's recovery, sustainability of recovery, because the addiction issues are so intertwined with the other issues that they're facing, including homelessness and issues around unemployment. So employment we'll be tracking. All those things we'll be tracking. I'm sorry, Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Fish, and I think it's a great opportunity, really, for us to work together and create that report card and get that information back to you. Thank you.
 Other questions? Thank you all very much. Thanks. Is there anyone else that wants to speak on this item? No one else signed up. Okay. Oh, there's someone. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning with Watchdog X. I like the project. I don't have any concerns on Miracles Central doing this project and doing what they need to do. My only concern, again, is when we talk on the loan being repaid back,
 per cash flow. We know that the cash flow is going to be low for many years, but we also have to project out if we're going out 30 to 60 years. And we all know in the mid-90s over in northwest Portland, studios in one bedrooms were as low as $300. We know where they're at right now, a thousand plus, and that's not within a 60-year time frame. Now, it's difficult for me to
 If anybody in this room wants to say, well, in 20 to 30 years, rents aren't going to go up double, triple, I disagree with you. The rents will continue to go up at a certain percentage as your overall expenses on the project. And one of the concerns I have is that I want to make sure that this loan is paid back. I'd like a contingency on this agreement that they agree to apply for a grant from a foundation to assist them in paying this loan back in a timely manner.
 I want outside foundations to see their progress, how well they're doing, and I want them to step up and begin to fund back these loans by performance on these development projects. And I know that this is going to perform quite well. I know there's going to be foundations out there that will have an interest, whether it's a small amount or some possibly even a higher amount. The main thing we have to establish here is that
 If we get foundations begin to fund back to where the city gets their money back, they can utilize that money in other services. And Mayor Hales understands the importance of having a surplus budget. We can all talk about the economy and this and that. Well, he's sitting there as the mayor when this is happening. And the past administration had a deficit.
 So you can talk all day long, but the reality is you have to look at the numbers at the end of the day and understand where these new services are being funded and the benefits on somebody being able to do that. So, again, I'm asking that there is a contingency in here, that this loan will be repaid back, and they will go out to various different foundations, apply for money and grants to pay this loan off in a timely manner. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. Questions for staff? Anyone else wants to speak? I do for Javier. Come on up. Hi, I'm Ross Cornelius, a member of the Miracles Club board, and I just want to acknowledge the council's vision in helping put this together and also the partnership with Central City concerned. Miracles Club was on the verge of being displaced from northeast Portland about in 2007, I think it was.
 And thanks to the efforts of the council and Commissioner Saltzman, they stayed on Martin Luther King and now have a permanent home there. And now they'll have another base of operations in northeast Portland. So I think we've, through this effort and the work of PHB and the council, we will now have...
 an African-American-based grassroots organization that has not been displaced and that continues to offer services in partnership with a really good partner in Central City. The other thing I would add is that Central City's experience with asset management of affordable housing real estate
 will be a great help to the board and the Miracles Club as they enter into ownership and potential purchase down the road of the property. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Javier, a couple questions. Who is Multicultural Development Group? It is the development team of the project, and it's made up of – and actually, Carl, we've got to speak to that. Yeah, sorry. Okay.
 So Multicultural Development Group is the developer in name. It has four members altogether, Guardian Residential or Guardian Real Estate Services, Chris Duffin from LMC, Maria Rojo de Steffi, and who's the fourth? Somebody help me here. Bill Hart. Bill Hart, yeah. Will MCDG have any ownership interest in the building? No. You did a NOFA.
 A competitive NOFA process, NOFA funds availability? In the fall of 2012. Okay. How many responses did you get? We had three for this site and four for the OCC TIF, tax increment financing. Only three? Three. Is there something different?
 uniquely challenging about this site? Because we sometimes get dozens for a site. So to be clear about our NOFA, so we typically get 15, 16, 17, 18 applications for all funding. So this is specific to Oregon Convention Center, and one of the interesting things about Oregon Convention Center is it's not really a lot of property, so we have the only, really the only site, one of the only sites that was available for affordable housing. And this scored, this came out on top of the scoring?
 There was a very close competition. I wouldn't venture to guess exactly what the point scores, but they were all sort of very close to each other. Did this come out as the first project? And it went through an internal and external review committee. Okay. And then as I was listening to the testimony, I was thinking about the –
 how you maintain culturally specific programs in the face of the Fair Housing Act, which is something we have to struggle with all the time. And so there's a good answer here, but I'll let you share it with us. Well, so that's a good point, right? We're always working with fair housing. So in this case, marketing and lease-up is really a key aspect of how this is going to function.
 And so we are unrestricted around who we can market to. We have to take a fair housing approach to who actually gets into the building. But if we emphasize certain audiences for our marketing, then the likelihood increases that those folks will actually apply. And then, as I understand it, through this unique partnership with Miracles Club, it ensures that,
 clients referred by them would have access to this building and that in turn is more likely to be people of color. Correct, but obviously in the context of fair housing, yeah. Correct. Thank you. Why is this an emergency?
 We are hoping to close. I know my partners in the audience will be very interested in this answer. We're hoping to close on June 25th, I believe. That's a good answer. Okay. So in terms of just to go back to Commissioner Fish, is your concern about tracking and monitoring
 Let me be clear, Javier, because I have great confidence in you and what you do. It's maybe less about tracking and just understanding what's the standard going into this that we expect. And you're bringing in blue-chip organizations, so there's some expectation, and that's just – and quantifying it. And I didn't see any of the materials. And whatever you choose to do in terms of tracking and reporting to council, I'll defer to you on that.
 It was more in terms of what's the standard that you're looking to, that you're going to hold them accountable for, and I didn't see anything in the materials that addressed it. Other questions, concerns? All right. And it's an emergency ordinance. We'll take a roll call vote. Looks like a good project. Dan, thanks for your leadership on this. Thanks to the partners who came before us, and we wish you the best of success. Hi. Saltzman. Well, as you've seen from the presentation, this is a very exciting and a very important project.
 uh not only for the african-american community but also for people in recovery michael i want to congratulate you on your 21 years coming up so that's that's a great accomplishment and i just wanted to thank uh ross cornelius who's a little modest who's on the board of miracles club he started out
 working with me to find miracles club a permanent home on martin luther king boulevard and also to make housing for people in recovery above the club so without ross's involvement and i'm really pleased that he's stayed on with that involvement as a board member now of miracles
 Pastor Hennessey, appreciate your leadership as well. And I really appreciate the good work of the Portland Housing Bureau on putting together this agreement and look forward to a very speedy groundbreaking and getting this up and going. And just final thanks to Shannon Callahan in my office, who's been involved with Miracles Club for quite a long time, as well as Brendan Finn, my chief of staff. Hi. No, thank you.
 To quote Al Michaels, I believe it was, do we believe in miracles? Yes. Aye. Prince? I hate having to vote after Commissioner Novick. Thank you very much, Commissioner Salsman, for your continued championing of the Miracles Club and for the community partnership. This is a great project. Aye. Hales? You could upstage him by singing it, but great project, great partnership. Really look forward to it. Well done. Aye. Thank you all. Aye.
 Okay, let's move to the next item, and then I might want to announce or suggest that we take the next item, that is item 583, and then take a half-hour lunch break. But we can insert that where we think makes sense. We've got staff standing by for long periods waiting for some of these items. Let's do the time certain and then see.
 583. 583. Accept report from Community Oversight Advisory Board on the current work to survey the community about police community engagement practices. Okay. So we have Kathleen Sadat and Jimmy Johnson here to report. Please come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Kathleen Sadat. I'm the newly appointed community liaison working with the community.
 Community Outreach Advisory Board and the COCL, which is the group that's contracted to oversee the implementation of the settlement agreement between the City of Portland and the Department of Justice. That's a long title. I'm here this morning with Jimmy Johnson, who is Chair of the Community Engagement and Outreach Plan Subcommittee. Thank you.
 to provide counsel with an update on the Community Oversight Advisory Board's outreach and engagement efforts. So we'll start with listening to Jimmy. Good morning, council members. The mayor is not here. Nick's not here, but good morning. My name is Jimmy Johnson, and I'm the Community Engagement Outreach Oversight Committee Chairperson. And we are...
 Guided by the settlement agreement and our focus is several things. I'm going to just break it down what our focus is advising the chief of police and the police commission on strategies to improve community relations providing the community with information on the agreement and the implementation contributing to the event to the development and implementation of the Portland Police Bureau community engagement and outreach plan and
 and receiving public comments and concerns. One of COAB's biggest jobs is to make recommendations to inform the Portland Police Bureau's Community Engagement and Outreach Plan. In order to make these recommendations, we are charged with seeking public input into the Portland Police Bureau's current community engagement and outreach efforts. And there are a few ways of doing that. Community survey.
 The settlement agreement calls for a representative community survey. On May 28th, the COHA unanimously accepted our committee's recommendation to ask the city to contract with DHM Research to conduct this survey. Thank you.
 In order to use earlier survey data as a baseline, the upcoming survey will replicate the methodology of the 2013 survey and ask many of the same questions. The COAB has had input into the survey, and additional questions will be posed to the community. Later this month, the survey will go out to Portland,
 will go out to 6,000 Portland households. The goal is to get 1,000 responses from households that statistically represent Portland overall. The survey team will be over-sappling African-American and Latino households. Focus groups. While the cohort recognizes that the representative groups
 survey is valuable, we need to do an in-depth outreach into communities, especially those with, especially those the household survey may not reach. For example, houseless communities, mental health areas or folks with mental health, outreach to the LGBTQ communities. So we
 Now that we have moved the representative survey forward, our communities will be focusing on a focus group plan with a goal of meeting with communities later this summer. Broader public feedback. We will also be sharing this survey with the city at large and welcoming any Portlander to fill it out once the representative survey is returned.
 While the results of the representative survey and the broader survey outreach will be analyzed separately, they will both provide valuable insights as we inform our recommendations to the Portland Police Bureau. The settlement agreement calls for two public hearings on the Portland Police Bureau's existing community outreach and engagement efforts. The first was held in April of this past year.
 Our committee has debriefed and discussed lessons learned, and we are working toward a second public hearing that provides a meaningful opportunity for the public's feedback on police community engagement to be heard. The public is also welcome to provide feedback on our public forum online at cocl-c-o-a-b.org. That's cocl.org.
 We also hear public comment at every full COAB meeting. The community members often sit with us at the table and take part in the conversations during our subcommittee meetings. Our subcommittee is also exploring additional ways to reach out to Portlanders, such as creating a speakers bureau and visit community organizations. And at this time, I'd just like to thank you for this opportunity.
 To brief you on our efforts, this is important work and the members of COHAB are dedicated to working with the community to fully implement the settlement agreement and improve the relationships between the Portland Police Department and the community. Thank you, guys. Thank you, Mr. Johnson. Thank you very much. Hi. And I want to just tell you a little bit about what it's been like, what I've seen since I've been in this role, which has not been very long, except it seems like a really long time. Okay.
 The biggest elephant in the room is mistrust. None of the groups trust one another. They don't trust what gets said. And so this is a big issue that we need to address. And that means continued transparency, continued clarification, continued interaction to reduce the amount of distance between human beings and to increase the information flow.
 So one of the things that we really need are structures that will help us communicate back and forth and among ourselves. And we are building those structures. We're trying to build those structures at this point in time. So we need to be able to transfer information, collect ideas, give people back the information on what we did with their ideas, and continue a dynamic dialogue among all the parties.
 I am not sure yet whether people in Portland really understand how important this effort is, what an amazing opportunity for Portland this is, and what amazing opportunities it presents for the various communities of Portland to participate in a process that helps to shape how they are policed.
 and helps to give them more confidence in the police, more confidence in their government, more confidence in the people who patrol their areas. This is a wonderful, wonderful opportunity for us. I think that it means that we need to understand how much this needs to be lifted up into visibility across the city.
 not just in the pockets here where there are complaints or in the pockets here who have knowledge and some of us who are just junkies on this kind of stuff. But everybody in Portland needs to know about this, and so we need to build structures to help that happen. It's really hard within that to help people understand what the COAB is not.
 and what we can do, the limits of what it is that we're about. So that's another task that needs to be taken on, which again, dialogue, clarification, say it again, say it again, say it again, show it. We have an enthusiastic group of volunteers. They work hard. This is not 10 hours a week. This is not 10 hours a month.
 This is almost like a full-time job for some of them, for the ones who really care about what's going on. The reading is, you know, lots and lots of reading. There's a lot of talking that needs to happen. There's a lot of thinking that needs to happen. And so people are spending quite a bit of time with this, but they remain optimistic. So I see a part of my role as needing to continue to clarify the role of the COAB
 I also see it important to bring more voices into the room. The first meeting was very large, and there were a lot of voices, and we need some of those people back. We need to hear from them. They are people who have opinions, and we can figure out what it is. We can translate that into something that we can use to help shape policy. I want to invite you to our meeting tomorrow night or on the 25th
 at the Montevilla United Methodist Church at 232 Southeast 80th, which is where the COAB will be meeting. And tomorrow night they'll be giving some feedback, their feedback on the quarterly report. I'm excited. You know, I've retired two or three times already. But this is exciting and this is important and we can do it. And I believe we can do it, but we can't do it without your support. We need you to talk about it.
 We need you to care about it. We need you to read it. Read what comes out of these committees or out of the report. We need your opinions on it. So we need your involvement in this effort because it does affect the entire city and has implications for the entire nation. Can I ask you a question off that comment? Sure. Are there any tools that we have not given you based on the –
 First of all, I would assume that you would put your phone on do not disturb so you don't get these calls since you've retired. But you answered the phone. I answered the phone, yes. You answered the phone. But you're going to suggest a number of ways we can support your work. Let's go back to a foundation stone. Are there any tools that we have not given you for you to be successful? Well, other than, you know, just another brain –
 We are getting our, we've gone through the process of selecting and I've almost selected a new administrative support person. So that's been helpful, and we now have space. So what I, right now, I cannot think of anything. But then I don't think I know enough yet, very frankly. I haven't been in this long enough to say, ooh, we need that. What I do know, just conceptually, is we need visibility, we need credibility, we need accountability. Okay?
 Those are the things that you can give us. Other questions for either Mr. Latt or Mr. Johnson? Thank you both very much. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Look forward to more. All right. Thanks a lot. So is there anyone else who would like to speak before we accept this report? I have two people signed up, Charles Johnson and Dan Handelman. Okay. Come on up. I think so. I want to take the police item, and then we'll see. That won't take very long.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. My name is Dan Handelman. I'm with Portland Cop Watch. And one of the most important things to talk about today, because I don't really know that much about the outfit that's being recommended to do the survey, is to talk about what happened before and how we got here. That PSU did a fairly good survey but a very biased analysis last time. We testified about that.
 I think it was about a year ago, and the City Council put on hold Chief Reese's effort to give that team a three-year contract so that the COAB would be able to do what the agreement tells them to do, which is to find the firm that will do the survey. And they originally voted on that with a vote of seven to four, and by their own bylaws, they had to have eight members vote on this because that would be a majority of their 15 voting members.
 for a major decision like this. And to their credit, the Chicago COCL recognized this issue and allowed them to engage in further research and discussion. From an observer's standpoint, though, the COAB said they wanted to be given a list of all possible contractors
 to make a recommendation and the final vote appears to be based on some kind of internal list that the city has of on-call contractors and to avoid a bidding process and I don't really understand how we got here. But, you know, that's to me what I'm trying to get at is as we move forward there should be a lot more thought about what we do at the front end, like the lack of training for the CUAB that's now being corrected, the poorly planned outreach meeting that
 that Jimmy referred to and that was more of a PR effort by the police than an outreach effort. And this process could have been streamlined and smoothed out by opening up the job up front four months ago and asking for bids instead of kind of hastily putting this together at the end. And I guess the other main issue I want to bring up in general
 is transparency. I'm glad that Kathleen mentioned that, especially because we welcome Ms. Sadat as the new local COCL person. It was very disruptive, I think, to the process when Justice DeMunis, who had spent a long time getting to know people in the community, had to leave for health reasons, and I think she's a good person to have on board on this.
 However, the announcement of her taking the position came at the meeting last two weeks ago without any public knowledge that the search had come to her doorstep. And I think that there could have been more inclusion and open and transparency done in her hiring and announcement to the community so that we weren't learning at the meeting when we stepped in the door.
 And I also, you know, at the same time, the COCL's office has been moved from East Portland to a police building and now downtown without any public discussion. So there's a whole bunch of transparency and process issues, and I think that we all know how Portlanders need to be part of the process, and I hope that you continue to think about that as we move forward with the DOJ settlement. Thank you. Thanks very much. Questions? Thanks, Dan. Thank you.
 Okay, I think that covers testimony and motion to adopt the report. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Well, it's a very thorough report. I look forward to the results of the survey and very excited to have Kathleen Sadat as the COCL. Aye. Novick.
 Thank you, Mr. Johnson. Thank you, Ms. Sadat. And Kathleen, I've already heard the rave reviews of your brief tenure so far. Hi.
 Well, thank you to Mr. Johnston and Mr. Dutt for the report. I would love to meet with you, Mr. Dutt, if you could make an appointment with my scheduler. I agree that we need to raise the profile and have more investment and involvement by the Council, but that's a longer conversation than we have time for here. Thank you very much. Ayes. Ayes. I appreciate very much the presentation. I also am really impressed by the survey instrument itself. I think it's asking the right questions.
 asking them the right way, trying to get to clarity about how people in our community are being served and how they perceive they're being served. And I want to compliment that work. I think it's just been very thoughtfully and carefully crafted. So I'm looking forward to hearing what we hear from our fellow citizens in this process.
 And I want to join in my colleagues in thanking Ms. Sadat for taking on this role and once again finding retirement less interesting than community service, however she wants to characterize it. But I also appreciate the fact that she was explicitly clear about that.
 her conditions for this role is to be able to speak unvarnished truth to us and to the community and to come here or to any other forum and to be clear about whether this process is working or not.
 And I appreciate that about her very much as well. So good work so far. The point about making sure that we all take the responsibility of raising the visibility of this work is heard and accepted. So thank you. Appreciate this very much. Aye. Okay. Let's take, if we can, item 594 so that Sergeant can get back to work here. And then we'll see where we stand. Thank you.
 594, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the State of Oregon Department of Transportation for oversight, training, and certification of police bureau officers who perform commercial vehicle inspections. Dr. Volpel, good morning. Good afternoon. Commissioners, thank you for hearing me early. I'm going to teach a class at VOAC at 1 o'clock.
 The item for you is just an intergovernmental agreement with the state of Oregon ODOT for truck inspections. We typically have truck inspections. We have an agreement with them over a grant funding process. This year, ODOT decided not to work with the federal government on that.
 the grant process so they don't have that available to us. And in order to continue working with them, we need to have that intergovernmental agreement established and placed so our currently 16 inspectors can continue doing truck inspections, which is vital for traffic safety in the city of Portland. Questions?
 We had a particularly gruesome reminder just a couple weeks ago of how big and powerful trucks are compared to people on bicycles or on foot or even in a car. So this is important work. Thank you. The semi-trucks and the large trucks that we inspect, most of the time their fatality is when they hit a pedestrian or hit a bicyclist or a vulnerable user. Yeah, way out of the scale. Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item?
 It's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Thank you again. Okay, so let's check on the sense of the council here. We've got a couple options. One would be to power forward to get done, or the other would be to take a break. Just looking at the agenda, this may be less than 30 minutes or only about 30 minutes work. What do you think? I'm guessing an hour. Okay.
 But my suggestion would be we take a 20-minute break, and then I think we'll be here, I'm guessing, an hour plus or minus. And we have the heritage trees. So if we take a break until 1230 and come back, does that sound good? So sorry, folks, we're going to take a recess until 1230 and return then to finish the morning's agenda. Thank you. Okay.
 okay the council will uh return to order and we will pause for uh just a moment not just to wait for commissioner salzman but to celebrate commissioner fritz and her leadership because she's going down shortly to sign uh attend the signing of senate bill 921. so on behalf of the council thank you for doing the right thing for oregon yay thank you thank you very much
 So that I can lock them. So she won't be hiding behind a bush here. That's very kind of you. Thank you, colleagues. I appreciate it very much. Good work. Okay. Let's go to the next item on our regular calendar, which is 595, right? Accept bid of Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Bulge Consolidated Conduit Support Project for $2,081,865. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Councilmembers. I'm Barb Gibson, Procurement Manager for Procurement Services. Pull that microphone just a little closer to you. Oh, well, no wonder it didn't work. We couldn't hear you either.
 Today we have before you the Chief Procurement Officer's report recommending a contract award to Moore Excavation Incorporated for the Bulge Consolidated Conduit Support Project for the Bureau of Environmental Services. The construction contract costs based on bids received
 is $2,081,865. The engineers' construction estimate was $1,800,000. In January 2015, the City issued invitation to bid number 117519 for the previously noted project, and on May 19th, six bids were received.
 More excavation was deemed responsive to the bidding requirements of the solicitation and identified 24.4% or $74,315 of the subcontracting dollars going to minority, women-owned, and emerging small businesses. Darren Wilson from the Bureau of Environmental Services is here with me to answer any technical questions you might have about the project.
 If not, I will turn this back to counsel for any questions regarding the solicitation process. Well, I have one sort of standing question on these things. So the original estimate was $1.8 million, and the bid that you're recommending we accept is $2.08 million. So it's about 10 percent above the original estimate. We know that the market's heating up, and we're not getting as many –
 bids below the estimate that we did during the teeth of the recession. Any thoughts as to why we were off by about 10% in the estimate? Commissioner Fish, to answer your question, in this particular case, we have several different risks on this particular project that was reflected in all the bids.
 Primarily there's contaminated media, so all excavation material must be disposed of in a rick rail landfill. So we anticipate that that's some of the reason for the higher than estimated engineer's estimate. But the other part of it is that we're also excavating through the Giles Lake area, which is primarily composed of sluiced fills of the West Hills back 50-some years ago. And so within that loose,
 unconsolidated material, the contractors run a little bit higher risk in excavating in that. So, again, that's reflected in some of the bid amounts. So that's, I think, very good to know. So we're talking about some – you're talking about RICRA. You're talking about the federal law that governs how we dispose of hazardous materials. You've got regulatory issues here that are uncertain. So the market discounted RICRA.
 So looked at those risks and it's reflected in that in the bids which were slightly above the yes, we believe that's true Yes, okay. Thank you other questions. Thank you both very much I didn't want to speak on this item if not a motion to adopt a report I Seltzman I know Vic. Hi Fritz. Thank you. I hails. Hi Okay, 596
 Approve fiscal year 2015-16 cost of living adjustments to pay rates for nonrepresented classifications and elected officials. Specify the effect upon employees in the classification involved and provide for payment.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Councillors. My name is Elizabeth Nunes. I am your class comp manager. And I'm here to present the ordinance to provide a 2.1% cost of living increase adjustment to the compensation rates for nonrepresented employees, as well as the opportunity for elected officials to receive that. And in the ordinance, you will note that of the 3 million
 $37,000 that this is going to cost. It's already been budgeted for. $1.372 million comes from the general fund and $1.665 from the non-general fund bureaus. And it's effective July 1. Elizabeth, when I served with Commissioner Leonard, he always used to bristle at the idea that a cost of living increase was a pay increase.
 And his theory was that COLAs, which are awarded to Social Security recipients, to represented employees, to all kinds of categories.
 are designed to cover the impact of inflation. And then, in fact, from Randy's point of view, if you did not take a COLA, you're actually seeing a pay cut. What's your – where do you come down on that? I agree with him wholeheartedly. If I said pay increase, it was a misstatement because it really is an adjustment to the range. And –
 Over the years, if you sort of track what the COLAs or cost of living adjustments have been, you'll see that sometimes we stay up with the cost of living, and sometimes it's not quite. The cost of living goes up a little higher. And so the theory that if you don't take it, you're getting a slight pay cut, I would say you're going to be behind in overall ability to pay for goods and services. Other questions?
 Elizabeth, I think I know the answer to this, but elected officials have until July to figure out whether they want to accept the cost of living adjustment. Is that right? That is correct. July 2nd. Anything else? Okay. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Watchdog X. As I stated last year, I have a real problem, again, on the Bureau Director's office.
 making more money than the commissioners and the mayor. And it's my understanding that City Human Resources Administrative Rules Section 8.4, compensation for elected official, provides that salary rates for the mayor, commissioner, and auditor shall not be assigned to a salary schedule and shall be established separately by the council. Now, with that in mind, you've shown a surplus budget this year. Obviously, that...
 equates to good performance. And why the commissioners and the mayor are not receiving at least the same as the bureau directors is a big concern to me because I think that's what it should be. I think there needs to be an adjustment made. I think the bureau directors need to step up and make this adjustment. In my opinion, if you don't, I'm going to try to step in and actually drop your salaries down
 And I think to be fair and equitable to the commissioners and the mayor, I think you need to really look at this close, have some input, and understand that your salaries, some as high as close to $200,000 a year, is what the commissioner's salary should be also, and the mayor at the very least. And so I have a real problem with this, and I'd like to have this addressed, because when you're showing a surplus budget,
 And I know that if you were working at a large corporation and you made $50 million surplus budget and they just gave you 5% bonus, that would be $2.5 million. Now, I know this isn't a major corporation to look at, but you're earning every penny if you were at $200,000. And you should be recognized for that and compensated for that, at least at the same level as the bureau directors. And that is my opinion.
 And my understanding that change can be made and I hope it is made. Thank you. Thank you. I was hoping you'd go on, Lightning. It's so rare that anybody comes in and says anything wrong. Thank you very much for making that point. Anyone else?
 And let's see, I forgot to look to see if it is an emergency ordinance. Okay, let's take a roll call vote. Well, there's apparently nothing controversial about the component of this ordinance which awards a cost of living increase to our hardworking, nonrepresented employees. I think we're all in accord on that, and we are no different than virtually every other level of government that does this. And I guess we should continue to applaud that inflation is relatively low.
 Now, the question is always going to come up, should electives take it or not. Every elected will make their own decision. For the bulk of my service, we were in a recession where we were laying employees off and we were making tough decisions. So I and some other colleagues chose not to take a COLA, effectively in solidarity with the workforce that was having to share the pain during tough times.
 Last year I took a COLA. I intend to take a COLA this year. I do not view it as a pay increase. I view it as a cost of living adjustment. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. I'm very glad that we're not in a position where we have to ask our hardworking, nonrepresented employees to take a pay cut, which, as Commissioner Fish points out, is what we'd be doing if we were not allowing for this cost of living adjustment. Aye.
 Fritz. My speech is almost exactly the same as yours, Commissioner Fish, that this is keeping up with inflation or attempting to keep up with inflation. And like you, I didn't take the COLA during the recession, but I plan to do so this year. Aye. Hales. Aye.
 Our employees do indeed deserve to keep up with the cost of living, so that's why this ordinance overall is appropriate and reasonable. Let me say something about the subject of elected official compensation, because I appreciated Lightning's testimony very much.
 And that is, at some point, not this year, at some point, I'd like to appoint a salary commission to review the issue of the compensation of commissioners and the mayor with respect to those of bureau directors, because we do have an absurd imbalance.
 but it's also a huge political hot potato for any council to take up. And so my notion about that is at some point we ought to have a salary commission convened in this city to look at that issue and set the salaries for our successors.
 and that the five of us or whoever is here at that point should vote on the salaries for our successors and that we should push the reset button on the structure of compensation in the city of Portland for the future. I'm not sure exactly when that moment comes, but it should come sometime soon. On the larger question in the state of Oregon, the subject of local official compensation is absurd.
 I believe the city of Gresham just approved a charter change that finally pays the mayor of a city of 100,000 people. It was entirely a volunteer job before that. And that makes, I believe, three cities, maybe four out of the 240 cities in Oregon where council members or mayors are paid.
 despite the fact that some of those cities, places like Salem, are pretty good-sized cities. So this is a subject rife with injustice and absurdity. Eventually we might be able to rectify one more piece of that, at least for those that come after us. But for the moment, we'll walk along with our bureau directors in lockstep, albeit quite a ways behind them. Aye. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to the next item. Thank you.
 597, grant a franchise to Quest Corporation doing business as CenturyLink QC for telecommunications services for a period of 10 years. Second reading, roll call. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. 598? Aye.
 Create Portland Utility Board to strengthen oversight functions for city water, sewer, and stormwater services. I understand you have some amendments, Commissioner. Yes, Mayor. Thank you. We have a little housekeeping, and I'm going to try to keep this as organized as possible. Carla, could you please hand out the proposed amendments? Ben Walters is here to make sure that if I stumble, I get back on the right path, and we'll try to do this as efficiently as possible. I have a brief narrative to walk you through these.
 And then we'll offer, Mayor, it's my intention then to offer the amendments as a package and then to offer, seek permission to slap an emergency clause on this so that we can dispose of the matter today.
 So by way of background, colleagues, last week we voted to adopt Commissioner Fritz's amendment to strengthen the process for selecting and appointing pub members. Today, Commissioner Fritz and I are introducing an amendment to ensure that nonrepresented and represented Bureau employees have a voice, a meaningful voice, during the annual budget review process. Thank you.
 Under the amendment, they would serve as ex officio members of the pub for a limited period of time to correspond with the budget process. We are also adding language, proposed language, that would require public comment at all pub meetings. Commissioner Saltzman and I are introducing an amendment incorporating some proposed language from Mike Houck, specifically references to watershed health in the underlying documents.
 You have before you the proposed amendments. I think they are pretty straightforward. 3.123.010 and 3.133.020 are amended to incorporate some suggested language from my calc. 3.123.040 new sub C.
 contains the provision which would allow up to three ex officio non-voting members to be appointed and this this is designed to compensate for the fact that historically both the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services had Bureau advisory budget advisory committees that had two
 a represented nonrepresented employee serving on them. Now we've collapsed this to a single nine person body and I think it was a very good suggestion of Commissioner Fritz that we should have the flexibility to appoint ex officio nonvoting members during the period of the budget so that the pub would have the benefit of the experience and the input of both represented and nonrepresented employees.
 And then 3.123.090 is the new subsection which reflects the requirement that there be public testimony and opportunities for public comment at all pub meetings. Mayor, I would move this collectively as Amendments A. Second. Second.
 Further discussion? Roll call on including the amendments. Mayor, beforehand, just a point of clarification from the drafter. This got rolled up into a single document. Right. The language about a single underline really only applies to 010 and 020, and actually those don't reflect the changes from last week at this point in time. So the double underline is the new language in both documents.
 010 and what should be 3123, not 133020.
 That's the new language from Mike Houck. And then 040 and 090, that single underline is all new language in both of those sections. Okay. All right. So we'll adopt those as a package. And, Mayor, since it's a fully integrated document and it contains the emergency clause and the effective date, I would move the entire package of amendments as Amendment A. Okay. Yeah.
 Yeah, that's actually what I thought you had done. But we'll take it once more with feeling. Any further discussion, a roll call on accepting the amendments?
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Well, thank you very much, Commissioner Fish, for working through me as you promised you would last week to looking at these amendments. I'm very pleased that we've been able to incorporate the Public Involvement Advisory Council's guidelines for the makeup of your budget advisory committees as part of your new commission. Aye. Hales? Good thing made better. Aye. Okay. Thank you.
 Again, I appreciate the collaborative way that my colleagues have engaged the amendment process. I think this is demonstrably stronger. I would also note that we received a letter this week from the Portland Business Alliance giving their strong and enthusiastic support for this package, and that has been made a part of the record. And now we have the amended ordinance with an emergency clause on the table before the council. Okay. Thank you.
 Since we've amended the ordinance, I want to provide the opportunity for anyone to speak who would like to testify. Hearing none, then the emergency clause has been added. We'll take a roll call vote. Fish. Well, thank you, Mayor and colleagues. I want to take just a moment to reflect on how we got here. At a work session in December of 2014, we heard the preliminary recommendations of the Utility Oversight Blue Ribbon Commission.
 They proposed a new Portland Utility Board to replace the existing Public Utility Review Board, or PIRB, and the individual utility budget advisory committees. They also proposed that the pub would operate year-round, assisted by full-time dedicated staff, and that they would report directly to the City Council.
 The idea was that this new pub would work in conjunction with the outside oversight of the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon to strengthen transparency and accountability at both the Portland Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 I'm pleased that their good idea has now found its way into an ordinance which has secured the support of my colleagues. Once we adopt this ordinance today, we will be launching a full-blown recruitment effort for potential members to the pub.
 I have placed on my website information about how to apply. Applications will be received until about the middle of July. It is our goal to have the pub up and running by late August so that it can fully participate in our next budget cycle. At this point, there's a number of people that I'd like to thank. Mayor Hales, I'd like to thank you and Jackie Dingfelder for your strong partnership.
 I'd like to acknowledge again Chair Dwight Holden and all the members of the Blue Ribbon Commission whose thoughtful work has brought us to this day. I want to thank the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon and Janice Thompson. This is a unique relationship with a public utility, and I think if we look over the last year, it's clear that this has been a mutually beneficial relationship that is especially good for our rate payers.
 I want to thank Dan and Amanda for the way they approached the amendment process and for the good ideas that they placed on the table, which, as I said, I think strengthens this ordinance. I want to thank Ben Walters for his invaluable assistance as a lawyer and his patience and his guidance throughout. And I want to thank my team, in particular Jim Blackwood.
 and Sonia Schmansky and Liam Frost, who have been working on this for quite some time and probably never thought this day would come. But I think collectively we are proud that we are at this moment. And again, I thank everyone who has had a hand in shaping this process, all the folks in the public that have weighed in.
 And we commit moving forward to have this up and running by late August and then to fulfill the promise of this pub, which is strengthening oversight and accountability at our two utilities. Aye. Helpsman. Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish, also for your leadership in bringing this home. And I appreciate the work of the Blue Ribbon Commission.
 And I look forward to getting some good members appointed to the pub and get them up and running to keep a good eye on our rates. Hi. Novick. Congratulations, Commissioner. Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for the collaborative spirit and the leadership you've shown on this. As I was looking through the amendments last night, I noticed that there are no term limits for the pub.
 members, which is of concern to me. And I concur with you that now it's a little late to bring it up now. I'm looking forward to the discussions that you've promised over the next month to perhaps bring back an amendment to set term limits. I think it's probably better to do that now.
 What I have done in my two bureaus is look into the term limits. As you maybe all remember, we added term limits to the Golf Advisory Committee a year or so ago and then finally got some turnover after 20 years or more of that.
 folks serving, I know from my experience on the Planning Commission that it was very meaningful to me as a citizen volunteer to get that experience and to learn some of the things that enabled me to run for City Council. So I want to make sure that this board has certain stability, but also some opportunities for new people to come on board from time to time. So I look forward to having that discussion with you. And again, thank you very much for presenting this new
 oversight body, which I do believe will strengthen our system. Aye. Hales. Well, just reflecting a little bit, two and a half years ago, Commissioner Saltzman was among those who recommended that I refresh bureau assignments and move things around, and Commissioner Fish asked you to take on a big job of having both utilities under one roof at a time when there was a lot of...
 turmoil and controversy and frankly that we're at this point here today with this kind of accord and stability and reliability about how we're operating our utilities is a really strong testament to your leadership and then secondly the fact that we've gotten to a level of
 of real and effective oversight through this process is an assurance to the whole community that you meant that and that we meant that. So very proud that we're at this point. Really appreciate what you and your team have put together here and look forward to this particular vehicle of the pub.
 really giving the community a clear view of what we do and why and question what we do carefully so that we always do the right things. But this certainly is the right thing. I'm very pleased and proud to vote aye. Thank you. Well done. Okay, let's move on to 599. 599.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation for the purchase of water system hydrants and valves at an estimated cost of $5,220,000. Second reading. Roll call. Bish? Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Commissioner Novick didn't say it, but I can't resist. The dogs of Portland are having a good day. Aye. I'm surrounded. That many fire hydrants. Okay, 600.
 A men's subrecipient contract would join to add $65,450 to create a landlord response program for veterans exiting homelessness for a total not to exceed $1,846,191. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor, through the Home for Everyone coordinating body that the city and the county serve on.
 plan was been created to end veterans homelessness by the end of this year 2015 the City Council in the spring bump authorized funds to create a landlord recruitment program to help bring private landlords to the table to assist in our efforts to house veterans experiencing homelessness through a competitive process join was selected to lead the creation and implementation of this program so this item awards that money to join great
 Anyone here want to speak on this item? And it's an emergency ordinance. Roll call vote, please. Mayor, I have an ex parte contact to disclose. We did a BES outreach meeting in Hollywood yesterday, and the entire joint family was there for a meeting, having pastries and coffee and Flirt-A-Leek. And they're among our very best partners in the work to address homelessness, and this goal of ending homelessness among our veterans should be at the top of the list.
 And thankfully, we have a president that shares that view. Thank you, Dan, and thank you, Mayor. Bye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? This is an important piece of a great collaborative effort that does include the Veterans Administration, includes the city, county, Home Forward, the whole team we heard from earlier today, really working in harness together to get to a really good outcome. I think it's going to show a lot of people that we can actually make progress. I'm really excited about this. Thank you, Dan. Aye. 601?
 Except three federal grants totaling $700,003,876 from the Department of Housing and Urban Development for Continuum of Care Planning, the Administration of the Regional Homeless Management Information System, and OTIS supportive housing programs. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mayor. I think the title is read by our clerk, said it all. The acceptance of this grant will support the activities of the Portland Housing Bureau and non-profit service providers to provide services to homeless individuals. Great. Anyone want to speak? Roll call vote, please. Bish. Aye. Seltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, 602.
 Authorize application to the Federal Emergency Management Agency through the Oregon Military Department Office of Emergency Management for the Emergency Management Performance Grant in the amount of $385,027 for positions and programs. Commissioner Novick? Donna Puff, FF2MU. We'll explain what this application is all about. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Jonna Poppe, FDMU. For the record, I'm the planning manager at the City of Portland Bureau of Emergency Management. Briefly on the Emergency Management Performance Grant application. This is a bread and butter grant for emergency management. It comes from the Department of Homeland Security to the states, and then from the Oregon State Office of Emergency Management to us. We've received it each year since 2007, and it supports rent, salaries for three staff people, and our phone bill from BTS.
 There's a 50% matching requirement for each item that's funded, so they pay half of a person's salary and we cover the other half from general fund. In addition to the 50% match, we promise to keep our emergency response plans up to date, conduct regular training and exercises, and report on our activities like public outreach. We got $385,027 last year and we're asking for that amount again this year, and I'd be happy to answer any questions about it.
 Questions? You said it pays the phone bill? It does, yes, phone and Internet from BTS. We have a lot of phones. Donna, I can't help but say this. When I was a kid, I dropped my middle name because I couldn't say it or pronounce it or spell it.
 Is that a suggestion? My heart goes out to you thinking about you as a young person. As a young person, I was John Abeth Anderson. You had it easier then. It got more complicated. So you chose this name. This is through marriage. I probably had to think twice. I have less sympathy. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else want to speak on this item?
 And it looks like we have added the emergency clause. Is that right? I haven't asked. Well, it looks like an asterisk written on my. It is an emergency. I just left the asterisk off the agenda. Okay. So it is an emergency and we're going to vote now. Roll call, please. Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Thank you, Jana. Aye. Fritz.
 Thank you for all your good work. I also appreciate Director Carmen Merlo for getting back to me with our responses to the concerns about the USC grant that we had before us a few weeks ago. I was very impressed with the thoroughness of you and your team's response. Thank you so much. I'll pass that on. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thanks, John. Thank you very much. Okay, 603.
 I declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements north of Northeast Prescott Court in the Northeast 136th Avenue Phase 2 Local Improvement District. Commissioner Novick. Mr. Abbey, proceed. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Good afternoon, Council Members, Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. I just have five slides to show you, if we can switch over to the presentation. So we're now on the second slide. This is just to refresh your memory from last year. You may recall that we had the final assessment hearing on the Northeast 136th Avenue Phase 1 LID, and we heard property owner testimony that
 There was an interest in getting the street completed all the way down to Prescott Court. You may recall that we had only improved the north half of the block, and there was interest in improving the south half of the block. So that particular final assessment ordinance was amended to direct a council-initiated LID, and we're bringing that here in front of you today. So the properties that are shown on this map in orange and in pink participated in that second LID in Argyle.
 to improve the northern part of Northeast 136th Avenue. The property shaded in green would be financially participating in the Northeast 136th Avenue Phase 2 LID, and the properties shown in blue were part of the original LID in this area about 10 years ago, the Northeast 135th and Prescott LID. So none of the property owners that have participated in the two previous LIDs would be again financially participating in this LID.
 Just moving on to this slide, this is a before and after picture of the first project that we did in Argue about 10 years ago. And this is what it looked like shortly before completion. And then the last slide that I just wanted to show you is we currently have 15 neighborhoods in Portland that have no unpaid streets.
 So two of those neighborhoods are in East Portland. They're shaded in orange, Russell and Woodland Park. I've handed out an amendment. When I wrote the resolution, I had only mentioned Woodland Park and I wanted to be sure to add Russell. If you approve this LID, and we would bring it back for an LID formation ordinance, so if the LID is ultimately approved,
 then Argy would become the third neighborhood in East Portland and the 16th neighborhood citywide that would have no unpaved streets. So I would just respectfully like to request the council to approve that amendment. And if you're so inclined to approve, the resolution is amended, and I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Since we're being picky, could I suggest adding the word the before the third in the sentence? The which? The which?
 It just says becoming third neighborhood rather than becoming the third neighborhood. Yes. I wouldn't have suggested that if you hadn't brought the amendment. But since you obviously got that attention to detail, which we actually know you for. Thank you. So I'll move the friendly amendment. She'll see your attention to detail and raise you. Second that amendment. So then shall we act on the amendments, please? Andrew, I just have one question. Yes.
 Were you a Pilots fan in 2005 when Megan Rapinoe and Christine Sinclair won the national championship playing together? I was. As a matter of fact, in 1998 and 1999, I was an adjunct professor of finance at University of Portland when they were winning the whole enchilada back then. The feeling on campus was just amazing. I think I made about $400 a term for teaching the class, but it was worth every penny just to be on campus and be part of all that excitement.
 Well, and for those of you who love women's soccer, the two great stars of the World Cup right now, the Canadian striker Christine Sinclair, who may end up being the top goal scorer in the history of the game if she stays healthy, and Megan Rapinoe, who seems to be the most effective player on the U.S. team, were played side-by-side on the 2005 team that won the national championship, beating UCLA 4-0. And a pretty extraordinary thing that a school of less than 3,000 students would have
 two players who will go down in history as two of the greatest women's soccer players of all time. Yeah, and I'm also honored to share a birthday with Malia Shem. I love this conversation. I was actually sitting around my office yesterday in a meeting about to start, and my
 my chief of staff and the city attorney and someone else were in the room. Martha, probably. Yeah, maybe it was Martha. And there were two men sort of sitting there quietly listening to three women talk detailed sports talk before the meeting began. I thought, this is cool. This is a good thing about Portland. Thank you, Andrew. Any other relevant or off-topic questions for Andrew? I don't believe we have any of the property owners here today. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, then we'll take a roll call on the resolution. On the amendment? May we vote on the amendment? I thought we already did. I'm sorry. No, we have not acted on the amendment. Let's take a roll call on the amendment. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. And then on the resolution itself. Fish? Thank you, Andrew. Aye. Saltzman? Yeah, it's always good to add another neighborhood with paved streets. Aye. Novick? Thank you, Andrew. Aye. Fritz?
 Thank you very much for the report and also for showing us that list of 15 and soon to be 16 neighborhoods. I didn't see any in North Portland. Maybe one in southwest is Hillside in southwest or in northwest? Northwest. It's in northwest. So I don't think there are any in southwest and there are none in southeast. So we still have a lot of work to do, and I appreciate every step towards that. Thank you.
 yeah I like that box score appreciate seeing that it shows us how far we have to go but it shows us that progress is possible now that we're gonna finally light up the out of the mud program and there'll be another tool in your kit to get this work done so thank you I okay let's move on to 604
 Authorize a contract with R&H Construction in the amount of $790,000 to complete emergency structural repairs to the Director Park canopy. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I'll turn it over to Kia Selle from Parks. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Kia Selle. I'm the Planning, Development, and Asset Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation.
 I'm here today to request council authorization for a contract with R&H Construction to complete emergency structural repairs to the Director Park canopy. Last fall, park staff learned that the wood beam supporting the glass canopy of the pavilion at Director Park had moisture damage and required replacement. We developed an emergency... Excuse me.
 We developed an emergency plan to close the area under the canopy in the event of heavy winds or heavy snow or ice, and we monitored the structure for safety throughout the winter. We also immediately began working with the original designers of the canopy, ZGF Architects. ZGF has been a full partner with us and has funded and completed the project repair design with our input.
 As partners, we have agreed to use steel beams instead of wood beams because steel will have a much longer life cycle and much lower maintenance cost. CGF recognizes the importance of this canopy to the community, and they have generously agreed to fund the majority of the repair costs. Parks will fund the difference in terms of the cost between wood and steel beams. And we're going to use our existing funds from our major maintenance emergency repair fund.
 After collective deliberation, R&H Construction has been selected as the contractor for this work. They have a track record of success with very complex construction projects. This was an important early decision for ZGF so that they could have their project repair plans reviewed for constructability and estimated for costs early on so they could deliver the best value and approach for the community.
 Many community stakeholders have already been notified about this work and more information will be shared with the community as we draw closer to construction. Construction is scheduled to begin at the end of September and to be completed in early December with the majority of the work completed before the holiday street moratorium, excuse me, street closure moratorium goes into effect. And I'm happy to take any questions you might have. Kia, just a couple questions. First,
 I want to acknowledge that in the six years or so since this park went online, it's really had a catalytic impact in that area. And I'm reminded that no restaurant had been successful in the second floor of the Fox Tower.
 until the ringside came in on an interim basis and then stayed. And one of the great features of that space is it overlooks the park and at night overlooks the extraordinary light show that accompanies the pavilion. And there's been a lot of development around that area. So it's really been a phenomenal addition. I read a comment recently online where someone complained that they went and it was too crowded.
 I was thinking, boy, this is a successful urban plaza that's attracting a lot of people and families and kids. And that's good. Two questions. First is, does the shift to steel change the aesthetics of that canopy, or in any way alter the original vision for the site? That's a great question, Commissioner. So we looked very carefully at this question, because that came to mind for us as well. Because wood is obviously a very different kind of material than steel.
 And as I mentioned, ZGF Architects, they are the architect of record for the pavilion. And they actually helped us through this decision-making process and also worked with Lori Olin, one of the other original designers. He's the landscape architect for the plaza. And we all agreed that steel would have the same kind of rhythm and the same kind of architecture
 airiness and lightness as wood, it will definitely have a different kind of look just visually because the wood is yellow, it's warmer, and the steel will actually have more of a metallic type reflective finish. But it'll still have the same kind of rhythm and lightness as the wood has currently. Well, Lori Olin, of course, did one of the parks in...
 in the River District and is world famous. So my sense is if the Parks Bureau, Mr. Olin, and CGF all conclude that it's consistent with the overall aesthetics of the site, then that's good enough for me. The second question is, can you just remind us, what happens to Elephant's Deli during the construction phase? Yes.
 So during the actual construction work, because Elephant's Deli, their annex is located underneath the pavilion, they will actually need to close. Keep in mind they actually have their main restaurant just across the street from Director Park, so that will remain open. So for all of those customers that are concerned about the closure of their store underneath the pavilion, they will be able to go to the Director Park area and still access Elephant's.
 we will, during that closure period, abate their rent. And we have anticipated some of this, and they have already been contacted, so they are fully aware of this coming up. And finally, just my recollection on this project is, thanks to the generosity of Tom Moyer, Jordan Schnitzer, and some other people, this was about a 60-40 split private-public. Is that right?
 That's my correct election. That's correct. About 60% was private, about 40% was public, which on a project like this in such a location is a good split if we believe in public-private partnerships. And then our total cost on this project
 towards whatever the cost of fixing this problem is $188,000? That's correct. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure I understood a point you made in passing there, that obviously the design firm is taking the majority of the responsibility for this, and that was negotiated, not litigated. Is that correct? That's correct. Thank you. They came to the table as willing partners. Good. Appreciate that very much. Any other questions for Kia? Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 Thank you very much. We'll take a roll call vote. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Thank you, Kia. Aye. Fritz? I'm so honored to be the Parks Commissioner and to work with Kia Selle and the rest of her team at Parks. When challenges come up, knowing that there are great people ready to dive in and deal with them in a collaborative manner is really special. Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, 605.
 Approve the design, I'm sorry, approve the designation of five trees at City of Portland Heritage Trees.
 as City of Portland Heritage Trees and remove the heritage tree designation from six trees. Mayor, can we take a one-hour break and hear the story? Poor Meryl. Oh, gosh, sorry. I know you're only kidding. Thank you, Mayor Harrison. Thank you, Meryl Reddish, the Chair of the Urban Forestry Commission, for waiting so long to give this presentation, which I know is a delight to all of my colleagues, so thank you for being here. You're welcome. It's helpful information.
 To be somewhat semi-retired. So actually my colleague, Brian, who chairs the Heritage Tree Committee, would have liked to have been here, but he had some obligations, work and child care. So I'm here. And I also wanted to thank Angie DeSalvo, who's with the Urban Forestry staff, who's done a terrific job, and she's the point person for the Heritage Tree Committee.
 heritage tree program. And as you know, well, I'll start by saying I bet if you were like me, you really appreciated the trees this past week when the temperatures reached 90 and above and you were able to really bask in the shade and the coolness of these trees. So once again, it's a reminder of how important...
 our canopy is for all of us. The Heritage Tree Program is actually one of the programs, the only program that protects trees in the city. And so it's a really key, critical program and one that we, as the Urban Forestry Commission and the forestry staff take really seriously.
 Today, I'd like to present five trees that we ask for you to approve as heritage trees. They were nominated through a very rigorous and intensive procedure. And they are important to the city because of their size, their age, type, historical association, or horticultural value.
 They were nominated by members of the public and if privately owned, there needed to be consent to designate by the owner of the property. And only a few of the nominations make it through this rigorous selection process, which weighs both the above factors along with the tree's health, the available growing space, and the distribution of trees throughout the city.
 So I don't know if you have those shots okay. I'm going to activate the . Oh, I can activate it. So I just do this. There we go. All right. The first one, American Elm, Ole Miss Americana, is in the right of way in the Sunnyside neighborhood. This large tree has a circumference of 13 feet, a height of 73 feet, and a canopy spread of 111 feet.
 And as you know, the elm population, not only here in Portland, but across the United States, was decimated by Judge Schelm's disease. And so Portland has about 3,000 of these trees left, and we want to make sure that we protect as many as possible. So this elm, which is native to the East Coast, was nominated as a Heritage Tree.
 The next tree is also an Ulmus americana, another American elm. And this is in the Selwood-Moreland neighborhood. It has the widest canopy spread of any tree in the Heritage Tree Program. The tree spreads 120 feet wide. It's 120 feet wide. It stands 85 feet tall and has a circumference of almost 15 1⁄2 feet.
 This classic vase-shaped tree can be seen for blocks, especially given the low canopy levels in the surrounding blocks. Neighbors have been advocating for heritage tree status for this particular tree for years. The next one is an apricot, Prunus armenissaya. This unusual apricot tree is located in the front yard of a Vernon neighborhood. The property owner estimates the tree was planted in 1912, near the time the home was built.
 It has a circumference of just under 10 feet around, 9.8, and it's an impressive fruit tree that still bears buckets of tasty golden apricots. Although the tree is over 100 years old, it can easily live another 100 years with proper care, and it will be the only apricot in the Heritage Tree Program. The next tree is the Gravenstein apple, Malus domestica, and it's a private tree owned at...
 in the southeast, inner southeast neighborhood. This is another fruit tree, and it's in the Reed neighborhood and has a circumference of 9 1⁄2 feet, stands 35 feet high, and has a canopy spread of 40 feet. The home was built in 1916 by Charlie Woodward,
 when an orchard stood on the site. And the neighborhood has changed much in the past hundred years, like all neighborhoods have. And it is now surrounded by ranch homes that were built in the 1950s. So the tree really stands as a testament to what the neighborhood used to be. And today the tree grows on the edge of an oversized corner lot
 where the owners maintain a grassy lawn for neighborhood kids to play, and the tree's shade hosts the annual block party.
 So many neighbors submitted handwritten cards with a nomination for this tree, and the Thompson Oyster family sums it up best. They wrote, In addition to the unique and historical attributes of the tree, its presence provides an important cultural and neighborhood resource. The tree is valued by neighborhood residents,
 Adults, kids, and even dogs love it. I don't know how great that is. Preservation of green spaces in neighborhoods is something Portland does or has done well. Commending this tree as a heritage tree would help protect and acknowledge this tree's presence in our neighborhood. The last tree is the Aesculus hippocastanum, or a common horse chestnut.
 And this is a tree that lives in the Cathedral Park neighborhood. And it was nominated by the Cathedral Park Tree Team, which is a group of Portland Park volunteers. And when these folks learned that there were no heritage trees in their neighborhood, they launched a search for nominees. And using inventory data, they decided that this was the tree they would nominate.
 This glorious horse chestnut grows adjacent to a stately home built in 1900. The tree is 11 feet in circumference, 65 feet tall, and has a canopy spread of over 60 feet. And right now it's in all of its glory with beautiful white blossoms.
 So those council members are the trees that we wish to designate as heritage trees for 2015. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, Commissioner Frist is right. We all do look forward to these presentations. I was here for the first one with Jane Glazer, so it's a great tradition, and I'm glad you're continuing it. One curious point. I mean, this...
 this resource of the American Elms that we have in Portland is pretty amazing. I didn't realize it totaled 3,000. I knew it was a big number. Do we know where that stands among other cities in the U.S.? Is it the largest? I don't know, Mayor, but maybe, Angie, would you know that, answer that question? We certainly have some of the largest.
 Thank you. Angie DeSalvo, Urban Forestry. We certainly have some of the largest trees compared to the East Coast, being more geographically far away, and our population has been fairly isolated, and we've been able to slow the spread of Dutch elm disease. We get lots of comments from visitors from the East Coast who are very impressed with the trees that we do have, and we have a fairly aggressive DED program where we monitor trees and inoculate those specimens that are very important for us to hang on to.
 I think it might be the largest stand in the U.S. It may be. I don't know totals, but really there are not many, especially of large size on the East Coast. My dad was an activist on that cause. Well, thank you for that. When we moved to Portland, he was amazed because he was from Virginia by the amazing number and size of elms here. Okay, other questions? We're also saying goodbye to six trees.
 One of them is a big leaf maple. We bought our house in part because it was this enormous big leaf maple in front of it. And the week after we closed, the tree collapsed onto our house and damaged the house, had to be removed, and totally changed the relationship between the street and the house. And do you love the house as much as you did? Yeah.
 I've learned to rely more heavily on the other tree that survived, which unfortunately is also hollowed out and someday we'll lose that as well. And we're growing a replacement. Good. That's what I like to hear. Thank you.
 Well, thank you both. This is Steve. Sorry. I actually do have a question for Merrill and the Commissioner, which is last year, I recall we had a discussion about the fact that one of the criteria for designated heritage trees is age, but then old trees, you know, after a while die. And several of the trees that died last year had only been heritage trees for maybe like 10 or 20 years. And I was wondering if...
 the Bureau could take a look at maybe altering the age criterion in such a way as to allow more heritage trees to enjoy their heritageness? I have thought about that very phrase, the enjoy their heritageness, because I do remember it. We've been a tad busy with the tree code implementation and are likely to be so. So there's been various other programs within the Bureau that have had to –
 slow down a little bit. I think often we might have had more than the number of trees that we have nominated today because there's been a more extensive outreach capacity within the staff to train and organize volunteers. So I can't promise you that we're going to be able to get to that. Of course, we will be hiring a new policy person and looking at some code amendments. There's
 a myriad of challenges with looking after our trees, but it's certainly still on my list, as is the quarter-inch pruning regulation in the tree code. Thank you, Commissioner. And if I can, Commissioner, along those lines, we've had a real onslaught of people nominating trees, over 40. So we'll be coming back to you perhaps earlier rather than later. And I wanted to just bring up that the paradox walnut tree that was in the news last year,
 was just designated and signed and notarized by the developer yesterday. We had a little event, a celebration. And this is a really good example of how a developer really had to listen to the community because the community really rallied around saving this 100-year-old walnut.
 And the development looks good, and the tree is definitely protected. And so with your permission, I would love to bring that tree to your attention sooner rather than later. Great. Where is that located? Southeast 50th and Mill. Well, thank you both. I don't know if there's anyone else who wants to speak on this item. There is. Come on up.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. My name is Jay Wilson. I'm a resident in Selwood, and I am one of the advocates of the second elm tree that has made it here today. And in its recognition, I just wanted to share a short anecdote. This tree was planted in the 1880s.
 on Umatilla Street by the families that owned two of the oldest houses there that were built in the 1880s also. And for me, a personal note is in 2009, in an early spring day, I looked out across the street, and on one of the lower boughs of the tree, one of the proudest moments I have in living in Portland is to look out and see a bald eagle with a salmon.
 You know, probably that came right up from Crystal Springs Creek that to me was just such a testament of the work that our city has been making to make living wild in the city possible. And so I'm always very proud to share that story, to be honored to have that right on my front doorstep in Selwood.
 So as well as the notoriety that this tree has for its status, it's right on the corner of the Springwater Trail, and people are often coming right down the street to look at it as they're going by on their bicycles because it is commanding. So I appreciate so much the work that was done in helping this tree get this recognition. Mayor, I have to say –
 I love that anecdote, but I'm a little chagrined at the same time. All the time and energy we've spent to bring the salmon back to Crystal Springs and all the spawning that's going on to know that the great bald eagle is working at cross purposes with what we're trying to do there. But that's for another conversation. That's okay. That's allowable. Thank you all very much. This actually passes the second reading not being an emergency ordinance, so it comes back.
 to us next week, but I want to thank you all for your work on this. We appreciate you very much in this process and just want to put in a quick plug for the Eastmoreland neighborhood Elm inoculation that takes place this weekend. Volunteers are still being recruited, I think.
 Thank you. Keep those elms around. Thank you. Before you gavel, thank you very much for your support. And thank you to my two colleagues to the left who, with me, supported the continuation of the elm inoculation program during the depths of the recession. It seemed like it was on the chopping block every time, and we managed to keep it going. And thank you to Angie DeSalvo and your team in Parks. That's terrific. Commissioner, this is a wonderful guide that was handed out today. Yeah, it's very cool. How might we, Madam Chair, how might we get additional copies of this guide?
 Angie could help you with that. You can contact me. Those were put together by an intern and printing paid for by PG, just a good example of more volunteer work that goes into the program. Good partnerships. Yeah, it's really nice. Thank you for bringing that up. I forgot about that.
 Thank you very much. Well, before we close, colleagues, I do want to thank you for your support on the Fritz Fairchild Act, which I'm about to go down to get signed. I very much appreciate that. And even better news, sick time passed the Senate 17 to 13. So it now goes to a House vote, and it looks pretty clear that we're going to have earned sick time throughout Oregon, which is –
 great satisfaction. And it specifically allows Portland to have a lower threshold? Ours is almost the same as what we passed. It doesn't give us the provision for people in the trades that I was hoping for. In terms of the jurisdictional standard? It's six,
 six employees is the cutoff in Portland, 10 everywhere else. Well done. So that's a great day. That's great. Good work. Thank you all. Thanks very much. This affects us to second reading. Our one item scheduled for 2 p.m. today has been rescheduled, so we are adjourned until next week. Steve.