I agree. Two cents for the daughter. Oh. Second. I think I know the other one. Yeah, I got it. I've got, somebody's written me some introductory remarks. And then we've got to solve one first, it's quick. Yeah, no, I'll bring it in, oh, here, here. Oh, yeah. I guess we get one of those. All right, good morning everyone. This is a pre gavel, Carla, this is pre gavel, so we're not yet in session. We have two very special commemorative proclamations this morning. The first is for the organization Solve. Solve is a well known non-profit organization here in the state of Oregon. This is their 50th anniversary. And it just so happens that we also have a Pick It Up Portland event on Friday, June 14th. So there's a lot of things that are coming together, but we wanted to acknowledge the strong partnership that we have with Solve throughout the City of Portland. And we wanted to have an opportunity to acknowledge Solve as well. And so with that, I have a proclamation that I'd like to read. But before I do that, could I see a show of hands? Are there people here from Solve? Today we have quite a few. You're the backbenchers today and in a moment after the proclamation I'll ask you to come up and we can get a photograph with all of you in the proclamation if that sounds okay. Where is Solve? was founded as SOLVE Stop Oregon Litter and Vandalism by Governor Tom McCall in 1969. And whereas SOLVE has engaged thousands of volunteers to pick up the city's parks, rivers, and neighborhoods through Keep It Pretty Rose City and Pick It Up Portland, Whereas Solve has partnered with business and community leaders, nonprofits and individuals to remove incalculable tons of litter, illegally dumped debris and invasive plants from the landscape. And tens of thousands of native species have been planted in Oregon's natural area for 50 years. And whereas, Solve's education programs have reached tens of thousands of students, helping instill a sense of civic pride and responsibility in multiple generations of Portlanders. And whereas, Solve has been a leader in sustaining Portland's environment and reputation as an environmentally aware and responsible city, which helps promote tourism and thereby supports Portland's economy. Now therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim June 14th, 2019 to be Solve Day in Portland. And encourage all residents to observe this day. I am really excited that we have this proclamation. I have become obsessed with plastic on the street. I was just in Seattle on Monday, walking along First Avenue, and if you've ever been to Seattle, you're walking along First Avenue, you could just look across to Puget Sound to the bay. And all this plastic on the floor, on the sidewalk, which you know is going to end up in the bay. And there's a... there's a mass of plastic a third the size of Texas in the Pacific Ocean and that's probably partly why some of our marine mammals are dying and just various other things so I have a passionate plea to everybody if you see a piece of plastic on the floor pick it up and put it in a trash bag and in literally there were trash receptors every block in Seattle and yet people couldn't be bothered to walk two more steps before they dropped their garbage And so, as a nurse also, I encourage you then to go back to wherever you next stop and wash your hands. And let's all join together in first of all, not dropping stuff on the floor, and second of all, helping to pick it up when it gets down there. Very good. And Chris Carragher is here, right? Yeah, Chris, did you wanna come up and just say a few words just to get people excited about Pick It Up Portland or anything else you'd like to share about SOLVE? Yeah, you bet. If you could just state your name. Actually, we're not on the record. Oh, we're not? Say your name anyway. You can do whatever you want. You open that up. Excuse me. Excuse me. We need you to, because otherwise the caption is. Sorry, I want to address the audience. They look so much better than we do. Well, they do, and they're the ones who want out on Friday as well, so that's what I'm talking about. My name is Chris Carrick. I'm the CEO of Solve. And we have our two-day loader pickup event in partnership with the City of Portland on Friday and Saturday. So we will have 11 locations across the entire city picking up trash. And we really encourage all Portlanders to come out. It's very important that we are here and that we're doing the work and taking care of our city. So thank you, Mayor, for your support of all of our programs. We're really appreciative of everything that you do for us. Thank you. Appreciate it. Maybe we could get, and you have some fans in the back, maybe we could all come up and get a photo with the proclamation. Thank you. Great. Excellent. We're going to the side. Okay. One, two, three. A couple for good measure. Thank you. One more. Wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait. I'll say that. What are you doing? All right. One, two, three. One more. One, two, three. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. They were. Yeah. Thank you very much. The next item is very exciting as well. This is a proclamation honoring the Portland Trailblazers. I'd like to thank Coach Terry Stotz, Neil Olshie, Chris Oxley and the Blazers staff for joining us this morning. I want to congratulate the Blazers players for having a truly incredible season this year. But more importantly, I want to thank them for re-energizing the city. And I just have to say this on a personal note. The Blazers played hard right down to the final buzzer. And people in this city noticed it, people in this city were inspired by it, and I thank you. I'd like to thank the Rip City organization. I'd also like to thank the Blazers fans throughout the city for supporting the Blazers on their journey to the Western Conference Finals. And I'd also like to especially thank Asenna Lawrence from Commissioner Fish's office and Mustafa Washington in my office for working hard to bring this proclamation together. We're so proud to have a team like the Portland Trailblazers here in their entire organization. And this is a proclamation on behalf of the entire Portland City Council. honoring you for the great things you do in this community, not just on the court, but beyond in helping to serve young people and people throughout this community all throughout the year. Mayor, before you read the proclamation, could we ask Terry and Neil just to come forward and grab a seat at the dais? Because I know after the proclamation, I know a number of us were hoping to ask you some questions and welcome you officially. So you sandbagged us. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. It's an age old tradition in this building. Whereas the city of Portland is honored to recognize and celebrate our men's professional basketball team, the Portland Trail Blazers, for an incredible 2018-19 season. And whereas the Trailblazers joined the NBA in 1970 as an expansion team secured by founder Harry Glickman and were led by coach Roland Todd, a.k.a. Montaud. And whereas the Trail Blazers have had an incredible history with former players such as Clyde Drexler, Bill Walton, Terry Porter, Jerome Kersey, Cliff Robinson, and Arvidas Sabonis to name just a few of the greats. And whereas Paul Allen, owner of the Trail Blazers for over 30 years, passed away three days before the start of the season but joined the team and ripped City in spirit. And whereas the Trailblazers blazed through the 2019 playoffs and brought Rip City to its first Western Conference Finals since 2000. And whereas, over the last seven years, Terry Stotts has honorably led the Trailblazers as head coach alongside his coaching staff. And whereas, point guard Damian Lillard, with an average 26 points per game, has been named an All-Star for the fourth time in his career. And whereas, Youssef Nurkic, winner of the 2018-19 Maurice Lucas Award for his community engagement efforts, donated over 800 game tickets to Bosnian community members and to local non-profits. And whereas, president of Basketball Operations, Neil Olshie and CEO Chris McGowan have been exemplary executives in guiding this beloved NBA franchise. And whereas the Trailblazers engaged the wonderful diversity of the Portland metro area through its impactful social responsibility and environmental stewardship, And whereas the trailblazers, Amenu, Collins, Curry, Harkless, Hood, Cantor, Labissiere, Lehman, Leonard, Lillard, McCollum, Nurkic, Simons, Trent, and Turner, we thank you for a season well played and are immensely proud and grateful for your hard work and the example that you set for all. Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim June 12, 2019 to be Portland Trailblazers Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Commissioner Fish. Well, I thought we'd start by inviting the coach, Coach Stotts, who, by the way, is about a foot taller in real life than I am. Actually, I'm the same size as him. in real life as I am on television. But, Coach, every year, thanks to Neil's good work, every year you get a different lineup. And you have essentially a different team. They add pieces, subtract pieces. Other than Damien. Other than Damien. Other than our all-star. And every year you bring out the best in whatever team you have. We're a small market. We're the 25th largest city in the country, and yet we were in the Western Conference Finals. I'm just curious for the young people that might be watching out there, What, what, what is the, what is the secret of leadership in sports that, that people can learn from how this team, this team has consistently achieved? You know, for me, and I assume it's like this in, in most areas, but if you have the respect of the people that you're leading and however you do that, that to me is the most important thing. So I try and gain the respect of my staff and the players and the people I work with by bringing good energy, doing my work, uh, doing it my style. And if you have that respect of the people you're leading, then to me, that's over half the battle. That's great. And I also just want to make just a little pitch for the future. We were very lucky to have an owner of this team that invested freely in building great teams and keeping us here, and then we lost Mr. Allen to cancer. His sister is now running the team and obviously will be making some decisions in the next few years about the direction of the team and her intentions. I wouldn't want to miss an opportunity for the city to go on record saying we'll do everything that we can within our power to keep the trailblazers here forever. There'll be other cities competing for the Trailblazers. There may be owners who have fancy ideas, but the Trailblazers belong in Portland and the city is committed to keeping you here. And we hope that that's the outcome of whatever happens in the years ahead. Me too. Thank you. Can we get a photo up front? Sure. Thank you for being here. Appreciate it. Yeah, just, Mayor, I wanted to thank you. I know Chris McGowan wasn't able to be here today. I want to let you know that no organization has a greater owner right now than Jody Allen. A lot of I think a lot of what was missed in this season was her leadership and the grace and determination that she exhibited throughout the year. Once she inherited just this huge mantle, the void that was left by, you know, Paul's, you know, Paul's passing and her leadership. Her motivating us every day led to acquiring Rodney Hood. It led to acquiring Ennis Cantor. It helped us see us through when Yusuf Nurkic went down and the adversity we faced and staff members that faced cancer and car accidents and all the things that this team has overcome relative to the character of the people in this organization from the business division, coaching, front office. and none so much as the ownership and what she was able to do. And I think if you saw her at games, you saw how invested she was in this franchise. So I want to thank her in front of this body for everything Jody has done for our organization. And also wanted to let you guys know that, as we mentioned, Dame's name more than once. While this meeting is taking place, Damian is formally being named by the Professional Basketball Association Writers of America. their nominee this year. Jim, what is the exact? J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award. He won the J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award. A couple other Trailblazers have won it, but just to show how important for all of us, it isn't just on the court here with the Trailblazers. We know that the players we bring are part of this community and they represent the city of Portland, and none do that better than Damian Lillard and his Respect Campaign, which is why he won the award. So thank you. Well, thank you for that. Yes, sir. And, you know, I would just like to say I'm very appreciative for the Trailblazers for this award. It's a very kind of you of the city. I would like to say we'd be remiss if we didn't say how much we appreciate the city. and the fan base here. I feel very blessed. I've been in the NBA for over 25 years, and I've been to all the cities, know all the teams, and to be a part, to be the head coach of the Portland Trailblazers in this city with this fan base, we are very fortunate. And as much as you appreciate what we do, we appreciate the city and the fan base and how much we're respected and how much we're supported. Absolutely. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, I omitted, I neglected to mention one other thing. You know, after this presentation, we're going to be honoring all the private donors for Summer Free-for-All, the people that help us provide that programming, the civic-minded businesses. And I'd be remiss if I didn't thank the Trailblazers and both of you and Chris McGowan and others, Gary, for the investment you've made in helping us replace the basketball surfaces of all of our outdoor courts. The Trailblazers and Nike have teamed up, and within a number of years, we'll have all of our basketball courts resurface courtesy of the Trailblazers. So we're extremely grateful for that, and that's what it means to have a hometown team that's civic-minded and invests back in the community, and so thank you. I'd like to just say one other thing. I want to share something with you that somebody said to me when I was watching one of the last playoff games. They said it's nice for us to all be able to get on the same page about something. And there's a lot of truth to this. This is a divided time in which we live. And for a little while, the Trailblazers did something that nobody else and nothing else seems capable of doing, which is bringing us all together for something that we could all cheer for. And it was really exciting not only that it happened, but the way it happened. And the way this team fought so hard, they scrapped it. And there were good life lessons there. for everyone. But that was the first thought that came to mind. The second thought, thinking on what Commissioner Fish said about the reality that we all have interests, we have the negotiations coming up soon on keeping you here for the next hundred years, which I hope to do. The Blazers are part of the DNA of this city. You can't take that franchise and move it somewhere else and have it be the same franchise. It would be fundamentally different. It's an integral part of this city. And so we have to do everything we can for the people of this community to make sure that we address each other's concerns and get to yes, so that we continue to have this great organization in our community for generations to come. Thank you for all you do. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not going to go back for that. That's right. You're a lot taller. All right. You can take that. Thank you very much, guys. Thanks for your kind words. Thank you very much. A few more cameras this time. One, two, three. And one more. One, two, three. Wait, Adam, you didn't give us... Do it again. On the count of three. RIP city. One, two, three. RIP city. Thank you. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Thank you so much. Thank you. I agree. Thank you.
 Okay. Good morning everyone, this is the morning session of the Portland City Council, June 12th, 2019. Carla, good morning, please call the roll. Good morning Fish. Here. Hardesty. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And now a few words from legal counsel about the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. Thank you. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being rejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being rejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good, thanks. First up is communications. Carla, it is my understanding that the Gray Panthers would like to come up together. Is that correct? Yes? Okay. If you wouldn't mind just calling all five, please. Item 550, request of Dorothy C. Holland to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. 551, request of Sally F. Fransman Cecil to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. 552, request of Michael Dressel to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. And 553, request of Mariah Allen-Claire. Thank you. To address the council regarding Portland Gray Panthers and 554, request of Luke Church to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. Good morning. Welcome. If you could just, when you speak, state your name for the record and three minutes each. Thank you. Okay. My name is Dorothy Holland and I'm with the Grape Panthers and I have two things that I'd really like to talk about. The first one is we have a lot, I live in the northwest area and from the Pearl District, and say Powell's Bookstore all the way to Northwest 23rd and Thurman, the entrance to the freeway. We have street people camping on the sidewalks. And then when we politely, you know, and respectfully ask them to move so that we could get by. They get all belligerent with us and want to like attack us, you know, and so We don't know what to do about it, but something needs to be done because they not only create a problem that way, but they create a problem with the trash accumulating and everything, because once they move on to another location in the area, they leave a whole bunch of trash there, and you have to go through the trash to get it. to where you're going. You know, in a lot of businesses you can't even get into because they're there, you know, and they won't move. So what do we do? And for example, we had a street person that went to the Safeway Pearl and he held a lady hostage with a knife to her throat. and he wound up getting shot by the police because he wouldn't let her go and he wouldn't drop the knife either. So what could they do? You know, there was no other way for that to happen. And then the second thing that I want to talk about is specifically having to do with seniors. When you, say, have a bad illness like a stroke or something, and you spend about a week in the hospital, then they send you to a convalescence home because you're by yourself, so they don't want you to be hurt or anything, and they want you to go through rehab and all that. But when you're in the convalescence home, they take your money because the insurance won't pay for that. So they take your money and you cannot pay your rent on your apartment and your home, say, that you've had for a long time. So you wind up losing your home and you wind up going out on the street because you have no other place to go. No relatives, no nothing. And the seniors, they really, a lot of times they're... They can't think straight because they've had strokes and things, so they don't know how to get services and everything, and more services should be made available to them, especially to get them into another safe place or a safe environment. Agreed. Thank you. Thank you for being here and sharing that. We appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Sally Fransman Cecil. Is that too loud? You can be so close. Portland Greek Panthers supports the Youth Climate Change Initiatives, which youth are promoting not only in Portland and Oregon, but throughout the whole world. They are fighting for their future. In the face of climate emergency, we must support their struggle. In Oregon, we saw that the government, The situation was a challenge by our Children's Trust to the Constitution on the basis of life, liberty, and property. They were denied their trial at this level, so there will be another appeal. And Gray Panthers is suggesting that the city council follow this case. and that we consider writing an amicus brief during the next stage of the appeal. Of course, you'll have to see what the next stage looks like to write a brief. But we also would like you to track and actively support the Portland Sunrise Movement in their efforts and education towards a Green New Deal. Of course, they, like us, would like to see us get past our dependence on fossil fuels and establish a sustainable power infrastructure. We should also expect considered action in the future from youth who are participating in the worldwide strike for climate. We support our young people's urgent push for a major, special, political, social, and economic shift. We think that there needs to be a paradigm shift which would go much more quickly than seem to be happening with government. We want them to make this change with us now. That is where people are pushing. We can't really wait. Things are going much too slowly at this point. We need to get this changed for our youth worldwide, for ourselves, for our children, for our grandchildren and great-grandchildren. I have a great child now. And for seven generations in the future and beyond. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. I'm Lou with Portland Great Panthers. I'll try touching today on a few organizing areas and issues locally and globally, trying to gun control what might be called Astroturf nonprofits or Astroturf leaders. As we know, at Portland State, Umat Shoreshi, who might be called an Astroturf university president, absconded. with $800,000 golden parachute when fall tuition is set to go up 11%. As for Astrotriff organizations, we particularly want to thank both Commissioner Udailey and Civic Life Sukhri for cutting their funding last summer for the now-defunct Elders in Action. While EIA claimed to be doing X over the years, on equity and transparency, Elders Out of Action or Elders Against Action was simply and very consistently MIA. At Portland State, despite Shoreshi's repeated emoluments violations, We especially want to thank Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum for taking time to speak with a lively crowd at our recent Gray Panthers Community Forum at Chittat Cafe. Oregon's first woman AG spoke on the $1.5 trillion student debt crisis. The two of us, Lane Thompson and I, were also able to go to AG Rosenblum's 100 Attorney National Conference on Student Loan rip-offs held at the Portland DOJ office downtown. On the local issue of TriMet, Gary Panthers along with Downtown Neighborhood Association, Transit Writers Union, and Saturday Market all have come out in opposition to TriMet General Manager Doug Kelsey's short-sighted push to deep-six four downtown MAX stations. Mercy Corps, U of O Portland, and all five Multnomah County Commissioners support keeping the Saturday Market Stop open. We urge our City Council folk to also oppose such machinations by Tramits' killer managers, Doug Kelsey and Bernie Bottomley. On gun control, Panthers continue to push for banning assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. We have heard from Chief Outlaw's office that the Chief, as did Ellen Rosenblum, is looking forward to speak at our community forum this summer. While Joanne Hardesty was kind enough to talk with Panthers at Portland State, we want to make sure that both Joanne and Ted Wheeler are invited and welcomed to join the Chief at one of our forums. Gun violence is something that all of us, from Baltimore to Chicago to North Portland, can work to stop. We also want to work, hope to work with Chief Outlaw Mayor Wheeler and Governor Brown on the issue of security for our planned Stopping Gun Violence Conference for Portland State this fall. We've already invited our proposed keynote speaker, Jacinda Ardern. We've hosted an international speaker in the past, Mohammed Yahya, from the Masali tribe in Sudan, speaking against the recently removed. dictator Omar al-Bashir. We have not, however, worked on security for a head of state. Besides being a visible force for gun control, Jacinda Ardern is New Zealand's Prime Minister. We also want to thank the staff of Council members for their work supporting social justice initiatives in our community. They're not here. Oh, they're not here? Okay. Mike's working and Marie's been sick lately. Sorry. Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. Very good. Thank you for being here. Appreciate it as always. Thank you. Next up then we will move to the, actually let's go to the consent agenda. Carla, have any items been pulled off consent? I've had no request. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Mordiske? Aye. Udallie? Aye. Fritz? Consent agenda is approved. First time to certain item, please. Item number five, fire clap. Proclaim June 20, 2019 to be summer free for all kickoff day. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to invite Parks Director Adina Long and Julia Brim Edwards from Nike, if you could join us at the table. I have some opening remarks. The panel has some remarks. Mayor, you're going to read a proclamation. And then we are joined today by dozens of civic minded businesses in Portland who are supporting summer free for all and maybe we'll try to get a picture with everybody at the end of this. Today we are so proud to celebrate Portland Parks and Recreation's Summer Free For All program. Summer Free For All provides free family friendly events like the Washington Park Summer Festival, movies and concerts, free lunches for hungry kids, open swims and swim lessons, and play all summer long all across Portland. At the core of the program is building community. Families enjoy free events, kids stay active and make new friends, and we celebrate our diverse city with vibrant multicultural events. Summer free-for-all can only happen because of public-private partnerships. And this year, we raised a record amount from our private partners. I want to recognize Nike, our first title sponsor, for their generous support. And they're listed in the program as made to play. I also want to give special thanks to the nearly 50 other civic minded businesses, organizations and foundations who make Summer Free For All possible. Many of you are here today and you have our deepest thanks. Colleagues, we've handed out a program and in the center of the program, you can read the full list, the honor roll of sponsors in the guide. And you can also see this on the Summer Free For All website. Just as important are the neighbors and community organizations who raise funds to present concerts and movies in the park. Summer Free For All is a team effort, and these partnerships leverage city dollars to go even further. You'll find something for everyone in our guide, this year available in nine languages. Commissioner Fritz, thank you very much for setting the standard for that. In fact, I'll pass down to you. These are the nine languages that we have these translated in. And that was one of her innovations and we're pleased to follow that great tradition. For the historians in the room, we are building on a long and great tradition. Concerts at the city began in 1901. The Washington Park Summer Festival began in 1949. We've been serving free lunches since the 1970s, making sure that kids that get out of school and have a summer where they're not getting those healthy meals in school have a chance to get the nutrition they need. And we've been hosting movies for the last 13 years. So thank you, all of our sponsors, for making this tradition an enduring one. I also want to extend my appreciation to our MVP staff that make this program happen, and especially Kelly Torres and Charity Montes. They are terrific public servants. Now I'd like to turn the mic over to our director, Adina Long, who has just completed four months in the job, probably has felt longer, and Julia Brim Edwards from Nike to share some brief comments. Ladies, welcome. Thank you. Thank you Commissioner Fish, Mayor, Commissioners, and many thanks to all of the sponsors here today. Summer Free For All is about fun, but it's also about basic needs. Our partners, like Portland's five school districts and several hunger relief nonprofits, have come together to ensure that we are able to distribute more than 100,000 free lunches to children across the city. And volunteers and partners have also helped us shape this summer's music, film, and dance programming to be more reflective of the communities we serve. To tell you more about what inspires them to be a part of this public-private partnership, I'd like to introduce Julia Brim Edwards, Nike Senior Director of Global Strategy and Operations in Government and Public Affairs. Julia? Great, thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. I'm Julia Brim Edwards and today is the perfect day to call attention to Summer Free-for-All because today is the last day of school for the 48,000 students in Portland Public Schools. So it's very timely. On Nike's behalf, I want to thank the City of Portland and Portland Parks and Recs for the opportunity to bring Summer Free-for-All to the city. I also want to thank Commissioner... Fish, who never misses an opportunity to give us an opportunity to be supportive. We've had a long partnership between Nike and Portland Parks and Rec and the City of Portland. As a native Portlander, I can attest to the value of our parks and programming for youth in the city. I grew up living next to Mount Tierra Park. In fact, I still do. I spent my summers in the park playing tennis or just being out in nature. informal play. I also, in 19, I don't go all the way back to 1901, so not that historic, but in 1977, I worked at Creston Pool for a summer. So I can, I've really seen the value that parks and the programming can offer youth during the summer when they're out of school. In addition, I want to just emphasize that I think the real value of this is the extra effort the city has gone to try and make the programming accessible to all, whether across the city, all income brackets, ages. This is just, if you look through this, this is an incredible testament to what this where people in the citizens of the city are going to have an opportunity to take advantage of the summer. So just great job by the park staff of putting this opportunity together. So on Nike's behalf, we love that we can support Summer Free For All because we believe kids are made to play, and this is going to give them an opportunity to do that. Ladies, thank you both. Mayor, before you read the proclamation, could I ask all of the other sponsors that are here, if you're able to stand and to accept our thanks? Mayor Wheeler, we have a proclamation. Very good. Whereas Summer Free For All builds community through free, inclusive, and family-friendly activities that celebrates Portland's diverse cultures and local artists. And whereas this year builds on a decades-long Portland tradition with movies, concerts, free lunches, and the Washington Park Summer Festival. And whereas, Portland is home to extraordinarily talented musicians, artists, and arts organizations who will perform and share their art at events this summer. And whereas, neighborhood groups and culturally specific community based organizations help shape summer free for all programming. And whereas, for the ten weeks of summer that youth don't have access to free and reduced lunches, Portland Parks and Recreation partners with school districts and Meals on Wheels to serve over 100,000 lunches. And whereas Summer Free For All will deliver 31 movies, 32 lunch and play sites, 23 concerts, and support for cultural events like Festival Latino, Good in the Hood, Slavic Festival, Tonga Day, World Cup Soccer's 10th Anniversary Tournament, and many, many more, And whereas, Summer Free For All is only possible through the commitment of public-spirited businesses, volunteers, neighborhood leaders, and Portland Parks Foundation and others who've committed their time and treasure year after year. And whereas, this year's Summer Free For All is sponsored by nearly 50 businesses, organizations, and foundations, including this year's title sponsor, Nike's Made To Play. Now therefore, I Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses do hereby proclaim June 20th, 2019 to be summer free for all kickoff day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe and participate in this day. Thank you. Mayor, we're almost done with the schedule. Can we get the program? Sure. Folks, would the sponsors like to come join us here for a second? We'll put Julia and Adina in the middle. Julia, could you and Adina hold that? I was one of the short people. I don't get out of those. Alright, now sassy button. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Get a little work out here. That's good. Next item, Carla, please. Oh, wait. Never mind. I have to move something else into the slot. One sec here. Can we go to 564, please? Yes. 564, amend city code to reflect current structure, operations, and responsibilities in the Office of Management and Finance. Colleagues, this is a second reading of an ordinance. There's already been a presentation and public testimony on this item. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Could you call item 565? That is also a second reading. amend transit lodging tax code related to the administration of short term rental laws. Require short term rental platforms to either enter into a pass through registration, data sharing agreement, or choose listing locations from a short term rental registry created by the city. Colleagues, this is also a second reading. Any further discussion? Please call the roll, Carla. Fish? This is long overdue. Curtis Steak. I agree. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Aye. Udaily? I've said this before, but it bears repeating the lack of compliance with our short term rental regulations is contributing to our housing crisis. Whether platforms like Airbnb want to admit it or not. Because the legal ruling that we are using to create this new enforcement mechanism did not exist when I was a commissioner in charge of BDS, we were stymied in our attempts to force short-term rental hosts to come into compliance. I want to thank the mayor and his staff for pursuing this so diligently, for not allowing these platforms and their lobbyists to continue to get away with their very deliberate attempts to ignore our rules and regulations, and for acting so quickly when an opportunity arose to get some desperately needed housing stock back into circulation. It's long past time to hold illegal hosts and the platforms that support them accountable. I vote aye. Fritz. If at first you don't succeed, try, try, try again. I agree with my colleagues. This is a non-emergency ordinance that will go into effect in 30 days. After that, there will finally be a mechanism for people to be held accountable for operating illegally within the city. Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. Ordinance is adopted. Next item please, time certain is 5-5-6. Proclaim June 2019 to be Portland Pride Month. Colleagues, before we get to the... presentation today in the proclamation, I'd like to take a moment of silence in order to raise the awareness that while we're celebrating Pride Month and Pride Day, we're still losing even in just the last month our community members in the LGBTQ community due to the compounding effects of racism, sexism, and homophobia. It is time for a celebration, but we also have to acknowledge that we still have work to do because even one is too many. And I'd like to ask you to please join me in observing a moment of silence. Thank you. I appreciate that. With that, I will bring up Audra Blair from my office who will walk us through today's presentation. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Good morning, Aaron, Commissioners. My name's Aja Blair. I use he, him, his pronouns, and I'm the executive assistant to Mayor Ted Wheeler. I'm honored to be here this morning and speak for the first time in front of city council to introduce this pride proclamation event. And on behalf of the other council offices and community members who helped shape today's program. As someone who grew up in Portland, I feel such an honor to be in this space and be present in a time where in City Hall Council Chambers, we can have celebrations for Pride and other LGBTQ events like Transgender Day of Visibility. Being a person of color and a member of the LGBTQ plus community, I know from firsthand experiences the hardships, bullying, and emotional labor many, if not all of us in this community face for just existing. The emotional labor our community is still summoned to perform and having to explain who we are and to continuously urge folks to understand that this is not a time to relax or to think that things are done. Thank you for giving us this space. Today we will share a video that features Holly Hart, an LGBTQ elder, writer, founder of the remembered Old Life's Tales restaurant, and lovely thought of as the mother of pride. Robin Wills, the president of GLAPN, the Gay and Lesbian Archives of the Pacific Northwest, and Deborah Porta, the executive director of Pride Northwest, who is also here as part of our panel. Joining Deborah on the panel is Jim Clay from Cascade AIDS Project. And we're supposed to have a youth from Youth Educating Police, Taji Chesmet, but due to last-minute personal emergencies had to cancel their attendance today. So without further delay, let's get started. Or with further delay. There's something all the way at the top of the screen. Yeah. It was 1970. It was right after storm. There was nothing happening in Fort Wayne but the other cities. And the elimination of the races was starting. We were invisible. So because we were recruiting these, we were going to see this thing. We were not matching the rules, we were accepted as a group. It was kind of the beginning of coming out to a lot of people because they could understand the social utility of doing that, which has been really important in the game. I can be an expert in anything because I've been here before. We utilized the facilities of the local church to have a one-night coffee house for men, one-night coffee house for women. And those were the underage people who come. They were people who didn't really live in environments that came as well as any of those guys who came in. The biggest thing I see is our ability to let other people in our community die, but to have the community. They're not only members of the Chinese Communist Party, they're not only out of that age group. For me, five years, and the diversity of the five of them is encouraging all kinds of people, including straight people, within whom there are tremendous diversity, to realize that they don't have to necessarily conform. And while they're straight, they don't necessarily have to conform to binaries, you know, the various kinds of people who are of the same sex. Do you have a problem with that? I would have a problem with that. I don't know about... It's about claiming our place in a private school. It's the area that we're the energy for, that really is what it's about. It's about where we are, just as what we are as someone else. Council, I'd like to call up Deborah Porter, Executive Director for Point Northwest, and Jim Clay from Cascade AIDS Project. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Hi. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, my name is Deborah Porta. I'm the Executive Director of Pride Northwest. I have been part of the organization in one form or another since 2006. And here we are in 2019 and doing it again. Pride Northwest and Portland Pride have changed a lot in the last 25 years. 2019 is our 25th birthday. Larger, more celebratory, but we never forget where we come from. A friend once called pride the community's family reunion, where we come together and celebrate surviving another year, gain strength to make it through the next year. And as far as we've come, and as many of us as there are who make it, we have a long way to go. We remember on this third anniversary, as mentioned, the many lost in the Pulse Massacre. We remember Titi Gowley lost to our own Portland community just days ago. That is why pride still exists and that's why pride is still necessary. One of the interesting things about being around for a while and having been here so long is being able to see the changes, how far we've come. Being able to appreciate that while also recognizing the work still to be done. Pride Northwest remains committed to that work, to celebrating our community, to advocating for changes needed and to making the difficult decisions when they need to be made. We thank you for this recognition and look forward to your support in making all of our communities the best they can be for all of us. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, commissioners, thank you very much. I'm Jim Clay, also known as the guy with gray hair. I'm here to represent to the best that I can those of us in our community who are aging and who are part of this community. Most specifically, I have most recently become a member representative of aging adults who are living with or affected by HIV. Actually, I would represent to you that I retired eight years ago and quite glorious. You will enjoy it when you arrive at that, I hope. At the same time, I heard last year that Cascade AIDS Project had made a commitment to support aging adults who are living with or affected by HIV. I went to a job interview. At 72 years old, I went to a job interview. I had to make a resume. I hadn't done that in decades. The question they asked, of course, the classic question at an interview is, why are you applying for this job? And I told them that I was called. So this is a project I would like at another time, if that is ever possible, to offer you a briefing, either in private or as a group. I think there's a lot to be gained by exposing the reality, experiences, strengths, and needs of this population that's often overlooked. I understand that we are here to celebrate pride and how righteous that is, but I'm also reminded of advice that I heard a couple days ago from community leader Kathleen Sadat, who said, yes, let's celebrate, but also let's keep an edge of politics. With humility, I will add one other thing to that. Let's also add an edge of remembrance. Mayor, I really appreciate your remembrance earlier in the conversation. session here today, I would like to add a remembrance of the people who are not part of Pride right now, other than in our memories, but assure you that they are still with us. Thousands of Oregonians, and at a national level, now at an international level, it's almost unbelievable, but at a national level, 700,000 deaths, including my late husband, who is not here today with me. There's no time here today to offer you any background on the HIV AIDS epidemic, but I will say that I wasn't in an exercise once where we were asked in ten words or fewer could we describe the experience of HIV. Playwright William Hoffman said his ten words or fewer would be it was a time of mass death, brutality, and human indifference. Gay historian Hugh Ryan said that he could do it in less than 10 words. He said simply his experience was, we let people die because we didn't like them. So with all that as a background, I also would like to say we take great pride in having people who are aging and living with HIV still with us here. Many have been lost. Some of us are still here. We're looking to have a voice. We're looking to be recognized. We appreciate your willingness to learn about them. I'd acknowledge our people here with us today who are part of that cohort. Thank you very much. Thank you for your remembrance. Thank you. Appreciate it. Mayor, that's our invited testimony, so I'd like to turn it over to the council if you have any remarks. Very good. Before I read the proclamation, I'm going to read a statement, but I know my colleagues have some items they'd like to raise as well. Commissioner Udaly? I mostly just want to give a whole bunch of shout outs. So thank you for being here today and thank you for all your hard work and your service to our community. I want to thank everyone from council offices who put the proclamation and festivities together, starting with Aja Blair, Betsy Kuteka. You were right there. I messaged my entire staff and I said, how do I say Betsy's last name? Kuteka. Did I get it? Angela Tran, Angelita Murillo, Claire Adamsick, Sarah Fee Allen, Robin Mullins, Asena Lawrence, Polly Ann Burge, and Karen Brooks from the Fire Bureau, and Debbie Castleton from BES. Also thanks to Holly Hart and Debbie Porta from Pride Northwest. I want to mention, since no one else did, it's Pride Northwest's 25th anniversary, so very happy anniversary. And let's see, that would put the first Pride at, no. So, Pride's been important since the mid-70s, early 70s. Pride Northwest as an organization was founded in 1994. Yes, so one of my first Pride marches and festivals would have been right around that time. So, thank you for making that possible. And finally, we are serving cake and punch in the atrium directly after the proclamation. So please go downstairs and enjoy some treats. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Hardsty. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you all so much for being here. Jim, you and I worked together when we put together the very first Ryan White funding mechanism for folks living with HIV. And you and I, so that means you and I have been around for a little while, right? You tell people your age, I don't. Except it shows up in the paper all the time, so. So thank you all for being here. Debbie, I know you've put your heart and soul into this festival as long as you've been involved in it. When I moved to Portland, the OCA, was alive and well. And for you young folks, Oregon Citizens Alliance was a organized hate group that was targeting gay, lesbian, and transgender people in our community. And it was absolutely horrifying to think of the vile things that they put on our ballots to try to get us to legislate hate. I am so grateful and thankful that Portlanders and Oregonians over and over and over again, with one exception, we won't go there, fought back every step of the way, and we are better for it. But I also want to take this opportunity to remind us that white supremacy is on the rise. And our communities are being targeted over and over and over again. And what we know is that there's power in numbers. And when we speak our truth and we hold our ground and we're firm, white supremacists go back into the woodwork. And hopefully when this administration leaves, they will go back underground into their mother's basements and stay there. I want to take this opportunity before you read the resolution to acknowledge Lisa Knight. Lisa Knight, are you in the audience today? Ah, there you are. Thank you. Lisa Knight is a Portland Fire and Rescue employee. She is the first out LGBTQ person to be honored as Firefighter of the Year. Would you please stand and be acknowledged? So we've come a long way, but we've still got a long way to go. But we're going to enjoy the ride while we go. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. So I want to do a special shout out for Aja, partly because I had the great fortune of working with him before he took a sabbatical and then came back and worked for the mayor. And the work that we've done in the community around all user restrooms and just educating people about that rather modest change would not have happened without his leadership. So I want to thank Aja for framing the issue and helping to lead that effort. I'm also very proud to be on a council that is able to put its values into action from time to time. Whether it's healthcare benefits or a contribution we made to Prism Health, or to all user restrooms, or marching in pride, or supporting key events. We have an important role to play and I thank you for framing the issue of older adults living with HIV. Thank you. I think there's a huge opportunity there and that issue has been seconded by everyone I've spoken to from Cameron Witten at the Q Center, to Tyler Tamir at Cascade AIDS Project. And I think that to the extent we really want to be a welcoming city, we have to think about, and to the extent we think that our strength is that older adults choose to live here and stay here, I think this is a particular cause that we should take up and be intentional about. So thank you for framing it. Thank you very much. And you have my full commitment during the balance of my service. Thank you. I'm proud to live in a city where we value everybody, regardless of who they love, and that we respect the rights of all. We have a lot of work to do as a country, but I think Portland has a lot to be proud of. So thank you. Thanks, Commissioner. Commissioner Fritz? So I still have the Love Wind poster in my office window, and it's going to go into the archives after I retire at the end of next year. And I thank Deborah Porter in particular for enabling me to be in office when we had that historic win at Supreme Court, because without your help in 2012, I wouldn't have been re-elected. So thank you very much. Which just points out that... we're all in this together we're all part of this work whether it's the work of politics the work that you're doing in your communities the healthcare work there's many aspects to a person and It's important that we recognize that, that nobody's just one thing of their identity. There are a lot of things. We are all a lot of things. So not putting labels on people, except by our own choices. I love that we're now identifying our pronouns. All of the staff in all of my bureaus now have that on their email. Just things that I've been learning and will continue to learn and I thank you for the graciousness of people in the community who have taught me what I didn't know and gently corrected me when I say or do things that haven't been helpful. Because I really want to help, I want to be part of the Gay Straight Alliance that continues to make a difference in the city of Portland and thank you very much for all that you do. I'd like to start by thanking Deborah and Jim for being here and providing testimony. We appreciate it, appreciate the leadership that you've provided in the community over many, many years. It's inspirational and it's important. So thank you both for that. First, I want to start out by asking a basic question and that is why is this important? Why does the City Council take time to recognize Pride? The reason is that we need to acknowledge the trauma as well as the triumphs that the LGBTQ community have experienced and continue to experience to this day. I feel better that there's a generation, for instance my daughter's generation, that will grow up in a world where there is already a pride movement. But I think we all have to acknowledge there's still a lot of work that has yet to be done. This movement really started at Stonewall. That took place over 50 years ago, and the work still continues. Did you know that today 40% of trans adults indicate that they have attempted suicide? 40%. Did you know that today of the youth experiencing homelessness, 40% self-identifies LGBTQ? Did you know, in this day and age, our federal government, the Department of Health and Human Services, published a final rule encouraging hospital officials, staff, and insurance companies to deny care to patients, including transgender patients, based on religious or moral beliefs? Did you know, even as recently as April 12th of this year, the Department of Defense put Donald Trump's ban on transgender service members into effect, putting service members at direct risk of discharge if they come out or are found to be transgender. This is why today's is important. I think about what I can do and what this council can do in the position that we are in. We have the ability to create access, to create equitable and inclusionary policy, and stand with the LGBTQ plus family and community. In fact, I would argue it is our duty to do so. I'll continue to fiercely support the rights and the laws that protect the LGBTQ plus community locally and nationally. And I want to thank the panel of Pride Northwest for 25 years of incredible service, and I hope many, many, many more years of incredible service in the years ahead. And this really has been a team affair here on the part of the city council and our collective offices. I want to acknowledge some people who maybe don't get acknowledged very often. Angelita Murillo, Betsy Catagua. Pollyann Burge, Robin Mullins, Claire Adamsick, Karen Brooks from FIRE, as well as Sarafie Allen, Adam Thompson and Adja Blair from my office in organizing what I believe is both a very special and a very important day. And I also want to encourage all city employees to join me and my council colleagues at the Pride Parade this Sunday. If you've never been, you have missed out. It is one of the most incredible meaningful and fun events that we do here in the City of Portland and I strongly encourage people to come, bring your family and participate in the fun. So now let's get to the proclamation and let's celebrate. Whereas the City of Portland is committed to diversity, social justice, equity, and mutual respect as a fundamental aspect of a healthy community. And whereas the long and ongoing struggle of transgender, genderqueer, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and other sexual minorities for basic civil and human rights continues to provide inspiration for all of those who work against discrimination and oppression, And whereas the presence and visibility of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer community continues to enhance the quality of life here in the city of Portland. And whereas Pride celebrations have been held continuously in Portland since 1971 and Pride marches since 1976, Pride continues to be the largest LGBTQ plus cultural celebration anywhere in Oregon. And whereas 2019 marks the 25th birthday of Pride Northwest Incorporated, producers of the Portland Pride Waterfront Festival and Parade since 1994, where each year tens of thousands of LGBTQ plus and allied people come together to be visible in one of the largest West Coast Pride celebrations. And whereas Portland's Pride Waterfront Festival and Parade will be held on June 15th and June 16th of this year, and all Portlanders are invited to participate. Now therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim June of 2019 to be Portland Pride Month in Portland, and encourage all residents to observe this month. Thank you. Photo time. Okay. Exercise. 15, I got dressed up. Timeless work. I just want to make a comment. Not only are we celebrating, but we never take one. Can you come back here and stand in the middle? Could I even understand all of this? Hello. Can we move it? Let's do this. It's not tattered. Still fit. I still . That's a standing . Congratulations. Yes. Congratulations. No? Am I blocking you? Yeah, you know, Terry, you love shorts. Sorry. Claire. I am down. One, two, three. One more. Two, three. Over here? Do all the creaks. One, two, three. And one more. One, two, three. Thank you. All right. Thank you, everyone. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I can throw up these glasses. It's never a good idea. That's probably a good idea because I do, and I'm mortified. I just hate it. It's not good. It's amazing how you are. Oh, yeah. It's time-lapse. It's not going to control my energy. Accelerating theory of time. All right. and I'd like to destroy that I bought a little rainbow getting down with the heart now let's keep powering through and take a break before the real estate part yeah This is worth celebrating. Let's celebrate in the hall. Yes, reception time. There's a good reception out in the hall. Excellent. All right, we are, let's see. Yes, we can do, Carla, item number 557, please. 557.
 557. Appoint Mike Elliott and Aaron Zolinkoff and reappoint Jenny Glass and Patty Tillett to the Portland Parks and Recreation Board. Commissioner Fish? Commissioner Fish? I think you just caught me. Let me just see. Okay, good. Excuse me. We had a very busy morning. Mayor and colleagues, the Portland Parks Board provides a forum for public discussion and advises the parks commissioner, the parks director, and city council on policy matters relating to Portland Parks and Rec. Board members are all volunteers and we are grateful for their service to the community. Today I'm pleased to welcome up Parks Director, Edina Long. Edina, you're having a busy day. We're going to, this is I think one of three issues that you'll be speaking to. To provide a report on the parks board membership, including welcoming two new board members. Welcome Director Long. Good morning Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Salma Dina Long, Portland Parks and Recreation Director. At Parks, we have a strong and engaged board with members who bring to the table a broad set of skills. They are passionate about parks and the mission of the Bureau to provide access to parks and recreation for all Portlanders. This year, the Parks Board has two vacancies to fill. One vacancy was left open last year and one vacancy was due to the resignation of a member earlier this year. In February, then interim director Kia Selle reviewed the 2019 Parks Board appointment process with Commissioner Fish. The board selected members to serve as the nominating committee along with the commissioner staff, Todd Lufgren and myself. Following the recruitment application review and interviews, the board voted to nominate Mike Elliott and Aaron Zolinkoff at their May 14th meeting. Mike has nearly 30 years of business experience with national employee benefits consulting firms, most recently with Portland-based M Benefit Solutions. He is an analytical systemic thinker with broad-based experience that includes management, budgeting, consensus building, strategic planning, and consulting to C-suite management teams and boards of directors. A third-generation Oregonian, Mike traveled extensively as a military brat. He graduated with a BA from Northwestern University with majors in economics and mathematical methods in the social sciences. After returning to Oregon and joining M-Benefit Solutions, Mike earned his MBA from the Portland State University. Mike retired in October 2016 and is excited about giving back to the region in ways that align with his interests in the local community, the outdoors, financial services, and food access. For the past two years, Mike has been a member of the Board of Directors for Farmers Market Fund. As noted in Mike's interest statement, he has been a frequent user of Portland Parks for over 30 years. He is excited about working with the members of the board and with the Bureau to serve the community in their efforts to carry out and enhance parks to benefit all Portlanders. Erin is the CEO of Susan Matlack Jones and Associates, a firm that specializes in accounting and bookkeeping services for nonprofit organizations in Oregon and Washington. Erin serves as the board treasurer for Boom Arts, a small arts organization focused on bringing global performance with a social justice message to Portland. And also as the board treasurer and head of the finance review team for 99 Girlfriends, a collective women's giving circle that has granted over $770,000 since it started three years ago. Erin speaks at and leads workshops in her field, including a workshop series through the Regional Arts and Culture Council called DIY Accounting for Small Arts Nonprofits. Besides accounting, Erin enjoys spending time with her husband and two young children playing piano and mandolin and adventuring outdoors. Erin is a fifth generation Oregonian who grew up in Northeast Portland. She graduated from Portland State University with a degree in English in 2008. Erin's interest in serving on the Parks Board stems from her lifelong benefit from using Portland's Parks and Recreation Community Centers. From learning how to swim to hiking through Forest Park to going with her three-year-old to explore and play at Westmoreland Park, these experiences helped develop Erin as an individual and connected her with her family in meaningful ways. She'd like to give back to the community by joining the Portland Parks Board. Mike's appointment would be to fill the partial term left vacant that ends June 30, 2020, with the option to be reappointed to a full three-year term next year. Erin's appointment would be her first full three-year term. The board also has two members up for reappointment. At the May 14 meeting, the board voted to reappoint Jenny Glass and Patty Tillett, who will complete their first term on the board June 30th, 2019. Jenny is the Executive Director of the Rosewood Initiative and lives in Northeast Portland. She has a BS in Community Development from Portland State University. Jenny has been involved with the Portland Development Commission, now Prosper Portland, Neighborhood Economic Development Leadership Team, East Portland Action Plan, and EPAP subcommittees, Community Peace Collaborative, Renew, and East Portlanders Inspiring Change. Thank you. Jenny's service on the Parks Board is driven by her desire to ensure that East Portland has representation on the Parks Board and receives needed investment, including great quality and culturally relevant recreation activities. Patty Tillett is an architect, urban designer, and city planner with 40 years of international professional experience, having worked for consulting firms and public agencies in many parts of the world before settling in the Pacific Northwest. Patty has been involved in downtown revitalization strategies and over 30 campus master plans for colleges, universities, and state capitals. He resides in northwest Portland and holds a diploma in architecture from Oxford and a master of civic design from Liverpool. Patty brings to the Parks Board his extensive professional experience as well as his experience on the Portland Parks Foundation Board and 30 years on various urban design committees in Portland. Jenny and Patty's reappointment to the board would be for their second three-year term ending on June 30, 2022. We have submitted the report for these parks board appointments and reappointments for your consideration and approval. Thank you. Very good. I'll accept a motion unless there's any further discussion. Second. I have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Well, we're very excited to welcome Jenny and Patty back. Jenny Glass and Patty Tillich have unique perspectives to offer the Parks Board. We thank them for their service. I also thank the Parks Board for the elaborate process they went through to identify new members. Mike Elliott and Aaron Zalinkop are really terrific candidates, and we're lucky that people of this caliber are choosing to volunteer their time. By the way, I would be remiss if I didn't say that on Saturday, Director Long and I were at David Douglas High School opening our 57th community garden Our 16th East of 82nd and our second with David Douglas. So it was quite a wonderful celebration. Thanks to all four. I'm pleased to vote aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. These all sound like wonderful appointments, and I want to thank all of them for their service. And I want to especially appreciate Aaron Zolankoff. I'm a big fan of Boom Arts. and other work that she does and I appreciate, I'm excited to see what she will bring. I vote aye. Fritz? It was an honor to work with Patricia Frobes and Kendall Klaus and the Parks Board Co-Chairs when I was in charge of parks to look at how do the new members get selected and as was mentioned it's a collaboration between a subcommittee and the commissioner's office and the director they also developed an elaborate matrix to look at all of the different demographics and interests and skills of the current members to see where are the gaps and where, what Where do we need people to live, work and play and what kinds of things do they do? So we used that with the recent recruitment or that system with the recent recruitment for the Portland Utility Board. And I think it should stand as a model for the entire city for all of our recruitments because it really points out where you've got expertise and where you need different kinds of skills and experiences. So I'm a big fan of the Portland Parks Board. Weiner. Weiner. I think these are excellent appointments and reappointments and I appreciate it when people are willing to step up for what can often be very complicated, but obviously very important work. Our parks are beloved as Commissioner Fish has said many times. And we need the right people from the community helping to guide us. And in this case, I think Commissioner Fish and Director Long, you've provided us with some excellent people to do just that. I vote aye. The report's accepted and the appointments are accepted as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Dean. Colleagues, could we take a three minute recess? Thank you. Colleagues, while we're waiting for Commissioner Hardesty to return, and I'm sure she'll return in just a moment. Why don't we call the item, Commissioner Udalli, I assume you want items 558 and 559 called together, is that correct? Let's see. We read them together last time, so I don't see any reason why we couldn't today. Sure. Carla, would you mind reading items 558 and 559 together? 558, add evaluation of applicants for dwelling units to include renter protections in the form of screening criteria regulations. And 558, add security deposit. 559, sorry. Add security deposits. prepaid rent to include renter protections in the form of security deposit regulations. Very good. And just to get us back on the same page in terms of where we are in the process. We have already heard both of these items. We've taken testimony on these items. Commissioner Udaly offered a substitute amendment, which, or excuse me, a substitute exhibit, which we voted in favor of. So the substitute is on the table before us. A number of amendments were offered up. that have all been moved and seconded for the purposes of discussion and for public testimony. So today, assuming I have the flow of the process correct, we will be having discussion, answering questions, and it is my hope and expectation that we would be voting on the amendments today. Is that everybody's expectation? And then those amendments that are approved today would then move to second reading. And I believe next week is the week that has been picked for that. Does that comport with everybody's understanding? Okay. Very good. So with that, then, we can start wherever the will of the council is. I would obviously like to have the opportunity to discuss the amendments I put on the table and ultimately vote on those, but it may be that people would like to start with a broader conversation first, really whatever is the will of the council. Sure. So you pretty much covered everything that I was going to say in my introduction today. other than the final vote is scheduled for Wednesday, June 19th at 4.15 p.m. Unfortunately, Commissioner Hardesty will be in D.C. at that time. We searched for another date when we would all be here, and it's not happening pretty much all summer. So it's really next week or put it off. Even longer, and it's just we really need to move forward and move on. Will Commissioner Hardesty be appearing by telephone? No.
 Okay. We did schedule it at 415 in the hopes that that might make it possible for you, as it will be the evening, and I wanted to have a conversation with you before this meeting. Yes, as did I. Yeah. Apparently we're having it now. Okay. Yeah. All right. Thank you. Um, so, Mayor, you put several amendments forward in the last session or the last hearing. I've let your staff and all the commissioner's offices know where we stand on those amendments. And if you want to just, I'm not sure. First of all, do we need to read the amendment language? No, the amendments are on the table, so we can simply refer to them by number and then maybe with a sentence or two just to make sure we're all talking about the same amendments, but they've already been read into the record. So my understanding is we're just going into discussion, and we have all of us have a cheat sheet with the sponsors'  formal position whether to accept, reject, or modify any amendment. So that guides the conversation. Can I kick things off with Amendment 1? Yes. We're having a discussion. Yeah. On the Mayor's amendments? On the Mayor's. Yeah, okay. Looks like we're going to start with the Mayor's amendments. I have an amendment which is pretty pro forma, but we'll come back to that. Okay, Mayor Wheeler 1 proposes to eliminate a particular provision dealing with the timing of applications. In this instance, dealing with the situation where someone applies for something earlier than the open application period. My question to the sponsor is, how did you arrive at the essentially eight hour penalty clause? that's currently in the language, which says that it's treated as if it came in eight hours afterwards. And what's the rationale for that? Do we need to bring Jamie up? I was going to do that in a minute, but I... Okay, so, Jamie, if you could come up. Because some of these amendments are extremely technical, I'm going to have Jamie answer some of the questions. Good morning. Jamie Duhamel, Director of Policy for Commissioner Udailey. That specific part of the policy was developed in our beta test group at the end of policy development when we modeled out and walked through some mock screenings with the group that included some lawyers, tenant and landlord lawyers in the room. We recognize that there was a gap in the policy where there was no accounting for if somebody sent in their application let's say the open application period is 12 p.m on January 1st and somebody submits their application at 11 o'clock or the day before what is a landlord to do in that circumstance and while we didn't want to um eliminate somebody's ability to apply for that rental because they didn't recognize the open application period. We also didn't want to advantage them by putting them at the top of the line. So this was the compromise that we made. We chose the eight hour period because that is the kind of waiting period for particularly around ADA units and preference policies. And so they got stuck at the top of the line after that first waiting period for preference applications. So under this language, there are potentially a number of scenarios where that application that came in before the open application period still gets the unit. Correct. It's just that there's no reward for having come in ahead of the period, and you settled on eight hours because there was a precedent for that period of time? Correct. Exactly. Okay. Could I give some of the logic for why I made the amendment? First of all, Commissioner Fish, as you indicated, there's a degree to which this is arbitrary. Eight hours was picked, seven wasn't picked, nine wasn't picked. And I want to be clear what stays intact with this. What does not change is the 72-hour notification period. That does not impact it. What this is impacting is the actual question of the application itself. And if we... Let me give you an example of where I think this becomes complicated. If you're a landlord and you come in on a Monday morning, and Monday is the day that you have picked for your application period, and you have a stack of applications in the mailbox that, you cannot timestamp them. I mean, you have no legitimate way of knowing what time those applications came in. So there is, in fact, some degree of discretion here on the part of the landlord to say, okay, all of these applications came in and I can accept them or I can put them in the middle of the pile, the top of the pile, or the bottom of the pile. I acknowledge that. But what also happens is it is administratively complicated. It adds an extra burden. And in some cases, that eight hours, if it is a competitive unit, may in fact... cause people to lose the opportunity. Eight hours effectively if you come in and you pick up the mail at the beginning of the day, that's really the next day's business. And so we know that in this particular market, those units, especially if they've been posted for 72 hours, they're going to get scooped up fairly quickly. Another administrative issue that was brought to my attention is in the case where you do not have competitive units available, you could in fact be incentivizing people to pre-apply for a whole host of units, whether or not they've even been posted under the 72-hour requirement. And so that then creates the potential for long waiting lists for units on a de facto basis. So on balance, as I looked at this, I believe it does not significantly impact the intent of this portion of the ordinance, but it does simplify it from an administrative and a potential cost perspective, and it gets rid of the uncertainty which will be created not so much by digital applications but by those that are mailed in. And the other question then that... would arise by this is somebody might say, well, one of the things I really like about this ordinance and that I strongly support about this ordinance is the potential impact it would have on people with disabilities. We know that factually there are people with disabilities, mobility disabilities, who are currently being discriminated against. They still have access to reasonable accommodations under the Fair Housing Act. and the ADA. So in my mind, that is not impacted by this at all. May I just follow up on that for a second? I appreciate the explanation you've given for the amendment. Let me offer a counter-narrative. If we allow people to essentially jump the gun on the open application period, then we're creating a class of people who are treated differently. And my guess, without thinking about this too deeply, is that it's a class of insiders. It's people that are given a heads up in advance or a landlord may want to steer or for whatever reason. And while I agree that the eight hours could be viewed as arbitrary, I mean, we could say six hours, seven hours, eight hours, nine. I mean, it's just a number. Isn't the risk here... that creating, in essence, an incentive for people to apply before the open application period just creates a class of people who are advantaged? And doesn't it, in effect, render the underlying  doesn't it significantly undercut the whole purpose of having an open application process and leveling the playing field. It absolutely does. If I could weigh in here. Go ahead and then I'll give my response. So I feel like we've just heard some incredibly complex rationalization. for something that's pretty simple. We've created a waiting period to make this process more equitable to people who face challenges or barriers in the application process. That may be a language barrier, that may be a disability. There's a variety of reasons why we want to give people an opportunity to get their materials together, complete the application before that process opens up. Eight hours is not arbitrary. Eight hours is linked to the waiting period on ADA units. What this amendment does is negate that waiting period. We were trying to find a fair solution for people who perhaps inadvertently applied too early so that their application wouldn't be thrown out. Frankly, I think it'd be, and I need to say the vast majority of applications are happening online. I don't think landlords are getting a stack of applications, or in person. stack of applications coming in the mail I think is unlikely. Landlords can put an autoresponder on the email attached to the application saying I'm sorry, you know, this isn't open or And you need to apply at this time. We simply made a concession to renters who may have accidentally applied too early, so they'll still be in the queue, but they don't get to be at the front of the line because they didn't follow the instructions. I'm just failing to... If you want to get rid of our waiting period, make an amendment to get rid of the waiting period. But taking this, because taking this language out effectively negates the waiting period. Okay, so let me defend my position and I'll let Commissioner Fritz come in. Because I don't. necessarily agree with that narrative. I do agree with what you said, that this could be simplified. It could simply be, first of all, let's be clear about what's in the body of the ordinance. There's no requirement that the landlord make the application available. What's required by the 72-hour notification period is that the landlord has to stipulate what their screening criteria are. They have to stipulate what the unit is, they have to stipulate whether or not it is an ADA accessible unit, and they have to stipulate the time that the applications will actually be accepted. The simple thing to do would simply be to say applications are not accepted until time X. Which is what we've asked. Or alternatively, make the application available until the actual time that the unit is available. And ultimately I think that's where it will go because why would a landlord Send out the application in advance knowing that that exposes them not to only to administrative burden and having to timestamp sort first in line. Move it to 8 hours back, but it also potentially opens them to legal exposure. So Mayor that just negates the waiting period. The purpose of the waiting period in a different way because the purpose of the waiting period. is to allow people that face barriers or challenges to completing that application time to complete it. So it needs to be provided in advance so that they can get it in and be competitive with people who don't face those barriers. And like I said, that could be language, it could be disability, could be an individual facing some of the barriers that we're trying to address with our low barrier screening criteria who need to get together supplementary information to kind of argue their case for why they are a good tenant despite whatever marks may be on the record. So interfering with that waiting period, whether it's taking  allowing people to apply earlier than than the waiting period and get to the front of the line or not giving them the application in advance to fill out negates the entire purpose of this waiting period. And it's an essential part of this policy because we are trying to decrease barriers to housing for people who face extraordinary barriers or challenges. But the examples you just gave are currently, These are all examples of reasonable accommodation that an applicant could ask for under existing law. No, they're not. No, they're not. Absolutely not. Well, I would point you to reasonable accommodations under fair housing law. Jamie, do you want to come back up and comment on that? You know, there may be wording in that law, but part of the point of this policy is that We're not seeing adherence to the Fair Housing Act. We are seeing discrimination in the rental market, and we are trying to solve for it. So, Jamie, can you please respond to that specific concern? So, reasonable accommodations allows a prospective tenant to negotiate certain conditions in their unit when they're negotiating getting into that unit, but it doesn't speak to the processing of those applications ahead of time. So, they could be effectively disengaged. you know, not even processed or ignored before they even get the chance to request reasonable accommodations for the unit. Thank you. Is that legal counsel's opinion? Mr. Mayor, I did not advise on this matter, but I could certainly get the attorney who did provide advice down here and answer your question. The ordinance speaks to... mobility disabilities. So that is physical disabilities. It's my understanding that that is protected under reasonable accommodations under the Fair Housing Act and ADA. I would say, Mayor, that if you show up and you have a mobility device, That's one thing. But if you are doing an online application and you are applying, a landlord will normally try to pick the most expedient applicant they could possibly get. As a renter, I can tell you that apartments in my complex don't stay empty too long. It is to the apartment owner's benefit. to get as many people applying while they're cleaning the apartment that the person just moved out of. And so I absolutely agree that even though we have laws in place that are supposed to protect some of our most vulnerable people, in reality it absolutely does not work. It's just like we're not supposed to discriminate against people, but we know that happens every single day in this community. I would love to hear what Commissioner Amanda Fritz has to say because I know she's been patiently waiting. She has and I will call on her in one moment. I just want to point out one thing though. This is in reference to applications received early. This does not impact the rest of the ordinance with regard to first come, first serve. This is specifically this whole clause regard to how do you deal with applications that come in the door prior to the open application process that is narrowly focused on that commissioner fritz okay i think it would be helpful to acknowledge right off the bat that we all agree that there are problems with fair housing with the way the laws are implemented that we've had multiple audits and we know that that people are being discriminated against and so there's no um opposition about that on the council the question is how do we address that I just have a basic question. We received testimony, written testimony from a property manager who said that they already do first come, first serve, and that they are sometimes greeted when they arrive at work with people throwing applications through the car door window. And we know that there is a digital divide that low-income people, people of color often do not have access to internet. We know that 5G is coming that will cost more money but it will be faster so that the people with the 5G phones are going to be able to get their electronic applications in right on the dot. As somebody who buys a lot of concert tickets online, I wait and watch until my computer tells me that the time has clicked by. I click enter, and I am often put in a queue and wait as somebody at the back there has also had that experience. You wait for 5, 10, 15 minutes. Please let me put my application in. So to the sponsor, what is the process whereby if you open it at 8 o'clock, you've got a line of people, are there allowed to be a line of people outside of the property manager's door waiting to put in the application and they've been waiting there for 72 hours, which is also can you afford to be outside for 20 to 72 hours? Who's first, the person who's waiting outside the door or the person who gets it online happens to get in first online? So just like the Fair Housing Act that was passed 51 years ago and the ADA Act that was passed about 25 years ago, this policy does not solve any possibility that you can come up with. Emails have times on them, so it would be very easy to intersperse emailed applications, which the vast majority of them are, with applications received in person. I don't know how they would treat applications received in the mail. That presumably would be up to the discretion of the landlord. I feel like... I feel like people are coming up with every possible eventuality or little hang-up. The issue here is that we have created a waiting period to reduce barriers for people who face challenges in securing rental housing. And this amendment will effectively negate that purpose.
 So... We're not, I know I haven't entirely answered your question, although I think I mostly have, and it isn't really the question at hand. The question at hand is, if someone applies earlier than the stated application date and time, should they get to go to the front of the line? And my position is no. And Jamie, working with community partners and through the beta, including landlords, and through the beta test, came up with this compromise, which is that they will not get to the front of the line. They don't deserve to be at the front of the line. But their application will not be discarded. It will be placed in the queue after an eight-hour waiting period. And I'm going to have Jamie come back up because... I want to make sure we get all the details right. That is absolutely correct. I would add one more thing is that we made changes to the ways in which receipts are provided for tenants. And that is also to decrease the administrative burden and account for the fact that landlords may be taking in applications from multiple venues at the same time. On the one hand, landlords have the ability to change their business practices and may just require that all applications come through the front door in a certain way to minimize the chaos for themselves. But on the second hand, we have changed the receipt process and the queuing process so that landlords only have to respond when requested and within five days. That gives the landlord the time to figure out which order people were in so they're not giving the wrong receipts at the moment and telling people they're in a certain line of the queue when they didn't realize they had emails that had people coming in sooner. So there are mechanisms built in there for landlords to develop their own system that decreases their administrative burden for themselves. Jamie, if I may, in this section, again, it is not prescriptive in terms of telling landlords during that 72-hour period that they need to make the application available at all. This is simply an opportunity for them to be clear about what their screening criteria is and the availability of the unit. Is that correct? Yes. I think technically you may be correct that we have not said in policy that you must make the application available. I think there was certainly an understanding that landlords, when they say, I have a unit open and I want to take applications, will make those applications available. I'm not sure why they wouldn't otherwise because they want to get the ball rolling. It's landlords who told us that the 72-hour window will  diminish the turnover time for their own properties. So waiting the 72 hours and then handing out applications is them, in effect, diminishing their own turnover time. So that doesn't seem logical to me. But also the policy is, in effect, only when landlords advertise. So theoretically they could give that property to a friend or family member because they don't have to legally advertise that property. But secondly, the  Or use a waiting list. Yes. What's that? Or utilize their waiting list. There is also, they can also process multiple applications at a time and put them on the waiting list as long as they're making a determination in order. And finally, the policy is triggered by the submittal of a completed application. So it's not even so much when the applications are handed out. So even if they waited the open application period, then handed out applications, they don't have to process those applications until they're received fully completed. Okay. So it sounds like that would be more complicated. I don't want to belabor this too much, but I've read this thoroughly, and there's nothing in it that implies, suggests, or requires that landlords must provide the application. I did not see that. I did have one other question, which is let's follow Commissioner Fritz's. And, by the way, I agree with Commissioner Udaly that I would assume the majority of applications will be digital and they'll be time-stamped. So that's  sort of a non-issue from my perspective, but let's say somebody hands in the application or somebody chooses to mail the application. There isn't really any way of telling whether or not the landlord is faithfully putting those on an eight-hour time stamp or whether, in fact, they're putting them at the top of the pile. We have no way of knowing, do we? Well, that's partly why there's a receipt and queuing component, that they are handing out receipts to folks when they're turning in their applications. Again, we've kind of diminished that because of the administrative burden issue and because of the multiple applications. But you're correct. If landlords choose to not follow the law, we have limited ability with which to make sure they're doing that. Which is already true. Correct. So, again, we can't solve every... possible eventuality or outcome, what our aim here is just to continue advancing fair housing law to decrease barriers to housing for people who face challenges. And if I may, just one more comment, Commissioner. We debated the type of application processing ad nauseum over the last two years of this policy and what we determined is that the first come, first serve process is the most equitable or not fully equitable, but the most equitable while also balancing enforceability through the receipt process. So the most equitable process would obviously be a random lottery of folks who qualify for the property. But because we have no system to ensure enforceability on that, we would essentially end up with the same exact system we have today, which is landlords just say. You know, of course I chose this person randomly, but they end up just picking out of the pile who they like the best. So this is the best way that we have found, and it is recommended in fair housing guidance, and it is followed right now voluntarily by many of the larger landlords because of its equitable intentions. Any further discussion on this amendment? I guess I'm still not clear, Mayor, what your amendment seeks to do. It seeks to reduce what I believe is a barrier that is somewhat arbitrary in nature, that will be very difficult to enforce. That, in my opinion, will provide one more barrier to the unit being available. I believe that this issue is already addressed through reasonable accommodations. And at the end of the day, I think ultimately landlords, for the most part, will choose not to provide the application in advance because it exposes them both to the administrative burden and potential legal ramifications. That's the basics for this one. And so are we at a position that we're going to be voted on this amendment? Yes. I say yes. Let's just, I think everybody knows what their position is on this, so let's go ahead and call the roll, Carla. Fish? Well, if the discussion on the other amendments is as lively as this one, we may have to push the afternoon session into the early evening. I really appreciate this discussion. I think it's helpful. I've thought a lot about this amendment, and I want to say, Mayor, I appreciate that in bringing a suite of amendments, you've signaled a desire to try to get to yes on this. and there's a number of amendments here that have the sponsor's support, which I think is important. I'm concerned that this amendment does undermine the open application period, and I am somewhat comforted by the fact that through the next year of doing further outreach, through the rulemaking process, and through the annual reporting, if there is a barrier that we missed or in practice becomes significant, I will be interested in revisiting these issues. But at this point, I think the risk here is that we undermine the open application period and, in essence, privilege a class of applicants, which I don't think is the intent. So I can't support the amendment, no. Hardesty? Ditto what Commissioner Fish said. I vote no. Udaly? No. Fritz. Both the Urban League of Portland and the Community Alliance of Tenants have agreed that the whole first come, first served is fundamentally inequitable. As we know, as I said, the fact that people, not everybody can be online at a particular time. They have to wait for the library to open, for example. I think this would have made it slightly better. And so I vote aye. Wheeler. Obviously, I support this or I wouldn't put it on the table. First of all, thank you everyone for the discussion and the clarification. Commissioner Fish, to your point, my expectation is that assuming that the majority will pass this in some form, either amended or not amended, it would be my expectation that there will be parts of this that the Housing Bureau will have to bring back to the council. And- We'll just have to see where the chips fall on this one. I vote aye. The amendment fails 3-2. Can I go on to the second amendment? Yes, please. Is this working for everybody in terms of how to structure this? And I'd just like to call Jamie up. Jamie, just stay at the table for the duration of this. Unless you want to exercise, that's always an option. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. I'm just a little concerned about time. And the sponsor has accepted your amendment. I move the amendment. Okay. Well, the amendment's already been moved. It's already been moved and seconded. I moved to a vote. So before I go to the roll call, it would be nice to know that I have three votes on this. Well, the sponsor accepts your amendment. I accept the amendment. I want to point out that CAT and Urban League were two of our most important community partners in developing this policy, and they both came out in force. to both of the hearings to support it. They, you know, with some concerns, and was this one of them, Jamie? Can you remind me of what amendment? I'm sorry, this is the amendment taking out the language 50 or fewer in regards to excluding tenants who have been... I guess evicted within 365 days. It is true that those organizations do not support this amendment. It was their request that we limit it to smaller landlords because they didn't want particular tenants to be effectively banned from entire areas. But we felt like this was, in the end, a smallish concession to move the policy. Very good. Carla called the roll. Hardesty. Hardesty. Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Thank you, colleagues. Aye. The amendment's passed. Amendment number three. Commissioner Udailey and my team, Commissioner Udailey's team and my team have drafted some language. I put a placeholder in removing section two. I put a placeholder language in. The language that we've agreed to, I've spoken to legal counsel this morning, is a friendly amendment and therefore would not require an additional amendment. According to legal counsel, I'll read it into the record. So we will strike the language that I put in, which is preferential access for the accessible dwelling units will be given to people with mobility disabilities. That was a placeholder. The more formal language is, If there are multiple applicants for an accessible dwelling unit with a family member that is mobility disabled, the landlord must accept, conditionally accept, or deny such applications in order of receipt, but prior to processing completed applications for applicants without household members that are mobility disabled. And I accept that as a friendly amendment. Any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll. Fish.
 Aye.
 Hardesty.
 Aye.
 Udailey.
 Aye.
 Fritz.
 Aye.
 Wheeler. The amendment passes. Item amendment number five. Four. Four was withdrawn last week based on testimony. So this is amendment number five and it is related to amendment number six. And it's my understanding that the sponsor accepts these amendments. So please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. That's five. If you can call six. Fish. Hardesty. I voted aye because the sponsor has accepted the language in Amendment 6. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendment 7, 6. I had a question for Commissioner Udaele. The exemptions that we put on the table parallel the exemptions that we use for re-law. Commissioner Udaele had come back with an alternative set of amendments. Commissioner, the question I have for you is legal counsel could not agree that those constitute mirror friendly amendments because they strike. a key section of the original amendment, which would mean that we would have to take testimony and move this to a second reading. I didn't know what you felt about that. What's, Jamie, if you could remind me what the... The revision I thought of you... Subsection changes, yeah. It simply adds for subsections E and F at the beginning of the proposed amendment. D and E. Are we on Amendment 7? Yes. So this is the one where it would exclude the same exclusions, the same exemptions that we have in RELO from the selection criteria. But under Commissioner Udaily's counter proposal, it would be limited to sections E and F only. That is the screening criteria section. But they would still have to comply with the 72-hour requirement, the ID requirement, first come, first serve requirement. and the like. And so my question really is a process question for Commissioner Daly, which is, do you want to take testimony on this amendment and have it moved to second next week, which means that it... I guess if that's what we need to do, or if it moves to second next week, then we wouldn't be able to vote on the policy next week. Yeah, that's the problem with getting last-minute amendments. So... I'm not sure what to do. I don't see much fundamentally difference between the two. Well, the difference is that the mayor's amendment would have exempted these landlords from the whole policy. And we... Because we don't have a complete registry, we have no idea how many units this type of landlord represents. And I frankly don't think that small-time landlords should be more able to discriminate than anyone else. What we heard in testimony over the course of these two sessions... from small landlords as they're not professional enough to adopt our policy, and from large landlords that they're too professional. Everyone agrees that discrimination is bad. No one wants to change their practices. So it's my strong position that while I am fine with exempting them... Sorry, I'm getting... on the screening side, right? We're not exempting them from all the requirements of the policy. So it sounds like we either, we can't amend the amendment without opening the record back up and moving it to second reading, which would delay the final vote. So the only other option is to vote up or down the amendment as proposed by Mayor Wheeler without revising it. That is my understanding from legal counsel. And if I could just put one explanation on the table, I think we all agree that there is a balancing act here. And the concern that I would raise is with a very, you know, a legitimately small landlord, not one who's gaming the system by having 25 different LLCs, but somebody who, and we had a couple of people come in and testify, somebody who rents their ADU. rents a room in their home. My concern would be that if we create too much of an administrative burden, 72 hour reporting, the first in line, the time stamping, and the other requirements of the full ordinance, it may just be easier for people to go click on the Airbnb site instead, that's my concern. Commissioner Fritz. I agree with that concern. One of my neighbors is adding in an accessory dwelling unit, and they are going one step further, and they're not going to advertise because a landlord who doesn't advertise does not have to follow any of these rules. And so that then further means that it's going to be friends of friends rather than open to anybody to access. We did receive one... piece of testimony while the record was held open from a person who moved into her ADU and is renting out her main house. And so that was pointed out as a problem for both the relocation exemption and for this, that clearly that's something we want seniors to be able to do is to downsize and for them to be able to occupy their ADU. But that the rule should be the same then for the family who's going to share their property. Commissioner Fritz, to that point, just sort of an aside, the Housing Bureau is in receipt of that. testimony to council and it's my understanding that they will be bringing a potential revision back to council for our consideration on that exact point. What, because we really didn't take into account what happens if you choose to vacate the main residence and instead live in the ADDU and rent the main residence and I think that was just a legitimate oversight. I'm presuming that that could be fixed here. as a friendly amendment. Or it could be done through further code revision, and frankly that would be my preference as we just do it all at once. All right. This isn't ideal, but I'm happy to just accept this amendment, and if it is something that we feel we need to revise, we've got nine months before this policy is implemented. Yes, sir. So let's take a vote. I think that's right, Commissioner Daly. I'm sorry, but I don't want to cut off Commissioner Hardesty. That's okay. I was actually going to recommend why don't we just like not do it and then have them come back with the recommendation six months or eight months from now. I'm fine with that too. Well, we'll find out right now. Yes, we will. The suspense is palpable. Please call the roll. And just to be clear, this is Wheeler Amendment 7. Fish. Fish. This is the last of the Mayor's amendments. I want to compliment the sponsor and the proponent of the amendments for the conversation that we've had. We should have more conversations like this. This reminds me a little bit of the conversations we have on land use matters where we have a chance as a council to air out differences in public. The feedback that I get from people is they really appreciate the transparency of hearing people. My Touchstone as a commissioner, unless a fundamental principle that I care about is violated, is I look to the sponsor for guidance. The sponsor in most of the work we do is doing the heavy lifting, is keeping an eye on compromise, trying to build a bigger coalition. I've been extremely impressed with the sponsor's efforts to do this. Because the sponsor is willing to accept the amendment, with the proviso that we can come back and revisit it, which I think makes a lot of sense because of the time frame that you've given us. I welcome the chance to come back with more data. But based on the record that we have now, I can support this amendment. Aye. Hardesty? Aye. I would love to have had more conversation about this particular amendment and because we have not been able to do that and we anticipate changes coming back sometime in the next six or eight months, I am very confident to vote no. Udailey? I do think Commissioner Hardesty's suggestion was the most logical choice here. We have a delayed implementation of nine months. If we feel like this is something that needs to be fixed, or even I'm hearing from some colleagues expanded upon, it would make more sense to me to not pass the amendment as it is today, but to come back to this conversation sometime before the implementation with a  better worded and perhaps more fleshed out of that amendment, I vote no. Fritz. This is challenging because I don't know what the process is going to be of whether we've got the right exemptions here or not. It's obvious that one of them is not right. I think it would be better to have these come back sooner rather than later, no. Wheeler. Yes, the amendment fails 3-2. All right. Next up are... Could I move to reconsider? No, I didn't move. Do we have a motion to reconsider? Yeah. Second. Second. Commissioner Fritz? I think I would like to change my vote, please. So I'd like to... Is everybody okay with accepting the motion to reconsider? It's a courtesy. Yeah. Thank you. So I'd like to change my vote. Yes. Yes. The motion passes 3-2. Mayor, we have one more amendment, I think. We have several. Commissioner Udaly has three and you have one. Should we get to yours next, Commissioner Fish? I'm happy to follow Commissioner Udaly's lead. Thank you. Sure, let's take Fish 1. Okay. Is there any further discussion on Fish 1? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Aye. Hardesty. I love amendments that are very well worded and I can understand them when I read it the first time. I vote aye. Udali. Thank you, Commissioner. I support this amendment. I vote aye. Britt. I'm concerned about giving the Housing Bureau another responsibility on this. On the other hand, I do believe that there should be annual reports so that we can fix any of the problems that come up. Aye. Aye. Wheeler. As the Housing Commissioner, I want to be clear it's the Housing Bureau's opinion that there will need to be revisions to this policy and that it is imperative that the Housing Bureau work closely with this council. And so the reporting requirement is appropriate and it would be my expectation as the Housing Commissioner that we would be reporting back even earlier. more frequently and sooner than proposed in the amendment. But I assume this is sort of an outside bracket in terms of the reporting requirement to the council. I vote aye. Fish 1 passes. Commissioner Udaly has three amendments. Any further discussion of Udaly number one? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment passes unanimously. Udaly, Amendment 2, please. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Prince? I'm concerned about this. This is about requiring considering of supplemental evidence. I think it's really complicated and an administrative burden, as is the rationale for taking it out. So I vote no. Weiner? Aye. The amendment passes 4-1. Amendment 3, call the roll, please. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Hardesty?
 Aye.
 Udalli?
 Aye.
 Fritz? Aye.
 Wheeler? The amendment passes. So that is, unless I screwed up here, that is all the amendments, is that correct? That is all we've got. Okay, very good. Any further discussion on this item or does that close us out for today? Then it is my understanding that we will come back on Wednesday, June, was it 14th, Commissioner Udaly, or is it 19th? The 19th. Okay, very good. Wednesday, June 19th at 4.15 p.m. time certain. And if there's any changes to that, we'll go through the usual notification process. There will not be any changes. Great. All right, good. And... Very good. So this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended. Two ordinances. Yeah, and that is item number 558, and number 559 is also a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. All right, good. So we're finally in the regular agenda. 566, please. replace park exclusion code to clarify ejection and exclusion processes from city parks to improve parks management and safety at park facilities. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. We'd like to welcome two honored guests, Vicente Harrison, who is Parks Security and Emergency Manager, and Senior Deputy City Attorney Linda Law, who are going to give us a brief presentation. Where is Todd? Todd, do we have a handout for the council? Okay, good. We had a number of very thoughtful questions that we received from council offices over the last couple days. And so our team has produced a one page document, which just confirms the information we've shared with the offices. And our hope is that it also focuses on what we're proposing today and equally important what we're not proposing because this is actually fairly narrow in scope. Let me do a brief introduction. Portland City Code Title 20 includes parks rules to ensure Portland Parks and Recreation properties and facilities are safe for everyone, both visitors and our employees. Today we will consider a narrow update to our exclusion rules. There are several goals to the proposed update. First, to recognize that different types of parks property require different rules. that community centers and pools need to be managed differently than parks and open spaces. Second, to recognize that certain violations are more serious than others. Currently, bias crimes, child abuse, elder abuse, and other serious infractions are treated the same as smoking and minor property damage. Finally, this update maintains due process rights while strengthening protections for vulnerable users and workers, including our teen workforce. Now I'd like to turn this presentation over to Mr. Harrison, our esteemed Parks Security and Emergency Manager. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, City Council. Good morning. My name is Vicente Harrison, Security and Emergency Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. Since I began my career in parks eight years ago, it has been evident that Title 20 was intended to help manage our outdoor assets and has been silent on facilities. This update clarifies the different needs between parks and facilities. Facilities include community centers, pools, golf courses, and Portland International Raceway. These locations have several key differences from parks, including structured programming, high frequency use by all ages, a concentrated environment, and body sensitive spaces like locker rooms and pools. Facilities are not only draw for children and families, but also frequently staffed by young people. For example, our lifeguards are primarily teenagers. Without causing alarm, I want to flag that both visitors and staff have reported isolated examples of concerning behavior. Today's update helps rangers and other staff keep everyone safe. Under the current rule, if someone is excluded from a community center, it only applies at that one center. So that individual could go to another community center and repeat the same behavior. I'd like to mention that in my experience, our contacts with visitors and educations about the rules of conduct to visitors has increased. Before I turn it over to Linda for more details about the proposed code update, I would like to give you a brief overview of the ranger program. Park rangers offer a positive presence in Portland parks and facilities. Rangers are non sworn enforcement officials who are given the authority under the city code to enforce park rules and maintain safety. Rangers serve multiple roles, including providing information, helping users solve conflicts and enforcing city codes such as dog leash and scoop laws, events permit use, drug and alcohol rules and other park rules. Overall, Portland parks are very safe. Park rangers maintain relationships and contacts with law enforcement, Multnomah County Animal Control, neighborhood associations, and social service partners to identify, prevent, and address concerns. All rangers are trained to assess a given situation and use verbal persuasion and problem-solving skills to gain voluntary compliance. If warranted, they can call upon other emergency partners, appropriate partners. I want to emphasize too that we offer park rangers a customized diversity and equity training specific to rangers and how we enforce our rules in our parks. Now I'd like to turn it over to Linda Law to give an overview of the existing code and the proposed updates. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Park Ranger Harrison. I have a question for you. You introduced yourself as a park ranger and you do security and emergency management. Yes. Could you elaborate more on what is the mission? Is that an accurate title, the emergency management? Yeah, so my correct title is security and emergency manager. I started my career as a park ranger. So I started out as a seasonal ranger with the city of Portland, was promoted to a full-time park ranger supervisor, and now the security and emergency manager, which oversees the park ranger program for the Parks and Rec Bureau. Thank you. As the commissioner that's in charge of the Bureau of Emergency Management, when someone introduces themselves as emergency management and they're not part of my team, I have to try to figure out why that isn't. Right? Are my people training your people? Yes. We work with very intimately with the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management. I'm meets there monthly, and we coordinate with not only PBIM, but other bureaus on emergency response that the city has in their COOP plan. Well, it's wonderful when I learn something new about my own bureaus every day. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. No problem. Good afternoon. My name is Linda Law, and I'm a deputy city attorney, senior deputy. The purpose of exclusion is not to punish any persons for prior conduct. but rather to provide civil and non-punitive enforcement necessary to protect health, welfare, and safety at parks. An exclusion may be issued when a person violates a rule. It is for a defined period. Title 20 includes additional details about the due process and appeals process for exclusions. Exclusions do not prevent the exercise of constitutionally protected rights like free speech. As Commissioner Fish mentioned, there are several key parts of this update. First, it clarifies the difference between an outdoor park and the Bureau's facilities. As Vincente mentioned, facilities include community centers, pools, golf courses, and Portland International Raceway. Second, it identifies certain violations that are more serious, including abuse of children, older adults, persons with mental illness and developmental disabilities, and bias crimes, crimes against other persons such as our patrons and staff, and serious property damage to parts. Third, it clarifies which bureau staff are authorized to issue exclusions. Fourth, it allows more flexibility for length of exclusion for when a person has a prior park violation, when a person engages in serious offenses, and it looks back a period of three years instead of two. Finally, as Commissioner Fish already noted, the update retains due process rights, including an oral warning requirement to give people the reasonable opportunity to stop their behaviors with an exception for certain criminal or dangerous activities. The right to appeal and exclusion to the Code Hearings Office and a state of exclusion when the appeal for violation occurs at parks, but not at facilities. Currently, when an exclusion is appealed, it is stayed or held off until the appeal is finalized. The update retains that provision for parks and green spaces. At facilities, though, the exclusion will be enforced pending appeal. Thank you for your time, and I'm going to turn back to Vincente for more questions. Thank you, Linda. Commissioner Hardesty had a question. Thank you. I'm curious as to whether there is a legal definition of biased crimes. Yes, ma'am. Biased crime under the law is in, as defined in the code, it is intimidation crimes that are under ORS 166.155 and 166.165. Those are essentially harassment, menacing, that kind of crime or assault to which you're doing it because of the person's protected status. And that is the reason why they're called biased crimes. Okay. Thank you, Linda, again. And just in closing, this entire premise behind the Ranger, the entire premise behind the Ranger program is education and de-escalation with enforcement as a last resort. As I mentioned, our parks and recreation centers are very safe places. But we want to make sure we maintain the safety for all visitors and employees. This narrow update helps us recognize that differences The differences of the types of properties require different rules and that certain violations are more serious. Thank you and we are happy to answer any additional questions that you have. Commissioner Hurstie. Thank you. Just for the record, I want to ask the question in regard to the expansion of exclusion. Is this consistent with the exclusion laws that we have in this chamber? is this expanding exclusion laws significantly? It is similar to what we have for council chamber under 3.02060 as well. I just love it when people point out those numbers. Which is the council proceedings exclusion process, as well as the city buildings exclusion process under Portland City Code 318. Okay. But let me answer the question slightly differently. In the hierarchy of spaces in which we enforce rules, what we have learned time and time again is because this is a public forum, And because people have the right to come and present to council, it is afforded the highest level of First Amendment protection. And therefore, our toolkit has been limited in terms of what we can and can't do. We don't have the same level of constitutional protection when we start talking about our facilities. People are not coming to the facilities to petition their government or seek regress or whatever. So we have more latitude. And that's why one of the cornerstones of this policy is that you're not allowed to go to another community center and put other people at risk. Commissioner Fritz. So in fact, it's different from what we have here because if you get ejected from council chambers, you still can go to the Portland building when it's open to other facilities. This is saying that parks facilities are treated as a group. And I guess, thank you, Commissioner. I guess the fact that there are 120-day exclusions, and I'm just trying to understand, is there criminal behavior attached to these significant exclusions of 120 days and 270 days? Because, as you said, if we can only exclude people from the council chambers for a day or so, it's pretty significant when you start talking about six months and longer. This particular code update preserves the existing exclusion length 30, 90, and 100 and 180 for parks by themselves. But when those particular serious offenses occur, that's when we believe that for those more serious offenses, more serious length offenses. exclusion period should be given because they are going to be a way for the parks bureau to manage the properties differently because of the different circumstances. And so I guess basically just for the record, I'm trying to understand. So if somebody has been found violating laws around child abuse, there would be a criminal prosecution, right? and then the court would determine what the appropriate punishment would be. Are you suggesting that then the Park Bureau would decide after they've been punished by the courts, that they would also determine what an appropriate punishment would be on top of the punishment that they've already received? No, that's not the case. And it's a case-by-case basis, but in terms of a parks exclusion and how we want to manage the safety of our facilities, We would implement our exclusion before the court hearing had took place. So after the court hearing, whatever the courts decide is the appropriate, we would govern ourselves according to that. Our exclusion process would still work its way, and it would not differentiate from what the courts decide. It would not add penalty or defund. decreased penalty based upon what the courts decide unless the person was found completely not guilty or whatever the case may be of the crime that they were charged with. Well, if they were found not guilty, then- If they were found not guilty, we would definitely relinquish what we had, but it would not add to if they were found not guilty, we wouldn't continue in that. Thank you. Miss Udeli. Thank you. So this isn't an emergency ordinance. I guess I'd just like to say on the record, I want to thank Commissioner Fish and his team for addressing our questions. This policy on its face sent up some yellow flags for me. And I want to say first and foremost, that's no reflection of my confidence in the commissioner or in the Bureau. I'm just always looking out for unintended consequences. always mindful of the fact that these policies very well may outlive our tenure on city council and under the direction of a different commissioner in charge or a different mayor, they could have they could be used differently. I'm very satisfied with all the answers I received. I understand this is very narrow. It is addressing serious crimes or violations. And I also want to say I'm really impressed with the training that the Rangers get, and just the overall commitment to equity and kind of non-biased enforcement. So not a question, just wanted to share that. Thank you very much. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have three people signed up. All right. Edith Gillis, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and Maggie. Very good, come on up. Three minutes, name for the record please. Hello, my name is Edith Gillis, and among many college degrees, one of them is recreation park management, and another in elementary education, and another in child development. I want to say that I'm wanting us to have more clarity about exclusion. I want us to have more clarity about the process. I want us to think it through, be much more aware of class and of ability and of culture and of language and bias of those who are perceiving, labeling, and responding to different behaviors. I want us to be very clear about the grievance process and the right of due process. I think this is an improvement, but I have a lot of concerns about it. My concerns are that we're still, what I like is that we're prioritizing human life safety health over material benefits. things and that we're putting child life endangerment over dog poop. But I still want us to be aware that there's a difficulty in how you address folks. I spend a lot of time with people in special education and on autism spectrum, and with folks who come from different culture and trauma. And what I've seen at Gabriel Park, at Mt. Scott Park, at other places, is well-intended whites who don't get trauma, they don't get racism, they don't understand how in different cultures you do or don't have eye contact, or you do or do not... agree to authority even when it's wrong or that you laugh, not because of mockery but because of submission or terror. And I'm concerned that... As much as it's far better than the Portland Police, we really are not having as much training and understanding. We're not having things in different languages. We're not having ASL training. We're not having a clear signage in facilities. It would be totally inappropriate and dysfunctional for me to be going to a neurotypical able-bodied person and kind of manhandling them and giving them bossing directions, and that may be the safest, kindest, most respectful and appropriate way with someone on autism spectrum or in a trauma crisis. So I want us to slow down a little bit and add more enrichment and training and be much more aware of consequences. Thank you. Good morning. I like your comments. I would like to say that Maggie Portland, Homeless Town Hall. I would like to say that what about women nursing their babies? Is that offensive? They just excluded a woman nursing her baby. It's not covered under existing code or the proposed . And what about, say you've got a transgender woman using a bathroom who needs to shave her legs and her face and put on her makeup. Is that, are they gonna exclude her for being perverted or something? Or exclude, they're excluding, transgendered and LGBTQ and elderly and homeless people from the bathroom because they're needing to do hygiene-type things, which going to the bathroom is a hygiene thing. And they're prioritizing locking homeless people out of the bathroom over, say, a pedophile taking a picture of... toddlers running around in a fountain. So where's the rainbow sensitivity and where's the prioritizing children not being objectified by pedophiles and put on the internet? So... You see, it can get very confusing. It's like a park ranger can put a sign on a door saying the bathroom is closed for maintenance when there's nothing wrong with the bathroom, but because he saw a transgender person go in there and shave their legs. Have you had that experience? Yes, I've seen that at Director's Park. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor. You're right. Yes, you're right. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And when we had the earlier dialogue amongst you all about the amendments, Commissioner Fish mentioned transparency. And I really think that you would best serve the community if you would follow some of the places where the federal government gets it right. The federal government requires transparency. institutions of higher education to make available crime reports. And I think that your process here would have been better suited if Parks and Recreation made an anonymized public yearly report on what they've had to do as far as exclusions. So we would know how much ranger time is, or at least how many incidents of rangers having to deal with a serial dog pooper problem. versus something much more serious, but that for maybe they only exclude somebody from a Parks and Recreation facility because the district attorney has said there's not enough for them to prosecute them for something else. So I hope that as you work through these nine pages of things that... This definitely looks like things that you're going to go ahead and should vote yes on, but as you noted with the earlier item, it would be even better, and I think you'd be better positioned to improve the policies. There's a public annual report about safety incidences and exclusion incidences in the Parks Department. Commissioner Hardesty will be aware that it's very hard to get bias information out of the Portland Police Department. And while we work with the Portland Police Department to improve their reporting, it would be great to set a better example in the Parks Department. Thanks very much. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Mayor, if I may. Commissioner Hurst, do you have a question? Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. I just want you to know that that was one of the questions I asked when I was being briefed about kind of who's being excluded, what's the demographic breakdown. And one of the things I love about what the Parks Bureau is doing is that they're not keeping their own data. So it is the auditor that is collecting those. that information and it is the auditor's office that could report back to us and that would be a recommendation that I would have would be that annually they report back and let us know just what is the demographic breakdown of people who are being excluded are there people that ultimately were arrested and what were the outcome of those cases it's important that we are transparent about what we're doing with this policy because again we have a lot of policies that have very good intentions, but at the end of the day, they actually have a very negative impact on the most vulnerable people in our community. But I- Thank you, Commissioner. You're welcome. I was thrilled to find out that A, because I hate when people tell you how great they are. We have bureaus that report back on their activities and tell us just how wonderful they are. I think it's even better when you have an auditor do an independent assessment about what's taking place. And during the conversation, it was interesting. I think there was a brief mention of people who might be, their exclusion might be related to mental health. I hope that we can all as a community work together to make sure that the exclusions can also be paired with referrals and connections to services. because when people are just excluded but they're left roaming as a danger to the community not to say a danger but even discomfort even better if we can help those people mainstream thanks very much if I could just add a comment I know that at least in the event of an interaction with someone experiencing homelessness, that the rangers are trained to connect them with services. And as we know, a lot of our chronically homeless are experiencing mental illness as well. So that is happening, and it's a very reasonable suggestion. All right. Unanimous, y'all. Thanks. All right. Any further discussion on this item? Very well. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Carla, can you please call item 567? Adopt PED PDX, Portland Citywide Pedestrian Plan, a 20-year strategy to make Portland a great walking city for everyone. Commissioner Udaly. I'm sorry, Mayor. I'm a little behind. No worries. So is this the last? Yeah, for you. What number are we on? 567, this is the PED PDX. Great. 567. It's resolution. It's a vote though, we already had the hearing. Yeah, I've just got a closing, so we can go ahead and, well, we lost Carla. Carla's walked out on us, it finally happened. So is there a presentation or are we just going right to the vote? I don't have a presentation. I had asked if, and I'm not sure if you're prepared to do this or not, but I had asked if someone could explain what a plan is. Because my colleagues were understandably overwhelmed by this massive document that they received just a few days ago. before council. And it's my understanding that plans are somewhat akin to reports. But accepting a plan, we are not authorizing the Bureau to go ahead and do everything in this plan. We have many plans that we've developed and set aside. There's a parks plan that was set aside, a skateboard park plan that was set aside, a bike plan that was set aside. What PED PDX really serves to do is you know, state our vision and priorities and explain to the council how we are setting that vision and priorities. So what happens, you know, could you explain really what a plan is and what happens when we accept a plan? Sure. After we accept a plan. Sure. So, Our modal master plans, we have a series of citywide modal master plans. We have the bicycle master plan, the freight master plan, and this, PedPDX, the pedestrian citywide master plan, and they help to implement and support our larger citywide comprehensive plan and transportation system plan. The intent here is absolutely yes to set a vision, but it's also, I would add, to establish a framework for how we intend to accomplish that vision moving forward over the next 20 years. So the plan does also include a series of action items that we are committed to exploring as a city to help accomplish our vision. And it also identifies the key infrastructure priorities where we know we have the most urgent sidewalk and crossing gaps. And the intent there is to help focus our energies for improving walking moving forward. So making sure we're directing our resources to the right places and the right efforts. And as we move forward with those action items, any sizable project is going to come back to council one or more times for discussion and a vote. So we're not committing money. We're not green lighting projects. We're just the Bureau is sharing with the council. what the plan is. That's correct, Commissioner. Okay. Thank you. It's confusing. We adopted an affordable arts plan and there were community members who assumed that we would be executing every item in that affordable arts plan and some of them were completely outside the purview of Commissioner Fish or I and we developed that plan and with our staff, we have accomplished some of... We were graded on that plan, I understand, on States of Wonder, on OPB, as if we would have accomplished all those items in one year. Did we pass? No, we got some... No. No. It was close to passing. It was just the opposite. You know, there are a lot of reasons to complain about city government and we need to be held accountable, but we need criticism and constructive feedback that's useful and we need to be held accountable for things that we've actually promised to do. So a plan I would describe as really aspirational. It is not carved in stone, as we know, and they can disappear. So I just wanted to reassure everyone that I'm not trying to force a bunch of projects down your throats that won't come back to council and you won't get to decide on. Can I just... Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Thank you for that, Commissioner Udeli. I was certainly one of those that was very concerned about getting this mega document two days before I was asked to consider it. But I'm also concerned, as you mentioned, we've got 100 plans floating around at any given time that people come and present to us in these very pretty packages, and we never see the plan again. unless something bad happens, and then we get held accountable to a plan that actually was never voted on or funded or with no real measurement about how that plan moves forward. And so I'm just very concerned that we, I mean, this is a great-looking plan. It's thick. It looks like people did a lot of work in it. But the bottom line is that we, especially when you're talking about prioritizing East Portland, and, again, I agree with everything in the plan as it relates to East Portland, but then when you say there's no money attached to it, I certainly can't get excited about a plan with no money attached. So what is the plan to actually realize the plan that we're about to adopt today? Commissioner, I do want to add that I have made a very explicit request to staff that Council receives these types of documents well in advance of the hearing in the future. I think, you know, sometimes we set these time certains and they come up on us quicker than we realize and we can't get the information out as soon as we'd like. that should be an absolute priority. And, you know, it's the nature of our... Well, it's the nature of democracy leaders, elected leaders come and go. It's also the nature of our unique form of city government where the mayor gets to assign bureaus that the next transportation commissioner may not have these Portland as a priority, may not care about active transportation infrastructure. And so I'll just say that as long as I am transportation commissioner, advancing this plan and we do have funding and we do have concrete plans, but those are going to come back in the future. Can I just make one other observation about this? I've never been entirely clear about the difference between the Council adopting a plan or accepting a plan, accepting a report and I guess My general sense is that we're accepting something. Yes. Without committing to every, you know, sentence of the document. That it is an aspirational document. It is designed to set a plan. To use the example that Commissioner Udaly did about the arts plan, what that did is focused our attention on some opportunities. And I'm actually... incredibly impressed at how many things we've been able to sort of check as we've gone through. But without the plan, we would have had more of a scattershot approach. With the plan, we've got things identified and we're going through the list. We've got something coming in a week or two that's another piece of that story. You know, at some point, the citizens of Portland may choose to change our form of government. There is a view out there I hear from some people that we'd be better off with a city manager. I would remind my colleagues that if we had a city manager that produced a plan on behalf of a bureau, that two years later the council no longer wanted to fund, it is absolutely no different than our current situation. because it actually requires the commissioner in charge to move the plan, and it requires the council to fund. And we're not off the hook because every year we're going to be asked to put some money into pedestrian or Vision Zero or whatever. So I'm not sure that's going to change. I think the benefit of a plan for me is it puts in one place the best thinking, comprehensive thinking about how you tackle a particular problem. But it is not my expectation that everything is gospel or that everything's going to be accomplished. And we still have the challenge at budget time of allocating scarce resources among competing plans. So whether it's adopting or accepting, I guess I generally view it's more like accepting. And that way, I don't feel like I'm accountable for every footnote. And in the report, and I have the latitude as things come back to council to say, well, that was then this is now I'm not sure this is the right sequence or the right plan or whatever. Because I haven't bound myself. unconditionally to the recommendations in the plan. So just food for thought. I think that this was just an important discussion because it is confusing, and I was unclear as well. And I think the public is often unclear, as I mentioned, and they're unclear what reports are. So thank you. Very good. Are we ready? We are. Let's see where we are with this today. Carla, please call the roll on the resolution. Fish? Yes. So I believe this is our last item, at least the second. Correct. Correct. So I'll keep my remarks short because we're all hungry. First, Commissioner Udeli, thank you to you and your team for bringing this home. This is a multi-year effort. It is incredibly comprehensive and it's, I think, goes to the core of something that this city is known for and that is important to our future, which is how to become a more pedestrian friendly city. Frankly, there are parts of the city today that even with marked intersections and lights and dedicated turns, you feel like you take your life into your own hands when you cross the street. And there's also a lot of funky behavior that I observe. I no longer have a car. So I'm relying on others to give me lifts and things, but there's a lot of interesting behavior that I've observed that has the effect of putting people at risk. My daughter not long ago was crossing Burnside not far from where we lived, and right in front of her, a car made a turn on the Burnside and ran her over. And fortunately, it wasn't going fast enough to do any damage, but it was just extraordinary that the person wasn't paying enough attention. And I know that happens all the time, and I know that it also, further east you go, often results in fatalities. So it's a good plan. We will be reminded at budget time of the level of investment we need to make to keep this plan moving forward. But I appreciate all the time and effort that went into it, and today I'm pleased to vote aye. Hardesty? I guess I'm still concerned that we accept all these plans and reports and I'm hoping that the connection is made at budget time. I'm hoping that the connections are being made, quite frankly, before budget time. I'm hopeful that on these kind of reports that we actually don't have to do it at City Council unless the City Council is being asked to actually make a decision about either funding it or something. I'm still challenged by the things that we hear in this body as compared to the things we could be discussing in this body. And so while I think this is a worthy idea and vision about how we make streets safe for people to be able to walk, bike, and use all the other modes of transportation available. I'm happy to support it today, but I do want to just express a cautionary note. to say I think we could use our time here much more wisely, and I hope that we as a city council will have an opportunity to talk about what is necessary for us to have on the public record and what is information that, quite frankly, is just information, unless we're being asked to actually make some decisions around a big new public policy or a funding decision. I think we waste a lot of time in this chamber. I vote aye. Well, thank you for your remarks, Commissioner Hargis. I agree that we hear a lot in council that perhaps is not necessary. I don't think that this plan or a lot of the plans brought forth by bureaus are among them. The public has an endless desire to be engaged and to be informed, and I think it's critical that we share this plan with them as we move forward on our improving our transportation infrastructure. We have more projects going on this summer, either completing or beginning this summer than we have in, I think, ever, perhaps, or at least in recorded history. I think it's 49. We've got to let them know somehow. So this document offers a vision of a truly pedestrian-friendly city and one that I and my team will work hard to make a reality. It works in concert with and is vital to our plans for improved public transit and bicycle infrastructure. We're going to receive a report from Vision Zero tomorrow, and this plan is just one of the many ways we're prioritizing safety, equity, and environment in all the work we do at PBOT. Using the TRETAGE metaphor, which I believe came up last week, I can think of no more important criteria for this plan than safety, equity, and demand. In a traditionally complaint-based system, the squeaky wheel gets the oil. And when not everyone feels entitled to complain or knows how to advocate for their issue, we get an inequitable distribution of services and improvements. And that is evident on our city streets, and I'm really committed to reversing that trend moving forward. It was briefly touched on last week, but I want to reiterate that this plan is also vital to reaching our climate goals. I'm especially pleased that we will regularly update the plan, thanks to Michelle perhaps. It must be as dynamic as our city as we continue to grow and change and as we continue to battle a rapidly evolving climate catastrophe. I want to thank the staff who've dedicated such an enormous time, energy, and passion to this plan. Thank you especially to Michelle Marks and the whole project team for bringing us this community driven vision and for presenting it so well. Thank you to Irene Marion for guiding our Bureau around our equity goals so brilliantly. I want to thank the PAD PDX Community Advisory Committee as well as the Pedestrian Advisory Committee who oversaw this process for the last two years. Your service is greatly appreciated. I don't think anyone's in the room right now, so I'm sending this out into the ether. Finally, I want to thank all the community organizations that advised and partnered with us on the plan, including OPO, APANO, ERCO, PALS, Black Parent Initiative, and many others whose input was critical and invaluable. I vote aye. Fritz. First, thanks to Commissioner Daly for embracing the Portland Bureau of Transportation and particularly the safety aspects of it. I'm looking forward to tomorrow's discussion on Vision Zero, and I really appreciate all of your work on this. We are making decisions today, and I appreciate this plan coming to Council because we were asked to make multiple amendments. And I appreciate staff, Michelle Marks in Denver and Igarta, meeting with me yesterday and walking me through some of those requested amendments. I share Commissioner Fisher's thought that perhaps we should be accepting rather than adopting. Really adopting means yes, we are going to do it and accepting means we accept that this has been done. And indeed the resolution specifies that this resolution is non-binding city policy. And I'm particularly wanting to use the word accept which I'm going to do in here. I accept that this is what it says and I'm not proposing any amendments. I don't like some of these things in here. And, for instance, there are no prioritized improvements south of Barber, which is an area annexed to the city at about the same time as East Portland. I accept that that's, and actually adopt that that is the right thing to do. As we're going to hear in Vision Zero tomorrow, the majority of pedestrian fatalities and crashes are in East Portland, and we need to prioritize life and death here and now, today, tomorrow, this week. We also need to look at climate change. But by accepting this report, we're saying it's actually we are expecting people in southwest Portland to continue to drive. And frankly, by accepting this report, colleagues, I don't want to hear when we have the discussion about the Barber Transit Center park and ride that you can't have a park and ride at the Barber Transit Center because we are saying we are not going to be providing sidewalks to the Barber Transit Center in the near future. I agree that that's the right decision. I agree that East Portland should get the priority. and it means that we still are going to need to find ways to get people to the transit center so that they can catch the bus and at least not drive the entire eight miles, rather than just driving one and then taking the seven-mile bus trip. So that's important. We are directing the Bureau of Transportation to update this transportation system plan to reflect the updated... pedestrian classifications in this plan. I accept that some of the classifications such as the safe routes to schools can be changed in future processes and I look forward to that discussion. We are directing the Bureau of Transportation to update the pedestrian design guide to reflect the recommendations of PED PDX, which means that should the mayor decide that Commissioner Daly doesn't get to present tomorrow, but somebody else gets to present the Vision Zero because she's going to reassign the Bureau on a whim at the end of the day, which I don't expect to happen, but if it did, it would be a good thing. it would mean that the next commissioner is still direct we at the council are directing to update the pedestrian design guide and it's setting out this is the expectation so i think it's absolutely necessary that we hear these um plans in council chambers we the community members have that last chance to come in and say we should do x y and z my understanding is that many of those requests will be considered in the pedestrian design guide For instance, the zebra crossings at Trails, providing legal places for people to cross streets where there isn't a street intersection. That's something that will be looked at. I'm assured by the PBOT director, Chris Warner, that the five-year or more issue of the right-of-way trail in southwest Coronado from Lancaster to Arnold will be considered in a different process and I appreciate the community bringing that to our attention. Thank you very much to all the Community Advisory Committee members and the Pedestrian Advisory Committee members. Art Pierce as well as Denver and Michelle, Chris Warner the PBOT Director. I'm really excited about pedestrian stuff so this is, we get to consider things in the budget yn y cyllid, rydym yn dweud bod angen mwy o drafodaeth am y pethau hyn ar wahanol y cyllid. Felly, ni fyddwn ni ddim wedi gallu treulio ddwy wythnos ar y cynllun hwn yn y broses cyllideb oherwydd rydych chi'n clywed am ddewadau eraill. Felly rwy'n credu ei bod yn bwysig iawn bod ymddygiadau hyn yn gyhoeddus i bobl gwybod. Dyma pam rydyn ni'n prifysgolio'r pethau hyn ac rydw i'n mynd yn l i fy nghymhorwyr ac maen nhw'n dweud, beth mae'r holl hyn hwn yn ymwneud  bod yn ddwylo gwleidfaol? Dwi'n dweud, peidiwch 'i ofyn, ni fyddwn ni'n dal i fod yn gweithio yn y dyfodol o fewn y llawr. Ac nid oes llwyddiant. Yn union, dyna Just the way it's going to be because the greater need is in East Portland. And for all these reasons, I am very happy to accept the plan and to vote for the resolution. Aye. Byddwch yn cael ei wneud yn anghywir ar y Cyngor. Mae eich sylw i'r adnoddau bob amser yn fy mwynhau ac rwy'n credu bod chi wedi cyhoeddi rhai pwyntiau da iawn. Rwy'n hoffi ddweud hynny ar y record. Rwy'n hoffi diolch i'r Cyngor Udaeleid a'r Bwrdd Gysylltiadol am ddod 'r cynllun hwn i'w blaen. Mae'n fawr ac rwy'n cyfeirio Dwight Eisenhower sydd wedi dweud, Mae cynllunio'n bwysig, ond nid yw cynlluniau yn unig. Yn y llaw hwn, er bod y cynllun ei hun yn bwysig, mae'r broses sydd wedi arwain i'r cynllun dros y ddwy flynedd diwethaf, yn y ffordd bwysig iawn o hyn. Mae'n adeiladu cyfle i bobl ymgysylltu, i'r Bwrw ail-gysylltu eu hunain yn eu hunain. Mae'n rhoi cyfle i'r Cyngor ystyried, dyma ffordd o ddyniaeth 20 mlynedd, ond mae gennym adnoddau ffinaith. Felly beth yw ein prifysgolion? Mae'n ein gwneud i ni feddwl am hynny fel Cyngor. Rwyf wedi mwynhau hyn, rwyf wedi mwynhau'r sgyrsiau. Rwyf wedi gwerthfawrogi'r ysgrifennu a gafodd y wythnos diwethaf. Rwyf yn cymryd y llaw ar gyfer y gwahaniaeth a wnawn ni fynd yn l, o leiaf am ychydig o amser. Hwyliaid, mae hwn yn y sesiwn dydd Fawrth, 12 Ionawr 2019, y cyfarfod yng Nghymru. Carla, gallwch alw'r rl. Ffis? Ydy. Hardesty? Ydy. Udailey? Ydy. Fritz? Ydy. Wheeler? Ydy. Bwysig yn ddiweddar, byddwn yn clywed gan y Cyngor Lleol am y rheolau o orde a decorum. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Iawn. Mae'r swyddog yn cadw'r adroddiad a chorm yn ystod y cyfarfodydd cyngor y dynion, felly gall pawb teimlo'n ddiolch, yn hyfforddus, yn hyfforddus a'n sir. I gymryd rhan yn y cyfarfodydd cyngor, gallwch chi ysgrifennu'n cynnyrch gyda swyddfa'r Cyngor Cyngor ar gyfer cyfathrebu i siarad yn gyflym o ran unrhyw bwnc. Gallwch hefyd ysgrifennu ar gyfer ysgrifennu cyhoeddus ar y cyfnodau neu'r cyfnodau cychwyn cyntaf. Dylech chi'r ysgrifennu'n ymwneud 'r When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. And when your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceeding, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. All right, good. Just a couple of housekeeping items. So, colleagues, we're going to go through the formal conclusion of the budget process. Then we'll take a 10-minute break so that they can reconfigure the room for this afternoon's work session, if that comports with everyone. So, Carla, could you please read items 568 through item 574? Okay. 568, conduct a proposed use hearing on state shared revenue. 569, certify that certain services are provided by the city to establish eligibility for state shared revenues. 570, approve accepting funds from the state of Oregon under the state revenue sharing program for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2020. 571, update fund statements of purpose for various city funds. 572, create the fire capital fund. 573, adopt the annual budget of the city and establish appropriations for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2020. And 574, approve levying taxes for the city for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2020. Very good. And colleagues, this looks more daunting than it will actually prove to be. Colleagues, today we take the final series of steps necessary. And the necessary votes as part of the adoption of the fiscal year 19-20 budget is prescribed by Oregon State Law. Specifically, the council will hold a hearing on the proposed uses of state revenue sharing, then pass a series of legally required ordinances that create and amend city funds, adopt the city's fiscal year 2019-2020 budget, and finally approve the levy of taxes. Now I'll turn this over to Director Kennard who will give us an overview of the council action needed today. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor, and good afternoon, Mayor and Council. So as Carla called, there are actually seven unique items that you will consider in relation to adopting the city's budget. I'll provide a brief description at the beginning of each item to make sure each distinct nature is clear. The first three items are required by local budget law and are related to the city's use of state shared revenues. So first, as the mayor mentioned, you will hold a hearing on proposed uses of state shared revenue. Second, you will vote on a resolution that determines the city is eligible to receive state revenues. And third, you will vote on an ordinance to accept state revenues. As a reminder, this ordinance to accept state revenues was filed as an emergency ordinance, so the city can receive these state revenues beginning July 1st. Mayor, you may now open the hearing. This hearing is being held by the City Council of Portland, Oregon in compliance with the provisions of the state revenue sharing regulations. ORS 221.770. It is to allow citizens to comment on the proposed use of these funds in conjunction with the annual budget process. As proposed for council adoption, the fiscal year 2019-2020 budget anticipates receipts totaling $22,466,522 from state revenue sharing under ORS 221.770. As has been the case in prior years, it's proposed that this revenue be allocated in equal parts to support the fire prevention and police patrol services of the city. Is there anyone here today who wishes to be heard on this subject? No one signed up. Very good. There's nobody signed up. I'm now closing the hearing to discuss proposed uses of state revenue sharing. So that gets us to item number 569, is that correct? That's right. Very good, okay, and this is certifying that certain services are provided by the city to establish eligibility for state shared revenues. We'll now consider and vote on a resolution to certify that the city meets eligibility requirements for state shared revenue. Again, I'll turn it over to Director Kennard. Right, so the background on this is the state requires that large cities provide certain services in order to receive these state revenues. By passing this resolution, council determines that the city does provide the required services and directs the budget office to provide the Department of Administrative Services with a copy of the resolution so that we may receive the revenues. Mayor, you may now call vote on this resolution. Very good. Well, first of all, we have to ask for any public testimony, but it's my understanding that hasn't changed in the last 30 seconds. I didn't have a specific one for that one. Does anybody want to testify on this? I don't see anybody. Call the roll. Fish.
 Aye.
 Hardesty.
 Aye.
 Udaly.
 Aye.
 Fritz. Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. I had one simple thing that I had to do today. Item 570, approving and accepting funds from the State of Oregon under the State Revenue Sharing Program for the fiscal year beginning. July 1st, 2019, and ending June 30th, 2020, will now consider and vote on this ordinance to accept state shared revenue. Director Kennard. So this is now council's election to officially receive those state revenues, and this is done via an emergency ordinance. Very good. Any public testimony on this item? Anybody signed up? Anybody want to be signed up? Seeing none, call the roll. Fish. Hi. Hardesty. Hardesty. Udailey?
 Aye.
 Fritz? Yes, please. We would like the state's money. Aye. Wheeler? She said it best. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Now we're going to consider and vote on ordinances 571 and 572 combined to create funds and update the fund statement of purpose for various funds. The City Comprehensive Financial Management Policy 2.04 states that each fund shall have a statement of purpose. This ordinance updates those statements for various funds. Director Kennard. Yes, so as the Mayor stated, the Fund Statement of Permits is retained as part of the Portland Policy Documents and provides clarification on what fund resources should be spent on, who manages the fund, and if there are any reserve requirements. These statements were developed several years ago following a recommendation from the Auditor's Office, and this requirement is now codified in City Financial Policy. These changes that you are considering include updates to reflect accurate bureau management of certain funds. Following several organizational changes for the Portland Children's Levy, Local Improvement District Fund, Bancroft Bond Interest and Sinking Fund, Assessment Collection Fund, and the Recreational Cannabis Fund. Attachment F in the file documents include details on these changes. Director Kennard, tell us more about the Fire Capital Fund. Yes, so the second item that you will vote on is to create a new fire capital fund. So the City Budget Office and Portland Fire and Rescue work to create this fund in order to improve Portland Fire and Rescue's ability to plan, finance, and set aside funds for the repair, replacement, and renewal of assets. There is no money currently budgeted in this fund, but the thinking is that we're setting it aside to help the Bureau start to plan and have a place to reserve funds for future capital asset and major maintenance needs. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Thank you, thank you Mayor and thank you Jessica. My, so the money that we had originally set aside to replace the breathing apparatus would have gone into this fund, had this fund existed at that time, is that correct? So the way that the funds were allocated is that they're going to be going first towards whatever is needed to purchase the equipment. And the thinking is that the remainder, if there's any left over, would be put into this fund. Which was the original plan before the board voted to take that money back. Okay, thank you. I got it. All right, very good. Any public testimony on either items 571 or 572? Is there anyone present who would like to be heard on these items? If not, call the roll on 571. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Call the roll on 572, please. Fish. I just want to note that Commissioner Hardesty has been on this council for less than six months, and she's already established a fire capital fund, which would be the envy of a number of the general fund bureaus. So I was going to offer a friendly amendment, but I realized the tide was against me. Aye. Aye. I. I. I. I. I. I. Thank you, Director Kennard, for your work on that. 573 is adopting the annual budget of the city. and establish appropriations for the fiscal year beginning July 1st, 2019 and ending June 30th, 2020. Colleagues will now consider an ordinance to adopt the fiscal year 2019-2020 budget. This is the first reading with a final vote to be heard next week. Director Kinard. So in a moment, we will discuss the changes to the adopted budget as filed as compared to the approved budget, which you all voted upon a few weeks ago. Any further amendments to the budget must be moved and seconded, opened for discussion, and then voted upon. As part of the adopted budget ordinance, you have several items before you. You have the appropriation schedule by fund, which is attachment E. You have final budget notes, which is attachment D. You have a list of changes by fund from approved to adopted budget, which is attachment C, and a detailed list of adjustments by bureau between the approved and adopted budgets, which is attachment B. So I will briefly walk through the high points of these adjustments, which are detailed in attachment B. A number of them are technical, and so I'm going to sort of breeze over those quickly, but feel free to interrupt with questions if you have any. So the first change is in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. They're reducing the requested FTE by 0.5 FT for the Portland Dark Skies project. They've realized that the work is a little more technical in nature, and it will better serve the purpose of that package to move part of those dollars into materials and services. There are a number of small changes in the general reserve, excuse me, in funds and debt management. And these are primarily associated with changes that were already approved by council during the spring bump. So the first two items that you see, there's a $2 million deposit and this is related to a carryover request that was approved in the spring bump for region replacement. This is just reflecting the rebudgeting of those dollars into the next year's budget. Similarly, the next item is $500,000 that council approved for parks encumbrances as part of the spring bump. This is just reflecting the other side of the transaction, which is re-budgeting those dollars. Thirdly, there are a couple of instances where bureaus realized that they actually carried over too much resources part of the spring bump. So they're asking for some of those resources back. So in the Office of Community Technology, or Office for Community Technology, there's $55,000 that's being rebudgeted in the current year budget. And $50,000 that's being rebudgeted in the Housing Bureau's budget. Again, just taking from one year's budget and putting it back in the next. And you'll see this in the overexpenditure ordinance next week. So the next line is Office for Community Technology. You see that $55,000 reduction. Again, that's just taking the money that was put into next year's budget and they said they need it earlier. So it's putting it into this year's budget. Office of Management and Finance, this was a technical true up. It was a position that they have funding for that was meant to be put in the budget but was not. And so we're cleaning that up. The Bureau of Transportation, there are a number of changes that are predominantly technical and net zero in nature. A couple of changes that I will highlight for council. There are a handful of positions that the bureau is adding to make sure that they are in compliance with the Creek settlement for the ADA curb ramps and they are taking money from contingency in order to fund those positions. And those positions, the cost of those positions will be built into their internal budget in the out years. And then secondly, they're reducing contingency to fund an interagency agreement with Portland Parks and Recreation for $50,000 to contribute to the maintenance of the transit mall planters. In the Office of Community and Civic Life, they are transferring $210,000 in one-time resources, and this is part of the program carryover in the Cannabis Tax Fund, to Prosper Portland for small business development grants. This was part of an agreement between those bureaus and part of the RFP process that has already been completed. And then in the Portland Housing Bureau, again, they are rebudgeting money, $50,000 for contract funds that they do now anticipate to get out in the current year rather than in next year. A couple of technical true ups in their grants fund and their home grants fund, adjusting their risk mitigation pool in their housing investment fund, and then another carryover clean up in their tax increment financing reimbursement fund. Portland Parks and Recreation, a technical true-up in their golf fund and the way that they budget the different golf programs that net zero. And then in the general fund, again, this is the reflection of that $50,000 contribution coming from PBOT to help fund the transit mall planters. This is adding back one position that otherwise was slated to be laid off. Portland Police Bureau, the Bureau is reestablishing three positions that coordinate the strength programs at the direction of the commissioner in charge. And this is being funded through reallocation of internal resources. May I just interject, hooray. Thank you very much. And thank you to Mayor Wheeler for that. I really appreciate it. Thank you for giving me good advice on that. I agree with it. Smart move. Within the Water Bureau, technical adjustment, correcting a data entry typo. And then finally in Prosperous Portland, we see the other side of that transaction where they are receiving that $210,000 in cannabis tax resources for grants from the Office of Community and Civic Life. So those are the high-level changes in the budget. There was also a small change to a budget note regarding the funding plan for the integrated tax system. This change does not have a fiscal impact, but it does provide more specificity around which payees, which different funds are expected to contribute to the new integrated tax system under a cost recovery scenario. So that concludes the overview of the changes from the approved to adopted that I had planned today. This is a first reading, so we are open for the next stage, whether it's discussion. Sure. Anybody have any questions? Is there a public testimony on this item, Carla 573? Anybody want to testify? No one signed up. Very good. This is Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to go back again to the Office of... I want to call it PDC, Prosperous Portland. And so you talked about a change to the allocation. And I'm not speaking of the marijuana tax funds that have already been pre-granted. But there's also, isn't there a million dollars that are supposed to be granted by Prosper Portland as part of the 1%? construction that they're supposed to have an oversight committee that is supposed to be making those decisions. Any information on that as part of this process? The 1% set aside for construction. I believe the conversations of that group is still underway. I don't think that, I believe there's a work group that's currently actually in the house. Katie, do you have a- Can you come to the mic please? I'm sure people at home will have an interest in this. Katie Scheifele, City Budget Office. My understanding is the conversations around that are still underway, and there's not anything actually budgeted in 19-20 as far as going out the door for that work. I think that's kind of problematic. If we are already one year behind in getting those grants out the door, and there's not even a process in place where we'll have a committee that will review that, how those dollars, I mean, they're supposed to benefit the community, right? And sitting in Prospera Portland's account isn't really going to benefit the community. Is there something that we can do to help expedite that? both the creation of the committee and then the granting process that we could utilize to actually get those dollars out the door? I would note that the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services does have a new position that is meant to sort of help coordinate that function, and that position has already been recruited and has resources budgeted in 1920 to hire that position and bring it on to begin that work. I guess my concern is that if we hire somebody in 1920, then that means that it would be at least half a year before the first dollars went out the door. And so that would mean we would then be two years behind in the commitment that we made to the community about supporting community efforts to expand access to those dollars around contracts. Okay. especially supporting small contractors to be able to get the resources they need to apply. So I apologize that I'm asking you this question at this time, but this question just occurred to me as we were talking about this process. And so I would accept any advice from any of my colleagues or- Commissioner Fritz looks poised for advice. To jump in. Here she goes. It's complicated. It always is. And partly it's complicated because the authorizing ordinance directed the Office of Management and Finance and the Office of Equity and Human Rights to work with the Office, with POSPA Portland. due to personnel changes within the Office of Management and Finances. There wasn't anybody in revenue services who was able to do that coordination, so that's essentially why we lost a year. They're currently in the process of hiring the replacement for that person, but then the resolution that sets it forward also has a process for establishing a community committee to then go ahead and help get the money out the door. So I absolutely share your frustration, Catherine, And I believe there's a new management, an agreement coming to, an intergovernmental agreement coming to council fairly soon to set out the new process. It took 10 years to get the old process. So I absolutely share your frustration and I'm sorry that we've changed course again. And there's a new plan which is coming to council soon. Anything that I can do to help expedite that process, I would be happy to provide assistance because I can tell you that I hear the community's frustration around broken promises over and over and over again. And so it is a little frustrating to just think that we're just like, oh, well, you know, 2020 might be a good year where we're stuck getting some of that money out. So thank you very much. I appreciate the input on that. Mayor, this is a first reading, which means that this won't be voted on until next week. Unfortunately, I won't be here then. So if you would be kind enough to allow me to just make my comments that I would have made next week. Sure. So that there's a preview, because, again, I won't be here. Commissioner, before you give your comment, could I ask you a follow-up question on a question you asked? Sure. In the event that things move more quickly over the course of this next fiscal year, since the funds are being allocated, in theory, if we get through the process more quickly, we could begin to allocate those dollars, is that correct? Absolutely. Would it have to come back to council for further approval or could they just start doing it? I would have to look closely at how the money's currently appropriated in Prosper Portland's budget. If they have the funding appropriated, they would not need to come back to council. If it's in a contingency account, for example, they would need council authorization to spend those funds. But we can take a look at it, and we can get enough lead time that we would be able to move relatively quickly to appropriate funds if that was the case. And I appreciate it. what Commissioner Fritz said about the complexity of the program, but I also don't want to lose the benevolent offer that Commissioner Artisty put on the table. If there's a way to move this forward expeditiously, I'd certainly support that. Thank you for that, Mayor. And, you know, I just remembered where this process started, and so it's all coming back to me, Commissioner Fritz. Because what I remember is that it was put under a bureau, and I think even as a community member, I challenged why it wasn't under a commissioner to make this happen. Because at that time, we were going to have the director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights convene this committee. And I still believe that that is a wrong approach to take, to have a bureau director actually convening the committee without having a commissioner actually being someone who's overseeing it. I was overseeing, previously the mayor, and then I was overseeing the director. So it's not saying that the director does it without conferring with his commissioner. So I would suspect that that would mean that whoever would be appointed to the committee would have to be approved by the city council? Yes. Okay. Okay, so there would be an open process and that those people would come back. See, this is the part I think that we got challenged on the last time. And so I'm just concerned that the more hoops we have, the longer it takes. And if it's not a priority for a bureau, it could be a priority for a commissioner, but not necessarily a priority for a bureau. So if this is not a top priority, it will take a lot longer. Can I ask a procedural question? Sure. Sure. And I don't remember from prior years. Jessica, a lot of what we're doing today is an emergency, has an emergency clause on it. The adoption of the budget doesn't. So the net effect is here we have a room full of people who have worked on the budget, who we are likely to mention in passing in final comments, who are unlikely to be here next week. This will come up in the ordinary course. Has that always been the way we do it? Or is there a reason why we can't put an emergency clause on and just adopt the budget today? Because it does seem strange that we'll be making comments to essentially no one. So it's varied from year to year. I think that the primary... thinking is, so if it were to pass and if council wishes to put an emergency clause, I would ask the city attorney's office, but I believe that they could do that. Some of my colleagues may not be ready to make statements. I have a statement I was prepared to make, but I also anticipated there'd be a lot of people in the room who, when I thanked them, would be here so they could hear it rather than, you know, getting it secondhand. Can I share, if you would yield? Sure. You remember the first one of Mayor Hales, it was an emergency and I voted against it because I didn't realize it was an emergency. Went off to PSU to do a class and had to come back and we had to reopen it. So since then, we haven't been doing those emergencies. And I think there's some question about, I know Commissioner Hardesty had some concerns about some elements of it as to whether it would be unanimous or not. So it depends kind of on whether it's going to be unanimous or not as to whether it can be an emergency. Okay. I hadn't thought about that. Yeah. Well, Mayor, what's your pleasure? Because we, isn't it Commissioner Hardesty or others? Well, for example, I have comments that I would normally make because I think this is the appropriate forum and I'm not changing my vote. Was it your intention to, other than Commissioner Hardesty, it was not going to be here to have those comments made next week? Well, I don't want to spend an awful lot of time talking about process. If you'd like to make your comments today with bureau directors here, I certainly would welcome that. I certainly won't oppose it. I don't have a long speech prepared for myself, but I feel like I've talked so much about this budget I could do it rote. And I know Commissioner Hardesty will not be here and would like to give her comments, so I certainly would extend that courtesy to any other commissioners who would like to make a comment. I want to put one nail in the proverbial coffin here. I want to be clear, there was no testimony on 573, correct? We asked and there was none. Very good. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I want to wrap up the Prosper Portland conversation before we move on. Yes, you bet. Because I'm not sure that we actually resolved what the next steps would be in that process. And so I think what I heard is that the... There is a staffer being hired that will lead this process, right? Yes, that will help coordinate. That will help coordinate the process. And so, you know, I think about a staffer being hired, it would take about six months for them to get up to speed. So I'm just kind of trying to think through what would be a good recommendation for moving forward. I mean, so we're in June now. It would be criminal for us not to have this committee up and operational this year. And so do you have any recommendations for me or my colleagues here about how we could move this forward in a way that actually honors the commitment that we made to the public? I don't think that's going to happen in the near future. What don't you think will happen in the near future? Well, the commitment we made to the public has changed, so that has to come back to council. process has to be hire the person to convene the committee because there isn't anybody else to convene the committee and there needs to be a process to get the committee going. I would be happy to go into this to get you a full briefing and trust me it's frustrating. Fit to be tied. Not at all happy with how this has gone over the past year but that's Karen, not germane to today's votes. Well, but yeah, it would be if we were just approving a budget today, it probably would be. But I appreciate the fact that it was something that just occurred to me and I could have definitely talked to Kimberly when she was here. But if we're going to be voted on the budget, it's important that we remember the commitments we made years before that we're not keeping as we start making new commitments, right? So, okay, I will be done with that. Thank you so much. I appreciate both your input, Commissioner Fritz, and your information, Ms. Kincaid. But on to the budget. As you know, I voted no on this budget when it came in front of us the first time. And if I would be here next week, I would continue to be a no vote. There's a lot of wonderfully good, positive, forward movement that has been articulated in this budget. But I still believe that a budget is a moral document, a moral document that actually when you put your money where your mouth is, it really proves that you are who you say you are. Since I've been in this body a little less than six months, I keep being told this is not the time for this conversation. This isn't the time for this conversation. This isn't the time for this conversation. I think we need to change the time for conversations that we have because I think it's important that we have these kind of conversations out close and public. so that the public gets to actually see and hear and be able to weigh in on whether or not the decisions we're making are good ones. And, uh, You know, most of the time I'm pretty polite when people tell me that it's not the time for that conversation. I'm probably going to stop being polite when people cut me off and try to redirect me because I wasn't elected to just go along and get along. I was elected to ask really hard questions. I was really elected to make sure that I was holding people accountable for the outcomes we all say we want. I was elected to ensure that voices that aren't traditionally heard in this building actually are heard. And so I'm not going to be silenced. If you tell me that there's a place for the conversation and there's a public place that we can have the conversation, then I'm open to that. But I will not allow people to tell me that I haven't picked the right time. Unless people tell me what the right time is, I will never know what the right time is. But in my view, the time is in the public eye. The time is when we're having public deliberations. And the time is before we take a vote, not after. And so I appreciate your indulgence to allow me to speak about the budget this week. I'm excited about some of the budget issues. allocations that have been made. Can't wait to get the work on the Portland Street response and to make that a reality. And I'm so appreciative that the mayor shares that vision about changing who first responders are in our community and how we can be more compassionate and empathetic as we engage with people who but for economics would not be on our streets, and if not for economics, would not be in our jails, and if not for economics, wouldn't be facing some of the huge hurdles that they're facing. We got a lot of work to do and I'm looking forward to the next year, and I'm very grateful to the budget office I am also want to take this opportunity to acknowledge Kristen Johnson, who is the most phenomenal budget analyst that I've ever met. She works in my office. She has over 10 years of City of Portland budget experience. And without her leadership, without her understanding where all the dollars are in the city's budget, I would not have sounded as smart as I did through this process. And so I want to thank you all very much. And thank you for your grace, Mayor. And I am done. Very good. Commissioner Fish, did you want to say something today? You can't possibly expect me to follow that speech. So let me, I'm going to put my comments on a diet and just say, and just take three elements. One is... to Jessica and the Council Budget Office, all the analysts we dealt with, all the briefings we got, all the information we got, and then all the folks that work as part of your extended team, thank you for doing a superb job. We fought hard to have an independent budget office. Commissioner Fritz and I felt very strongly about the value to both the institution and to the public perception of what we were doing. And this was not an easy budget year. The council budget office stepped up, so I want to thank you very much for that. I also want to thank my colleagues. This is the mayor's third budget where he achieved what I would call a consensus in support of his budget. We had lots of conversations, lots of collaborative conversations. Lots of listening and learning. For me, one of the best parts of the budget process is the time we spend with colleagues, listening to different points of view, trying to balance things, trying to reach consensus. So I thank my colleagues. And I also want to thank the bureau directors that I have the honor of working with at parks and the Bureau of Environmental Services, as well as my team in my office headed by Sonja Schmansky. And all the talented people who work in my office. There's a lot of people who work behind the scenes to make this process work. and you do a terrific job. The one sour note that I'll strike, and I'll go into this a little bit more next week, is I still think the public interface piece is a work in progress. And I really look forward to the candid debriefing of how this year went and ways in which we can improve it, because I don't think over the last 10 years we've quite landed on the right balance. And I think we can make our interaction with the public much more dynamic and valuable than what we are currently structured. I for one thought having a kind of a modified work session out in the community was a good idea and I heard from a lot of parks critics that they appreciated that they knew they could be heard. They didn't have to wait to have their number call. So they had their speeches ready. They knew they were going to be heard. They had an opportunity. I think we have a lot of pieces that we can put together. I still don't think we found the right mix. That's not a criticism of you. We have a collective responsibility to get that right. But I look forward to the debriefing and the chance to even build on our success this year and make next year even better. So thank you very much. Mayor. Commissioner Udali. I just kind of want to piggyback on Commissioner Fish's comments. Your bureau worked closely with the Office of Community and Civic Life. I know you took a lot of my suggestions to heart, and I really appreciate that. I would say Parks people were heard loud and clear and it has been my frustration for three years running that we don't hear about much else. And while Parks is absolutely important, essential to our community, I have ongoing frustration that we're just not able to hear from community members on, in a meaningful way, on other issues. And that's because of the nature of parks being a general fund bureau and the funding always being at risk or somehow inadequate. I understand that. I want to hear about parks, but I want to hear about a lot of other vitally important bureaus and priorities. in the city. So I want to acknowledge my part. We didn't quite get it right as far as the public process. I don't know how we solve for some of the problems that we, or the challenges that we saw, but I just appreciate your willingness to work with Civic Life and with my office. Very good. I'll give a mini speech completely unrelated to the final speech I'll give next week, just because this has been an interesting conversation. This has actually been a great day, council-wise. I feel like we've had a lot of really interesting conversations. I'm attracted to what Commissioner Hardesty says about the budget being a moral document. But I've also learned the practical side of this, which is a budget is also a compromise document. There are things in the budget that I strongly support. There are things in the budget that I probably could have done without. But I also know that we need to get to the majority in order to be able to reach an agreement. I agree with you, Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Fish. 100% on the public engagement piece. I am open to ideas in terms of how we actually get there. But I'll tell you, there's a massive disconnect between what I hear every single day as mayor, many, many times over the course of the day, versus what we heard public testimony on during the budget process. I will tell you, 50 to 1, I hear more about the homeless crisis than anything else ever. in this community. I hear about it as often as 10 minutes ago being outside. I heard about it at the grocery store last night. I heard about it the last time I was at the gym. Our emails probably run, I'm guessing, but probably 50 to 1. One item for every 50 emails we get on the homeless crisis or various manifestations of it. Yet, weirdly enough, and I see Mark Jolin here, we heard very little about it. During the budget process and that sort of surprised me and maybe it's because as a council we all agreed that it was a hype You know the high priority and it was something that was important But it's sort of like we went through the budget process We talked a lot about certain things and then the channel got switched and right now I'm back to issues 1 2 3 4 5 through 10 being the homeless crisis full stop and And so that is interesting to me, just why is there that disparate attention? And what Commissioner Fish just said, I think it was Commissioner Fish, just mentioned that Parks is a general fund bureau. Well, so too, it was Commissioner Daly. I apologize, Commissioner Daly. All of our homeless response is general fund, whether you're talking about, the joint office or a public safety component or a livability component is 100% general fund as well. And yet we really didn't hear about it. So in that sense, I feel like the public wasn't really heard on the issue that I believe, based on the rest of the anecdotal evidence I collect over the years, actually their top priority. So that's just sort of a weird and interesting thought. Anything else on this before we move it to second? This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. We move to second reading. Thank you. Last item, item number 574. This is approving the levying taxes for the city for the fiscal year beginning July 1st, 2019 and ending June 30th, 2020. We'll now consider a vote on the ordinance to levy taxes for the city of Portland for the fiscal year beginning July 1st, 2019 and direct the city budget to directors to submit said tax levy and other considerations and certifications to the county assessors of Multnomah, Clackamas, and Washington counties. Director Kinard. So this final step in today's adopted budget hearing is to vote on property taxes for the general fund, the children's investment fund, and the fire and police disability and retirement fund, in addition to property tax levies for general obligation bonded debt and 16 urban renewal areas. The ordinance will raise an estimated $452 million net of compression, delinquency, and discounts in city property taxes for fiscal year 2019-20, in addition to urban renewal collections. Any thoughts? Any public testimony on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Anybody want to testify on taxes? Going once, going twice, gone. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you to the taxpayers of Portland for your tax money, which we endeavor to spend wisely. Aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted and I assume we will adjourn prior to the work session. We need ten minutes please to reset up for work session. Is it a recess or an adjournment? We have actually a work session, so we're finished with our, there's no notice on our agenda for the work session. That's the free lawyer, now it's the paid lawyer's say. I was going to say the same thing. I believe Commissioner Fish is correct. Commissioner Fish is officially hired based on the lowest bid. We are adjourned. So we'll wait about...