which would destroy our environment. All right. And just a message to open signal. I'm going to open with a pre-gavel, a brief pre-gavel item. Move this out.
 Good morning, everyone. Before we begin today's formal City Council session, I'd like to share a few remarks since I wasn't able to be here last week to honor and speak during the Pride Proclamation. In just one week, so much has happened with the queer community in America, as well as here in Portland. We had, of course, the anniversary of the Pulse Massacre. We lost two black trans women to violence, Dominique Fels and...
 Ryan Milton, the Trump administration, of course, then went on to announce a push for a rule change that would no longer recognize gender identity protections in health care. And amidst that pain, the Supreme Court affirmed that LGBTQ workers are protected by federal anti-discrimination laws.
 Nation laws. June Pride Month reminds us all of courageous leaders like Marsha P. Johnson, a Black transgender activist, and Sylvia Rivera, a Latinx transgender activist. They stood up for what they believed in, a society where everyone could live their authentic selves, and they left a legacy that we should all strive to achieve.
 In the words of Al Hearns, who's a human rights activist and the founder of the Marsha P. Johnson Institute, quote, I don't think Marsha has left anything behind besides the permission for all of us to be free, unquote. We don't have to go back in history to look for amazing leaders who were able to create positive change.
 We have many of these leaders right here in the City of Roses to thank, to learn from, and try to do our best to emulate. Today's demonstrations are calling for many of the same expectations. That Black lives matter. That Black trans lives matter.
 It's our responsibility that we create the positive change in our culture, in our everyday interactions, and yes, in our institutions, so that someone's race, sexual orientation, or gender identity is no longer a predictor or a proxy for how long or how well someone lives their life. We have a long ways to go. We must move with conviction and with a sense of urgency.
 And we must protect one in order to move forward together. And so I want to conclude by holding a moment of silence for the estimated 15 transgender and gender nonconforming people lost to violence in our nation, and for remembering our own loss here in Portland of TD Gully last June. Wherever you may be watching, I'd ask you for a moment of reflection, please. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Good morning, everyone. This is the Wednesday, June 17th, 2020 session of the Portland City Council. Carla, can you please call the roll? Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here.
 Here. Under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference, and the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting.
 The meeting is available to the public on the City's YouTube channel, EGovPDX, www.portlandoregon.gov slash video, as well as channel 30. The public can also provide written testimony to Council by emailing the Council Clerk at cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov.
 The Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and promote physical distancing. The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications.
 Thank you all for your patience, flexibility, and understanding as we manage through this challenging situation to do the city's business. And now we'll hear from Legal Counsel on the Rules of Order and Decorum. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. To participate in Council meetings, you must sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances.
 The published council agenda at PortlandOregon.gov auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from
 from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Thank you. Thanks a lot Karen, appreciate it. First up Carla is communications. Item 458, request of Jonathan Cruz to address council regarding participatory budgeting and defunding the police. Not seeing him logged on yet. So he may not be logged on yet. All right, Mr. Cruz, are you on?
 All right. Next individual, please. 459, a request of John Carter to address counsel regarding public communication process. John, are you on board? John Carter, are you out there? All right. Maybe we can try and reschedule them, Carla. Next up is the consent agenda. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? Yes. We have 466, 467, 468, 469,
 474, 475, 476, 477, 478, and 479. Let me just review those, Carla, to make sure I got them. 466, 467, 468, 469, 474, 475, 476, 477, 478, and 479. Is that correct? Yes, that is. All right.
 Very good. And we're not at the time certain checkpoint yet. So one moment. Do we have the folks here who could do item number 482? Mayor, do you want to do a roll call on the rest of the consent? I'm sorry. Yeah. Thank you, Carl, for reminding me. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 All right, the consent agenda is adopted. Is anybody here to present 482? Mayor, this is Keelan. I'm so sorry to interrupt. John Carter is actually connected. Oh, he is? Okay, good. Let's hear it for Mr. Carter. Mr. Carter, are you on board? If you're on a phone, try star six on your keypad. If you're on... Oh, I think I'm on, right? Yeah, we can hear you clearly. Thank you. Okay, great. Thank you.
 Yeah, thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. Public process, public communication, in my view, can kind of feel like a formality without consequence when the council decides to negotiate it against the overwhelming desires of the public, despite their push being the moral and just action to take.
 The council has seen an astounding amount of public testimony and nightly protests demanding that PPB be shed of at least $50 million, block all future increases, dismantle the union, and reimagine the department from the bottoms up as a unit that serves the community interest
 and values black lives. Not to mention, even from my limited perspective as a white person, how PBB interfaces with the public is not positive. They are trained to fear the public, view them as a nuisance at best, and any combatant at worst. How can you have a community
 a task force that carries guns around with them and expect positive results. Why wouldn't we want to start fresh? I want to remind the council that we have elected you to manage our money, not to negotiate with systems and institutions that have proven to be against the public interest. This should not be my- this should not be a negotiation. It would be like if I had an accountant and they decided to do whatever they want with my money without my consent despite my pleas otherwise.
 In the end, we need to look at PPB from an existential lens. Why do we need them? What should the role of public safety be? Of course, we need them.
 but how do you prevent crime in the first place? Community investment, development in neighborhoods without it being a devil's bargain between capital developers and the supposedly free market, education, and an honest conversation about what reparations look like with all voices heard at the table. Thank you for the opportunity to speak and I implore you to seize the day to create a fair, just, and prosperous Portland.
 Thank you, John. Appreciate it. Sorry about the confusion on the technology. Thanks for hanging. That's okay. Thank you. And for 482, it looks like we have Maya and Kathleen here. Why don't we go ahead and jump into 482. 482, authorize...
 a contract with Kennedy Jenks Consultants Inc. or the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Pipe Condition and Risk Assessment Program for a total not to exceed amount of $2,500,000. Colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services manages the city's stormwater and sewer infrastructure
 including 99 pump stations that work together with about 2,500 miles of pipe to send sewage to the Columbia Boulevard and Triumph Creek wastewater treatment plants. This ordinance would authorize a contract with Kennedy Jenks Consultants, Inc. to carry out a condition and risk assessment of process piping at the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant.
 Process piping is critical to the operation and treatment of the plant. However, many of the conveyance systems in the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant are original to the plant's construction and have not been inspected internally during their lifetime or assessed for
 for current condition or remaining useful life. In recent years the plant has experienced an increase in pipe breaks causing process areas to be taken down and costly emergency repairs posing a significant challenge to reliable operations in the facility. Due to the specialized nature of the assessment programs and the inspection tools required for pipe inspections, BES proposes to partner with
 engineering consultants, Kennedy Jenks, to provide these specific services. So we have Mia Sabanovich from the Bureau of Environmental Services and Kathleen Berenice Morua from Procurement Services are here to give a brief presentation and answer any questions. And I apologize for butchering your name. No worries, Mayor. Good morning, Mayor.
 Good morning. I am Kathleen Brenes-Marua, Procurement Manager. With me is Mia Sabonovic, Engineer for the Condition and Assessment Program with the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 We are here to recommend authorization to enter into a contract with Kennedy Jenks Consultants for engineering services for pipeline condition and risk assessment at the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant in the amount of $2,500,000. I'll cover the procurement process, then Mia will talk about the project scope. We issued a request for proposals in November 2019 and received two proposals.
 An evaluation committee scored the proposals in accordance with Chapter 568 of City Code and deemed Kennedy Jenks the most responsive and qualified proposer for this project.
 The city's aspirational 20% subcontracting equity goal applied, and Kennedy Jenks has committed to subcontract 30% or $750,000 to minority-owned consultants certified by the state's Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity, as identified in the ordinance before you. Kennedy Jenks is in full compliance with all city contracting requirements, and I hereby recommend you authorize this contract.
 Unless you have any questions for me, I'll hand it over to Mia for her presentation. Very good. Colleagues, any questions for Kathleen? All right. Thank you, Kathleen. Mia, you're up. Good morning, Mayor and the Commissioners. I am Mia Shabanovich, and I lead the Condition Assessment and Maintenance Planning Group at the Columbia Waste Fire Treatment Plant. If you permit me, I will share a very short PowerPoint presentation with you today that will offer additional information and the project background, goals, and scope. Okay.
 We have the presentation uploaded, correct? It looks like it's almost, there it is. Yep, we've got it. Oh, great. Hold on just one moment. All right. All right. So I'm sorry, I got a little tied up with my technology here. So we can move to the next slide, please.
 Columbia wastewater treatment plant is a hard... I'm sorry. I just want to tell you how much joy I got from having a millennial say that they got the technology. I just hope those old folks feel really good. So...
 Thank you, Commissioner. I believe we're all humans and we all experience similar issues. Thank you so much. All right, so on this slide, Columbia Wastewater Treatment Plant is the heart of our collection and treatment system. This serves over 600,000 residents and commercial customers. Piping systems within the plant are like the veins and arteries in our heart.
 They enabled the product to be moved from one process area to another to ensure that what we returned to the environment and to our community is processed to the highest standard, most importantly, safe. As you can see from the blueprint included on this slide, there are numerous pipes that run between different process areas. Next slide, please.
 The wastewater treatment plant was first constructed in 1952. As you can see from the photos, we have expanded tremendously since then, and we continue to expand to meet the needs of our community and beautiful environment. Due to the complexity and the technology availability, majority of the pipes have not been inspected and we do not know their condition.
 Asset condition information enables us to predict likelihood of failure and prioritize and optimize replacement. Unfortunately, we're experiencing increase in the pipe breaks. They're resulting in untimely process interruptions. Next slide, please. This project will enable us to assess likelihood of pipe failure and identify sustainable reinvestment strategies to mitigate current and future business risk exposure.
 We will also expand our current asset registry and capture it in geographical informational system. We refer to it as GIS. This will increase transparency and information sharing across numerous work groups within BES and improve efficiency in our current work processes. Next slide please. Next slide please.
 project scope that includes inspection planning such as applicable technology and pipe access evaluations, performing field inspection and reviewing inspection data that will identify pipes in poor condition with high likelihood of failure. The consultant will also provide engineering analysis and recommendation in regards to tailored pipe replacement. Next slide, please.
 Thank you so much for your attention and allowing me to share a few slides on this project. Most of our piping systems are buried, as you know, and it's really hard to assess condition, given that we do not have ground-penetrating vision.
 But I'm excited to partner with Kennedy Jenks and I look forward to the technology solutions that will yield information such as these photos included on this last slide. They will enable us to sustainably manage our piping infrastructure and perform tailored replacement. Thank you so much for your time this morning.
 Thank you, Maya. And by the way, I just have to call out that second to the last slide. I hope everybody saw what that fellow is doing for a living. He's standing in knee-deep water trying to fix that pipe. That's some hard work.
 Definitely. And that slide also is an example of an inspection technology that we hope to use during this project. And what it does, it identifies the thickness of that pipe. And based on the deterioration, we're able to project when the timely replacement on that pipe is. Oh, does it? So it measures the internal diameter? Is that right? Yes.
 It measures the thickness of the metal remaining. So based on the rate of deterioration, we can forecast when that pipe is unsafe and has likelihood, high likelihood of failure. So we can replace it in a very kind of predictive manner instead of it failing and taking out multiple systems at our plant and causing a huge expenditure for the city.
 All right. You learn something new every day. Impressive. Thank you. Thank you so much. Commissioner Fritz has a question. And then Commissioner Hardesty. I don't have a question. I just have a comment. It is so fantastic when staff are so enthusiastic about their jobs, explain things in a way that normal people can understand them, and just make a very interesting presentation. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. It's my pleasure to be here. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty.
 I want to reiterate what Commissioner Fritz just said. Before you even started talking, the smile on your face and the joy and the way you're talking about sewer pipes. Oh, no. Who knew that there was that much excitement in sewer pipes? But I do have a question because you made a statement that I find provocative. And you're...
 statement was that we can, we will need to be replaced, right? Why did we fail in North Portland last year? So it's, I can't speak on that exact case because so my could have been that there was other reasons why I wasn't on our radar. But I know as a bureau, we strive to prevent that to the best of our ability to
 And as technologies get better and easier to come by, I think our future is looking even brighter. Maya, I love you more. You know, it is rare for people to not try to answer questions that they don't have the expertise to answer when they come in Federal City Council. And your honesty is just so refreshing.
 Thank you so much. I don't know how long you've been here, but I hope you're planning to make the city your career. Thank you. Because you'll be a director in a couple of years, you know? Oh my God. Thank you so much. Water and environment is my passion. And ever since I was a little kid, I saw myself in a career in water because water is life.
 And, you know, integrating equality and equity in the water and environment is a huge mission to me. So I'm honored to have such a professional. We have brothers and sisters and other people that we can hire. All right. We're moving to the occupation. Sorry, I'm digressing. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Our next question is from Commissioner.
 Thank you. I believe you serve on the Portland Utility Board, is that correct? That is correct. So thank you very much for doing that. I just wanted to call out that you do volunteer service as well as what you actually get paid for. And also to thank you for not throwing the Water Bureau under the bus because it was actually the Water Bureau's pipe.
 that break in North Portland. So I will follow Commissioner Hardesty's lead and not answer her question because I don't have the technical expertise, but I can get the Board of Bureau staff to let you know if you'd like to. Thank you very much. This has actually made my day. Thank you, Mia. Thank you so much. I appreciate the work you do on our behalf. Thank you both, Mara as well as Kathleen. Thank you for a great presentation. Carla, is there any public testimony on this item?
 Yes, Mary, we had five people sign up and I believe we have at least two on the line. All righty. We'll go with Virginia Ulrich. Hello, Virginia. Are you on? I am. So I support everything that I just heard for this and I want to acknowledge that. And like most people who have probably signed up to testify today,
 I would encourage you during the three minutes that I have allotted, Mr. Wheeler, to just look out your window. And I didn't know this was happening today. I wish I could be there to be yet another voice in support of just pleading with you to please listen to what the city is saying around the police budget issue.
 and take proper action today, even if it is a no vote on the budget, though I question why it is so impossible to add amendments, given what has happened over the last two weeks. Appreciate, Commissioner Hardesty, that you are definitely trying to make sure that we don't miss an opportunity, but I also believe that incremental change has failed us so much.
 I just wish that you would please listen to what the city is telling you and do better today. Thank you. Thank you, Virginia. And is there anybody else who would like to testify specifically on item 482, which has to do with the wastewater treatment plant? That's the item we're discussing. Mateo Mathias had signed up for that item. Mateo, are you with us?
 I don't see him on. Do you see him on, Carl? Yeah, I see him there. If you're on a phone, try star six on your keypad. Sometimes that works. Can you hear me now? Yeah, we can. Great. So my name is Mateo. I live in North Portland. And I really appreciate what Maya and the previous speakers said, but I'm on board with it.
 Mateo, it's very hard to hear you. Can you speak right into the microphone? We're really having troubles hearing you. Is that better? Yeah, try that. All right. Again, I reiterate my previous speaker that we were told that there'd be no room for new amendments to today's vote.
 for procedural reasons and because of the time crunch. However, we saw you cut the gun violence reduction team. All right. Sorry, I appreciate it. Carla, move on to the next person. This is related to item 482, folks. I'm not trying to be a jerk, but we've got a lot. We have a long agenda and we need to get through it. And per the council rules that were read up front, testimony needs to be germane to the subject that we're actually considering at the time.
 Mayor, I don't see anybody else who registered on the line. Thank you. All right. Thank you, Maya. Thank you, Kathleen. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. And then we will go back to our first time certain item, Carla, which is item 460, the supplemental budget. Okay.
 460, adopt the supplemental budget for the fiscal year 2019-20 over-expenditure process and make budget adjustments in various funds. Colleagues, before us we have the over-expenditure ordinance, also known as the OEO.
 The OEO is very narrowly focused on preventing over-expenditure at the bureau fund or appropriation level. As usual, there's also a companion resolution authorizing a temporary operating loan to prevent temporary negative cash balances at the end of the fiscal year, which reminds me, Carla, at the end of this, I'm going to have you read 461 as well.
 This morning, Budget Director Jessica Kennard will walk us through the current ordinance as well as the resolution. We will then hear in second amendments on both items. After that, we'll provide an opportunity for public testimony before final deliberations and voting. I'll now turn this over to Director Kennard to review the overexpenditure ordinance right after Carla Reid's item 461.
 Authorize temporary operating loans between various funds to provide interim funding to cover lags in federal, state, and other grant reimbursements and other negative cash and fund balances. Director Kennard. Thank you and good morning Mayor, members of council. For the record, Jessica Kennard, City Budget Director. Also on the line is Jane Marie Ford, our Budget Monitoring Process Coordinator.
 As the Mayor mentioned, today before you are two items that are part of the final budget monitoring process of the year. The first is the over-expenditure ordinance, which is our last supplemental budget process of the year and is focused on primarily technical adjustments to ensure that expenses do not exceed current budgeted appropriations. I will briefly highlight some of these changes. Please feel free to ask questions at any time.
 So as a summary of the over-expenditure ordinance, in total, the OEO increases the city current appropriations by $23.1 million. This is primarily related to adjustments in the grants fund related to COVID-19 federal resources and reimbursement. So we are budgeting resources in anticipation of being able to claim for reimbursement.
 I'm also going to briefly highlight some general fund changes. There's one very small request for contingency resources, which is a $1,000 draw on general fund unrestricted contingency to protect against potential over-expenditure in the Fire and Police Supplemental Retirement Fund due to timing of year-end expenses. So again, this is a technical adjustment. It's a timing issue with when payouts happen out of this fund. This is just to protect against over-expenditure, and it will be trued up, and unspent resources will be reimbursed in the fall bump.
 There are two requests for program carryover, both related to funding for council office transitions. These requests were also discussed earlier during budget processes in previous months. This is to provide sufficient funding for transition of various council offices, including costs for transitional staffing, office upgrades, and technology replacement for incoming commissioners.
 In the two known transitions that will happen this fall with additional funds available should other transitions be decided in the November election. Any resources not spent will return to the general fund. The total amount that is being carried over is $382,618 from a variety of current office projected underspending.
 There are two other sizable technical adjustments in the general fund. The first is a $2.1 million reduction from policy set aside to reflect the budgeting transfer of the $4 a night short-term rental fees that are collected by the city. And the transfer is from the general fund to the housing investment fund. This is a technical true-up. This is something that's actually already budgeted in the adopted budget, but
 making this transfer will ensure that those resources are in the correct place when we close the fiscal year and they're able to be allocated as planned in the fiscal year 2021 budget. There's also a $1.35 million technical adjustment related again to COVID-19 incident budget. This doesn't represent a change in appropriations, it's just moving the money around that was already approved by council to ensure it's budgeted in the correct place to reflect where the money was decided to be spent.
 So there are a few notable changes to funds outside the general fund as well that I will highlight. In the Office of Management and Finance, the Bureau is transferring $850,000 in the insurance and claims operating fund reserves to cover an increase in claims and insurance costs that were not foreseen during the spring budget monitoring process. This represents a little bit less than 2% of the budget, so even though it's a large dollar value, it's not a significant portion of their budget budget.
 And it is part of their reserves and it's a one-time allocation based on claims. And the Bureau of Technology Services is adjusting interagency agreements at the request of receiver bureaus, a net total increase of a little over $800,000. And some of these costs are related to adapting to a primarily remote workforce environment.
 The Portland Bureau of Transportation finally is drawing $140,053 from recreational cannabis tax fund contingency and allocating it to external materials and services to support the Outer Stark Capital Project, which is a Vision Zero initiative. This is not a draw on the resources that we've been talking about in relation to cannabis fund. This is funding that was actually allocated for this project in a prior fiscal year. It was not the...
 the project has not been completed, the funding has not been fully spent, but the way that it's budgeted, that money, the Transportation Bureau lost that money, it went back to the cannabis fund, so it has to be reallocated so that they can complete the project. So that's what's happening there. So that's my summary of the over-expenditure ordinance. You will be taking up amendments and testimony on both the over-expenditure ordinance and the companion loan resolution.
 This the companion loan resolution is a technical resolution that we bring forward every year to address the The particular nature of the grants fund as reimbursement funds. So that that fund typically ends the year with a negative balance because we must get reimbursed by the federal government. So in order to To protect against that negative balance with which per Per
 accounting rules we're not supposed to have, we do a one-day internal loan to ensure we end the fiscal year with a positive balance in that fund, and then the money is returned to the loaning body. And so this year, that resolution has a loan of about $17 million. It's a one-day loan from the Transportation Operating Fund between June 30th and July 1st. Happy to take any questions on either of the items in front of you.
 Mayor, you're on mute. Commissioner Hardesty has a question. Knew it was going to happen. Thank you, Director Kennard. I have two questions. One was about the cannabis tax. So is this just an administrative move on our part to ensure that we are in compliance with a contract that we've already approved?
 So it is a decision for council. This is part of the budget for that Outer Stark project that was originally approved for council. You are making the decision to continue to adhere to the original allocation. Council could elect to not
 continue that allocation, but the Bureau would need to find other resources in order to complete that project. So the allocation of this $140,000 is in alignment with the original allocation that Council already made. So it's just reinforcing a decision that Council has already made to support this project with cannabis fund resources. And it does not reduce the availability of cannabis fund resources as we have discussed it throughout this budget process.
 Thank you, Director Connaught. My second question is, so what happens to the city if we don't balance our budget? Well, um...
 So for the next year's budget, if council does not approve or adopt a budget, do you mean? Yes. Well, I mean, you talked about we are doing this particular resolution because we're going to do a one day loan just in case we need to balance the budget. And so for people who are just starting to pay attention to how the city budget process work, I thought it would be helpful for them to know
 What's the repercussions if we do not balance our budget? Yeah, so the repercussions can vary in significance. You know, the lowest repercussion is that it can be a significant audit finding by our external auditors and it can harm sort of the reputation and credit of our auditors.
 of our institution and our ability to conduct business and, for example, our credit rating helps us get good rates when we take out loans and take out lines of credit. So that's one item. That can range all the way up to freezing our ability to pay for
 pay for our services and pay for our people. So depending on the sort of the infraction and the significance of, you know, our action, the consequence can vary. In this particular case, it's primarily
 a budget law and an accounting rule. So it would be more, more of a negative, it would, it would result in a negative infraction on, in, in sort of our, our budgeting and accounting procedures. And we would be, you know, audited and we reflect negatively in our, in our auditing. Thank you, director. That was very helpful. I hope for the public that's listening. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Director Kennard. Commissioner Fritz disconnected. I want to make sure she's back. Oh, there she is. Good. Commissioner Fritz, you're with us? Yes, I am. Sorry, my phone decided to hang up. Don't worry. I'm back. Just wanted to make sure you were still there. Okay, good. Any further questions from Director Kennard?
 So we'll now open the floor for amendments. First, I'm gonna call for amendments to the over expenditure ordinance. If there are amendments, we'll need to move and second them and keep them on the table. We'll hold them open through public testimony. Are there any amendments to the OEO? Seeing none, are there any amendments to the loan resolution?
 I see none. Very good. We will now go to public testimony. Carla, do we have people signed up for public testimony on either the over-expenditure ordinance or the loan resolution? We have two people registered for 460, but I see only one is on the line. Gerald McCorkle. Welcome, Gerald. Hello.
 Thank you. Thank you for this opportunity to speak. My name is Gerald McCorkle. I live in historically underserved and over-policed northeast Portland. I've been advocating for police reform for 40 years, and I raised my children to care as much about social justice as I do. My son has been arrested by the Portland police while trying to exercise his First Amendment rights to free speech here.
 and is now volunteering on the streets of Minneapolis to provide for people abandoned by their city after his neighbor George Floyd was murdered, just blocks from where my son lives now. Last week, City Council took several small steps towards defunding the Portland Police Bureau, and I do not believe it was nearly enough. I respectfully ask that in addition you take two more steps. First, please begin transfer of traffic enforcement from the Portland Police to the Portland Bureau of Transportation.
 Unarmed city employees can make our roads safer without sacrificing the safety of motorists. People of color in Portland have been subject to profiling and lethal traffic stops for long enough. The Portland Police Bureau has demonstrated time and again that they cannot be trusted to do this job. And second, begin to demilitarize Portland's response to the mental health problems we face. One in four Oregonians is dealing with a mental illness.
 We need more resources to really serve and protect this minority too, including trained mental health workers. Portland should be using a model like the CAHOOTS program in Eugene, Oregon. As you all know, 52% of the arrests made by the Portland police are of people who are unsheltered. Whether it's a mental health, addiction, economic, or systemic racist issue that led to a person living on the streets, do any of you really think that the best way to address those issues
 is to send someone with more training on how to shoot people than on how to help them? I stand with my neighbors today respectfully requesting a minimum of $50 million worth of cuts to the Portland Police budget. You have taken some initial steps to get there, now please be brave. Show the city and the world that Portland can do better. Please keep cutting.
 Take another $35 million away from the efforts to criminalize driving while Black and existing without a house. Spend that money instead to serve the people that have been victims of this oppression. In conclusion, I hope that your generous granting of time to allow my fellow Portlanders and myself to speak is rewarded with an equally generous listening to our pleas for change. Now is the time to act decisively and wisely. Thank you. Thank you, Gerald.
 And I want to second your comments with regard to mental health issues. That historically has not been the purview of the city of Portland, but all of us on this council have put it front and center. And we're going to continue to advocate for reforms to the mental health system, both at the county and the state level. That one's personal for me as well. And I appreciate your expressing your thoughts on it today. Thank you.
 So, colleagues, we do not have any amendments on the table. We have completed public testimony. Is there any further discussion on the Ordinance 460, the OEO? I don't see any further discussion. Carly, please call the roll on 460. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler?
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 4.6.1, please, the resolution. Any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll on the resolution. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted. We'll take a one-minute break until time certain, 10.15. We're in recess for one minute. All right, everybody, we're back in session. Carla, could you please read item 4.6.2? Okay.
 Approve the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission Fiscal Year 2020-21 Fund Budget. Colleagues, we're here to approve the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission Fiscal Year 2021 Fund Budget.
 The city's allocation from the general fund for the MHCRC operations budget is nearly $294,500. It is actually $294,418 to be specific. And the amount is included in the city's approved fiscal year 2021 special appropriations. Speaking is Leif Hansen, the Commissioner Chair, and Corey Murphy, both of whom are Portland appointees to the Commission.
 Kareem Passanine, Chair of the Board of Directors for OpenSignal, will also speak briefly about the funding support OpenSignal receives from the Mouthwood Cable Regulatory Commission and from the City of Portland. Kareem is Portland's appointee to the OpenSignal Board. OCT and Director Elizabeth Perez and Program Manager Julie Olsen.
 Omelchuk are here to answer any questions that the council may have. Good morning. Thank you for being here. I assume that we will start with Leif. Is that correct? I'm, not sure how you guys want to organize your presentation. Leif, are you are you up first? Uh, good morning mayor. Uh, actually Cory is gonna get us started. All right. Thank you. Welcome Cory. Cory There you are. You with us? Cory, I think you're muted. Star six on the keypad.
 or lower left hand corner if you're online or Leif is just going to have to wing it. I'd be happy to get us started. Yeah thanks. So we're here to highlight a few of the many MHCRC activities already over the past year and seek your approval for the MHCRC fiscal year 2021 fund budget. I believe you've got the annual report and the proposed budget in your meeting packet.
 As a reminder, MHCRC has oversight, enforcement, and public benefit responsibilities for the cable services franchises within the cities and the county. Portland has two cable service franchises, Comcast and CenturyLink. Over the past year, MHCRC has provided many services to the communities and residents. The Commission continues to work with public schools and districts under the TechSmart Initiative for Student Success.
 Portland Public, Dave Douglas, Centennial districts have active grants serving Portland students. The M8CRC created the initiative in 2013 and funded the final grants this year for an investment of a little over $16 million. Many of these grants have provided home devices which are now being leveraged during the stay-at-home order. About 268 classroom teachers in five school districts are currently supported by resources provided under the TechSmart initiative.
 The Community Technology Grant Annual Competitive Round funded seven new grants with community organizations. These grants leveraged over 613,000 in matching resources
 The MHCRC provides funding and franchise enforcement support to OpenSignal and Metro East Community Media. This past year, these two community media organizations produced over 1,800 hours of original local programming. They also trained over 831 residents in digital and media literacy skills.
 And in light of the current pandemic and restricted access to their production facilities, both organizations have made immediate and strategic shifts to leverage a more fully online environment and meet the increased communication needs of the communities.
 In April, the MHCRC wrapped up the local data collection activities for the Community Technology Needs Study. Over 1,500 individuals participated in surveys and in-person discussions. The study also incorporates input from 450 businesses that responded to a survey from Multnomah County's 2020 Broadband Feasibility Study. Study methods universally included strategies to support participation by people of color, people living with disabilities, and seniors.
 A comprehensive report and findings are due out in July, but you can find some preliminary highlights on page seven of the annual report. The Community Technology Needs Study will inform the MHCRC and its member jurisdictions for franchise renewal negotiations with Comcast whose current franchise expires in December of 2021. Coming up in 2021, the MHCRC is engaged in navigating and adapting the quickly changing environments
 including our communities, increasing reliance on the availability of broadband internet and our local community media. I intend to work with you and your city staff and our communities to identify needs and opportunities in the budget. It includes funds to assist the Commission in this endeavor. Now I'll move into the specific funding request. And I'll note by, or I'll start by noting the continuing downward trend we're seeing in cable franchise revenues.
 that the MHCRC reported last year. So on page nine of the annual report, you'll see a graph that shows the trend really beginning in fiscal year 17-18 declining. 18-19 decrease of about 8% over the previous fiscal year, followed by 7% decrease the year before. Currently, we're forecasting this trend to continue, perhaps accelerate,
 based on the first three quarters of 19-20 revenues. The MHCRC has been closely monitoring this trend and its implications for franchise fee revenues for local governments and for revenues that support the MHCRC community grants and other programs. Fiscal year 2021 budget reflects a projected decrease in franchise fee and PEG INET fee revenues.
 The MHCRC proposed 2021 budget on page 5 of the budget document is on page 5. The annual budget allocation from all jurisdictions collectively funds about 40% of our total operating budget. The allocation, as Mailer-Weir mentions, $294,418, approximately 6% of the current table franchisee collected by the city.
 Due to 2021 challenges facing the jurisdictions during the COVID-19 pandemic, the commission has reduced the jurisdiction's amount for the operating budget by nearly 10% from the previous current service level. And the MHCRC opted to increase the use of its interest revenue to supplement the operating budget and fund certain one-time projects, including the upcoming franchise renewal with Comcast, those negotiations, financial review of the MHCRC fund,
 Itself and a strategic planning process with the jurisdictions to guide possible changes to the IGA or detail on that operating budgets contained in Appendix one page nine of the proposed budget.
 And in closing, I'd also like to quickly comment on the MHCRC's use of city staff generally. I'd like to encourage the city as it further deliberates on the structure of OCT within the city to please consider MHCRC's previous feedback on that topic and also to continue to solicit our feedback going forward.
 And finally, I'd like to also note a specific staff person for recognition, Julia Melchak, who will be retiring at the end of this month after 33 years working on behalf of the Commission and its stakeholders. Her commitment and competency in delivering the benefits of our Commission and its programs really can't be overstated.
 And with that, thank you for your time. Before we respectfully request your final approval, I'd like to bring Kareem Hassanian from Open Signal into the discussion, provides testimony on the impact this funding has on the media centers and the people that make up its community. Leif, before you move to Kareem, Commissioner Hardesty had a question.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Leif. My question is around community grants. I don't see anything in the materials that you presented to us that actually lays out who the beneficiaries of those grants are, and whether or not we're actually impacting communities that are most at need. Yeah. Those would be on page 4 of the annual report.
 And that talks about the 2019 Community Technology Grants. Okay, maybe I missed the Community Technology Grants. And so what communities are you prioritizing with community grants? And how are those decisions made?
 Sorry, Commissioner, you kind of broken up on that question. Can you repeat that? Yes. How are you – what communities are you prioritizing for the limited resources that you have, and how are you making those decisions? Yes. So there are several criteria that we're focused on. Seventy percent of all the grants that –
 that we provided in 2019 did go to communities of disadvantage. And we have criteria around that. And you can see
 that there were several groups that we gave the money to that really did benefit and delivered great support to the communities. And this is perhaps a spot where staff could jump in and help support. We've got Julie online who runs that program.
 It seems that we primarily fund government programs and not a whole lot of community-based programs. If I look at who was funded last year, it was primarily schools, libraries, so pretty much government entities. Not seeing a lot that actually went to community. Yeah, so about two thirds.
 Am I accurate or am I missing something? No, you're correct. Two-thirds of the funding does go to the TechSmart program, which is specifically focused on student success and focused on the school districts in the community.
 And that's a larger program, a multi-year program that we tried to really focus benefits on the longer term student outcomes. And then a third of the grant funds go to the community competitive round. And of that, you're correct, some of those do go to cities, library. They also go to the media access centers who have programs that deliver benefit back to the communities.
 And then there are several smaller nonprofit, you know, and other community groups that receive grant money.
 Generally, what we found is the community grant program has actually been undersubscribed. So we actually receive less grant applications than we have money to deliver. And that's something we've really encouraged further outreach to try to change. And why do you think that is? I don't know. I have some ideas. I was hoping you knew. Okay.
 If I may. Hi, Corey. It looks like you want to weigh in. Hey, Corey. If I may, again, good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. It is an honor and respect to be here this morning. I do apologize for being a little late. There's some things happening at the county right now that are very difficult. So, you know, please bear with us on that end.
 I have a couple comments on Commissioner Hardest's questions. One is that she's absolutely right. Most have gone to government-owned organizations. I look at this from a lens of ownership as well. None of the organizations or very few organizations are owned by community-based or, you know, our target communities, if you will.
 of color. I would say that even though these are well-meaning organizations that have received these dollars and are doing the best that they can with those dollars, it still shows the gap, the need, not just the amount, but how we use those dollars and where those dollars go.
 and what they're used for. And so I guess the only question is that I appreciate Leif really leading and this commission up to this point because I am learning about the commission. The reason why I'm a part of the commission is because of the very questions that Commissioner Hardy, you asked.
 and the very gaps that we're all seeing, because we want to be able to flip that around in this next sort of iteration. And so I just wanted to say that I acknowledge those questions. Those are questions that I and others are thinking about. But where this particular commission is, and you'll hear more from Kareem,
 Corey I have one last question because I know we've got a full agenda today. The community used to be able to apply for INET grants. But now we're not able to apply for them. So I'm wondering if you can talk about that. And if you can talk about the impact of that on the community. And I know that's a big question. I know that's a big question. But I'm wondering if you can talk about that.
 And some decision was made internally to not allow the community to apply for those grants moving forward. In fact, I understand that you stopped the process in the middle of the grant writing process where community groups were writing grants and you guys changed the rules in the middle of it. Can you explain to me why you made that decision and what's going to replace the INET grants for grassroots community members?
 Yeah, the decision was actually somewhat forced on us by rules happening at the FCC. And so we really pause the grant. The focus of that money needs to be – it needs to be –
 It can't be directed towards things that are viewed by the cable company as in-kind contributions, which the INET program was. And so it's really a temporary pause. That program may come back. It depends on how those rules get finished vetting.
 Thank you very much. I have been very concerned about how we support community for a long, long time. And I am willing and able to actually assist you in actually fulfilling your mission, because I just don't think that we're investing where we should be investing. And I think that big people like governments and libraries is very...
 Easy for them to come to you to get money. And it's absolutely almost impossible for community-based organizations to have the same level of access. So I'm glad to see there's some new thinking happening because we can't continue like this and pretend that we're actually investing in community. So thank you.
 No, and I think we would absolutely encourage that input. The last thing I'd say on the community technology piece, too, is that there are specific restrictions around how that money can be used. It needs to be tied to the PEG program and the use of the cable system. And so there are limits.
 I guess to which community sources we can deliver funds into. But I'm absolutely welcome. I think what we've learned through the pandemic, that no matter how much investments you make in a school building, if kids aren't in it, it's useless. Very good. Go ahead. I was just going to turn things over to Kareem if he wants to continue with his testimony. Great. Kareem? Yeah.
 Yeah, thank you, Leif, and thank you, commissioners and mayor. Can everyone hear me all right? Yeah, loud and clear. Okay.
 Well, I hope that if there are any questions, I can answer them after my testimony, but I'm really going to be focusing on the impacts of this funding on the individuals who benefit from the infrastructure that is supported through it. So my name is Kareem Hassanein, and I'm the board president of OpenSignal, which is one of the organizations that receives crucial funding support from the MHCRC as Leif detailed.
 And this is the third time that I've had the privilege of addressing you all to advocate on behalf of an organization whose mission and function is central to a democratic society. My belief in that mission has never wavered, but a lot has shifted in the world since I was last here, as this platform demonstrates by itself, and my appeal for your support must reflect those shifts.
 So we find ourselves in the midst of a global health crisis whose most immediate impacts are devastating and whose long-term effects are subject only to speculation.
 The ability to earn a living and tend to our basic needs, to seek knowledge and serve our communities, to watch our children thrive, and to be a comfort to our elders. In a matter of months, millions of people in this country have come to understand the fragility of our expectations. But millions more never needed a reminder and have only found their suffering compounded by a failing and neglected social infrastructure.
 With the cracks in our systems giving way so blatantly, we are also seeing the torrential rush of righteous anger at a globalized system of white supremacy, a system that has murdered and oppressed our Black and Indigenous siblings with impunity for generations.
 a system that treats people of color as disposable, inconvenient, and threatening, while simultaneously profiting from our labor, commodifying our cultures, and expecting us to be thankful for how good we have it compared to some other time or place. The first time I sat before you, I mentioned that I spent much of my life in Egypt, a military dictatorship where schools crumble while media censorship and state violence benefit from global investment.
 Recently, my father was arrested and wrongfully imprisoned over a minor issue, spending nearly two weeks in a crowded holding cell with dozens of other people because Cairo's government is losing revenue and decided to make up the difference through extortion. Thankfully, he did not get sick. Thankfully, my parents could pay to have him released. But compared to many who shared his cell, we were profoundly privileged.
 But for weeks I felt the terror of all whose loved ones live and die at the mercy of a justice system that knows neither mercy nor justice. And the fear doesn't go away when the ordeal ends. You live with the knowledge that it could happen again. And if you try to tell your story, you wonder if anyone will even hear it. So why am I bringing this up in the context of approving the MHCRC's funding request?
 Last week I heard this commission say that a budget is a moral document. And I believe that by supporting MHCRC's work and the work that we need to do to serve the communities that we are a part of better,
 including supporting Open Signal and other sustainers of civic life, you are choosing to invest in the infrastructure of democracy. You're putting dollars directly into the hands of folks who are committed to elevating black voices. You're investing in an information and communications landscape where those who experience injustice and marginalization have control over their own narratives, their own careers, and can actualize their visions of a just and equitable society.
 We have a lot of important work ahead of us to make this system work better, more equitably. And the future is hard to predict. There are many critical causes in need of funding. But I hope that supporting this request is one of the easiest decisions that you make today. And I thank you for your time. Karim, thank you for your excellent remarks. And thank you for your service.
 All right, colleagues, any further questions before we go to public testimony on this item? Carla, do we have people signed up for public testimony? Yes, we have one person, Ellen Hippolito. Welcome, Ellen. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Good to be in community with you this morning.
 So my name is Alan Ippolito. I work for a nonprofit named Verde in its SUMA program. I should mention that SUMA will be spinning off as an independent nonprofit beginning July 1 to focus on digital justice issues, and I'll be going with it.
 In the words of your friend and mine, Reyes Fania, it's a blessing to be here with you today. I appreciate the chance to offer testimonial. First, I want to really thank Carla and the team there for giving me an opportunity to get in. I did not realize that under the new system signups need to happen by the evening before, so I want to make sure to thank them visibly.
 I want to echo and share some of the concerns about the end of the INET grant program and the restrictions prior to its end that came up. Again, this is a resource that groups like APANO, Boys and Girls Club, other frontline organizations use to bring technology investments into their communities.
 This is distinct from the funding discussed today, which is meant to distribute video programming on the cable system. These video grants are also important. I support them and
 also echo the call to extend them more deeply into frontline communities. But the INET grants, this was one of the very few significant local funding sources that we had to overcome the digital divide. Hardware, software, staffing, training in frontline communities. These were meaningful grants, $50,000, $100,000 plus.
 I urge the council and the MHCRC to find new ways to provide funding to bridge the digital divide and make that funding directly available to frontline organizations. And I want to be clear about what's at stake, as the prior testifier also mentioned so eloquently. It's easy to forget for those of us seamlessly surrounded by such access and technology how indispensable it is.
 It's gone from something that didn't exist when many of us were young to a fundamental utility like water, electricity, heat. And low-income people often make the same choices about the Internet bill that they used to do about the power or the water bill. How do I pay this, put food on the table, and pay rent at the same time? It's become fundamental to living, to surviving, and thriving in the pandemic.
 just like food, shelter, access to healthcare, because a digitally isolated person might not learn about and therefore might not be able to access a rent assistance program or an emergency food program. A digitally isolated person might not be able to connect to the medical care they need when telehealth is the dominant practice.
 And you can see many, many frontline organizations making tough choices, budget choices right now to support digital divide alongside these other needs. Groups like NAYA, Rafael House, Latino Network, Black Parent Initiative, Community Alliance of Tenants, Verde Central City Concern, Arc of Multnomah Clackamas. These and other organizations like them are looking at their limited staff and fundraising time and saying, we need to get money to bridge the digital divide.
 They're looking at their limited funding, their unrestricted COVID-19 rapid response grants and saying, okay, we've got $10,000. Let's put $3,000 to food boxes. Let's put $6,000 to rent support.
 And let's put 1,000 to buying devices and internet access for our community members, because all of these are critical and none of them can wait. And so I applaud the council taking greater leadership on working with MCRC to find new ways to drive this funding deeply into our frontline communities and to bridge the digital divide. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Any further testimony, Carla, or was Alan it? That was the only one.
 Very good. You have the whole floor to yourself, Ellen. Enjoy that while that lasts. Any further questions, colleagues, before we move this to a vote? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Hardesty.
 I think we have a fabulous opportunity to reimagine how we utilize the resources that are invested in our community to help people actually be able to create, to be able to use their voice to share information, culture, art, etc.,
 I am hopeful that the board is actually rethinking everything they thought they knew to be true before the pandemic hit, before the economic downturn hit, before the revolution hit. I look forward to talking with you about what the future looks like because I have not been impressed with the past. I just want to be straightforward and very honest.
 And Kareem, where you sit, I used to sit, and that was one of my proudest volunteer jobs on that board. But I also understood that most people don't have access to those resources. You have to have a bit of expertise to even understand the resources exist.
 and then a little bit more expertise to figure out how to use it. I will be voting yes on this budget, but know that I'm voting yes because I believe that the people here today are starting the first step and making sure that when you come back next year, you won't be selling me the same old song and dance, that you will have access
 actually recreated opportunities and places that you never thought were possible. And so I know that all of us are going through a transformation, and I want to give you the time and the opportunity to go through that transformation. But know my office stands ready to assist you in any way we can to make sure that next year's presentation will be one that I will be providing glowing praise for the radical transformation that has begun. I vote aye.
 You, Daylee? Oh, I guess I muted myself. Here we go. Thanks, everyone, for being here today. Thank you, Kareem, in particular, for your testimony. And thank you, Alan. Digital equity has been one of my office's top priorities since the shutdown, so I'm very interested in working with you on that, and there's internal work happening at the city.
 I love all the work you guys do and I'm happy to vote aye. Fritz. I'm going to start with thanking Julia Melchuk. She has had an amazing career service to the city of Portland. She taught me a lot when I was in charge of the Office of Cable Communications and Franchise Management. And she has been staffing the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission for a really long time and led it really well. And so thank you, Julia Melchuk. We appreciate that. And thank you, Elizabeth Perez.
 acting director of the Office for Community Technology. And thank you community volunteers, Lieve Hemsden-Kerry has the name, Corey Murphy and all of the volunteers who served so diligently on the
 on the commission. It's a really important commission that has a lot of power. And that and all the other things that it does is one of the reasons that we should listen to the commission's recommendation that the Office for Community Technology should remain a standalone bureau. And it obviously needs a commissioner in charge who's going to...
 pay attention to all of these changes that need to be made. And that can't happen if it's very deep within the Office of Management Finance or in any other bureau. It has to remain a standalone bureau. And so I hope that we'll be able to move forward with hiring up the director and figuring out how are we going to work with the community? Because that's another difference with this community.
 with this commission. It is working with the community. It has been working with the community, as Commissioner Hardesty mentioned when she was chair of Portland Community Media, which was before Open Signal. That was when the change started. So the changes that Commissioner Hardesty mentioned, they have
 been coming when Commissioner Saltzman and I worked on the digital equity plan. And we have been aware of this. We're also aware of how minimal the resources are and that when you've got a hundred Chromebooks to hand out and you get thousands and thousands of applications that just shows the need. And we also know that just giving people technology doesn't necessarily mean that they have the ability to use it either with, with, um,
 the know-how or with the ongoing services here i am stuck at home and i can't have anybody in to tell me how to hook up a camera to my computer um so i and for some people it's not the covid that is stopping them from getting somebody in it's the fact that they can't afford it and then even if
 they did have it, they wouldn't be able to afford to continue to pay for the service. So many, many challenges, all of which or many of which I think we've identified and a lot of really good people willing to work on it, willing
 willing to put heart and soul into you. Thank you especially to OpenSignal. The changes that have been made under the leadership of Justin Harn are phenomenal. And again, I just know that we have the right people in place to continue to move this work forward. And now we have a lot more recognition of how important it is. Hi. Wheeler.
 Well, thank you for the presentation today. And Elizabeth, you sat there mostly quietly. I want to thank Elizabeth Perez for her really extraordinary leadership during what's obviously a transitional time. And thank you.
 I want to start off by just reminding everybody that the Mountain Hood Cable Regulatory Commission is a long-standing arrangement. It's a long-standing intergovernmental partnership and it includes not only the City of Portland, it also includes Gresham, Fairview, Troutdale, Wood Village, and the Multnomah County government as well. And this is obviously a time when we're reimagining everything
 And I think we need to reimagine what this relationship means as well. And we had a really eloquent conversation testimony related to the importance of open signal in this democratic process. We obviously had some testimony in terms of how should we internally structure the office for community technology.
 I think that's a really important conversation as well. But I also want to remind us where we started this discussion. This discussion started in the context of a $75 million budget gap. That is how we frame the conversation we are now having today, having seen the entire world shift under our feet, both as a result of COVID and as a result of the murder of George Floyd and the community demands for justice.
 And so this conversation and the structure and what we're voting on feels like it's really out of step with the moment. And so I want to throw one more idea out there on the table. And you heard Commissioner Hardesty talk about community partnership and investment in the community and her expectations for what this conversation might look like next year. I also want to put something on the table to make your lives even more complicated than they already are.
 This is a conversation that cannot happen in a vacuum because it's not just about the technology. It's not even just about democracy. This is also about education and access to information. Why aren't the school districts...
 involved in this conversation with us. And as we've all learned having to figure out Zoom, some of us are still trying to figure out Zoom. Thank you for that admission, Commissioner Fritz, just so I'm not the only one. But one thing we've learned about technology is we're not going to go backwards.
 This kind of interaction, this means of gathering information, this means of sharing ideas and thoughts and democratic principles, we're not going to put it back into the can. This is now only going to move in one direction, and technology is going to be both the backbone and the deliverer of that opportunity, or it's going to be the wall that stands in the way of people actually having access. Right.
 to the institutions of democracy and information and educational opportunity. So while you're hugely under-resourced, I know this because I prepared the proposed budget,
 And while you have excellent volunteers with great aspirations, I think the conversation is going to be, it's going to have to be much larger than what we're talking about today. The fact that, and thank you for whoever raised it, that we had 100 Chromebooks and we have like 10 to 20x demand for those Chromebooks, that gap represents a loss of educational achievement.
 in our community. And that gap means that there are lots and lots of young people in this community who do not have access to information in an age where information is increasingly the most important thing that you can have access to. So I'd like us to broaden this conversation. I'd like to think about where this overlaps with other structures in our society, like the school districts and the educational system,
 I was really impressed with your testimony today. Leif and Corey and Kareem, super cool. I really appreciate it. And I'm really happy for the conversation that's going to come ahead. I think it's gonna be interesting, dynamic, fun and productive. I vote aye, the ordinance is adopted. Thank you all. Let's see, next item, we move to the regular
 No, we don't. We have a time certain at 1045 Carla. Item 463. I'm in planning and zoning code, the comprehensive plan map, and the zoning map to implement the expanding opportunities for affordable housing project.
 Well, colleagues, this is the second reading. That means we've already taken testimony on this item. That means we've already heard the presentations on this item. I want to ask if there's any further questions before we call the roll. Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Excellent work. Thank you very much. I vote aye. Eudaly?
 Really happy to support this. When I first raised concerns about the project not requiring affordability, it seemed like that ship had sailed and there was nothing we could do about it. So I want to thank everyone who helped us
 make the expanding opportunities for affordable housing project actually require affordability. Work isn't done. After discussion with the Housing Bureau and other council offices, we'd like for PHB to create a timeline to examine all the city's housing affordability programs. I understand this will take time, and once the Bureau has capacity, I'd like for them to give council an update on how the Bureau plans to proceed.
 My senior policy advisor, Andres Oswell, used his expertise in housing policy and really hustled to make this requirement happen. So thank you, Andres. Thank you to the Levin Land and Housing Coalition, whose tireless advocacy has been the heart of this project. In particular, I want to thank all of the coalition members who called for affordability to be required throughout the project. We couldn't have done this without you.
 I want to thank the Bureau of Staff who helped make this project a reality. Nan Stark, you've been an invaluable advocate for community groups. Congratulations on your retirement at the end of the month. You will be missed.
 And finally, I want to thank my colleagues for your support as we've worked quickly to strengthen this project while avoiding delays for projects that have been waiting to build affordable housing. In particular, I want to thank Derek in Commissioner Hardesty's office who helped us advance an affordability requirement in these conversations. I vote aye. Roots. Roots.
 This is a project that so many people can be proud of. It's a true collective effort by community and safe space organizations to use their property more creatively and flexibly for needed housing and now affordable housing. And I'm going to start by thanking Nan Stark in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you, Nan, for your leadership on this important project and for your many, many years of service to the city, including most recently your work within a north and northeast Portland.
 Portland residents as the district liaison. You have always worked hard to center community benefits and economic justice in your planning guidance and I appreciate your commitment to equity and anti-displacement. This seems like an ideal final project for you at the City and Claire Adamsick on my staff and I both thank you for all the things that you've taught us over many years.
 Among the testimony we heard last month, I specifically thank Mrs. Diane Clay for sharing her family history on North Mississippi Avenue and for presenting Council with the opportunity to provide direction on a restorative and reparative planning effort. We must continue to find concrete paths to supporting wealth generation and economic stabilization for our Black, Indigenous and People of Color community members. And it's very fitting that
 that they should have come at such a time in our nation where we are recognizing more and more that we need to do just that. So this has gone now beyond faith communities to looking at how, what other good can we do? How much justice can we do today? That's the sign I've had up in my office since the first day.
 Thank you to the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Leadership, Andrea Durbin and Eric Eggstrom, and for your staff. And thanks to Claire Adamsick on my staff. Let's remember, thank you to Metro for securing the planning grant dollars to make this possible and the construction excise tax, which I believe is where that money comes from. So it is development actually serving to businesses
 promote better planning and better zoning. Thank you to the Stakeholder Advisory Committee for volunteering your time to this effort. I appreciate the community members who took time to submit testimony last month that helped Council make a strong project even stronger. And oh, I do love planning and zoning. Bye.
 I want to thank all of the participants in the city's multi-year process that helped us get to this moment today. The COVID-19 emergency obviously threw us a curveball, but I'm extremely grateful to everyone for successfully completing the comprehensive legislative land use change program.
 and doing so remotely. It was longer than planned of course but I'm glad we were able to give everybody who wanted the opportunity to speak. That was very important to me. I believe this is a timely project because it gives community-based organizations more tools to help us provide needed housing throughout the city. I appreciate that we were able to identify a follow-up process
 to consider some additional properties while still getting the project to a final vote today. I also wanna thank our staff at the Housing Bureau and the Bureau of Development Services for working with BPS on the specific amendment language. And I wanna thank all of our community leaders who took the time to meet with city bureaus and staff and my staff in particular. It speaks volumes to how committed you are
 to helping the community, especially those who are facing obstacles to housing stability.
 I want to also thank speaker Tina Kotek and her office for urging the City Council to bring this across the finish line as soon as possible. I hope the state can make more of these projects financially feasible and match our local efforts with the resources and tools that they have. This could be a very powerful partnership between the City of Portland and the State of Oregon, so let's work in that direction.
 I want to give special thanks to my Chief of Staff, Kristen Dennis, Tia Williams, and Sarah Fialan from my office who worked very, very hard on this proposal. Thank you, of course, to Eric Engstrom, Andrea Durbin, Donny Oliveira, and Joe Zender at BPS, and of course, our city attorneys, Lynley Reese and Lauren King, for their hard work to change our city code for the better.
 Lastly, but maybe most importantly, I want to thank Nan Stark for her years of leadership and passion and commitment to the city of Portland and to the residents of the city of Portland. Things are moving incredibly fast. So, Nan, I hope you're able to take a moment to celebrate all of your accomplishments, particularly this proposal. Thank you.
 I'm very proud to vote aye and the ordinance is adopted. Thank you everyone. Thank you so much. This project will have positive impact for many years and I really appreciate all the work of the communities that collaborated on this project.
 and that we'll continue to have good work coming. So thank you again. Ma'am, thank you for your leadership and best of luck in all the things I know you'll be doing in the future. Thank you.
 Next up, colleagues, is item number 483. 483, and just read 483, but I just want to give a heads up that the next several items are negotiated settlements between plaintiffs and the city of Portland. 483 first, please, Carl. Thank you.
 A settlement of Ryan Asland bodily injury claim for the sum of $85,000, resulting from a motor vehicle collision involving the Portland Police Bureau. On November 28, 2018, a Portland police officer mistakenly believed that their light was green and proceeded into an intersection on a red light,
 and struck a 1995 Toyota Camry driven by Mr. Oswin as he was in the process of making a left-hand turn. Liability rests solely with the Portland police officer. Mr. Oswin reported injuries to his back, his neck, and his right shoulder.
 He was in physical therapy for several months and he missed over five months of work. Risk management engaged in conversations, ultimately negotiations, with Mr. Oslin's attorney and CSAA and they were able to reach an agreement of $85,000 inclusive of medical expenses.
 Approval of this ordinance will allow risk management to issue a check to Mr. Oslund and his attorney for $70,000 for his wage loss, pain, and suffering. An additional check of $15,000 will be issued to his insurer, CSAA, for his covered medical expenses and additional wage losses. And I don't know if we have a presentation on this item or if we just have somebody here to answer questions.
 I think we have senior claims analyst Jessica Byrd on the line. Yes, I see Jessica. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jessica Byrd and as the Mayor said, I'm a senior liability claims analyst with Risk Management. I also have with me today Lieutenant Nathan Shepherd with the Professional Standards Division. If we can answer any particular questions, the Mayor
 offer the facts of the case, I would only add that we did find that the officer had a prior preventable accident approximately one year prior and the Bureau took corrective action after each accident. It may also be helpful to know that the officer was returning home and was authorized to take this vehicle home. In Oregon, the insurance follows the vehicle or in our case, uh,
 Self-insurance follows the vehicle in this circumstance. And if there's any further questions, I'm here as well as Lieutenant Shepard. Colleagues, any further questions? Seeing none, Carla, is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, Edith Gillis had requested this be pulled from last week's agenda along with 484 and 485. All right, Edith, are you online? I don't see her on the list, Carla, do you? Can you hear me?
 Oh there, there we go. Good morning. Before you start the stopwatch timer, I have two ADA accommodation requests for my testimony, timing and procedure. I will give the rationale for that and then like to give my testimony.
 I the Portland police caused my new disabling medical condition that makes it near impossible for me to email or type or read my testimony. And it makes it harmful and actually physically painful for me to look at a computer screen, which is why I have a towel over it, TV, cell phone or electric billboard or TV.
 TriMet bus, let's sign our digital clock or cell phone timer, which I have near me. Hopefully so stay on time The police caused me a traumatic brain injury PTSD and harm to my body's electrical system and heart and eyes And I'm extremely weak and I'm stupid. I'm not I'm not able to really Speak or think or remember a focus or analyze details or make connections to bigger patterns and I
 I do not get distracted, overwhelmed by the pain or strange sensations and PTSD memories. My body shakes. And so it's hard for me to write and it's harder for me to read, even if my eyes, which normally aren't focusing or I have bats or blackness or fog coming go. So my brain's not working right for me to jump back and forth between translating my culture. And then I'm like,
 and its values, perceptions, and rules of relationship and communication with your culture and how I'm supposed to act in city council. I'm unable to think right now. I'm triggered with PTSD, and I'm trying not to trigger your defensiveness. So what I'm asking is that you –
 Read the agenda numbers 483, 484, and 485 together so I can testimony, testimony, testify once to save you time and maybe say whatever clarity and cohesion I have so that...
 we can get this done and I can say what no one else is able to say that you need to hear, but I'm not saying very well. And the second, uh, the second, um, accommodation is that you just, just as with ALA, I mean ASL or language interpreter,
 It takes extra time. Could you give me more time because I'm having a hard time making my mind translate. Peter, let me suggest an idea. I assume you're planning on testifying on 483, 484 and 485. Is that correct? I'm asking could I do that all at once? Yes, I will make that accommodation for you.
 Do you need to read them all first? No, I can't read them all together because they're separate settlements. But I, unless any of my colleagues object, I will let you do your three minutes of testimony on each concurrently. So you have about Carla, how much time would she have left? She has six plus however much of the three minutes from this testimony.
 I showed 25 seconds left. So Edith, can you do it in six minutes and 25 seconds, please, on all three? I hope. Thank you. You're welcome. Okay. So the last 39 years of me trying to testify or to see things in city council, I see the same pattern. We're trying to vote and have testimony only on a very small scale.
 a temporary shallow narrow thing out of context. It's like you see this gray hummingbird type thing moving back and forth with six inch long black hairs and you don't know what it is. And then there's this big one foot, two foot wide pile of poop that suddenly happens and you don't know why. And you swat away the hummingbird thing with the long hair
 and you try to scoop up the poop, but you don't realize that's the end of an elephant tail. And the elephant is in a herd, and the elephant doesn't belong there, and you need to address the elephant herd. I think before I say how I want you to vote on this, it's really important that we put into place a process so we don't keep having ineffective swatting at elephant tail tips.
 And we stop having marading elephant herds making a mess. So I can't see. I can't think. Let's see. So I'm saying require, when you have these votes on expenditures, especially from risk management, require each borough,
 the liability risk management team and the lawyers involved to present adequate information to each commissioner with enough time and clarity before so that you not only know how to vote on this narrow thing but you have time to write policies um and the questions they should answer are what are the names and job title of the city employee or agents who did the harm
 Two, the laws the cops or whomever broke, the policies that violated, the orders by whom they disobeyed or obeyed, and the standard, even if it's unofficial, of practice that they were consistent or inconsistent with. And then three, the extent of the injuries and damages to the victims and the duration of what harm. They will continue to suffer an amount they request versus the...
 Oh, I can't think. Hold on. The lowest amount this city risk wants, think they can get away with reimbursing and the actual cost, not only to the victim for that time period, but ongoing costs to the victim, but also the ongoing costs to the city because this affects city legitimacy and trust. And that affects us.
 tax payments and obedience to laws and whether you have protests, etc. Have them require to show you the pattern and history, for example, of the cop recklessly speeding or tailgating or crowding and show the, show whether the victims within that targeted hate groups like queer, trans, black, indigenous
 POC, houseless, or someone stuck in fear or pain that we call mental illness, and what neighborhoods these seem to repeatedly happen in. Five, the location, and it can have a graph over time, like Live Stories is a business that can show you, answer any of your questions, like, are we seeing patterns here we need to address? Six.
 uh six the city services the crime victim needed before this happened and after how that lack or injustice of city services like a safe intersection or addiction service or whatever or housing did um it or did not uh contribute to the harm done and then the commitment uh and um
 for improvement and action plan by that employee, it's not enough that we just keep paying for them to do wrong, but what commitment is realistic that they're gonna do to not do it again with their signature and their supervisor's commitment and signature with a calendar of accountability. And then make that information publicly available
 and part of the Bureau's responsibility. And then B, before the city council requires Portlanders to pay for their own harm or their neighbor's harm by city employees, require Portlanders to thereby lose their needed services because when you spend more money on one thing, you have less money for what we really want.
 Have an external independent oversight with the power of what's the word that means they're legally required with penalty of fine or jail if they don't give you the information. How does mandate fit? Subpoena. So each borough does not have a vested interest in covering the crimes and denying it and hiding it.
 And then address the reason for the payouts, the problems that actually cause them in the patterns. One, make the employees pay their own car insurance coverage and not be driving city cars outside of doing their job. And make high-risk jobs have mandated personal liability insurance, like...
 Hospital employees, doctors have to pay their own medical liability and malpractice insurance, and building contractors have to pay their own bonded license insured payments. Time is up. Please. Please.
 As a private caregiver, taking care of someone in Terwilliger Plaza, I have to take a TB test, a drug test, and I have to pay $1 million per incident per person liability insurance. But a cop should. Carla, is there anything else signed up for public testimony? No.
 On 483. I'm sorry. No, not on any more of these items. Okay, very good. Any further discussion on item 483? Please call the roll. Hardestine. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Ms Gillis, thank you for your testimony, and I appreciate the issues you're raising. We do get more information about settlements that come to us. They're attorney-client privilege protected, and they have in the past made me look at policies where it's clear that the policy needs to be changed if it should. So I appreciate the points that you're bringing up, and I also appreciate that this settlement was reached in this case. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Edith, I also want to thank you for your testimony and I think you made excellent points as Commissioner Fritz just indicated. This is also a settlement agreement. So this is an agreement that was made with the individuals who were impacted by this. So this is done.
 through a negotiated process. This allows us to write the check and move on from this episode, but I just want to be clear. This is a negotiated agreement between the plaintiff and the city of Portland, and I presume that they find this to be a reasonable and fair agreement. So I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is 484.
 Pay settlement of Natasha Lester bodily injury claim for the sum of $35,000 involving the Portland Police Bureau. Shortly before 10 p.m. on the evening of June 23, 2018, Natasha Lester was struck and injured by a Portland police car as she crossed Northeast Killingsworth at an unmarked crosswalk.
 A Portland police sergeant driving to an emergency call turned right on the northeast Killingsworth from Northeast 6th Avenue and did not see Lester in time to avoid hitting her. A settlement was reached between risk management and Lester's attorney for a total payment of $35,000 to cover her past and future medical bills, pain and suffering, and attorney's fees.
 In 2018, an advance payment of $5,000 was made to help with her medical expenses. This ordinance authorizes payment of an additional $30,000. And we have Karen Lund, I believe, is here to answer any questions that we have. Oh, no, it looks like Becky Chow is with us. Hi, Becky. Hi, Commissioners and Mayor. I'm here if you have any questions. Colleagues, any further questions on this item? No.
 And Carla, we heard testimony from Edith. Is there any other testimony on this particular item? No one else requested to speak. Very good. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is 485. Sorry, 485.
 pay property damage claim of Mark Quamata in the sum of $7,209 resulting from a motor vehicle collision involving the Portland Police Bureau.
 Colleagues, this is a settlement of property damage claim filed by Mr. Kamada's auto insurance. On July 10th, 2019, Mr. Kamada was driving his vehicle through an intersection on a green traffic signal. And he was struck by a Portland police vehicle that was traveling through the intersection on a red traffic signal. Mr. Kamada's vehicle was damaged. His auto insurance did pay for the repairs and,
 The ordinance is to settle the property damage in the total amount of $7,209.48. And it looks like we have Karen is here with us. Karen Bond. Good morning, Karen. Good morning, Mayor, Council Members. If you have questions, I am certainly here to answer them. Colleagues, any questions of Karen Bond? No.
 I'm not seeing any, but thank you, Karen, for being here this morning. Thank you. Other than Edith who testified on this matter, is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? I don't see anyone else. Very good. Please call the roll. Hardesty.
 I want to appreciate risk management doing an excellent job of actually preparing us before these items are on the agenda. And I am grateful that we have an opportunity in advance to ask the questions that are necessary for me personally to feel comfortable in voting in favor of these settlements.
 And I just want to say for the record, people know that if I had questions, I'd be all over the individuals that were testifying today. But I am confident that we are making the right choices with these settlements. So I vote aye. Sue Daly? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Yes, thank you to risk management. And also note, we have in the past been asked not to put these on consent. We're talking about individuals who have come to settlements and to a certain extent it's up to them to decide whether they want public review of that or not. Obviously there is public review because it's on our agenda.
 But as Commissioner Hardesty said, that if they were not satisfied that they could also pull it, but it is a settlement. And so they generally don't. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please, is 486. This is a second reading. I'm in contract with Marsh USA, Inc. for insurance brokerage services for Owen Controlled Insurance Phase 6.
 Colleagues, just a reminder, this ordinance amends a contract the city has with Marsh USA for owner-controlled insurance program, brokerage insurance, and administrative services for the Bureau of Environmental Services capital projects. This is a second reading. We've heard a presentation and public testimony. Is there any further business on this item? It doesn't look like it. Andre, did you have a – no, it just flashed to you. Sorry. Very good. Please call the roll.
 Hardesty? This is a record. I am so pleased to support this. I am pleased with the staff who actually did their due diligence to ensure that they were able to identify a minority-owned firm. I'm hoping to see many more proposals like this come in front of the city council. I am very happy to vote aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 Well done to everybody who worked on this. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 487, please. Second. Adopt the annual budget of the city and establish appropriations for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020, and ending June 30, 2021.
 Colleagues, this is a second reading. We have had extensive presentations, hearings, and public testimony on this item. Before we move to the vote, I'd like Director Kennard to be able to have the floor. Director Kennard.
 Thank you, Mayor, for the opportunity. I wanted to be sure to just have a moment to acknowledge a number of people that have worked extremely hard to meet the demands of the last several months. As you all know, it's been a budget year unlike any other, so I appreciate a couple moments from you to acknowledge the work of several people.
 First and foremost, I want to extend my gratitude and my admiration for my absolutely phenomenal staff for their unmatched dedication and professionalism through this time of immense change, anxiety, and adversity. I want to publicly acknowledge and appreciate each member of my staff for working tirelessly through many nights and weekends to meet budgetary and informational needs that at times were changing by the hour.
 I'm blessed to get to work with these individuals, and each person rose and went above and beyond their already high aptitude and skills these past few months. I'm humbled and honored to get to lead this office. I also want to recognize that the construction of this budget
 is the result of a citywide effort and partnership of great staff from all across the city. To our excellent budget and financial staff across city bureaus, to Keelan and Carla and Robert Taylor, to Kathy Bless and her stellar HR team, to Tom Reinhart, Michelle Kirby and her wonderful team, and to many others across the city that have responded to the call for urgent assistance on numerous occasions to get this work done, I extend my sincere appreciation. Finally, I want to thank the Mayor and each council office
 and your many fantastic staff for your very hard work through this process, and above all for your faith in and support of our office's ability to shepherd you through these tumultuous times. While I want to acknowledge that this is an important milestone, we know that the real work has just begun. Our office looks forward to continuing to support you in the hard work to come over the next several months. I'll turn it back over to you, Mayor.
 Very good, thank you. So thank you, Director Kennard. We appreciate it and the incredible work you and your team have put into this process, literally over the last year under rapidly changing circumstances. With that, any further business before we call the roll? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Director Kennard, I just cannot appreciate you and your staff more.
 As you said, as you alluded to, this is the most insane budget process that the City of Portland has ever experienced. And in the midst of that, your calm, your clarity, and your ability to actually give us vital information for us to make the critical decisions that we needed to make. I mean, when I first got here, I thought your team was just phenomenal. And then last year, I thought your team was phenomenal.
 These last month, your team has surpassed phenomenal in so many ways. And I just want to appreciate you greatly because I know that we have added to your workload in ways that you hadn't imagined where we started this budget process. I don't think the public understands that the budget that we are about to affirm today is a budget that's actually the third budget that we at the City of Portland started with. I remember in March, we...
 We had what we thought was a budget that we were moving forward, and the pandemic hit. And then we had to do quick revisions because of the $75 million deficit. And so in the midst of two crises, the pandemic and the economic collapse in our community, a revolution started.
 And the revolution actually brought to the forefront work that myself and many, many, many other community members have done over the years to get us to a place where we could really start looking at our whole system and say whether or not the systems that are supposed to serve everyone truly serves them. And what we know and what I've known forever, but...
 Now what more people appear to know is that our systems do not serve everyone equally.
 You know, budget, I am so thrilled to have the kind of expertise here at the city that helps us unpack really complicated issues and to be able to do it in a way that's actually helping all of us be better. Better elected officials, better directors, and better community members. And so my appreciation knows no bounds for Director Kanaud and her staff.
 Let me be clear about where we are with this budget, though. The fact that we received over 67,000 emails, which is more than I've received in my entire career here at the city council, has just warmed my heart and my spirit and my soul.
 The fact that we have thousands of young people every night taken to the street in nonviolent protests to point out the inequities in the system also warms my heart. The fact that we have people who have just awakened
 to the notion that our systems are not equitable and not fair, and that people have been calling for the kind of changes that we are hearing on the street every night for decades, at least the three decades that I've been working on it. I'm sure Reverend Leroy Haynes and many other civil rights leaders in our community have been doing it so, so, so much longer.
 I want to speak now directly to the people who are outraged that we didn't have the audacity to cut $50 million out of the police budget. I want to be clear that that $50 million number was based on nothing. There was no analysis done. And had there been, I would have been the first one to have actually reviewed the analysis and made a determination about whether the analysis would hold up.
 As someone who sees themselves as a community organizer, I want to be really clear with our community. You have won significant, significant changes in the police bureau budget, starting with a $27 million reduction from the $5.6 million that the mayor had required across the board for all city bureaus,
 And going back and looking at what are the most racially unjust programs within the police bureau, and what do we need to do as a council to ensure that we are not just gutting the police bureau, but that we have a vision about where we're moving. I am so pleased that the majority of my colleagues understand the moment that we're in, and the majority of my colleagues understood that we had to be bold.
 I got to tell you, never in my life would I have imagined that we, any government, would be able to cut that much significant resources out of a police budget. Because what has driven the conversation around community safety has been the police.
 what has driven the conversation around who are the criminals, who are the people that need to be arrested and prosecuted have been the police. And because they have people who all day, every day send press releases out to paint a picture of crime and to paint a picture of what the crime looks like and in what community it happens, the community as well as elected leaders have been followers. And
 and determining whether or not we were creating a safe community. Elected leaders are no longer going to be followers. What we're going to do is lead. What we're going to do is actually recreate a system that will allow for all community members, regardless of their skin color, regardless of the language they speak, regardless of the country they were born in, regardless of the disabilities that they live with,
 We're going to create a community safety plan that will ensure that you won't have to worry about who shows up when you call 911. Will all this happen overnight? Absolutely not. But what I know for sure is that the majority of my colleagues are committed to the hard work that happens the moment we pass this budget. And that hard work is going to be huge.
 and it's necessary. And the next 90 days, I'm going to give you the confidence that not only has the city council heard you, we didn't stop at the police budget. We are looking at how do we hold police accountable? Which what we currently have IPR is actually it doesn't work. It never has. And actually it's probably designed not to work. So we're going to be looking at that. We're going to be looking at who we recruit,
 to be a member of our community police force. We're going to look at how we train people who will become community police officers in our community. Never again will we allow police to be the only people training police to be community police officers. This council has taken on a mandate and I am really, really proud
 that my colleagues, and let me just say to Mayor Wheeler, Mayor Wheeler, it has been a pleasure to go through this process with you because I know where you were just a month ago and I know how committed you were to the path that we were on.
 The mark of a true leader is one that when they get new information, they change. And that's exactly what I've seen you do over this last three weeks. It has been a pleasure to watch the growth, the new understanding, and the new dedication to making sure that when we leave office, the city is going to be a whole lot better off. I am so proud to be a colleague of yours, Mayor Wheeler. Commissioner Fritz, I also want to say to you,
 I know that this was a hard place for you to get to. And I am so appreciative that you were open to hear from community, that you were open to those late night phone calls with me, and that we were able to, as the leadership of this city, to take advantage of this moment
 to make sure that we were putting the right pieces in place so that we could start the community healing and the re-imagining community safety. I also wanna say that the hard work is really just beginning. And what I know is there are a lot of people who are taken to the street every night
 who have not had a government 101 training class, have not before this month actually understood all the work that community and government has done to lead us to this point. Let me be clear and say that that $50 million number was not based on any rationale
 analysis of what we do in the police bureau and where we're headed in the future. And I would hope that community members would take a moment to celebrate this incredible moment that we're in. I understand that that $50 million number came because in Los Angeles, there was an action by the council to cut $150 million out of the police budget.
 Well, let me just say, if you have a billion plus police budget, cutting $150 million is like cutting out your petty cash. That's not transformation. Let me also say when people say just like close the police barrel and start over. I will bet you a dollar that in Minneapolis, they will be in litigation for many years because the union will not go away without a fight.
 and that fight will be fought in courts. And while that court fight is taking place, the city of Portland will be fundamentally changing how community safety happens, who shows up, and who we hold responsible for their activity, and how we make sure that we have accountability built into the new system that we're building. I want to take a moment to say to Chief Chuck LaValle,
 you are stepping into your role as Portland police chief at a time that I wouldn't want my first enemy to step into that job.
 But I want you to know, and I want the public to know, that I have confidence that you are the right leader and the right position at the right time. And it will be my honor to work with you to right this ship, to ensure that we have a police department that understands that they are community servants, they are public servants, and they must be partners with the community to solve crimes.
 Police cannot be effective if the community does not trust them and does not believe that they are working on their behalf. And so what a whirlwind these last couple of weeks have been. Thank you to the 700 people who testified. And I just want to say, you know, I have to say this, and I'm sorry I'm taking so long, but I've been holding this stuff in for a while.
 I have to say, for all the new young white people who all of a sudden are demanding equality for Black folks in the community, where were you when Kendra James was shot and killed? Where were you when Keaton Otis was shot and killed? Because the police thought, the Portland Gang Enforcement Unit thought he looked like he might be a gang member. Where were you when Aaron Campbell was killed?
 I could go through the entire list and I can tell you, you are not with me reading police reports. You are not with me advocating at the city council for changes. You are not with me demanding the Department of Justice come and fix our broken police system. You are not present. And I am. And I want you to know that it is not appropriate for you to say to me that I have not gone far enough.
 You don't know the shoes that I've walked in over the 30 years that I've lived in Portland. And I am honored to have a seat on the city council in this time where we are making transformational changes. There's nowhere else in the world I would want to be.
 But I'm going to lose patience with people that tell me that I don't know what I'm doing, and I have not done enough for police accountability in this community. If you think you can match your resume to mine, contact my office and we'll talk. But after having said that, I am proud and honored to support this budget.
 that starts the process of us collectively reimagining what our police force looks like. I am proud to vote aye. Ms. Eudaly. Well, I wanna start by thanking Director Kennard. As I've said before, every year's budget has come with a unique set of challenges and this was no exception. I can only imagine what
 your workload has been like over the last few weeks, and I want to thank you for helping us navigate this moment. Last week, I voted no on the amended budget, not because I didn't support the amendments. I voted yes on all of them, but because I agree with the more than 72,000 constituents that had emailed my office, the tens of thousands of protesters in the streets, and
 and hundreds of community members who testified on the budget, we need to do more. I took a principled stand after being frozen out of the final decision by my colleagues to give voice to the community knowing that my no vote would make no functional difference. The budget would pass with or without me and take effect on July 1 and that's precisely what will happen today.
 My primary concern was that although we were cutting specialty units, position authority, and scope of work, because there are over 60 long-time vacancies and an anticipated 40 retirements in August, we were not reducing the overall number of sworn officers employed by the Bureau. The community's demand for $50 million in cuts roughly correlates to police budget increases over the past few years.
 My amendment to cut 50 vacant positions would have cut an additional $4.7 million from the budget, still nowhere near the $50 million target, but another step toward it. I'm looking forward to a much more transparent police budget that will allow us to make precise and well-informed cuts to the Bureau in the future.
 I want to acknowledge that the work required to coordinate and collaborate with other offices on legislation is challenging under normal circumstances, and it's been especially difficult during the shutdown. Since last Thursday, it's come to my attention that there were lapses in communication between our offices. I take responsibility and apologize for any shortcomings on the part of myself or my office.
 But that's all in the past. What's important now is the work to come. These amendments are just the beginning of transforming law enforcement and re-envisioning community safety. I'm looking forward to working with my colleagues, community organizations, and advocates to ensure we put new safe and equitable systems and supports in their place. I hope to participate in the conversation with TriMet about a community-based solution to transit safety,
 PBOT will be convening a committee to investigate the possibilities for equitable and safe traffic enforcement, and Civic Life will continue its transformation of the Community Safety Program to help foster more connected, safe, and resilient communities. To the tens of thousands of people who have contacted my office, marched in the streets, or testified at City Council, please do not be discouraged. We couldn't have done this without you.
 And what is happening today is big. It's not everything you wanted, but it is not incremental. The amendments from the Mayor, Commissioner Hardesty, and my office total an additional $15 million in cuts for a grand total of $27 million. And we've eliminated some of the most problematic units in the Bureau. Please take a moment to celebrate this victory and let it fuel your fire, because we're not done
 and we still need you to bring pressure to bear on your elected representatives at every level of government and continue doing the important work in our community. The next opportunity to revisit the police budget, position authority, and programming is the fall bump in September. We will be renegotiating the police contract early next year, which believe it or not is when the next budget process will be underway again.
 This is a historic moment in our country and in our city. And in my 30 years of activism, I have never seen anything like this. Together, we have accomplished more in three weeks than we have in three decades. Proving that when we fight, we win. So keep loving, keep fighting, and be safe out there. While I do support these amendments and thank my colleagues for this work,
 I vote no in solidarity with the community. Fritz? For the third time today, I'm going to start with honoring a long-time leader, and that is Commissioner Joanne Hardesty.
 Mayor, I have a request that you would post a transcript of her comments on the front page of the Portland.gov website and also a link to the video of her making them. Commissioner Howards-Jarrett, I am moved beyond.
 almost beyond ability to speak but I'm a politician so I will continue speaking as best I can. Commissioner Hardesty you have for so many decades been part of the community work pushing for change with the Albina Ministerial Alliance for Justice and I was thinking just last night about how wondering how this vote would go. I was thinking about
 Dr. Leroy Haynes and Dr. Bessel and all of the community leaders whose victory this is today as well. And I thank you for being part of that. Thank you for your leadership at the
 NAACP in Portland and your continued partnership with Pastor Montaner. Thank you for working with Oregon Action. Thank you for your work in the Oregon legislature. And it's pretty exciting that the previous two people that I said thank you to and were going off to happy retirement for me.
 I'm going off to the happy retirement and you are just starting your career as a leader on the Portland City Council. It has been an absolute honor to serve with you and I will continue to do so. I am in awe of the work that you have done. You said that it was a hard place for me to get to. Absolutely.
 Actually, my thinking has been if ever there was a time for white people to be quiet and let other people have the floor and tell us what they want, this was it. And in addition to your persuasiveness, it's a discussion with the mayor, who I know you, I appreciated your partnership with him.
 meeting with the Portland African American Leadership Foundation and the Forum and the Unite Oregon leaders. Those were the voices that brought it home to me. And what I'm so impressed with is the care in which you have approached this, that it has been not just accepting that 50 million is a good round number. It was looking at what should be cut in the police and what should not be cut, and I also
 also appreciate and share your support of Chief Lavelle and that this budget and the level of cuts, the careful cuts, will allow him to lead the Bureau in a new direction to the place that we want and it will allow the more diverse officers, the younger officers who've recently been hired, to be able to continue changing the force while some of the retirements can happen. So thank you
 you for your measured approach and and just as i say it's an absolute honor working for you
 and with you. Sometimes I'm looking for you. I do also just want to mention that, and I'd be honored to do so, but I'm not actually looking for a job in retirement. I want to mention that this was the first budget I can remember where the Office of Equities Director, Dr. Markeisha Smith, started off the whole procedure. Again, it was so long ago that we started to
 And also the Bureau of Equity Managers also took the floor. And there's been so many changes in this budget supporting the Office of Equity and Human Rights and the Equity Managers. And although there's new urgency because of the Black Lives Matter movement and the murder of George Floyd, it's good to know that the city has been making changes.
 changes that prepared us to now be able to move really swiftly, which we've been able to do in the resolutions that we've been passing and the work that's now ahead. So I am interested as we look at how to allocate the savings that come from the cuts in the police bureau. That's certainly there is more work to be done with police.
 the city's equity efforts and so that's for another another conversation. I apologize for talking so long Commissioner Hardesty because
 I want to go listen to your speech again and thank you Mary Lev for being such a good partner and for recognizing that it does take many voices many community voices you do have listened and responded and again it's an honor to work with you I'm very proud to know I oh by the way thank you all my staff and everybody who has been a part of this you know the city budget is a
 is a moral document. It's also a document that comes from everybody in the city worrying about their jobs and worrying about how they can do their jobs better and wanting to be public servants who serve our communities, all of our communities, as well as we possibly can. And so thank you to the employees at the City of Portland, in particular, and my staff. Hi. Taylor.
 Well, thank you, colleagues. And I appreciate the comments that everybody has made. I want to take us into the Wayback Machine for just a minute. And I want to remind people where we started this budget process nearly a year ago. The major issues facing us at that point were...
 the passing of our friend and colleague, Commissioner Fish, who had started the really hard work around stabilizing and finding long-term sustainability for the parks budget. That was the main issue that was discussed at that particular time.
 time and we have a lot of people working very, very hard on that. I proposed that we would have a no cuts budget based on years to make sure that we've been smart about our fiscal management. Basically the stuff that I believed at the time that people elected me to do. And we went in with a couple of basic values. First of all, we wanted to make sure that
 that we retained core services for the public. We wanted to make sure that
 We did what we believed the public wanted based on the values that we had all discussed. We talked about inclusion being first and foremost in that budget. We talked about equity being first and foremost in that budget. And we talked about climate resiliency and environmental action as being important to the budget process. That's where we had agreed. And then as Mike said,
 My colleagues had indicated the bottom fell out of everything. First, as I mentioned, the death of our colleague Commissioner Fish, and that left some work that we needed to pull together and continue on behalf of him and his team and the great work that they had all done.
 Second of all, we have the COVID crisis, which required us to change not only the way that we were doing the budget process, but it also changed the fundamental nature of the budget. We went from an excess budget to an approximately $75 million shortfall, and that required some very uncomfortable conversations.
 I made a decision early on that we were not going to sacrifice the values of equity, of inclusion, of making sure that we addressed our climate action goals. I put new...
 values on the table that I wanted to make sure we were able to continue to provide core services to the community come hell or high water. And I wanted to make sure that as much as possible, we were able to preserve jobs for our fellow employees at the City of Portland. And I want to acknowledge the sacrifices that were then made by our frontline employees,
 represented and nonrepresented. They took haircuts on their wages and in some cases other aspects of their job so that they could preserve those core services so that they could help ensure that as few of their colleagues as possible ended up losing their jobs as a result of the economic impact of the COVID crisis.
 And then of course, what we saw subsequent to that was the murder of George Floyd and the community, and indeed the entire nation, rising up and demanding changes. Not only in the structure of how we police the community, how we keep the public safe, but very specifically with regard to line item issues in the budget process.
 And, you know, I read with interest today a very thoughtful article in Willamette Week. I would encourage people to read it. And it talks about the power dynamic as they describe it in City Hall.
 And they leave unanswered a question that the article raises, which is, why am I deferring to Commissioner Hardesty during a time of crisis on police accountability, particularly given that I am the police commissioner? And I want to answer that question directly.
 And first of all, I want to second what Commissioner Hardesty said. She said she has enjoyed the partnership she's had with me. Commissioner Hardesty, I have obviously enjoyed the partnership that I have with you. And it's actually been a phenomenal partnership, and it's one for the ages, and it's one that I really respect and appreciate.
 But there's a reason why I think it's important to listen to Commissioner Hardesty, in particular, during this time of transition around our definition of making the community safe for everyone. Number one, not to state the obvious, but she is the only person of color elected at present to our city council. And not only that, she serves publicly.
 with lived experience as a black woman and as somebody who has spent three decades dissecting, thinking about, being introspective about, asking lots of questions, and being in contact with members of the community around policing and public safety specifically. And so I see my best role during this
 question of how we keep the public safe to be to listen to the community and what the community is saying.
 to understand what people are saying, not only in terms of what's happening on the streets right now, but listening to what has historically happened, listening to the conversations about historic racism and how that has implications for the way we structure government and other community institutions today. And yes, a vault
 evolve. I really believe that one of the highest orders of leadership is when you listen and when you understand and when you hear facts that are contrary to what you believe. If you come to the honest conclusion that those facts dictate that you change your policies, your procedures, maybe even fundamentally change the way you're thinking about broader systems, then
 You, as a leader, have a duty to evolve. And that is exactly what I have done. You're right. There are items in this budget which I have strongly supported and which I will push for that I would not have pushed for even six months ago.
 And frankly, some of the changes that we are making to the police bureau, they're clearly what the community is asking for. But we don't know yet where the landing pad is for a lot of these reforms. We are moving from a structure that the community is overwhelmingly telling me is structurally racist, inherently unjust.
 And therefore we do have a duty and an obligation to move away from it, but we don't know yet exactly what we are going to be replacing it with. And I really believe the only way that we as a community are going to come together and work together is by elevating voices in the community that have been disproportionately impacted by the structure that we've had in place since time immemorial here at the city of Portland. And while I personally,
 sit here before you as a middle-aged white guy who is fortunate in so many ways, I do believe that I have an important role to play in this transitional period. And the only way I can be effective at it is if I'm listening to my colleagues, particularly those who have different lived experiences than I do. That's what this moment in history means to me
 in terms of really creating a city of Portland where everyone who lives here feels that they have an equal stake in the future of this community. And that starts with the fundamental belief on the part of everybody who lives here that they are safe in this community and whether we like to hear it or not, regardless of what
 personal views we may hold today. The reality is very clear. It's in our face. It's unmistakable that many, many people in this community who are residents in this community, they are our neighbors, they are our co-workers, they are our friends, they do not feel safe in the city of Portland. And that requires me as the leader of this city to fundamentally rethink what safety means in this community.
 And now I'm going to say this. I not only support the reforms that we've put on the table, and I would argue this is the beginning. I actually believe we are biting off a lot right now because keep in mind, once we vote for the budget, we still have to implement all of these changes. And as many of you know, I've proposed the most significant overhaul of oversight and accountability changes.
 to policing probably this century. And there was a really good piece that was in the news a couple of days ago, and it talked about how difficult that lift is going to be because it requires not only bargaining with our collective bargaining units, it also will require legislative changes and it will require the city council to make some difficult choices as well. But I am 100% committed to it. It would be a fundamental restructuring
 of accountability in our system. And that is what the community is asking me to do, no matter how hard it is, that is what I'm committed to working with my colleagues to get done. Next of all, while I take full responsibility for continuing to work with my colleagues on police accountability and police reform, this conversation cannot end there.
 We will not have an inclusive, welcoming city or a just city if we can even say we love the way our public safety system is organized. That's not sufficient.
 That's not going to do it. We still have other institutions we need to talk about here in the city of Portland. We need to talk about educational outcomes for our youth, particularly our youth of color, particularly for black youth in this community.
 We need to talk about healthcare outcomes. Back in the day, when I was the Multnomah County Chair, we piloted something called the Health Equity Initiative. And still today, as then back in 2007, 2008, you can take a push pin and you can shove it into a map of the city of Portland and you can pretty much predict somebody's health outcomes 40 years from now based on where that push pin was stuck into the map. That is not equity.
 That is systematic injustice. It is a form of racism and we need to address that. Then there's some questions of the private sector. My friends in the private sector, banking institutions, lending institutions, whether we acknowledge it or not, the fact of the matter is you can just look at all the data you want and what you can see is entrepreneurs and business owners of color,
 and people who are seeking to buy homes and finance homes, they are disproportionately denied access to the resources they need by institutions that are set up to create those opportunities in the first place. We need to talk about that. And then there's our systems of care. And somebody earlier today, I think it was Edith, talked about the mental health system. Well, here in the city of Portland, we don't do mental health per se.
 But we cannot talk about a just future in this community if we don't also talk about what's happening on our streets, if we don't talk about people who are being forced onto the streets, in many cases because they have substance abuse or mental health disorders.
 We as a state are not well organized to address those basic safety net issues. And I am 100% committed to working with not only my colleagues here, but working with our good colleagues over at Oldham County and pushing our colleagues at the state legislature to once and for all take substance abuse and mental health issues seriously. And I could go on and on, but my point here is simply we're starting here today.
 but we're going somewhere much bigger. And for the first time in a long time, I want you to know this, I feel optimistic. I feel energized.
 I actually believe we're finally having the right conversations about the right things at the right time to truly move our society forward in a way where we're all going to look back on it and we're going to say, I was there either in a small way or in a large way, or I was there on the streets demanding change, or I was there working within an institution of power and authority and privilege in this community, and I helped shift.
 both the discussion and ultimately the outcomes. And so to you who are out there, and I know as I speak, there are hundreds of you out in front of my apartment building, and please be really nice to the lady who works there. She's a very sweet person. I hear you and I see you and I am with you on this challenging path ahead. It's not gonna be easy. There'll be fits and starts. There will be mistakes made, but I am with you.
 And this budget is just one step towards that long march to justice in this community. And I'm going to be with you all the way. I vote aye. Before I do it, there's some thank yous I also want to put out there. First of all, thank you to Jessica Kennard. I know nobody likes to spend hundreds of hours with me. I can't blame you. But from my perspective, it was time well spent. I want to thank my team.
 who worked very, very hard on this. Kristen Dennis, before she went out on maternity leave, worked really, really hard on this. My other staff members, my two deputy chiefs, Jamal Fox and Sonia Szymanski, worked really, really hard on the budget. A lot of other people
 our bureau directors who gave us innovative, creative, thoughtful ideas on how we could hold this budget together during very, very challenging circumstances. You guys were fantastic, and I really appreciate it. I want to thank my colleagues.
 This is an extraordinary group of people. And I don't say that lightly. I really mean that. We don't always agree on everything. We certainly come from different backgrounds, different lived experiences, and we come to different conclusions, which is fine. But this is a fine group of people, and I'm really honored to serve alongside of them as a fellow member of the Portland City Council. And last but certainly not least, I want to thank our city employees today.
 You guys do not get the credit you deserve for the hard work you do on behalf of this community, for the long hours you put in. It's tough work. And you do us proud as a community. You do us proud. And I want to thank you last but not least. Thank you all. The budget is passed. Item 487, the ordinance is adopted. Thank you.
 488 will be somewhat anticlimactic, but please read 488, Carla.
 Accept and appropriate a $20,000 grant from Oregon Department of Education Community Nutrition Program Startup and Expansion Grant for the At-Risk Afterschool and Summer Meals Program. So, colleagues, this one's really important. I'm afraid it's going to get lost in the news of the day in the bigger shuffle. But as I was going through my long list of inequities recently,
 The lack of shared economic prosperity in this community rings large with me. And that's why the work we've been doing through Prosper Portland, the Housing Bureau and elsewhere has really elevated this question of equity. And this is one important way that the Parks Bureau is doing their part. This is to accept community.
 some funding from the State Department of Education, and it's going to help expand what I think is a really good and important program in the Portland Parks Bureau. It's called the Lunch and Play Program.
 And as you know, Parks and Rec is unable to present the summer free-for-all this year because of the COVID. So obviously we can't do that. And there's still the need to keep up physical distancing. But we've also seen that the widespread layoffs and economic dislocation created by the COVID crisis has made hunger and food security difficult.
 a critical issue this summer. This grant's gonna help supplement some of the existing Bureau funding, emergency COVID response funding and support from private and philanthropic partners to help with the kids. And I just wanna extend my heartfelt thanks
 COB, Dan Burke & John Beadle:" To the Oregon Department of Education for supporting the Portland Parks and Recreation Bureau in this important effort. I want to thank all of the folks there who are working with all of our folks here to make this a possibility. COB, Dan Burke & John Beadle:" I will now turn this over to what am I turning this over to it looks like.
 I cannot see on my screen because I'm not smart enough to make it work. Who's doing the presentation on this item? Hi Mr. Mayor, this is Kelly Torres from Portland Parks and Recreation. Good afternoon, it's good to see you. Thank you. Good to see you. You're welcome. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. The Oregon Department of Education has been a consistent and generous contributor to Portland Parks and Recreation's Lunch and Play program for many years.
 Approval of this grant will provide necessary funding to bridge a summer meal accessibility gap, ensuring children and youth have local neighborhood options to receive free and nutritious meals while schools are closed. Portland Parks and Recreation's annual free lunch and play program begins on Monday, this Monday, June 22, 2020.
 It is important to note that this year's program is significantly different. Lunch and Play is part of an expanded emergency response effort by the City of Portland and area school districts to provide food security in the wake of COVID-19. I am honored to be a part of the ECC food security team. My colleague Charity Montez and I had the chance to brief Commissioner Hardesty yesterday on this important work.
 Data from our school district partners who have been serving meals at select sites since March predict we will be meeting a need five times greater than we have seen before. The Parks Bureau has prioritized capacity and resources to meet this need. We are here for it.
 Lunch and Play meal service will be held at lunchtime or early afternoon at 26 sites all summer long, including 16 parks and 10 mobile sites citywide. The Lunch and Play schedule is now available online at PortlandOregon.gov at the parks page. Any questions? Mayor, if I may?
 Yes, you may. Sorry, I was fiddling around trying to find that on mute. Commissioner. I saw you. I was trying to be patient. I knew you'd find it. I appreciate that. I just want to really appreciate the team that is addressing our food insecurity needs in Portland. Kelly and her partner are doing phenomenal work, and I want to uplift the fact that they are
 really branching out and working with folks who the city of Portland has never worked with before. And I just want to say how frustrated I get when we actually find the same people over and over and over again. And that list that Kelly and her team have developed is pretty phenomenal.
 I also want to say that I don't want anybody to think that $20,000 is going to fund our entire summer food program. So we appreciate the donation from the Oregon Department of Education. But it's going to cost us significantly more. And let me say that the ECC is committed to prioritizing food insecure households.
 at least through the end of the year, because that's the only money we know we have at the moment. But great work, thank you so much. And I am just so proud of the people at the city of Portland that normally we don't have an opportunity to engage with. And so we don't know how phenomenal they are until a crisis hits.
 And then they rise in ways that are just heartwarming. So thank you for the good work that you're doing and you will continue to do. And please don't hesitate to reach out if there are some barriers that me and my colleagues can remove for the incredible work that you're doing. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Maren. Thank you, Kelly, for your presentation. I may have missed it, but Commissioner Hardesty once again gets me thinking. Are any of the summer free-for-all sponsors that normally would be helping with the free lunch program, are they going to be donating this year?
 Yes, thank you for asking. That's my typical day job at Parks is to secure sponsorships for this program. And we are being supported by Nike as the title sponsor this year. And Bank of America is the title sponsor of the mobile lunch and play program, which due to their contribution has significantly expanded that program. We'll be at 10 mobile sites this summer. And then in addition, we have a long list of partners who are returning
 I don't have them all in front of me, but ones that are very familiar, Comcast, Kaiser, OHSU, most all of the healthcare providers, and the list goes on. So we're very excited that they are returning and they are also here for it. They want to meet the needs of the community and understand that it is going to be significantly higher this summer.
 That makes me really happy to hear. Thank you. And in particular, the Bank of America folks have done many kickoffs with them and Comcast and others, of course. So it doesn't surprise me to hear that even though they won't perhaps get as much advertising as they had in the past with not as many grownups going to the Sun,
 the summer concerts, etc. I'm very pleased to know that they're continuing to donate and I welcome Nike coming in as well. So thank you for letting us know about that. Very good. Does that complete your presentation? Yes, it does. Thank you. Carla, is there public testimony on this item?
 No one registered for this item, Mayor. Okay, very good. And for all items going forward, because we have a very tight agenda and we have a 2 p.m. session, we're going to limit public testimony to two minutes each, please. Colleagues, I'm going to go to the next item, but I want you to think about this, given that we have still a report.
 Then item 490, then item 491, then we have two four-fifths items, and then we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten pulled items. So one option is...
 I would put out on the table is that we continue to bowl through this and get through the morning as quickly as possible. And then at the end, see how much time we have, if any, prior to 2 p.m. and then take at least a half an hour break between the morning and the afternoon session, if that would work for people. So just think on it now. You don't have to respond. And then after this next item, once you've thought about it or spoken with your staffs,
 let me know whether that is acceptable or whether you would have a counter proposal. Next up is... We have to vote on 488. I was just trying to remember that. Please call the roll. Sure. Hardesty? Aye. Udaili? Thanks for the presentation and for all the hard work our city staff are doing. I'm happy to vote aye. Riggs?
 It's been quite the morning mess, so I think it's quite okay if we mess up occasionally, and I'm happy to continue working.
 Mayor Wheeler mentioned Commissioner Fish a couple of times in his budget comments, and I cannot vote on this. Perhaps it will be my last summer free-for-all and free lunch program without noting how very dedicated Commissioner Fish was to this program. Commissioner Saltzman also insisted on it being funded. And so I'm very happy to know that we are prioritizing getting meals for hungry kids. Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. Yeah, this is great. Thanks again to our state partners. Thanks to all the good people in Parks and Rec making this work. And you're right, Commissioner Fritz, Nick is looking down on us and he is smiling broadly. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is item 49. I'm sorry, it's 489. It's a report.
 489, accept the 2019 Title 11 Trees Trust Funds Report. Portland Parks and Recreation's Urban Forestry Division has two special trust funds that help fund their work to protect and expand Portland's beloved tree canopy. Here to share this year's report on revenues, expenditures, and uses of those funds is Urban Forestry Division Manager and City Forester, Jen Cairo. Good afternoon, Jen.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. As Commissioner said, I'm Jen Cairo with Parks and Recreation, and I'm presenting two items today, the Trust Funds Report and also a Heritage Tree designation item for you. Oh, Jen, can you, I'm sorry, I didn't see these two needed to be read together. Carla, could you read 490 as well, please? Sure.
 490 approve the designation of 13 trees as City of Portland Heritage Trees and remove the heritage tree designation from one tree. Sorry Jen, go ahead. No worries, thank you. First the Title 11 trust funds report for fiscal year 2019. Title 11, the tree code, established two funds to support the urban forest. The Tree Planting and Preservation Fund and the Urban Forestry Fund.
 Code requires we report annually to Council on use of these funds, and I'm happy to be able to do so with you today. So this presentation is a high-level summary of the full written report, which you also have. Carla, do you have slides? Kim, I believe, is getting those. Thank you. Excellent. If you could go to slide two, please. That's it. Two is two more back.
 There it is, that one. Thank you. So you see here the two or Title XI trust funds in the two rows on this table. Revenue into the tree planting and preservation fund, the first of the two, primarily comes from mitigation payments paid for certain trees removed by permits.
 The Tree Planting and Preservation Fund can be used to plant and establish trees in the city, as well as to purchase property or conservation easements for the purpose of preserving trees. Establishment care consists of watering, mulching, and other basic needs to get a young urban tree off to a good start, and that is provided for up to five years for each tree. This fund is Urban Forestry's sole dedicated source for tree planting.
 As a trust fund, it allows for management across fiscal years. The fund is relatively new, first established in 2015, and significant use of the fund first began in 2017 while completing the city's first tree planting strategy. That strategy was undertaken specifically to inform how best to use this fund.
 Revenue into the Urban Forestry Fund, the second of the two in the table, is from enforcement decisions involving city or street trees which have been damaged or removed without permits. The purposes of the fund are primarily to enhance the urban forest through the planting of street trees or city trees, and to increase public awareness of trees, tree care, and the values of the urban forest and the services trees provide to all residents. Thank you.
 So I want to note in that fund, you'll see an asterisk in the revenue column. $750,000 of the little bit more than $980,000 in revenue is a one-time transfer from a pre-tree code mitigation fund. Those funds were transferred into this in order to increase reporting transparency. Hey, Jen. Yes. I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm
 I think Commissioner Hardesty would wait, but I'm concerned she might wanna ask about something you've already previously discussed, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted Jen to know that there was a number missing in the beginning balance. And if this is gonna become permanent, we might wanna fix that. Can you see where the beginning balance for tree planning and preservation fund is a digit missing?
 between a 2 million 77 something else should be. Oh yes, thank you. Thank you, commissioner. I did not notice that. We will have to correct that. Yes, thank you for bringing that up. You're welcome. Okay, for the urban forestry fund, the second of the two, again, in general, that fund receives less than about $100,000 a year. We could go to the next slide, please. Tree services in Portland aren't equitable.
 Canopy coverage on the west side of the Willamette is 53% on average, compared to 21% on the east side of the river, which is on par with Los Angeles. We prioritize addressing this inequity in how these funds are used, and you'll see some outcomes of that in a moment. Urban Forestry's tree planting is guided by the city's tree planting strategy, Growing a More Equitable Forest, which was presented and accepted by council in 2018.
 In 2019, we used the Tree Planting and Preservation Fund to plant nearly 5,000 trees across several planting programs, and that included 4,000 in natural areas in the city, 500 trees through our Yard Tree Giveaway Program, and nearly 100 trees in partnership with Lipol Public Schools.
 Since 2018, we've given a little over a thousand yard trees to Portlanders through the Yard Tree Giveaway Program. This program is funded by the Tree Planting and Preservation Fund. While these trees are available to anyone living in Portland, Urban Forestry's program has focused on low canopy and low income areas, many of which are in East Portland. The result is greater planting concentrations in these higher priority areas
 Yellow areas in the graphic here on the slide indicate the highest concentration of yard trees given away to date, showing we're on track with that goal. The vast majority of trees given away are medium or large form native trees. These types provide the most and generally longer lasting services per tree.
 This winter, we'll be adding street tree planting and expanding yard tree giveaways, further increasing use of this fund, and growing the city's forest. Next slide. So I'll continue now to the second of the two funds, the Urban Forestry Fund. This resource supports the tree inventory project.
 The Tree Inventory Project has two goals, providing data to support more informed management of city property trees and educating residents about the value and wonder of these public assets. Together, urban forestry staff and volunteers inventoried over 25,000 park trees in 2019. To date, more than 1,600 volunteers have given over 20,000 hours to the Tree Inventory Project.
 This is equivalent to about 10 staff, which is remarkable given that urban forestry has 45 full-time staff total. I'd like to thank Parks and Rec's Angie DeSalvo and Brian Lando for the work on the use, tracking, and reporting of these funds for you. And I'd be happy to answer any questions. I request council accept the fiscal year 19 urban forestry trust funds report. Very good. Thank you. And does that complete your testimony today?
 Mayor, I have two more slides in regards to the heritage trees. Why don't you go ahead and do that, unless there's any other questions on the report from my colleagues at this particular moment. Very good. Why don't you go ahead and do the part related to 490, the heritage trees. Thank you. Thank you. Next slide, please.
 Heritage trees are of special importance to the city because of their age, size, type, historical association, or horticultural value. Heritage trees are also community attractions and standard bearers of the urban forest and tree services for all residents. These trees may be nominated by anyone, however, property owner consent is required for a tree to be considered for heritage tree designation.
 This past year in 2019, 52 trees were submitted by the community for consideration as heritage trees. Urban Forestry staff, our urban forestry commissioners, and the other volunteer members of the commission's heritage tree committee review every submission and conduct site visits to assess the health and significance of the tree before submitting the nominations to the whole urban forestry commission.
 According to Title XI, the city's tree code, the Urban Forestry Commission recommends trees to City Council for you to designate as heritage trees. Today, in addition to requesting that City Council designate 13 new heritage trees, the commission also requests that City Council remove heritage tree status for tree number 308, a sycamore maple, that's the species of the tree, which was removed this past year due to failing health.
 Go to the next slide. Thank you. This is the last slide. While I'm presenting a brief overview for you, you also have more detailed information for this agenda item, including some really nice pictures of all these trees and more specific information about their location and size and things like that.
 Thank you to our staff, Gina Dake, and the Urban Forestry Heritage Tree Committee Chair, volunteer, Greg Everhart, for preparing that packet, and for our other forestry staff, the Urban Forestry Commission, and other community volunteers who work on the Heritage Tree Program. Of these 13 trees, five are publicly owned park trees, four are private, and four in the right of way. The trees are represented on this map with pink dots. These are the 13 that are in front of you for nomination.
 Four of the trees are east of I-205, including three at Leach Botanical Garden. And this is notable because to date, only seven of the over 300 heritage trees are located east of 205. So this is consistent with the inequity in overall tree services in the city. And addressing this inequity is a priority for urban forestry and parks, also the Urban Forestry Commission, and the Heritage Tree Program.
 So on behalf of the Forestry Commission, I request City Council designate 13 new heritage trees and remove heritage tree status for number 308, the Sycamore Maple. I'm happy to take any questions. Thank you so much for your time. You're on mute Mayor. Hello. You're having way too much fun, Joanne. I know, right? At my expense, I might add.
 Colleagues, any further questions at this point on either the report or on the ordinance for staff before we turn this over to public testimony? Seeing none. All right. Thank you, Jen. That was very helpful. Hold on. Sorry. I have a quick question for Jen. Can you tell us where the failing tree lives or is that not info you can share?
 I can, I can look at that. And what number was it? That tree is number 308.
 And it is in fact already removed because it was in such condition that for certain reasons it needed to be removed. Just what neighborhood? Yeah, let me look right here. So in your packets, this is the third page of the PowerPoint presentation that Greg and Gina put together. It is a right-of-way tree, so a street tree or was a street tree at 2607 Northeast Wasco Street. Okay, all right. So that's Sullivan's Gulch, I believe, neighborhood.
 Thank you. You're welcome. Very good. Carla, is there any testimony on the ordinance item 490? Let's see. I believe Edith Gillis had signed up, but she is no longer online. All right. Very good. I'll entertain a motion to adopt or to accept the Title XI Trees Trust Funds Report. So moved. So moved. Second. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Second.
 Carla, please call the roll on the report. You daily. I love this program and I love the report. Thank you so much for your work and thanks to the commission for work for their work too. Hi. Wheeler. Hi, the report's accepted. 490 before I move it on. Does anybody have anything they want to add to 490? 490 is a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Next up. Sorry? I just said thank you. Oh, thanks, Jen. Thanks for your work on this. Really appreciate it. 491 is the last item on the regular agenda. Carla, could you please read it? Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the Northwest Cornell Tunnel Rehabilitation Project for an estimated $3,180,000. Commissioner Udailey.
 Thank you, Mayor. The Northwest Cornell Tunnel needs structural and safety improvements that will help decrease accidents in the tunnel and increase safety for pedestrians crossing nearby. Here to give more details and answer questions for Council is PBOT staff Garen Shankar, I hope. Yes, I am here. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning, all.
 Yes, before I start, I just want to appreciate Commissioner Hadesi's words this morning. I was moved and touched by that, so I appreciate that, and thank you. And I see you around town, and you probably don't know, but I always run up and hug you, and I appreciate your words, so thank you. I can share my screen. Are you seeing that? Yes? No? No?
 Yeah, we can see it. It looks good. We got it. Okay. So, well, I have it, but I just now I can't maneuver it. There you go. So basically, this is the structural upgrade to the Northwest Cornell Tunnel tunnels, Tunnel 1 and 2. Basically, we have inspected visual cracks, and we need new lining tunnels.
 on both tunnels. Basically consists of two inches of existing lining removal. That's hydro demolition. We'll install welded wire fabric, install new shot creek, and then there's also lighting upgrades on both. Tunnel one is 490 feet. Tunnel two is 122 feet. Sorry, here are the two tunnels again.
 We anticipate start of construction of fall of 2020 and the source of funding. We have $2.3 million assigned for the general fund and $880,000 from the gas tax revenue. And we have a lot of this money for fiscal year 2021. Not sure why it's not showing up in the presentation there. And that is it.
 Karen, is there a question? I do have a question there. Mark Nishinohartesty. Thank you. My question was only did I hear you say you kind of went out first. Thank you for your kind words. I really appreciate those. But my question was, did you say that you already have the funding for this? So this has been already budgeted? Correct. Correct. And I just need permission to move forward with the bidding process.
 And you have a low level of confidence in the estimate at the moment? I would say medium, medium to high. Medium to high. That makes me feel better. Thank you. I like medium to high as compared to low. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. No more questions. All right. Thank you. Garen, does that complete your testimony or do you have more?
 That is it. Completed. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that. Carla is, or first of all, any questions for my colleagues before we move to public testimony? Seeing none, Carla, is there any public testimony on item 491? No one requested to speak to this item. Very good. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 Thanks, Garrett. Appreciate the, that was a great PowerPoint. It's succinct and helpful and I appreciate it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next, we move to the four-fifths agenda, 491-1, please.
 Adopt anti-racism, equity, transparency, communication, collaboration, and fiscal responsibility as core values of the City of Portland as recommended by the Bureau of Human Resources to inform a unified workplace and city culture, systems, policies, practices, and procedures. Very good. Colleagues, we're in a moment of reckoning, obviously.
 For years, Portland's Black, Indigenous, and communities of color have demanded justice. And since the death of George Floyd, countless others have joined that call as well, reaching out to my office, demanding both accountability and change. Today's ordinance and resolution are a direct result of our commitment to listen and respond to our community.
 This is not performative. This is our reality, and it's our responsibility to resolve the brutality of the past. Brutality that has diminished the voices of Black people and perpetrated anti-Blackness. Despite the oppression, the Black community here in Portland remains incredibly resilient. However, what we know and what we're hearing loud and clear is that we cannot continue the status quo, and we won't.
 The City of Portland is committed to being an anti-racist institution. We are confronting anti-Blackness and celebrating Black resilience within the workforce and across the city, working to a day of moving past the history of anti-Blackness and racism in Portland, Oregon. A day of moving past systems of privilege and entitlement that have negatively impacted the Black community and the experience
 of being black in our community. Oregon was built based on anti-blackness and white supremacy. That is a fact. And the atrocities of the past have not been fully acknowledged or addressed. In order to move forward to create a better future as a truly equitable and anti-racist community, we must acknowledge the past. We're doing so today.
 This ordinance and the values of the resolution are a collaborative effort between elective offices, equity managers, the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and the Bureau of Human Resources. Together, today's ordinance and the values resolution will create an environment where there is zero tolerance for racist behaviors.
 This ordinance and the values resolution will also serve to ensure that those who've benefited from systems of privilege and white supremacy now must hold each other accountable to eradicate anti-blackness and racist behavior.
 Portland, Oregon must lead by example and demonstrate to cities across the nation that municipal government can and must do more to support and advocate for our Black communities. As I said over the past week, my colleagues and I have thoughtfully considered an intentional way to honor Juneteenth. We'll formally recognize the significance of Juneteenth and observe it as a day of remembrance.
 June 19, 1865 was the day Union soldiers landed in Galveston, Texas, with news that the Civil War had ended and slaves were free. This was two and a half years after the Emancipation Proclamation. The modern-day parallel is that while we've declared slavery as an atrocity of the past, slavery in different shapes continues today.
 Modern day slavery continues through the systems and structures that continue to divide black and white America and perpetrate racism, oppression, and the status quo. The time has arrived for the city of Portland, one of the whitest cities in America, to demonstrate to leaders across this nation that change has come.
 Although this ordinance designates Juneteenth a paid holiday, all City employees are encouraged to use the day to engage in learning and reflection as a prelude to action. As an employer, our Bureau Directors and Equity Managers will lead the charge with developing task forces dedicated to deconstructing institutional and systematic racism through policies and systems.
 Moving forward, we must all be true allies. Allyship extends beyond social media posts and expressions of white guilt and fragility. We must take action to demonstrate our resolve to never return to the status quo at the expense of Black people. We must support Black-owned businesses and community organizations.
 The wealth gap between African Americans and white people is due to over 400 years of inequitable treatment. We recognize there's still much work to do to build trust and work towards a more just future. We'll commit to and charge all city employees, community members, and leaders to exemplify the core values of anti-racism, equity, transparency, communication, and
 collaboration and fiscal responsibility. We cannot wait another moment to act, to think or to govern or to live differently in order to create a better tomorrow. We must act with urgency. I'd like to start by introducing an amendment. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor. The ordinance title was read was not the same as the one that's attached to the item on the council's agenda. And so I move that we add the Office of Equity and Human Rights in addition to the Bureau of Human Resources as kind of title sponsors to this resolution. So the resolution title now says Adopt Anti-Racism, Equity, Transparency, and
 I can't read it. Communication, collaboration, and fiscal responsibility as the core values of the City of Portland as recommended by the Bureau of Human Resources and Office of Equity and Human Rights to inform a unified workplace and city culture systems, policies, practices, and procedures. I second that, Mayor. We have a motion and a second. Commissioner Fritz, did you have other amendments?
 Yes, there's a corresponding amendment to add another whereas under equity. That's the final whereas that says the Office of Equity and Human Rights was established in 2011 and is charged with setting the foundation and accountability mechanisms for the city's equity work. Second. We have a motion. Thank you, Commissioner. Second. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a third amendment? No.
 I said yes in the last sentence there was a typo. We need to say, be it further resolved, that this resolution is binding city policy. Second. We have a motion and a second on all three of Commissioner Fritz's amendments. Were there other amendments that people would like to put on the table?
 Very good. Before I turn it over to the Bureau of Human Resources and the Office of Equity and Human Rights, I'd like to introduce a technical amendment to Item 491-2. Carla, could you read Item 491-2 first? I should have put that into the record. Yes. Adopt Juneteenth as the annual day of remembrance and a paid holiday.
 So this is a technical amendment. The amendment would change item 16 on page 2 to read as follows, quote, "...the Juneteenth holiday will be recognized as a city holiday and will be applied in accordance with the parameters and procedures defined under HRAR 6.02..."
 and as provided for in the city's collective bargaining agreements governing holiday pay for represented personnel. This is to align how the city administers all other city holidays. Could I get a second? Second. Very good. It is on the table. Commissioner Fritz, her phone makes her about 10 seconds behind me, so.
 All right. Just one second, Commissioner, but still, thank you very much. All right, Commissioner Fritz gets the second. I'd now like to introduce Human Resources Director Kathy Bless and the Office of Equity and Human Rights Director, Dr. Markeisha Smith, who will introduce the core values resolution and the Juneteenth ordinance. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I am Kathy Bless, Chief Human Resource Officer.
 Values and intention matter. And when it comes to anti-blackness and racism within the City of Portland, what we do now and moving forward is critical to our city and the City of Portland as an organization. I thank you all for taking these actions today. Recognizing Juneteenth as a holiday is a significant and essential step.
 as is the adoption of meaningful values that will help shape how we all move forward and thoughtward indeed. Equity, collaboration, anti-racism, financial responsibility, communication, and transparency are the foundational core values you all are adopting today to set our path.
 The values were not created through quick action, but were developed as a result of qualitative research conducted by Dr. Allison Prasad at the Direction of Human Resources. Dr. Prasad was instrumental in developing the core competencies and ideal candidate profiles for the Executive Recruitment Project in 2018-19.
 In support of this project and other key recruitments, over 300 internal and external stakeholders were engaged. Stakeholders included community organizations, public and private sector industry representatives, members of the city's affinity groups, leadership, and individuals from a mixture of positions within the city to ensure a robust analysis. The research garnered themes that informed the values resolution before you today.
 I want to thank Dr. Prasad for her contributions to the outcome today. I also want to express my sincere appreciation for the work of Dr. Markeisha Smith, the equity managers across the city, for their collaboration on the Juneteenth resolution. And I would also like to thank Marlon Marion and Becky Lamboli, who worked specifically with Police, Fire, and FOAC in coordination on the time of silence. Thanks.
 I will now turn it over to Dr. Smith. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners, colleagues, and community. For the record, my name is Markeisha Smith, Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. The past few weeks have been fraught with emotions. I, like many other Black folks, have stepped into my full self and exercised a vulnerability and raw response to current events situated in the reality that the value of Black life is questionable in this country.
 The significance of Juneteenth this year resonates loudly, not only because it is the 155th anniversary, but because for the first time there's a widespread understanding of the history and importance of it in this country. I am pleased that our city is recognizing the pain and trauma Black employees have faced and continue to face
 I'm encouraged by the partnership between the Office of Equity and Human Rights and the Bureau of Human Resources. Thank you, Kathy. And I want to also give a special thank you to Ashley Grundy and Michelle Cole for the transparent and real dialogue we've had recently about where we've been, where we are now, and where we're going. I believe this partnership, unlike any other in the city, will be instrumental in acknowledging and addressing the needs of Black, Indigenous, and People of Color city employees.
 With continued solidarity, I am hopeful that we not only communicate that Black employees are valuable to our city, but that we also demonstrate that this is important in our policies, practices, and procedures. As we collectively continue to implement incremental changes, I want us to center the voices and experiences of Black employees as we discuss and make decisions that directly impact services and supports. I'm excited.
 and about the Juneteenth Ordinance and Core Values Resolution. Thank you so much for your support. Thank you, Dr. Smith. Next up, we have some invited testimony. We have seven individuals. First up is Millicent Williams, who's the Deputy Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Welcome.
 Thank you very much. Good afternoon. My name is Millicent Williams, and I am, as has been stated, the Deputy Director for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'd like to thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners Udailey, Fritz, and Hardesty, for the opportunity to speak this afternoon. I work in spaces where I know that my presence, voice, access, and expertise is unexpected, thought to be undeserved, and often considered to be a threat.
 I've worked across the full spectrum of public service, and now I work in transportation, a discipline that has, for many, represented a sense of freedom, but for Black people has been a source of pain.
 A black man, Garrett A. Morgan, created the three-position traffic signal. Another black man, Andrew Beard, invented the automatic railroad car coupler. And yet another black man, Benjamin Banneker, a cartographer, mathematician, and astronomer, was able to redesign Washington, D.C. with its signature circles to solve the problems left by Pierre L'Enfant and his original botched design of the city. Even though these black men were planners, engineers, and innovators,
 whose inventions changed the world as we know it. They were yet not able to ride in a shared coach, hail a car, or get a seat on a train. My mother, who grew up in rural North Carolina, recently told me of an incident that occurred when she was a young girl walking down the dirt road returning to her family's home from the general store. As she walked, she could hear the roar of a large tractor coming from behind.
 As the tractor approached, she kept inching away from the edge of the road, but the driver kept inching closer. So close that the giant tire of the tractor clipped her shoulder, throwing her to the ground. She remembers the face and laughter of the driver as she rode away. She remembers telling my grandparents about the incident and the anger and fear that my grandfather felt because he knew that if he said anything, the outcome for his family would have been disastrous.
 She remembered and was taught that sometimes silence meant safety. I think about how Black people
 I think about how a black person was supposed to avert their eyes and step aside when they saw a white person on the sidewalk because silence meant safety. I think about redlining, road conditions, dissection and displacement in cities across America, and a resultant forced silence, which for some, if you weren't subject to those things, meant safety.
 Today, I think about those examples and so many other things as we engage to identify solutions for communities across the city in managing the right-of-way and building infrastructure. As transportation professionals, it is time for us to think differently about the industry, what it represents, and how we can influence the future. At this juncture, either we will all be comfortable or we'll all be uncomfortable.
 The Portland Bureau of Transportation recognizes that it can and should do more to address the long-standing transportation-related disparities found in the Black community. Under the leadership of our director, Chris Warner, and in cooperation with the Bureau's equity manager, Irene Marion, and Transportation Justice Committee, we will be engaging with intention around four areas of emphasis. Workforce support and accountability, which includes the recruitment, hiring, development, and promotion of Black talent.
 transportation policy and planning intervention, supporting and empowering Black Portland, and reimagining the right-of-way using a racial equity framework. And so, on behalf of the Black girls, boys, men, and women of Portland who have suffered pain, loss, violence, and dispossession on city streets and sidewalks,
 On behalf of the little girl who was attacked on the road and who yet persevered to become an educator, author, orator, and historian, who taught about the fight for freedom that took place on Harriet Tubman's Underground Railroad, which, as an editorial note, should be considered one of the most comprehensive and sophisticated interstate transportation systems that this world has ever known, and who always taught us, her children, to revere the legacy and celebrate the importance of June 19th. Aye. Aye.
 We say thank you. And now the hard work of change begins. Thank you very much. Appreciate your testimony. Next up is Kim McCarty from the Portland Housing Bureau. Welcome, Kim. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners, colleagues, and community. I'm Kim McCarty. I work as the Rental Services Manager at the Portland Housing Bureau. Today, I'm here to represent the leadership team of the African American network known as CAM.
 CAN's leadership team is led by extraordinary leaders here in the city and community at large. I just want to name them and for their help in creating our comments today. It's Marvin Dean, Jay Brannon, Davisha Gordon, Taisha McCool Riley, Sabrina Wilson, Lorraine Wilson, David Granfield, Michelle DePache, Shoya Bentley, Ira Bailey, and many other contributors throughout the city.
 CAN, like the Black community, we seek to serve as diverse. CAN seeks to build a common bond of fellowship among Black employees who honorably serve the city of Portland. CAN advocates for fair employment and equal promotional opportunities for Black people through positive relationships with the city and community leaders who value and embrace diversity beyond just awareness.
 This year, CAN started a campaign to recognize the historic and current attempts to disenfranchise the Black community in not exercising their right to vote. The effort was focused on how Black staff could assist the Black community in using their voice through voting. In general, CAN's approach is about empowering our colleagues to better engage the Black community and to fully enjoy the resources of the city and remove barriers
 present due to systemic racism. When we all first faced the public health emergency of COVID-19, it became clear to CAN that Black staff and the Black community are experiencing more negative economic and health impacts in the general public.
 From Black staff, we're hearing about a lack of support, isolation, and disparities in expectations, and also stories of transformation, adaption, and resilience. In response, CAN will be distributing a survey to Black employees to listen more, with the goal of amplifying the voices of our Black colleagues and friends.
 We plan to come back to City Council to share what we hear, to offer policy changes to address the concerns of Black employees. In regards to the City's acknowledgement of Juneteenth, CAN is honored to be a part of this historic beginning and to mark the 155th Juneteenth. As the ordinance states, it's a significant opportunity to establish a commitment towards healing,
 and dismantling anti-Black racism within the workforce and community, and realizing the newly adopted city values of anti-racism, equity, transparency, communication, collaboration, and fiscal responsibility. In past years, CAN has taken a lead in drafting the Juneteenth Proclamation,
 Of course, there have been many leaders in this city who have been leaders in Juneteenth events. And we appreciate the opportunity to educate our peers in hopes that it would lead to meaningful anti-racist attitudes and action. Truthfully, Black staff taking time each year to educate mostly white staff about American history, we all should know, did not feel effective.
 We want more accountability and more action. If we want effective long-standing change, the city must not only rely on our Black staff and people of color to carry the weight of educating the city, as we're not always supported or placed in positions to make policy change. We ask the city to make more investments in citywide equity education,
 to support strategies to undo disparities in service and outcomes for black community members, and we ask individuals to take the time to educate themselves in preparation for their role in building an anti-racist city. We must say, it's bittersweet that this gesture is done in response to the widespread racial awareness that began after the murder of George Floyd.
 when there have been countless other names of Black bodies murdered prior, some of which were taken by Portland's own police force. And as Portland employees, we must all acknowledge the responsibility for violence against the Black community is shared with the police because all of our institutions are embedded with systemic racism. Black people are over-policed in employment, in housing, in our hospitals, our schools, our parks, and all institutions.
 So while we're happy to see this holiday celebrating freedom become a recognized city holiday, it must be stated that freedom will continue to be impartial and incomplete until justice is served equally for all Black lives. I want to conclude with comments from my CAN colleague Marvin Dean. He said, If I would have had the opportunity to share with the City Council
 I would share my thoughts on what the use of this holiday time could be used for. For example, I would strongly urge people to not make this holiday one that has lost its meaning. I would share that no matter what laws or legislation is created, that we as a people must change our behaviors. No amount of laws will change what people think and say behind closed doors.
 When coworkers or other non-Black people ask me, what can I do to help? I tell them to make this cause personable. It's not what can I do to help you? It's what can you do to help us, all of us? What can you do to undo racism?
 We all have to live with each other. No one is born racist. These behaviors and traits are learned and passed down through ignorance. Let's use Juneteenth to not only reflect, but to educate ourselves and one another, to share each other, have compassion for one another, and to support one another.
 In closing, after sharing my thoughts from Marvin, I want to thank again for this opportunity to support Portland in the adoption of the core values of anti-racism, equity, transparency, communication, collaboration, and fiscal responsibility. We are all born into a racist world. It is the responsibility of everyone to do the anti-racism work and to remake our world.
 Thank you. Thank you very much, Kim. Next up is Lorraine Wilson from Civic Life. Good afternoon, Lorraine. Hi. Hi. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Hardesty, Fritz, and Udallie. I am Lorraine Wilson. I'm the Citywide Public Involvement and Equity Management Analyst in Civic Life. I am the daughter of Lloyd and Daphne Gervais, granddaughter of Gregory.
 and Justine Gervais and John and Alice Ashby. I'm an immigrant and a citizen of the United States of America. I moved to this country just about 20 years ago from, and from day one. I have been asked, where are you from? But more significantly, why I came. I am testifying before you today, acknowledging my privilege as an Afro-Caribbean woman,
 whose ancestors was brought over on ships to be enslaved on plantations, with millions of African bodies lying at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean, like my American people. This is where my history differs from African American. African, Afro-Caribbean transition from enslavement proceeded not without its own challenges, but, and by no means perfect. I have spent time learning African American history
 which include Juneteenth, Jim Crow, civil rights, lynching, and the systemic racism that is the fabric of this country. When I present, I'm seen as a Black woman first. When I speak, I am perceived as not being from here. My accent is assumed to be from Jamaica. Side note or fun fact, there are a chain of islands located in the Caribbean Sea called the West Indies.
 might be worth spending some time learning about them if you still choose. Today the city is recognizing June 19th as a holiday in observation of Juneteenth, a day I have learned about, participated in, and have become a part of my new life. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to share what this means to me. It means the beginning of a whole number of things that the City of Portland needs to do.
 It means that it is the removal of racist and white supremacist practices and policies. When in a global pandemic, the default is that black staff is unduly scrutinized and checked on by their supervisors and managers to ensure that they're doing their jobs and not slacking off.
 when Black supervisors and managers are disrespected and sidelined and not supported because of anti- because of racist and anti-Black sentiments by their staff, leadership and their managers. It means that no longer would a bureau director be able to fire a Black employee by phone
 because of his unacknowledged racism, because he thought that they are not worth the time to be treated with respect.
 It means no more when a Black person attends a Ziggy Marley concert at the Oregon Zoo and decides to stand up to dance that the Portland Police Department is called by the white security officer on them. And the only reason that the police paused and did not act was because I made it obvious that I was recording them on my cell phone dancing while Black. It means no more that Black employees are represented
 are overrepresented in the pool of employees who are kept on a temporary status longer than any other demographic at the City of Portland. It means that no longer Black employees need to speak up for more than three years about the overt racist behaviors of their fellow employees with nothing being done, threatened,
 It means no longer will the city hire and retain staff who feel comfortable calling their fellow employees nigger and other intimidating behaviors. It means no longer is the recruitment process and interview process puts undue burden on Black candidates when they are either the preferred candidate or the position is seen to be a Black position.
 with additional rounds of interviews or assignments to prove that they are qualified. When no longer black candidates have to prove that they are qualified for a position by showing they have the experience and qualification, while white candidates with no experience or qualification are seen as having potential, it is about economic justice. I can go on but I'm tired.
 I'm tired for having to fight this fight. I am tired because it's in fighting this fight I'm seen and spoken of as disruptive and blocked from opportunities. I'm tired that because I bring my whole self to work and in every space I show up, others have penalized me for it.
 However, as I mentioned above, I come from a lineage of individuals who have taught me that I have no choice but to stand up and step out when I see injustice, brutality, and racism. I was taught to push forward regardless of consequences because at the end of the day, I have to live with myself and I have to love and like what I see in the mirror.
 I'm tired. I hope that the city of Portland is finally committed to acknowledging its wrongs and move forward with systemic changes that center Black employees and stand against racist and anti-Black practices by actions, not gestures. I want to end with a quote from Coria Rankin.
 Because making other people uncomfortable is thought worse than racism. Thank you for this opportunity. Lorraine, as mayor and as a resident of this community, I want to thank you for the testimony you just provided. And I want to acknowledge the hurt that you're expressing and the injustice that you've struggled with here at the City of Portland. And I thank you for sharing it.
 I thank you for taking that burden on. And now we've heard you and the responsibility is ours to address it. So thank you for being here. And thank you for what I thought was incredibly powerful testimony. Thank you for sharing that with us. I see Commissioner Hardesty has her hand raised. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. I was actually going to wait until all the testimony was done before I weighed in. But Lorraine, I cannot let your testimony go unrecognized and unappreciated. And let me just say that what I know to be true is that there's not a Black person in America who has not had your lived experience. And I want to appreciate your honesty in speaking truth to power today.
 It's absolutely necessary if we're ever going to get to the other side. So I just wanted to take a moment to say thank you. All the power of testimony so far has been powerful, but you cut right to the chase. And for that, I am very grateful. I was raised by like with parents like yours, right? You stand up for what's right, regardless of the consequences. And you have done us proud today, as well as your parents. Thank you.
 Thank you, Lorraine. We're proud to have you as part of the city team. Next up is Shalonda Simpson from the Bureau of Human Resources. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Shalonda Simpson, and I'm the Senior HR Analyst for the Bureaus of Transportation and Development Services. I am
 a little emotional because Lorraine, I see you and I hear you and I appreciate your testimony today. I was born a Portland native, but I was raised abroad. So my perspective of the city varies very differently from a lot of my colleagues who were either born and raised here or who have been flat out called gentrifiers by Portland natives for what
 ever reason these divisions happened within our city. My family roots are based in Portland. My maternal great grandparents migrated here from Waco, Texas, and my paternal great grandparents migrated here from Beaumont. My legacy comes from stories of resiliency.
 The impact of the Vanport floods on my ancestors caused them to brave new territory by being some of the first Black Americans to move to the Bagley Downs Housing Project in Vancouver, Washington. The NAACP of Vancouver has actually documented history of my family's migration as some of the first citizens to move.
 break the color barriers there. My grandmother was a nurse in the state of Texas, and when she moved here, it took the Washington Department of Health almost three years to verify her certifications and her training.
 So when we speak about systemic oppression in the history of it, there is an example. She was forced to work as a welder in the Kaiser shipyards, but her training was maternity labor and delivery. My paternal great grandparents had property that was taken through eminent domain in the development of the Memorial Coliseum.
 They used their resiliency to pull together money and purchase a four-story home in the Irvington neighborhood and use that distress to funnel family members and friends from Beaumont, Texas to the city of Portland and help them with their connections in securing livable wage jobs through the Kaiser Shipyards, Best Kaiser Hospital, and the Union Pacific Railroads.
 My paternal grandparents survived the gentrification of the Boise neighborhood, and our family history is actually documented on an OPP documentary that's currently housed in the Oregon Historical Society Museum. My discovery of said documentary was just recent within the last six years, and it causes me great grief because my great-grandmother was killed by a drunk driver before I turned two.
 and discovering this documentary, it was the first time that I heard her speak. My most recent footprint and contribution to the Black Portland Legacy continues as my cousin designed the artwork for the murals on the Black Williams Project, the Black Alberta Project, and the mural that hangs in the Portland Building's Lily Weeks room.
 In 2018, my mother and I took my daughter on a girls' trip to the National Memorial for Peace and Justice to pass down a heritage of resiliency to her. I say all this to give you insight as to who I am and how I have taught my children that their voice matters and it's important for them to speak back.
 I provided the history of my ties to Portland as a frame of reference to inform you all that I'm reminded daily of the resiliency of Black Portland each time I navigate my community. My family has always celebrated Juneteenth because we come from Texas and my ancestors were those slaves who were freed by Union soldiers two years after the Emancipation Proclamation.
 I returned to Portland in 2004, three days before James J. Harp Perez was murdered by the police within 24 seconds of being pulled over. At the time, my son was 10 years old. My cry at that time was, what have I done to my child? By relocating to a city that I love dearly because of my ties to family, am I exposing him to brutality? Am I putting his life in jeopardy
 And I say this having lived in cities such as Chicago, Atlanta, Boston, where racial tragedies against African Americans and citizens in general run rampant. I was concerned about bringing my son to a community that would allow him to be judged within half a minute of his life.
 I speak on the shoulders of my children because they are brilliant, resilient, wonderful, intellectual, smart, bright, curious, funny, and happy children. But the legacy that they wear on their shoulders is the color of their skin. That is what is used to determine the value of their life when people who don't know them see them.
 I wondered if I'd step back in time to a place where an emboldened racist America had placed a commodity on the lives and value of my children and myself. I mean, this was 2004, for goodness sake. I was outdone.
 I was raised abroad, as I mentioned, and I prided myself on being well-educated on the cultures of some of my friends, from Filipino to Guamanian to Samoan, Puerto Rican, Italian, French, German, and Afro-Caribbean. I was proud to celebrate the differences and appreciate the different lenses that I could view the world and form an opinion.
 So I'd wonder, have we traveled backwards in the 13 years since I left Frankfurt, Germany and returned to the United States? In the years that have followed since that first murder that I experienced in the city of Portland, I've experienced micro and macro aggressions as well as blatant racism from some of Oregon and Portland's citizens.
 The subtle and more passive aggressive racism from unaware allies, from well-meaning accomplices, and from those whose ambiguous position on my livelihood, of which their position can change with the wind flow, is just damaging. Many times those slights sting a little bit more from those who are well educated because their assumed position should be that they're better informed
 Having people in positions of power that can and do use those positions to maintain the status quo has cost this region of the country some gifted and bright Black professionals. They come, we recruit them, we give them everything that we've given everyone else, and they leave in droves. They don't stay here, they don't plant roots.
 When we ask why it's because of the blatant racism that they experienced in other parts of the country is a little more palpable for them. It's easier to handle what you know to be true than to deal with the passive aggressive Portland niceness and organizedness racism that prevails in this community. It can come across sometimes as cultural appropriation, mimicry, and worse yet, disregard.
 Accomplices and allies that co-opt black intellectual capital and thought, with or without proper reference to the originator of the thought, is the most accepted form of colonization in 2020. And this is what runs rampant in the community of Portland. The city's recognition of this holiday shows a willingness to hear these communities. It shows a willingness to learn and grow from those communities' collective experiences.
 and it shows the city's desire to move the needle forward in a spirit of truly overcoming the many years of oppression that we faced every day as Black people in Portland. The reimagined core values are timely, necessary, and welcome. I want to thank you for hearing my testimony and the testimony of my colleagues and for applying your actions to your walk. Thank you. Thank you, Shalonda. Appreciate it. Next up.
 Leslie Goodloe, the Portland Housing Bureau's Equity Manager. Good afternoon, Leslie. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, and actually I'm the Equity and Business Operations Manager. Twan is our Equity Manager. So I'm here today to speak in support of the ordinance to make Juneteenth a city holiday. Not because I need another day off.
 because I've got just about six weeks of vacation that I haven't used, but because this represents a giant step forward for the city of Portland. I've spent a great deal of time thinking about how I could say or what I could say, not knowing how others were going to approach this. I decided to tell you how...
 Historic dates correlate with my life and with my family and how those dates and things impacted me as a Black person. Last week was the 53rd anniversary of the Loving case, which struck down miscegenation laws across the country. The last state to remove the language did so in the year 2000.
 I was born to an interracial couple in 1965, two years before it was legal in many states for my parents to be together. And due to them being together, my mother's first children from her, three children from her first marriage, three blonde-haired, blue-eyed children were removed from her custody because the judge said it was inappropriate for a Black man to raise a
 three white children when he was not caring for his own gigaboos. Ruby Bridges, who most people know about, she was the first student to integrate an all-white high school in 19- I mean elementary school in 1960, is only 10 years older than me, so it's not that far away. And in 1971, when we moved to Portland from a small town in Illinois,
 The language was still in the state constitution prohibiting black people from living in the state, and it was not removed until the year 2001. In 1907, the first Rose Festival was held. I think everybody knows I've been part of the Rose Festival for a long time. In 2007, I was honored to be the first black president of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation.
 Not lost on me that Black people were not even able to participate or attend the Rose Festival in 1907. And the fact that I was now the president. Unfortunately, three incidents occurred that cast a shadow on my presidency. At all three parades, the Grand Floral Parade, the Junior Parade, and the Starlight Parade, I was refused admittance to the parade route to the staging area by Portland police.
 I was driving a Rose Festival car. I had on my badge. I had a parking permit that would allow me into the staging area. And I was not allowed in. A car full of people. My daughters were both small. Blamed who I was, that I was supposed to be in the parades. And they would not let me through. Finally, after several phone calls, someone got through and said to let me in. And I arrived at...
 the junior parade just before they got off the gun to start the parade. Why do I bring this up? Because no other president before me or since has had issues with the police allowing them into the parade. I was embarrassed, I was hurt, I was troubled that even as the head of the organization putting on the parade, I was stopped by the police. All they saw was a car full of brown people.
 Which leads me back to Juneteenth. I hear all the time, why is slavery still an issue? That was a long time ago. No one alive had slaves or was a slave. It's an issue because the benefits of it are still felt today. All of the privilege, as well as the racist, discriminatory, and disparate actions and treatment that all stem from that peculiar institution.
 There's much more that I could talk about today. Oregon's history as a white utopia, the lash laws, redlining, identification. But I won't because this is not supposed to be a history lesson, but instead advocacy for council to support the ordinance. I support this ordinance because I believe it is a step forward. And I pray that other cities and jurisdictions in Oregon follow suit.
 I want to particularly thank my fellow Brantonian, Chair Khafre, for making Juneteenth a holiday for county employees. This is important. It is critical that change is not just words, not just written on paper, but it is real, it is actionable, and it's accountable. Quote Maya Angelou, do the best that you can do until you know better.
 But when you know better, you should do better. And we know better. Excuse me. Thank you for giving me this opportunity. Thank you, Leslie. We appreciate your leadership. Thank you for sharing your perspective. And our last invited testimony this morning is none other than Cupid Alexander from the mayor's office. Cupid, good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners Hardesty, Fritz, and Ewe Daly. Before I start, I wanted to give some space so we can let those who spoke before me have their message absorbed. For the record, my name is Cupid Alexander, and along with having the privilege of working with many of you on behalf of the mayor in various capacities, I am also a generational Lifelong Portlander. I come from generations of people who helped us. All of us get to this point.
 I'm also here to represent so many young Black Portlanders whose voices are not centered in the actions concerning their future. So in my testimony, I'll spare you the exalted words of the value of the moment. Instead, I will use my time to acknowledge the many before us, the many after us, and this work just beginning.
 The famed attorney Bryan Stevenson said, and I quote, when the ideals of your mind are fueled by the convictions of your heart, then you become part of something that can endure. It's in that sentiment that I recognize the actions of our value statement, the actions of our Juneteenth celebration carry the blood, sweat, and tears of so many African-American and Black individuals.
 The actions of changing both the narrative and the narrator, of franchising the disenfranchised of our efforts to truly begin this work. See, I'm fully aware of the trees that have been planted by the members of generations past who knew they would not get the chance to enjoy it. They planted it for me, for all of us.
 our aunts, our uncles, our cousins, our grandmothers and grandfathers, our nanas, our papas, our big daddies and big mamas, come on y'all, those whose ideas of an inclusive Portland was visionary and whose ethereal presence is empowered by knowing we are here today. And yet we know this is a means and not the end. Council, I'm glad here by conviction, by the sacrifices of my mother, by the commitment of my grandmother,
 by the fortitude of my great-grandfather who took his young and expansive family and migrated from the southern United States to the Pacific Northwest. It's that fortitude
 and that recognition of our efforts, of all of our efforts, to make sure our Black community feels franchised and safe, that is captured in the spirit of all of our value statements and our celebration of Juneteenth. And it's this work that moves our path towards reconciliation. Council, I thank you for taking up this work.
 and thank you for sparing a few minutes to invite me to testify. And in closing, I leave you with a quote by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, who started what has now become Black History Month, which states, the real servant of the people must live among them, think with them, feel for them, and die for them. Thank you. Thank you, Cupid. Appreciate your remarks. So colleagues, that concludes invited testimony. Before we go to public testimony, I believe Commissioner Fritz
 had another amendment that she would like to add to the ordinance and then i'll move to commissioner hardesty she's had her hand raised for quite some time commissioner fritz
 Thank you, Mayor. I have an amendment to the Juneteenth ordinance, which was not introduced before. I'm pretty sure the Commissioner Hardesty is going to want to second this, although I haven't talked to her about it, because I know how much she is committed to actions as well as to statements of values. So the amendment is to number 11 in the Juneteenth ordinance.
 ordinance which currently says the city of Portland is committed to deconstructing Institutional and systemic racism and directs all city bureaus to participate in anti-blackness task forces in collaboration with black community members leaders and voices dedicated to identifying solutions internally and externally focused on workplace culture public safety mental health housing inclusion
 income inequality and economic development and prosperity. And my amendment would add the sentence, bureaus must submit quarterly reports on work done on these measures to the Office of Equity and Human Rights. The Office of Equity and Human Rights will include a summary in the annual report to council required in Resolution 37487, which, as you remember, was the one about COVID and our values in that. I second. Thank you.
 We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz and a second from Commissioner Hardesty. It's now on the table. Carla, how many individuals do we have signed up for public testimony? I'm sorry, Commissioner Hardesty, you had more that you wanted out at this point. I'm sorry. Sorry, Mayor. I think my hand was just left up. I'm very happy to wait till after public testimony to weigh in. Very good. Thank you. Carla, how many people do we have signed up for public testimony, please? Okay.
 I'm not showing anyone had time to sign up for this one, Mayor. Very good. With that, Commissioner Hardesty, I hope you've had plenty of time to prepare. First, I want to really appreciate Cupid, Leslie, Millicent, Kim, Shalonda, Lorraine, Dr. Smith, for their real testimony.
 It is refreshing to be on a city council and hear people come and tell the truth about their lived experience as employees of the city of Portland, as people who've had experiences with our police department, as people who are maneuvering in an environment that clearly has been anti-Black for quite some time. So I just wanna honor
 the incredible courage it takes for you to be here today, to be on the public record, to actually speak your truth. And I want you to know how much I greatly appreciate that. I also want to say that it occurs to me as we're having this conversation today, the incredible burden that we're going to place on Black employees, because I don't know about you, but
 am getting a lot of calls from people who consider themselves white allies that are taxing and they are exhausting because it is a way for people to try to
 deal with their personal guilt by reaching out to a Black person and acting like they are going to do something different. And so what I'm hoping with this resolution is that
 We have some clarity about not putting this weight on the shoulders of Black employees at the City of Portland. I mean, I would prefer that we have a space where we invite Black employees in, and I would be happy to facilitate that and come back with some specific recommendations that the rest of my colleagues can entertain.
 Mayor, I just want to say that nothing's worse than being the only Black person in an environment and having every white person come to you and say, oh, what can I do? What can I do? Right? I don't want to set our employees up for that. So though I am in absolute support of the resolution and the Juneteenth holiday, we need to do some more work to ensure that the burden does not fall
 overwhelmingly on the backs of our Black employees. And I am happy to have that conversation offline. But if I'm feeling this, I know every single Black employee at the city of Portland is feeling, do I really have to participate in another conversation to get white people to understand the lived experience of Black folks?
 You know, I have videos, I'd love to like be able to tell city employees, white city employees, how they can educate themselves so that they can prepare for a conversation that's inclusive of Black folks. I think we have some more work to do to ensure that the burden is equally shared, and honestly I think it should be overwhelmingly shared by our white employees.
 because they have some education and learning that they need to do before they are equipped to have a deeper conversation with their Black employees. When I listen to Leslie talk about her experience with the Rose Festival, and then I see how the city of Portland has the Rose Festival as a quote-unquote official celebration for the city,
 I think it's time for us to re-examine that and figure out whether or not the Rose Festival can change to be a festival that actually embraces all of Portland, or if not, maybe there's an opportunity to create something that's more in line with who we are. The history of the Rose Festival is problematic, and, you know, I mentioned this before, and I didn't know where to bring it, but in this conversation today, if we're being intentional about how do we
 How do we address the anti-blackness that is really within not just the city of Portland, but is that the county, is that the state, it's in every governmental institution that we have. If we're going to be a model, I hope that the city of Portland is a model that does it in a way that is...
 that actually models the behavior that we're looking for, that our white folks will take the lead, educate themselves and actually learn something about what role they have played and keeping this racially inequitable system functioning and working for them.
 So I just wanted to say that I'm happy to vote for the resolution and what we're doing today, but I don't want to leave this conversation and have that burden on the shoulders of Black employees who already have an enormous burden just getting through the day-to-day life as a Black person experiencing all that's happening in our world right now. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Fritz?
 So I'm not going to put Leslie Goodloe on the spot again because I really appreciated her comments. I do, Commissioner Hardesty, need to note that it was the police who were abusive to her. It was not the Rose Festival. And so I would encourage you to have a conversation with her because she remains one of the biggest champions for the Rose Festival you'd ever want to meet.
 I appreciate that. And I'm not saying anything bad about the Rose Festival, but it was created during a time where Black and Brown people could not participate, right? And no matter how you make a bad system better, I think that it's always, this is a great opportunity for us to actually reflect on all the things that we've done.
 that have been systemically put in place for people that didn't look like me, right? And now people that look like me are supposed to fit into a system that was never designed for us. So no, just, you know, I love the children's parade, a big fan, but if we're talking about systems and we're talking about actually supporting systems that were not put in place
 for people that look like me. I think all of them must be re-examined and we need to ensure that they are gonna be equitable. If the city is gonna invest resources, then it has to reflect the values that the city of Portland is putting on the table today.
 Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, it's now my privilege to read a proclamation for the City Council. I want to be very clear, this is a proclamation that was not written by my office. It has come from the community. This has been brought forward by the Juneteenth, Oregon folks. And so without further ado, I'll read this on behalf of all of us.
 Whereas Independence Day movement initiated by the Declaration of Independence on July 4th, 1776, did not include the enslaved descendants of Africans, nor were they recognized as full human beings under the Declaration of Independence, and whereas our country is made up of people from every nation on earth,
 who are declared equal not only in freedom but also in justice, both of which are essential for a healthy human civilization.
 And whereas President Abraham Lincoln signed an executive order known as the Emancipation Proclamation, providing that all persons held as slaves within any state or designated part of a state, quote, shall be then, thenceforward, and forever free, unquote, on New Year's Day, January 1st, 1863. And whereas
 Hearing the proclamation, many slaves escaped to Union lines as the army units moved south, and whereas slave owners in the Confederate states continued to enslave people in defiance of the Emancipation Proclamation,
 And whereas, after the Civil War ended on April 9, 1865, the Union Army was dispatched to the Confederate States to restore order and to ensure that the Emancipation Proclamation was enforced. And whereas, on June 19, 1865, almost two and a half years later, Major General Gordon Granger arrived in Galveston, Texas,
 and announced the end of both the Civil War and slavery with this announcement, quote, the people of Texas are informed that in accordance with a proclamation from the executive of the United States, all slaves are free.
 This involves an absolute equality of personal rights and rights of property between former masters and slaves, and the connection heretofore existing between them becomes that between employer and hired labor. The freedmen are advised to remain at their present homes and to work for wages.
 They are informed that they will not be allowed to collect at military posts, and they will not be supported in idleness, either there or elsewhere."
 And whereas June 19th is the oldest and most widely known celebration of African American emancipation and a time for revival meetings, family reunions, and celebrations of freedom, including pilgrimages by slaves and descendants of slaves to Galveston,
 And whereas June 19th is the freedom forerunner to the 13th Amendment to the United States Constitution, which granted freedom to all slaves born in the United States, and the date is pivotal in our nation's Independence Day movement,
 Whereas, in 1945, Vanport resident Clara Peoples, the quote, mother of Juneteenth, unquote, brought the tradition from Muskogee, Oklahoma, to the Kaiser Shipyard in Oregon, celebrating Juneteenth for the first time here in the state of Oregon.
 This celebration continues. Juneteenth, Oregon traditionally kicks off with the Clara Peoples Freedom Trail Parade followed by a community festival. This is a time to celebrate and honor African Americans' freedom with an emphasis on education and achievement. Whereas in 1997, the 105th United States Congress passed Senate Joint Resolution 11 and
 and House Joint Resolution 56 officially recognizing Juneteenth Independence Day. And whereas in 2001, Juneteenth became a statewide holiday, we're in the state of Oregon in 2001 when Clara Peoples and Woody Broadnax worked with Senator A. Vel Gordly to have Juneteenth recognized in Oregon as a statewide day of observance and declaration.
 Juneteenth is to be a day for celebration statewide of the dignity, worth, and freedom of all citizens. Members of the 71st Oregon Legislative Assembly passed Joint Resolution 56 that proclaims June 19th of each year as Juneteenth Independence Day. Whereas,
 A formal apology for slavery, House Concurrent Resolution 356 was sponsored in the United States Congress by Representative Tony Hall of Ohio at the first annual Washington Juneteenth 2000 National Holiday Observance.
 And now, therefore, we, the City of Portland, do hereby proclaim June 19, 2020, as Juneteenth in Portland, Oregon. Due to the pandemic of 2020, Juneteenth, Oregon will be untraditional with a virtual celebration streamed online for everyone
 to celebrate. And here is the official copy of the proclamation. And I want to extend my personal thanks for all of our city employees who gave their testimony today on a very powerful, powerful commendation, commemoration. Thank you all. So with that,
 We have both the resolution and the ordinance. First on the resolution, we'll vote on the three Fritz amendments that were brought forward. Carla, could you please call the roll? And if it's okay, I will package the three amendments. If there is any objection to that. So let me know right now. I don't see it. So Carla, the package of amendments one through three offered by commissioner Fritz, could you please call the roll?
 Hardesty. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for the partnership of Dr. Marquesha Smith and the staff of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendments are adopted to the main motion, the resolution as amended. Carla, could you please call the roll? Hardesty. Aye. Udalli. I want to thank Dr. Alison Prasad for her invaluable contributions to BHR and the city.
 Adopting anti-racism, equity, transparency, communication, collaboration, and fiscal responsibility as core values anchors our intentions. I appreciate all the hard work that was done with community members to get us to this point and the explicit direction that dismantling institutional and systemic racism will be the responsibility of every city, employee, and Portland resident. I vote aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Thank you, Kathy Blast, in addition for your leadership and partnership. It's greatly appreciated. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for your leadership. Bye. Wheeler. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Thank you, everyone. Now to the ordinance. First of all, we'll take a vote on the technical ordinance amendment that I put forth. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Nguyen.
 Wheeler. Aye. The amendment carries. Next was Commissioner Fritz's amendment to item number 11. Any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Udeli. Aye. Fritz. I appreciate all of my colleagues being willing to continue to give authority to the Office of Equity and Human Rights and to acknowledge its role in requiring accountability from all of our bureaus. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. The amendment is adopted. Now to the main motion, the ordinance as amended. Please call the roll. Hardesty? You daily. I want to thank and apologize to Deputy Director Millicent Williams, who helped prepare some really wonderful remarks for me on this item. In the moment, I didn't feel like reading a long prepared statement. I needed to pause.
 take a beat and keep absorbing what our city employees were sharing with us. So I will share that online. I don't want your work to go to waste. I also want to congratulate you on your promotion in February to Deputy Director. We never got to celebrate because of the shutdown.
 And I want to thank you for your outstanding work. I also want to highlight the amazing work of our equity and inclusion manager, Irene Marion, and thank the members of our Transportation Justice Steering Committee for their service to our Bureau and to our city. I feel really lucky to get to work with all of you and to have inherited a Bureau that was really poised to do this work.
 It's an honor. I also want to thank Lorraine Wilson, who is our citywide public involvement and equity management analyst. That's a mouthful. She works for Civic Life. She does vital work on Adapt to Impact and the Public Involvement Advisory Committee, and we are really lucky to have her at the Bureau.
 I finally just want to thank all of the city employees who gave testimony today. It was powerful and moving. You know, most of us only know each other in this very formal, I think, unnatural professional environment. And while it pains me to hear your stories today,
 and I regret that you feel compelled to share them. They're powerful and meaningful, and I just want to appreciate your bravery and thank you for your testimony today. Bye, Vodai. Great.
 Once again, I feel that my role here is to amplify your voices. So, Mayor, I have a second request in addition to putting a link and a video to Commissioner Harder's Youth Test Me on the budget on the front page of the website, that you also put a video of this presentation because the words of our colleagues were very powerful. And I thank each one of you for your bravery, your courage and your stick-to-it-ness. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Wheeler. We'll take care of that, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for the recommendation. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you, everybody. And thank you especially to our city employees who gave testimony today. It was powerful. Well received. Thank you so much. It looks like we've got seven minutes for lunch, huh? Oh, we're not done yet. Oh, darn. Well, I just want to say thank you to Bryson. He was very well behaved in that particular hearing. So good job, Bryson.
 So, colleagues, here's what we're going to do. We're going to blow through the consent items. I think Commissioner Eadaly is going to withdraw a couple to her office. And then at the end, let's see what time it is. And then we will delay convening the afternoon session because I know we've had a long morning and all of us are probably ravenous. Commissioner Fritz, you have your hand up and you're muted.
 Sorry. Thank you. Nearly got through it. We had dozens attending earlier. We only have six here, so it could be that the people who pulled the items are no longer here and we can vote on them anyway. Yeah, that's my thought. Carla, 466, please. Appoint Richard Helzer, A. Young, Lee, and Scott Bradley to the Towing Board of Review for terms to expire June 1, 2022.
 All right, I'll turn that over to Patrick Kramer. Good afternoon, Patrick. Hi, can you hear me okay? Yeah. Hi, this is Mark Williams. I'm sorry, Mark, I apologize. I thought it was Patrick. Thank you. No, his name was on the paperwork there. So good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Mark Williams. I'm with the Regulatory Division. I'm the Division Manager, and with me today is our Towing Coordinator, Patrick Kramer.
 Before you today is a recommendation to reappoint three current public members of the Tow Board. The current board and charter are governed by Portland City Code Chapter 3.98, the Towing Board in Review, and is referenced in 16 contracts between the city, our agencies, and our tow contractors. The existence of the board in its current form is necessary for the continuation of those contracts in the program.
 We are currently in the process of drafting an RFQ, which will result in new agreements with our tow partners. The new agreements will also reflect the updated city policy for committees and advisory bodies pursuant to this council's direction to the Office of Community and Civic Life, outlined in Resolution 37328 and adopted by council in November 2017.
 When the RFQ is finaled, we will return to this council with a recommendation to repeal the existing code dissolving the board and replace it with an advisory committee. Until that time, we're asking that the existing public members continue their temporary role while we work through this work. Immediately following the change to the body and upon council approval, we will conduct a citywide recruitment effort to fill those public seats. We will work with immigrant communities and communities of color to encourage participation.
 So in summary, this reappointment allows the current board to continue this work with us uninterrupted to implement these new agreements. And that really concludes my presentation. I hope Patrick and I are here to answer any questions. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Mark and Patrick, for being here. My question is, what's changed in towing since the last time you've been in front of the Portland City Council? And what's the new RFQ going to provide that we currently don't have?
 So currently we have roughly about 12 to 16 contracted towers. One of the things that we hope to accomplish in this RFQ is to attract some additional towers, and particularly in the C-class territory. These are the big rigs that are used to tow large RV vehicles as part of our Derelict RV program.
 But it will also change the power, if you will, of the board. This board has a lot of power. This current system has been in place, I believe, since 1974. This board has been established and most advisory bodies don't have
 the ability to approve city contracts and the ability to, this RFQ, for example, must be approved by the board. So we want to change that. And then we're just going to make all the necessary changes to the program that reflect the market, the total market as it is today.
 So I'm very interested in what the racially disparate data is about who gets their auto towed, who loses their auto because they can't afford to actually get a ride to go out to the boondocks to pick their car up, etc., etc. In all the years I've been following Portland Towing, it is the most racist, classist, racist,
 department that we have at the city of Portland. And we have absolutely no data and no accountability built into that system. We have made millionaires out of people who've gotten contracts behind closed doors, and there is no accountability. I want to assure you that that will never, ever, ever happen again, not as long as I'm at the city of Portland.
 And I need you when you come back, not just to bring an RFQ. I need data. I need the demographic data. I need to know what these contractors are making at the expense of poor people and how you're going to fundamentally change how towing happens in the city of Portland. This is not acceptable to me. And this has been an issue for as long as I've lived in the city of Portland. So you said this thing's been around since the early 60s. I'm really not surprised.
 and I will tell you that it has absolutely been benefiting from the most low-income people in our community. And I am absolutely appalled that the city of Portland has this name attached to this towing industry. So, thank you.
 When's it changing? How soon can we expect the change? Because people have been waiting for this change for decades. And how will we know it's changed? And how will you be more transparent? Because your ability to be transparent does not exist currently. So those are my questions. And sorry it took so long to get to them. And we don't have a lot of time to answer it, but...
 This is something that actually does not represent the values that the city of Portland has articulated and passed resolutions around. If I may interject, I really appreciate your thoughts and your comments there. One point of clarification is the towing program. We have contracts with the towers who tow at the request of different agencies. So those different agencies have different policies on who they tow.
 One thing I can share that somewhat can address your concerns that we have a practice of is our towers are located throughout the city and those tows are assigned to towers who are in the vicinity of where the tow occurred so then the citizen doesn't have to travel as far to pick up their vehicle. Patrick, could I just say if somebody's playing the drums or something it's hard to hear.
 I don't know. Sorry. It's very weird. Every time Patrick talks, there's a drumbeat behind him. It's actually sort of mesmerizing. It makes Patrick very dramatic while he's answering questions.
 I'm sorry, did you catch my comment though? I did catch your comment and I don't know whether I agree with your comment, but here's what I would like to do. I would really like you to reach out to my office for us to have a deeper conversation about where you are today and where you hope to go in the future. And I think quite frankly, there are some predatory tours that should never get another contract from the city of Portland. And if you don't know who they are, that will be problematic, so...
 Thank you very much. Appreciate you being here today. Thank you so much. And I think, thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. I think our timing is really well right now because we can have this conversation and we can make sure we incorporate that language that allows us that control in those contracts.
 Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly had a question, but before I get to you, Commissioner Udaly, I just want to check something here with Carla. Carla, it's now past 2 p.m. Are people joining now in anticipation of the 2 p.m. session? That is a possibility. I just want to put the word out for those of you who are joining us for the 2 p.m. session. We have not finished the 9.30 p.m. session.
 And what we will be doing before we get to the 2 p.m. session is finish the 930 session. And then we are going to take at least a half an hour break because that's necessary. I don't know how else to put it. So just want people to be aware of that. Commissioner Udaly, you're up.
 Oh, thank you, Mayor. I share many of Commissioner Hardesty's concerns about towing, and it is important to remember that different bureaus have different policies. With PBOT, one of the things we did early on was change our policies around towing so-called abandoned or derelict vehicles when it was clear that people were actually living in them. And
 When the story came out about the towing company that was involved in wrongful
 persecution and accusations against a Portland resident, I immediately severed that contract. One of my bones to pick with towing is that we have rampant car theft in Portland. It's a problem. A lot of crime has gone down in virtually every arena, but we have a lot of car theft
 And people who are the victims of car theft are given a very short window of time by the police bureau to come retrieve their car before it's towed. And they have to, like Commissioner Hardesty said, they have to travel who knows how far without a vehicle, mind you, to go pay hundreds of dollars to get their car out of the lot when...
 through no fault of their own, it was towed. So I'd love to have those conversations as well. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. We'll make sure that we keep in touch with both offices going forward. Very good. Colleagues, this is a report. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. Commissioner Udaly moves. Commissioner Hardesty seconds. Any further discussion on this item? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Second.
 I know the conversation today was about reappointing individuals to this board. And, but as always, I take the opportunity when people come in front of us to talk about issues that my constituents continue to bring to my attention and is a big concern of theirs. And so I appreciate your answers. I look forward to working with you both.
 And let me say, let me just ask this question. If I vote yes, and you find out you can change this structure sooner, does that mean that we're stuck with this former structure for two more years? No, no. In that case, I vote aye, thank you. You, Daley. Well, I wanna thank the appointees or reappointees for their service to our city, and I vote aye.
 Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Yes, I want to thank Richard Hulser, Ang Ang Lee, and Scott Bradley for being willing to step up. I vote aye. The report is accepted. 467, please.
 Authorized grant agreement up to $73,000 to Southwest Neighborhoods Inc. to provide outreach, technical assistance, and community involvement for watershed projects in Westside sub-watersheds. And this was pulled by, it looks like Jackie Volkoff. Jackie, are you with us? I'm not seeing on the attendees. Going once, going twice.
 This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance and moves to second reading. Item 468, please. Accept a grant in the amount of $18,000 from Portland General Electric to support Smart City PDX air quality sensor project to improve engagement, communication, and action on air quality and public health. This was pulled by Nathan Stein. Nathan, are you with us? I'm guessing a lot of people are probably not. All right.
 Please call the roll. Hardesty. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted 469, and this was pulled. Go ahead and read it.
 Authorize the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Director to execute application support grants for a total allocation not to exceed $200,000 from the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund to assist small nonprofit organizations serving historically marginalized communities to build their capacity and prepare for grant opportunities. And 469 was pulled by Andy Wofford. Andy, are you on the line?
 Is there any further public testimony on this one, Carla? I'm not seeing anyone else signed up for this. Emergency ordinance, please call the roll. Artistein.
 I think this is a very responsible for proposal. The Portland Clean Energy Fund will have for the first time great opportunity for frontline communities to really take control of their work around climate mitigation. And this will allow those very small organizations that's not the usual suspects to be able to apply for a grant.
 to help them be able to develop their application. I am so happy with the work that's being done around the Portland Clean Energy Fund initiative, and I'm greatly appreciative of the staff foresight to understand that many community-based organizations led by Black and Indigenous and other people of color just don't have the resources to even prepare for this kind of stuff. So I am very happy to vote aye. Daly? Daly?
 Just exciting to start to see PSF items coming across our desk. I think this is a great use of our resources and I'm happy to vote aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is 474. Oops, one down, two left, sorry.
 amend contract with FC Hurdle Consulting LLC in the amount of $75,000 to provide additional community stakeholder engagement consulting services. And Commissioner Hardesty, I understand you pulled this. Did you have a specific question or did you want to hear the presentation? I actually, because of the lateness of the hour,
 I don't need to hear the presentation. My concern, my specific question was around the community grants, trying to figure out why we're giving out $250 gift certificates and what doesn't appear to be a thoughtful way. So I'm just wondering why we're asking for money just to turn around and give it out when our ECC is doing the exact same thing to the exact communities that you're reaching out to. Very good, Director Perez.
 Yes, I am happy to answer that. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Really, I think between OCT and HURTLE, the idea around being able to provide gift cards is really compensating community members for sharing their lived experiences and giving us their time to help inform the plans that we are putting forward. So I think it was the intention of
 our bureau and hurdle consulting to make sure that, you know, we are compensating people for giving us the information that we need to do the work.
 So I thank you for that Elizabeth I appreciate that I, we had a conversation earlier this year about how the city council would actually compensate people who serve on boards and commissions and that has not come back to the city council for affirmation.
 I don't wanna do individual things that one bureau comes up with if we don't have a city council policy about how we do that. During this COVID time, we have been very intentional about making sure that we're putting money in the hands of very low income people.
 But I see absolutely no connection between what the Office of Technology is doing and the need to put money in the hands of people right now who are really suffering in our community. So for me, it's a disconnect. And I just would not support...
 If we don't have any way of knowing whether or not we're actually doubling or tripling individuals, getting that $250 card, it just seems like it's a great idea. And it's something I would support in normal times. This is not normal times. And I just don't think that's a good investment at this moment. So I do have Rebecca Givins, who's our digital equity coordinator. And I also have Conrad Hurdle on.
 and you know I would defer to Conrad if he was here is Conrad here
 If not, I would just say that our intention, this is Rebecca Gibbons, Office for Community Technology, was to engage with residents, residents who have lived experiences, have been digitally disconnected and on the other side of the digital divide, and that we know that we would be coming to them, asking for their time and wanting to compensate them, and along with that gift card would be some information.
 potential instructions on how to buy a device or where low-cost internet service would be available to them. So it was a way to be less extracting from our community when we were trying to partner with them in the development of the next phase digital equity action plan. I will also say that you know that being said we do have the ability to amend the contract so if that's something that council isn't interested in providing at this point we have the ability to make that change.
 Well, when we are asked to extend a contract that started as $12,000 and the bulk of the money that you're asking to add to the contract really has nothing to do with the work that the contractor is contracted to do, that raises warning signs for me. And then when I read that it was gift cards...
 And we have bought thousands of gift cards that the ECC is currently giving out to the very people that you are trying to connect with. I'm just wondering why you're not putting that information inside the e-mail.
 the stuff that we're giving to very low income families, the food boxes that we're putting the $250 gift card in, it just seems like we are not well coordinated when we talk about frontline communities and we talk about people who are really living on the edge at the moment.
 I would be really annoyed if I had too many city people coming to me, one behind the other, saying we're here to help. To me, this does not feel that this is well thought out and it's certainly not coordinated with the vision that the city of Portland has moving forward. So I
 I am only one voice on this council, but I would not support a proposal like this because I don't want to create inequitable outcomes or systems within the city of Portland. And until we as a council have actually decided how we will compensate people for their engagement, I don't, I can't support this.
 I, you know, I, Conrad was supposed to be jumping on, you know, this is, again, something that we can amend. I understand the need to have kind of a citywide policy. My concern with waiting for a citywide policy is, you know, again, not, we do a lot of surveying a community and asking for input. And, you know, I have...
 My concern is not, you know, like that is low income to be able to be compensated for providing us their lived experience. But I want to do it in a way that's transparent and fair and that we can track whether or not we're actually meeting the needs that we say we're trying to meet. And this proposal doesn't do that for me.
 Okay. I'd be happy to work with your office further on this. I think Commissioner Daly, did you have a comment or is that just a residual hand raise there? Commissioner Ritz then.
 Thank you. I appreciate you raising these concerns, Commissioner Hardesty. The challenge we have is that they're already some community members who are getting compensated for participating in various things and others who are not. So we, as you say, when we had the discussion of it citywide, we said we should coordinate. However, we're not saying to everybody else, you need to stop paying your volunteers or, you know, giving them a stipend or gift card.
 So I'm not sure what the right answer is in this particular case.
 And I'd like to also note that Conrad is now on. So Conrad, Commissioner Hardesty was asking about the gift cards to individuals and wondering if you could give a little bit of thought into that. So I'm going to save us all some time. I'm struggling here wondering how this thing got on the consent agenda. If half of the people on the council are expressing reservations, I'm pulling it back to my office. So for 475, I'm pulling back.
 I'm sorry, $474. I'm pulling back to my office. Commissioner Daly, did you have a comment? I can't tell. No. No, okay, thank you. $475, please. $475, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the Connected Cully project for an estimated $4,721,823. Commissioner Daly.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm pulling this item back to my office and I will reschedule it at a later time. Without objection, 476, please. Authorize a contract with the lowest possible bidder for the red electric rail project for an estimated $4,756,291. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Mayor. Once again, pulling this item back to my office and it will be rescheduled at a later time.
 Thank you. Carla, item 477? Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Prosper Portland to add a 40% surcharge to related permits to support the Portland Film Office. So I believe this was pulled by Mr. Michael Whitby. Is Michael on? Going once, going twice, three times. Carla, call the roll on 477. Okay. Curtis T? Udailey?
 Well, thank you everyone, I hope, for your support. This surcharge will be applied to this year to cover costs and better cover the full costs of our film office. I vote aye. Fritz? Yes.
 So amidst the 80,000 emails we've received over the past few weeks, there were many that said thank you for doing this. And I want to just thank everybody who's written in because I can't possibly find your emails to write back to say thank you. You're welcome. I'm glad we were able to do this. Congratulations. Aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. Next up is 478. Oh, sorry. Lordness is adopted. I'm getting sloppy in my old age here. 478, please. Aye.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet for Friends of Frog Ferry funding in the amount of $40,000 as part of a local match for the State Transportation Improvement Fund's discretionary grant in the amount of $200,000 to develop the Frog Ferry operations and finance plan. Commissioner Daley. Thank you, Mayor. I'm pulling this item back to my office and it will be rescheduled at a later date. Very good. Item 479, please, Carla.
 Otherwise, a maintenance agreement with various parties for Willamette River-Selwood Bridge, bridge number 06879. And that was Mr. Whitby again, and I'm assuming Mr. Whitby is still not with us. Is that correct? I believe he is not, Mayor. Okay. Is there any other testimony on that item? No one else requested that item. Very good. Roll on item 479. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Thanks to the State of Oregon Department of Transportation, Multnomah County, and PBOT, I vote aye. Prince. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Guess what? We actually made it through the entire agenda. So my office is working with the folks who are testifying on both 492 and 493. We will be adjourned until 3 p.m. this afternoon, 3 p.m. We are adjourned.
 I'm going to show you how to make a very simple and easy to make cake. First, make a cake sheet. I'll show you how to make a cake sheet. First, make a cake sheet. I'll show you how to make a cake sheet. First, make a cake sheet. I'll show you how to make a cake sheet. I'll show you how to make a cake sheet. I'll show you how to make a cake sheet.
 . .
 I'm going to make a little bit of
 Thank you.
 All right, here we are. This is the Wednesday afternoon, June 17th session of the Portland City Council. Before I ask Carla to call the roll, thank you everybody for your incredible patience. We had a very, very long council session this morning that actually ran until well after 2 p.m. And the council...
 Myself included needed a bit of a break before we went into this because we wanna give you our full undivided and enthusiastic attention as opposed to nailing it on the backside of a seven hour long council session. So thank you for your patience. With that Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. I hear. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler.
 I am here under Portland City Code and state law. The City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members are attending remotely by video and teleconference, and the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting.
 The meeting is available to the public on the city's YouTube channel, EGov PDX, www.portlandoregon.gov slash video, and of course channel 30. The public can also provide written testimony to council by emailing the council clerk at cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov. The council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and promote physical distancing.
 The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your continued patience, flexibility and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the city's business. And with that, I will turn it over to our attorney to read the rules of order and decorum.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda at portlandoregon.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude.
 Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that council meetings are recorded. Thank you.
 Thank you, Robert. We only have two items today. The first is time certain item 492. Carla, can you please read that for us? Carla, you're muted.
 Approve funding recommendations made by Children's Levy Allocation Committee for July 1, 2020 to June 23. Thank you, Carla. I'm very pleased to introduce the next item, which comes from the Portland Children's Levy asking us to approve $68 million in new community investments over a three-year period beginning July 1.
 If approved, this funding for 85 programs would reach city youth affected by generations of racial, ethnic, and economic inequity, as well as go towards emergency needs during this health pandemic, especially in Black, Indigenous, and communities of color.
 As you know, the levy was created back in 2002 and it's been renewed three times by Portland voters to prepare children for school, to support their success inside and outside of the classroom, reduce racial and ethnic disparities in their well-being in school.
 Today we have Levy Director Lisa Pellegrino who will take us through the funding process in the background, provide more details and context to the request, and of course answer any questions anybody has about this. Welcome, Lisa. Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen so you all can follow the slides along with me. Thank you. Okay, hang on a second. Let me just start the slideshow.
 Okay, good afternoon everybody. Is it working for anybody? I don't see the shared screen. I do not. Hang on, hang on, hang on. Let me get out of this. Hang on, let me escape. I meant to. Don't worry, Lisa, we've all been there, done that. Okay, I thought I had it down, Joanne, but I guess I did not. Okay, hang on a second.
 We had done fabulous. We had done absolutely fabulous with this new technology. Oh, she's getting it though. Look at that. There we go. It's there. Okay, now let me see if I can get the slideshow function. So, we're gonna make that work. Oh, there we go. Okay, that's good.
 Thank you all for your patience. I'm a little green at this still and doing presentations online, getting better slowly. Again, thank you all for your time. Good afternoon. I know it's been a marathon day for you all and so I'll do my best to move briefly. We are before you as mayor said, requesting approval of the allocation committee decisions in the recent competitive funding round, allocating a little over $68 million for the next three fiscal years into 85 program grants.
 We, the PCL is governed by five member allocation committee and those members are Mayor Wheeler, Multnomah County Commissioner Jessica Vega-Peterson. The city appointed citizen member is Tracy Rossi.
 The county appointed citizen member is Felicia Tripp Folsom and the city appointed business community representative is Mitch Horniger. I'm gonna just take you through the funding process, both the planning phase and then the actual application and decision process and then briefly overview the results and take questions.
 So the levy, as Amir said, was renewed by the voters most recently in May 2018. And right after that approval, we go into the planning phase. In the past levies, we have done the planning and the funding round in about a year's time.
 And after receiving feedback from the community and also doing an equity assessment, we concluded we had to lengthen the planning phase and the funding phase to allow more time for community engagement and examination of how the process was designed. So our goal, we lengthened the planning phase. We basically took it to a two-year process instead of a one-year process total and left about a year or so for the planning phase. Our goals in the planning phase
 Or to increase equity and transparency in all aspects of the funding process, to increase engagement by a diversity of community members in creating the funding priorities and the strategies and the types of programs that we can eventually fund. And to provide multiple ways for community members to participate. And then last, to critically assess and redesign the funding process or the proposals through the decision-making process.
 So those were the goals that we set out with and began with the community engagement process. We hired Empress Rules Equity Consulting with Kiyoshi Owens, principal and a team of about six people to design and conduct that process.
 They created, to start out, two surveys, one for community members and one for service providers. We made it clear in the beginning that our goal was to try to reach community members because service providers are usually very interested in talking to us and community members is a whole other story. So their team really worked hard to engage community members, not just service providers, and they designed two separate surveys for the different groups of people.
 to give you an understanding of who was in the 400 community members that they reached to respond to the survey. I'm going to run through some of the data they collected on those respondents so you can kind of understand what their point, you know, where they were coming from. 20% of those respondents had children with disabilities. 11% had disabilities themselves. 81% were parents or caregivers to children. 17% were youth. 24% were involved in the foster care system. 19% identified
 27% had experienced houselessness, 32% were immigrants or refugees, and 48% spoke, primarily spoke languages other than English in their homes. So they did an excellent job at reaching deeply into community and getting a lot of points of view and created a really detailed survey that gave us a lot of information about what people thought.
 In addition to surveys, they also conducted aid focus groups with 85 community members. And those focus groups were also aimed at probing deeply into particular experiences. They provided translation and interpretation for anyone who needed it for focus groups. They conducted two groups in Spanish, particularly two groups just for youth. One group for immigrant refugees, one group for foster impacted. So that's people who were either foster children themselves or foster parents.
 A parent group that was also providers in the community of some kind of service related to children or families. So sometimes teachers or other service providers. And then one disability impacted group. So those are parents who either have a disability or a child with a disability. So that, again, very successful in getting many more people who are from the community and are not just service providers to come to the table and really provide in-depth discussion with them.
 And lastly, they offered stipends for anyone who participated in this community engagement process in recognition of the time that they were offering. In the past, that's not something that we have done.
 So after they went through this process and they mined all of the data and themed all of the focus group conversations with their team, they made a series of recommendations to the levy. And those recommendations were primarily centered around equity and also provided information about the types of services that people want to prioritize and all of the different program areas that we have to fund in according to the ballot language. So the overall equity recommendations were to fund services that were culturally relevant and responsive,
 to make sure the direct service staff reflected the cultures and spoke the languages of the people being served, to make sure that people of color were in leadership positions at the organizations providing the services and at the levy, and that organizations need to include families in the planning and in the evaluation of the programs and services. They also provided a wealth of information around the types of services that people wanted and how they wanted them delivered,
 And they also, there were two other major themes that came out of their process. One was around quality and the importance of training for nonprofit staff, particularly in racial equity and trauma-informed service delivery, and also in child and youth development.
 And last, the importance of transportation across all program areas, making sure that we try to fund programs that either provide transportation or assure transportation to make sure that there's equal access. And in hunger relief, particularly that we do mobile, we consider mobile services, either mobile pantries or food service delivery of some kind.
 So while the community engagement process was unfolding, we also worked with PSU to do a PSU Center for Improvement of Child and Family Services to do a qualitative evaluation on the overall funding process. So that's kind of the proposal, the application questions, the review process, and the decision-making process that we go through once the application is published.
 So as I said, PSU Center for Improvement in Child and Family Services with Tuan Dong as the principal investigator, who is just
 just so happens now employed at Portland housing Bureau as an equity manager. She and her team reviewed the whole funding process from 2014. They looked at all the written materials associated with it, including applications, proposals, scoring criteria, funding decisions, all of the feedback we gather at the end of the funding round. And they also looked at the city audit of conducted by the city auditor of the children's levy. And, and,
 part of their investigation. Along with all the written materials, they also interviewed 59 stakeholders, and those included past applicants to the levy and both successful and unsuccessful applicants, local funders, and allocation committee members.
 When they were finished with all of that review and analysis and theming all of the conversations from the interviews, they created a report and gave us 30 recommendations to prove transparency and equity. I'm not going to run through all 30 of them now because that would be too long, but I'll give you the highlights. And for transparency, some of the things they recommended were creating an online FAQ, publishing all questions and answers that applicants ask about the application so that everybody's got access to it,
 Providing reviewers score sheets before decision making so applicants could review that. And changing the advocacy rules to assure that there was equal access to advocating for the allocation committee for anybody's applications. The recommendations to improve equity included changing the application questions, the definitions, and the scoring criteria.
 And some examples of that were to focus on the equity practices of the organizations that were applying, the percentage of staff and board that identify as people of color, and how organizations provided services in language spoken by clients. They also recommended we change the testimony process and that we create a small grants fund stream to improve equity of access for smaller organizations that typically don't apply for the larger grants, don't have the capacity to. Thank you.
 So both Empress Rules and PSU presented their recommendations and reports at public meetings to the allocation committee. And then the allocation committee spent the next six months, basically February through September of 2019, taking up those recommendations and operationalizing them into the process design, how it would unfold and the timeline it would unfold and the steps it would include. And then what was in the applications themselves. So making sure that the recommendations from the community ended up in the application.
 applications, the application questions were reflected in the application questions and the priorities for funding. During that process, folks were still providing input as the committee was working through its decisions through either written input between allocation committee meetings or oral input in public testimony at the public meeting. So all of that culminated in the publication of six funding applications, what we call a request for investment in September of 2019, and that kind of concluded the planning phase
 and started us into the actual funding phase. So after publication of the applications, we received 116 applications for funding requesting $114 million, which is about $1.7 requested for every dollar available. The staff recruited and trained 63 volunteer community members to do the grant review and score the applications.
 We used the process to recruit those reviewers that was recommended by PSU. We had an application process and asked people to provide experience they had in the program areas that they were scoring in, and also their lived experience and knowledge on equity, diversity, inclusion, either through their life or through their work. So that was a change from how we had done reviewers in the review process in the past.
 We also offer them stipends to recognize their contribution of time because these are long applications and it takes time and energy to do that. And we set it up so that we had five reviewers score each application and then average the scores of those five reviewers to get a final application score for each application. Lisa, before you continue, I just want to make sure Commissioner Hardisky may want to jump in on that slide. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Lisa. Would you go back to the last slide again, please?
 Oops, sorry, I thought, oh gosh, wrong one. Went the wrong way. Okay, I'm getting there. Here we go. So I'm really interested in the 63 volunteers that worked in small groups and scored the applications. What demographic information and experience made up that group of volunteers? Yes.
 So we used Civic Life's application process to advertise. So we put an application up on the city website so you could apply to be a reviewer. We asked Civic Life to kind of help us do outreach, as well as using partners and allocation committee members to recruit people to review. So on the advice of Civic Life, we are not allowed to ask at the front end any demographic concerns.
 We could ask demographic information, but we could not use it to choose the reviewers. So we chose not to ask it at the front end and instead asked people a series of questions on their reviewer application. And one of those included, what is your experience in the nonprofit or in the arena of the area in which you're interested in reviewing? So are you a child abuse advocate?
 prevention person or someone who has experience in that Or whatever the program area was and then we asked specific questions for what their experience and knowledge was on equity diversity and inclusion And ask people to talk about their either life experience or their professional experience so we chose based on what people answer to try to pick people who had the most experience in the program areas and an EDI and
 And then we tried to balance each panel to include people, at least two people who had specific experience in equity, diversity, inclusion work of some kind or life experience. And then people who also pretty much everybody who applied had some program area experience. There was hardly anybody who didn't. So I think people were attracted to the process through that.
 When we did our feedback, I'm getting to your point, feedback survey from the reviewers, 85% of those 63 people responded to that survey and we asked demographic identity questions on there. 50% were identified as a person of color. And do you have a further breakdown than that? I could get you one. I don't have it off the top of my head. I appreciate that because I think when you started this long process, the world was working normally.
 And now that we're here and we're about to deploy the grants, I think that the world has shifted radically since you started this process. And so I am very much interested in kind of the demographic breakdown all across the board. And I really would love to understand
 how many nonprofit organizations get a lot of money from different pots with the children levy. It would be very helpful to know organizationally the total amount of resources that folks get, because there are some traditional organizations that get resources every year.
 And then when we collected together, what we found is this absolute enormous amount of money going to one entity. And so I'm starting to look at that across the city. And it would be very helpful to have that information from the children's levy as well. I'd be happy to get that to you. It would be easy for me to do. Thank you. I will follow up with you on that, Commissioner Hardesty. Oh, shoot. Okay.
 Lisa, if I could just add to that. Yeah. Commissioner Hardesty's question is a great one. And that was an issue that
 was front and center during the allocation conversations, since we had limited resources. And as we got to the end in particular, we had to pick and choose. And so the conversation around bundling or multiple different types of grants going to the same organization definitely was raised multiple times as a key issue to be evaluated.
 Thank you for that, Mayor, because as we think about investing the CARES dollars and all the other dollars that we're sending out, it's really important that we know exactly how much money we're giving to different organizations and some who just are the traditional ones who always get it because they are considered...
 are organizations that are culturally specific. But as we've learned through the CARES Act, there are hundreds of organizations that serve our community that never have access to public funding. Yeah, that's right. And that's why we did the small grants program as well through the levy was to try and get at some of those other organizations who honestly felt that there were barriers to their receiving funding just based on the structure
 of the grant process previously. Thank you. Absolutely true. And something we're well aware of. Okay, just I'll complete the overview and then we'll go on if you want to ask any specific questions about the recommendations. So staff also reviews all the applications and the scores. We look at past performance in case people, in the cases as Commissioner Harshi pointed out the people asking for continuing funding and we look at organizational financial health.
 We make recommendations that are based on that review and also based on balancing the investments in every program area to assure that we're addressing priority populations in each program area and also addressing the prioritized services that came out of community engagement in each program area.
 So we create our recommendations and provide a written rationale for them. And then we provide all this information to the applicants and to the allocation committee essentially at the same time. So we give those, both the committee and all the applicants, get a ranked list by score of all of the programs that have applied for funding in that program area. It includes a lot of all the basic information, how much they applied for, who they're serving, etc.,
 So we provide that, we give them our recommendations and the rationale. So that's a written document. We recommend this for this much money for this reason. And then we give them the copies of the reviewer score sheets. So that's the score sheets that all those volunteer reviewers filled out on their application. So the committee gets it and the applicants get it. And then after that, the applicants were invited to submit testimony, either written or oral testimony in support of their application.
 And just to be clear, there was no other advocacy permitted to allocation committee members except this testimony. This was at the advice of PSU and to try to create a more equal playing field because many people felt some people had relationships or access and we decided that we would just not do that. We would, everybody would get the same opportunity. So you had a certain amount of written testimony and then certain number of minutes of oral
 We had intended to do video recording in person so that clients could come and make it, you know, kind of address that community participation side, but the COVID prevented that. So we had to cancel the in-person and we did just audio recording of testimony via Zoom instead. All that oral testimony and all the written testimony was then packaged and sent to the committee, as well as made available to the applicants. So all applicants could see everybody's testimony if they chose. Okay.
 So the committee then basically was working with the reviewers' scores and information from the scoring process, the staff recommendations, and then the testimony that was provided by the applicants as they came into the two public meetings in which they make the decisions that are before you today, the recommendations for funding. So the decisions were made in late April and early May, and that's what is before you today.
 So this slide just gives you a sense for how the money is divided by program area. And we had sort of target allocations or planned allocations for each program area, and then the final allocations. And you can see they differ somewhat, in most cases not by too much. But for instance, the differences are usually related to the type and the quality and the number of applications that are received in each program area.
 And here in mentoring, there were a greater number of high quality applications that the committee wanted to fund than the original allocation would allow for. So they decided to move money from other program areas to that program area so they could fund more of those applications.
 And then just at the most macro level for the funding decisions, you've got a list of all 85 grants that are attached to the ordinance should be in your paperwork that was submitted to counsel for this. So you have all the detail. I'm not going to read all 85 grants to you. But just at the macro level of those 85, 22 are for new programs. And so examples of some new agencies that are funded include Black Parent Initiative, Oregon Community Health Workers Association, the Contingent.
 Oregon Mesa, Lutheran Community Services, and Familias en Acción. There were 10 expansions for currently funded programs primarily to serve priority populations or provide a service that was prioritized in community engagement.
 And some examples of that, and kind of Commissioner Harsley, this is a little bit to your point, Latino Network was funded for four new programs. So they were already a grantee as an agency, but they were funded for four new programs in this round. Two after school, one foster care, and one mentoring program. NEO was funded for a new child abuse prevention program, and POIC was funded for new foster care after school and hunger relief programming programs.
 53 of the grants are continuing grants to maintain current services. So that's services that we are currently funding. Some examples of the expansions are ERCO received expansions of current grants and early childhood, child abuse, after school, and mentoring to serve Pacific Islander and Middle Eastern populations, which our data show are being underserved in levy programs.
 over the last several years. And so we were specifically looking to make sure that we were providing programming for those communities. Latino Network and REAP and El Programa all received expansion funding to provide their programming at additional sites. So these are folks who are offering services at schools and we're looking for expansion to provide those services at more schools. Of course, assuming that we can open schools in the fall. Thank you.
 Okay, that's the end of the formal presentation. I'm happy to take any questions about either the process or the grants themselves. And Mayor Wheeler, feel free to jump in and your perspective on the process too.
 Very good. I thought you did a thorough job. Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Hardesty, is that a residual hand raise or do you have a new question? No, it's a new hand raise. Thank you. You're up. Thank you, Lisa. I also believe that you did a very thorough job. And I appreciate you laying out kind of the thinking and the planning and the process and a very detailed process that was planned for.
 before we had a pandemic, before we had an economic collapse, and before we had a revolution. And so my question is, after all that very detailed, thought out, intentional work, are there resources now that could be utilized to address the three emergencies that I've just identified? And if so, what's the process to actually be able to allocate those funds out in new creative ways?
 Well, basically what we decided to do, because of all the things you just noticed, that what we want, and this is really what the committee asked us to do. So in consultation with the committee, you know, we asked them, what do you want us to do? All of these organizations are helping people on the front lines right now today, and they are using our money. We gave people so that all of the organizations that are current grantees are using Portland Children's Abbey money right now to address the pandemic and other issues.
 related issues as we speak so that we gave them flexibility to use their current funding to address the pandemic in whatever ways we're going to help the community the most. So we basically, on direction from the committee, want to provide that same flexibility moving forward. So we have sort of rewritten our grant template to include a sort of non-COVID pandemic situation template
 Here's the program that you said you wanted to deliver and the committee said they wanted to fund. What do you plan to do for that? And then while the state of emergency is in effect and physical distancing and needs are escalating and the economic situation is deteriorating, what are you going to do in that period of time to address community needs and write a separate set of documents?
 of planned activities for that time period or for the transition, if we have a transition or when we have a transition out of the university period. So that was the best way we could think of to create that flexibility. And the committee was very much focused on trying to have, in fact, Tracy was really, Tracy Rossi was really an advocate. Like she really wanted to move forward with the funding round and give people flexibility because these are the folks who are going to be addressing the frontline needs of community in this pandemic.
 So that's the best way we could come up with to use the funds flexibly. Small grants fund is unrolling right now and so you're going to see grants come before you again that I think are going to very much be addressing the immediate needs of the community. Thank you for that. And so the question is how are you going to track outcomes based on the shift that all the three things that I just mentioned? And I
 Yeah. Yeah. What's going to be the outcomes and how are we tracking to make sure we're not just, you know, we're not just throwing money away, but we're actually investing it in maintaining people now and actually building for a new reality whenever that starts.
 Well, that's an excellent question. And every contract we have that we write has outcomes in it. So I think our point was to try to be flexible. I mean, people have outcomes that they put in their grant agreements. And I'm convinced that if they can, or in their grant proposals, I'm sorry, and they will be able, if they are able to deliver their program as planned, they will absolutely be able to measure those outcomes.
 And I think some programs haven't had to adapt that much to deliver their services. They are doing it right now. They're doing it virtually. They're finding other ways. And they will be able to measure outcomes similarly because they are delivering their services but in a similar enough manner.
 Other folks, it's not going to be immense. We're going to have to work on something new. So we always measure outputs, Commissioner Hardesty. So we'll always be looking at, you know, like for hunger relief, for instance, we're looking at, are you providing food and who are you providing it to? And what kind of food are you providing? So we'll always look at those things. And that won't change. I just think that the outcomes, the effect on the children and the families that are receiving the services may have to be altered. We're going to have to negotiate with the grantees exactly what those outcomes are going to look like and how they're going to measure them in a pandemic.
 So I think we're trying to be flexible, but hold people too accountable at the same time. I really appreciate that, Lisa. Let me just say that it's challenging for all of us at this moment, right, to be accountable for investments of public dollars at the same time providing flexibility and at the same time trying to identify new community partners who can help us provide the services.
 For me, I just wanna make sure that we are tracking.
 what it is that we are investing in, because like the children's levy is very separate, right? But this is a significant pot of money. You're sending $68 million out the door, right? And that is money that's coming from homeowners who have once again agreed that an investment in early childhood care is the right thing to do, right? And all of us are in favor of that. But as I look at,
 collectively, the money that Prosper Portland puts out the door, the money that the Housing Bureau puts out the door, the money that the Joint Office of Housing Services puts out the door. And when I look and I see the same organizations on all those lists,
 it starts to create real concern for me because I don't see any kind of big picture thinking about what is it that we're investing in and who are we investing in? And then are we making sure that the resources are distributed broad enough to have the biggest impact?
 Right? Because I know governments talk about frontline communities and they talk about racially specific services, right?
 But that's not the same thing of actually having access to services that you want and need in a way that you need it. I live in East Portland, and so I don't need to go to North Portland if I have a service need. I should be able to get my needs met right in East Portland where I live. And so I don't know that our systems actually allow us to holistically look at whether or not we're making the right investments in the right places at the right time.
 I mean, I think that's an excellent question and one that we don't have a great answer to. I'm not sure at the city level what would make sense to do that, but I agree with you that's something that's information we could all use, frankly, and that our committee could use in making decisions. If they had the whole picture in addition to what is being presented as proposals, it would be so much more useful. I'm not sure what the best next step to accomplish that is, but I think it's absolutely the right thing we should do. I don't know.
 I don't know either. And I know we're struggling with that around the CARES Act dollars. But for me, just the 18 months I've been here, it's just really obvious that we don't have a big picture perspective of how we invest our dollars. So, Mayor, I don't know what to do with that. But this has been a good conversation, Lisa. And I definitely appreciate the thoroughness of your presentation. Well, thank you, Commissioner. Appreciate it. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Lisa does that complete your presentation? That completes the presentation. Very good. Colleagues, did you have any other questions before we go to public testimony? Seeing none, Carla do we have public testimony on this item? I do not show anyone signed up for this one Mayor. All right, very good. Then with that this is an emergency ordinance. Carla please call the roll. Hardesty.
 I wanna thank the members of the Portland Children's Levee. Mayor, I know you are a integral part of that committee as well as Commissioner Vega-Peterson. I know how thoughtful both of you are around these issues. I can't say I know the other players as well.
 You know, these may be the perfect investments. I don't know. I will take your word that they are and I will vote in favor. But I would like to continue that conversation as we start really refocusing how the city spends its limited resources about how do we get to that place where
 where all of us have a big picture vision about where we're investing those dollars and whether or not we are spreading out city resources in a way that really benefits the people that we continue to say we want to benefit. And so I vote aye, and I look forward to continuing this conversation in another forum and working with both Lisa and the committee to figure out what's the best way to do that. Thank you. Sounds good. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Daley.
 Thank you for the presentation. I vote aye. Fritz? Well, thanks as always to the taxpayers of Portland for funding these programs and for Commissioner Saltzman for establishing it. And that's one of his legacies. Thank you, Lisa Pellegrino, for the work that you're doing and the very thoughtful way that you have been paying attention to equity over the past several years. I'm very pleased to vote aye. Whaler?
 Lisa, I want to thank you for your presentation and I want to thank you for your longstanding leadership and stewardship of the Portland Children's Levee. Yes, I definitely want to also acknowledge Commissioner Saltzman. This was a part of the vision he had of taking this to the public and having the public play an active role in supporting the development of young people in our community.
 I remember when Nancy Pelosi came to Portland, when President Barack Obama was, well, he wasn't president yet. He was still a candidate and there was a Women for Obama event and it was held at my house.
 I was not the host. My then wife, Katrina, was the host. But Nancy Pelosi, a speaker of the House, was sort of a guest of honor, and she was going to come in and she was going to talk about why people in Portland should support Barack Obama for president.
 She came late because she probably had a bunch of different arrangements scheduled in advance, but she stopped as she was going up the stairs and looked at the yard sign that we had in our front yard for the Portland Children's Levee. And she really did a second take and she said, wait a minute, what is that?
 And right there on the stairs, we had about a 10 minute conversation about what the children's levy was, what the philosophy was behind it, about how the public was engaged in this process and supporting the development of our youth. And I remember she was just really impressed with it and thought it was a great model.
 for civic support of children in our community. It's a real honor to serve as the chair of the Children's Levy. I promised Commissioner Saltzman prior to his departing the city council that I would do that because he wanted to make sure that there wasn't a break or a transitional period.
 I'm really privileged to serve on that committee with some fantastic people. And I can assure you all they work very, very hard alongside the levy staff to make thoughtful disbursements with regard to which organizations got the services, how those resources were allocated. And there's been a lot of thought, Commissioner Hardesty focused on just what you expressed earlier, which is, is there a way to get newer
 organizations, smaller organizations, some of these resources because they're now acting on issues that are maybe emerging issues, particularly in our communities of color that can help provide culturally specific services to help support our youth, particularly those that are struggling.
 in our community and I am very pleased to say that that work is well underway and it is a focus of the Children's Levy Team as well as the entire allocation committee. With that, happy to vote aye. Thank you, Lisa, again for a good presentation. The ordinance is adopted.
 Next up is item 493. It is our last item for today, but by no means our least important item for today. Carla, if you could read 493. Thank you, Lisa. Amend street access code and transportation administrative rules to align with changes to the residential infill project. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Before us today is a reading on a very straightforward and simple ordinance that will amend Title 17 of our city code, the title that deals with our streets, so that it will work with changes to Title 33, our zoning code that are being proposed in the residential infill project.
 In February of this year, representatives from the Cully Association of Neighbors, Verde, Habitat for Humanity, and the Native American Youth Association reached out with concerns that a proposed infrastructure amendment to the residential infill project. I'm glad you find this so amusing, Mayor.
 It's your giant face I get to see right now. I love everything you're saying. Tia and I are having a private moment. That's fine. I just reduced your screen.
 You were distracting me. Anyhow Habitat for Humanity and the Native American Youth Association Reached out with concerns that a proposed infrastructure amendment to the residential infill project exclude Large portions of Cully East Portland and other pockets of the city They raised these concerns with my staff and proposed a simple and elegant solution Allowing property owners on curbless streets to pay under the local transportation infrastructure charge or LTIC fund
 fund if they wanted to add housing units to their property under our amended zoning code.
 Thanks to their attention and advocacy and quick problem solving, my staff was able to direct the Cortlandt Bureau of Transportation to amend Title 17 to allow this and ensure that we are not penalizing neighborhoods where the city has historically under-invested in streets and sidewalks while building resources that will be used to construct sidewalks and streets throughout the city, very often in these same neighborhoods where the charge is being collected.
 Christine Leon, Transportation Development Group Manager, and Bob Kellett, Transportation Planner, will quickly walk us through the code changes and are available to answer any questions before we take public testimony. I hope they're here. I see Bob. And there's Christine. Hello. Welcome. Hi. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Daley and other members of council. Can I just say I commend you on your stamina? These are long days.
 So again, my name is Christine Leanne and I work for the Portland Bureau of Transportation as the lead for the Development Permitting and Transit Group. Today I'm introducing to you a change in city code which allows certain types of residential development to pay the local transportation infrastructure charge, or LTIC.
 If approved, this change will allow residential development anticipated under the Residential Infill Project, or RIP, to move through PBOT permitting in a timely and predictable manner, by requiring that they contribute to improving to deficient public street infrastructure through the LTIC. So briefly, I'll share the history of the LTIC and describe what it is.
 In 2016, council passed the LTIC ordinance. Prior to this, infill housing redevelopment occurring on streets without adequate surfacing, stormwater, runoff systems, and pedestrian areas were typically not contributing anything in the way of improvements.
 nor were they financially contributing to solve the street's infrastructure deficiencies. Piecemeal infrastructure was often not required by the city, partially because it's prohibitively expensive for new development to provide isolated frontage improvements on curbless streets. So the ALTIC was established in 2016 to specifically address the city's growth and deficient infrastructure problem.
 The LTIC guarantees that development contributes through payment of this local transportation infrastructure charge unless the frontage is built to standards and then nothing has to be done. The LTIC is not an in-lieu fee, it's not a tax, and it's not an impact fee. The LTIC is a charge paid at the time of development for developers to build on less than standard streets.
 So it's applied to single dwelling zones on local service streets. It's assessed based on the dollar per linear footage of local street frontage.
 And then following in the spring of 2018, council approved the LTIC allocation methodology, which is essentially how decisions will be made on the expenditures of the LTIC revenue to make street improvements through the system of local streets in the city of Portland. So Bob's going to describe a little bit more detail on transportation's plannings, analysis of the RIP and how the two are integrated.
 So take it away, Bob. Thank you, Christine, Mayor Raylor, Commissioners. I'm Bob Kellett. I'm a planner with PBOT. In assessing the potential transportation impacts from RIP, the primary looked at two things. The first is the impacts to the transportation system as a whole.
 What we found was while the potential new housing from RIP does change the location and patterns of some of the transportation trips we'd expect to see over the next 20 years, the cumulative impacts of it is small and something our plan system can handle. The second impact we looked at was at the site development level. In other words, where do we expect the middle housing to occur and do these areas have the transportation infrastructure to support it?
 In this analysis, we saw that some new housing will likely occur on currently under-improved residential streets. These are the streets that are identified as being eligible for payments into LTIC when the program was created, with LTIC being one of the tools we have available to us to build out the supportive infrastructure over time. As Christine mentioned, LTIC resides in Title 17 of the City Code.
 As it's currently written, the City Code allows the LTIC payment by an applicant for a new residential building permit for a project of one or two units on a property that has a frontage on an under-improved local service traffic street maintained by the City.
 And as you all are aware after the hearings with RIP, it's proposing to expand the housing types that are allowed on these residential streets. The Title 17 code, as it currently is written, would not allow property owners seeking to build middle housing types like triplexes or fourplexes to pay into the LTIC. The ordinance before you today amends Title 17 to allow for developers of these middle housing types to pay into the LTIC, just as a developer of a single-family home or a duplex would be able to do.
 It basically aligns what is being proposed for Title 33 of the zoning code in RIP with the Title 17 code that guides LTIC. It enables the city to collect the charge on the new housing types permitted by RIP in locations where LTIC applies and where the housing types will be allowed.
 So again, the only thing the ordinance changes is the allowable housing types that are eligible to pay into LTIC. At the locations where single-family homes and duplexes can currently pay into LTIC, housing types up to six units will now be able to pay into the LTIC to help meet the city's infrastructure needs. The administrative rules also guiding LTIC will be updated to reflect these changes.
 So with that, we're happy to take any questions before testimony. We also have Morgan Tracy, the Residential Infill Project Manager for BPS with us today as well, if there are any RIP specific questions. Yeah, you were wise to ask for RIP specific questions because I was just going to ask if you have a guest room, and if so, what time should I show up?
 Anytime there's a screen in the background. Colleagues, I see Commissioner Fritz and then Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Fritz, you're up. Actually, Commissioner Hardesty had her hand up first, Matt. I think that's residual. Is that Commissioner Hardesty or do you have a new question? Are you on mute, Commissioner Hardesty? Sorry, I'm good. I've had my question answered. Thank you. All right, thank you. Commissioner Fritz, you're up. All right.
 Thank you. So could, I'm the only one who was on the council in 2016 when we passed this. Was that right? Or were others of you on? No. So could you tell the folks why we decided only to have it allowed to single family or to one or two units? Why we didn't allow it for multifamily? Yeah.
 Sure. So we had a code that really differentiated between three and fewer units and three and more units back prior to 2016. And essentially when there's more units, we would have really fought hard to...
 compel the developer to make the improvements because of the additional load on the streets. So we focused on the residential streets
 and single family, essentially because the higher classification streets and the multifamily density, we were compelling developers to build that. I will say prior to 2016, we had a strong practice of requiring waivers of remonstrance with the hope that the residents that had the burden of the waiver on their property put on by the developer
 would eventually improve their streets comprehensively. That's not happening. So this change was put into place essentially to allow development to continue and to pay their fair share. Thank you. And does this amendment apply only to middle housing or is it all new development, including expensive new development?
 So this change in code allows the type of developments that are anticipated under the RIP to be developed by paying an LTIC charge. So there are in our administrative rules exemptions and those cover affordable housing developments and ADUs.
 So there's kind of a laundry list of where LTIC and the RIP align. If you want us to go through that, we can do that. I might ask Morgan to kind of run through so everybody is clear on what is going to be assessed and what isn't. But essentially, there's not a threshold other than affordable housing for who would get an exemption.
 Thank you, Christine. So this is Morgan Tracy with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Project Manager for the Residential Infill Project. A little warm up for tomorrow. So just to answer your question, Commissioner Fritz, I think you're asking whether there's a differentiation between lower priced housing and luxury housing with the LTIC. And the response to that is it's a.
 flat fee assessed at $600 a linear foot based on the amount of frontage. And it doesn't differentiate based on the type of housing, so a duplex, triplex, or a luxury single family home, except for as Christine mentioned, there are waivers for affordable housing projects. Thank you. And then where can the LTIC money be used? Where does it fund new improvements?
 So back in 2018, council approved the expenditure methodology and there was a number of criteria that were put in place as far as effectiveness, equity and efficiency. And so the bureaus have been developing the project list to meet the city council's requirements as far as the expenditure methodology.
 And how much is in the LTIC funding at this point? Since this has been adopted, there's about $4.5 million that it's obligated to be spent on the residential street improvements per the council adopted methodology.
 And final question, if a property pays into the LTIC, are they then, they're not wavered, they are not required to pay into a local street improvement, is that correct? So far, we have not seen any LIDs that are happening as a result of the LTIC. And so that's certainly something that we are going to consider when an LID is formed, as far as has any of these properties...
 paid the LTIC, do they have a waiver of remonstrance? Great question. Didn't we, did we not put into the ordinance that if you paid the LTIC you then were not required to pay into an LID? That's the intent that we don't want to double dip and charge the residents if they paid for that fee when they bought the house say from the developer, yes.
 So then is it true to say that if you're in a development on an undeveloped street that's not a neighborhood collector or a priority area, that your street is not ever going to get developed? So the allocation methodology is...
 is really focused on making sure that we as a city are building what the council and what the residents want with a high equity and opportunity factors in there.
 We're partnering with other bureaus and really focusing on the safe routes, the connections that are essential. It would be great to be able to get more money to build every deficient street. Depending on where we are and how much the RIP will be able to fund, we can certainly do more. I am.
 I don't expect that we're gonna be able to build everything, but we're using some of the 2012 council adopted standards that allow the money to go further with the improvements on the shared streets. So system wide things will get built on the priority, but there's not necessarily a guarantee that anytime soon, a house that has paid the LTIC will get the improvements in front of that house.
 Thank you, Christine. I appreciate your long time leadership and all the work that you've done. Also, Bob, for briefing me and my staff. I appreciate your answers. Thanks, Commissioner.
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. It's funny. So this morning when I asked questions, I would make Commissioner Fritz think of questions. And Commissioner Fritz's questions made me think of a question. And here's my question. What do you mean when you say affordable housing?
 Oh yeah, my bad. We're talking about the Portland Housing Bureau's standard of affordability, which is at 80% MFI or below. Thank you very much. I just wanted to make sure we had that on the record, that we were all on the same page, 80% or below MFI. Is that what you said, Morgan? Correct. Excellent. Thank you very much. Very good. Any further questions? Is there a public testimony on this item, Carlo?
 Yes, Mayor. We have four people signed up. Great. The first person is David Sweet. Hello, David.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners, and thank you for hanging in there on such a long and momentous day. My name is David Sweet, and I'm representing the Cully Association of Neighbors and six other place-based community organizations working to preserve our diversity and prevent the displacement of low-income people, indigenous and tribal people, and people of color from Cully.
 Our neighborhood is mostly zoned for single-family homes, and recent development has taken the form of the type of large, expensive houses that are driving displacement. For these reasons, Cully stands to benefit from the residential infill project. The prospect that our frequently large lots could be developed with three or four or even six smaller, less costly homes instead of just one could mean great...
 greater opportunities for people with moderate incomes to rent or own. The proposed amendment to the LTIC is necessary to allow Cully to benefit from the housing options available with RIP. Half of our lots are on partially improved curbless streets. Without this amendment, the cost of street improvements will discourage the development of small plexes in favor of the expensive houses that are driving displacement.
 These would continue to be built as they are today on curbless streets and paying the LTIC. We think the LTIC is great. It's a smart change from the old system of waivers of remonstrance, which shifted the responsibility from the developer to the homeowner and rarely resulted in any street improvements. Cully has many properties with such waivers signed decades ago and never acted on.
 And when a developer is required to improve the street in Cully, it results in piecemeal infrastructure disconnected from any other and largely useless. Rather than producing many 50-foot-long orphan sidewalks, the LTIC banks the money to develop whole blocks at either current or alternative street standards. Cully looks forward to the improvement of three blocks of Northeast 66th Avenue this year or next using LTIC funds.
 I live on a quarter mile long block on a curbless street in Cully. Two new developments under construction there are building half street improvements. That will give us a total of four orphan sidewalks on that quarter mile and orphan curves. None of them connect with each other. We will all still walk in the street.
 Cully does not need any more orphans. We need moderately priced and affordable housing and the rational street improvements that come with the LTIC. We urge you to adopt this amendment. Thank you, Dave. Next is Ezra Hammer. Welcome, Ezra.
 Good afternoon, honorable mayor and honorable commissioners. It's a pleasure to be with you this afternoon. Thank you for your Diligent work and all of your hard work today working on such important issues Very briefly. I just like to echo some of the wonderful comments from David. I
 Like many of the nonprofits that Commissioner Udaily mentioned, the Home Builders Association has been a strong supporter of this amendment. This is a wonderful opportunity to ensure that middle housing can be built throughout our entire city. And that as David mentioned, when housing is built,
 funds are collected in a manner that allow for the rational and most appropriate development of sidewalks per the city council's direction. I wanna give a special thanks to Christine and her team for working so diligently on this. We are really appreciative of all of her hard work and urge you to move forward with the adoption of this amendment today. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Ezra. Doug Klotz. Hello, Doug.
 Hello, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I support the LTEIC changes that are proposed that will allow three plexes, four plexes, and even six plexes to use this option.
 This change will help the residential infill project reach its full potential and allow building in areas with less expensive lots. It will especially benefit East Portland where many streets are unimproved and as David has pointed out this will also benefit Cully and parts of Southwest. Rather than the builder putting in a short piece of street and curb and sidewalk, using the LTIC will generate funding to build street improvements where they help the most people
 such as routes leading to transit schools and services, and they can be built up in a rational manner, starting at the arterials and working their way back into the neighborhood in a sequence that makes sense. So I support this. Thank you very much, Doug. We appreciate it. And Carla, there was one more individual, is that correct?
 Yes, John Gibbon. Hello, John. Thanks for your time. Hi. Thank you, your mayor. I really want to compliment you all on your efforts today to avoid racial, occupational, and tenure-based disparate community safety outcomes.
 I think that Sweeney, which is one of the organizations I'm representing here today, certainly supports that. We may disagree on some of the details. We can't support the RIP, or we can't support the LTIC amendment to RIP at this point because we are
 of the opinion that there's we haven't seen any rip developments in southwest we know that curbed paved streets are critical to um
 John Potter, critical to address stormwater, particularly where stormwater is managed through control and conveyance on a paved street. John Potter, And we're concerned that when rip was adopted and the fees were set we exempted out bs numbers that we're going to come in to address that problem and.
 If staff can show that those BS numbers have come in and been built into the $600 cost well then you know, maybe it would get better otherwise.
 We have areas in Markham, the neighborhood I represent, and other areas in the southwest where if you don't take account of stormwater costs related to this kind of program, you'll be enhancing deficits in stormwater management if RIP doesn't have that money to do that.
 I can give you some examples from South Markham itself where I've got some concerns. I also would say I'm representing my homeowners association, which is the Quail Park Association. And we have some additional concerns related to how this LTIC will operate in relation to private streets.
 And I'll start with that one. I've discussed this before. If you look at Southwest Huber and Southwest 28th Street, we have
 Several properties that are one property deep on one side and Eltech Street on the other side are private streets. We're really concerned that you could pay an Eltech fee, change your access or maybe not change your access and use our private street to access a property like that. That's a concern.
 big one then in other parts of Markham we have areas between 17th and west to the Triune Creek watershed branch that comes down at about 23rd
 Those areas are heavily Eltech streets some Improvements have been done on a pilot program But those streets are going to need stormwater conveyance paid for in some way before they're developed to rip Densities and they're they're not Included in the z-zone which is a great concern to us and last I'd mentioned that
 The problem with RIP is that the Z zone designation in some cases have landed on things like Southwest 23rd where it's a fully improved relatively new street that should have some adequate stormwater capacity. It's right next to the creek, yet it's given a Z designation because it's next to the creek
 it's not taking account of the fully improved street. So until we can see proof that the stormwater issue is really gonna be dealt with by the LTIC program,
 and understand we support LTIC and we understand that the equation is different in the Cully neighborhood and other neighborhoods where Time is up. infiltration isn't possible, is possible, it's not in Southwest. So we've got to reserve our support for this at this time. All right. Thank you, John. Thank you for your perspective. We appreciate it. All four of you. Carla, that completes our public testimony. Is that correct?
 That does, Mary, yes. Great. Colleagues, before I send this on, are there any other questions that you want to put on the table right now? Very good. With that, then, this is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading, and we are adjourned. Thank you, everyone. Thanks, Carla. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Thanks for watching!