That's cute. All right, Carla, are you ready? Yes. All right. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good morning. This is the Wednesday, June 14th morning session of the Portland City Council. We're now in order. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Eudaly. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here.
 Here, before we begin, I just want to acknowledge we have a large group of children from the Kairos Portland program with us today. The commissioners and I had an opportunity to meet with them out in the hallway before we started. They have also...
 created a very, very nice gesture that I'd like to share with everybody in the chamber this morning. They have put together some handmade, beautiful cards,
 and they are sending their love to the brave people who were involved with the Max Train tragedy a couple of weeks ago. And we'll make absolutely certain that these cards get to the right people, and I will tell you, kids, they will come very, very highly appreciated. So thank you so much for this wonderful gesture. It speaks very highly for you and for Kairos, your parents, and your teachers. So thank you for that.
 Before we begin our session, there's a statement that I read about maintaining conduct and order in the chamber. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern.
 In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the Council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will make everybody feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also to ensure that decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have the opportunity for people to sign up for communications to speak about any subject they'd like to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second of all, people can sign up for public testimony on the first readings of any reports, resolutions, or ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at that time.
 Please state your name for the record. We don't need people's address. If you're a lobbyist, we do need to know that. And if you're here representing an organization, that's good to know as well. Individuals typically have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light lights up. And when your time is done, the red light goes on. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations is not allowed.
 Personal attacks and insults levied against city and council staff, many of whom are required to testify as a condition of their employment, is not tolerated. People who, people who, excuse me, that is, Mimi, that is a, that is a disruption. And if you continue, I'll have to have you leave. I want the police to follow the same. Good morning. Thank you. You asked us as far as conduct in this council. This had an assassination attempt by your police.
 So if, thank you, Mimi. If there is a disruption, I will issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass.
 If folks would like to show your support, a simple thumbs up will do. If you'd like to express that you don't support something, thumbs down. Thank you now, and let's get started. So kids, just FYI, that's not unusual, and you shouldn't be alarmed. That is civil disobedience in action, and you'll learn all about that if you have not already. So with that, we'll continue. The first item on the council agenda is communications. Please call the first item.
 Item 656, request of Joe Walsh to address counsel regarding First Amendment of the Bill of Rights. Oops. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Before we start, I would request, because I'm having some trouble breathing today, that if I go over to three minutes, it's going to be only a few seconds. So it's not very long, and I gave you copies in case I have to stop in the middle.
 My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. Keith Davis sends his regards, and he wished he could be here, but is barred from his body by a restraining order instigated by Commissioner Fish and his staff. Now let me go to the First Amendment. It has now been 48 days since we petitioned four of you to resign.
 All four of you are now present. And the people have the right and obligation to call for you to step down. You have, of course, refused to honor your position and remain to dictate what you millionaires, white politicians, think is correct. And you are wrong. We will be working to defeat the re-election campaign.
 Danny Boy Salzman, aka Richie Rich, and Nick Fish, aka Benedict Arnold. In our opinion, the police department, under the direct command of Mayor Wheeler, aka Ted DeViolent...
 Use excessive force on the 4th of June against innocent people with disabilities, children, and old people who are at Chapman and Lonsdale to show the imported right-wing outright that this city stands for inclusion and not exclusion. Tell me what offense I committed.
 Or what law did I break, sitting on a park bench, when the bombs, chemical attacks, and shootings took place? You violated my peace. You violated the right to peacefully protest against what I consider lies and exclusions. You terrorized me and my friends from the Veterans for Peace.
 They got me away from the gas because the gas would have done seriously harm to me and could have killed me. You excluded the angels of this city, Theresa Rufford, Mimi German, and sitting next to me, Starr. And that tells me all about you and your corruptions.
 Resign now or face the people of Portland when they realize that you four are now going on the fifth one. And this will be continued. Thank you for your patience. I would like to say one more thing about the shooting this morning. Again, the congressperson who was shot is somebody that would disagree with me on 99% of issues. However.
 It broke my heart again because I keep seeing this country falling apart. And unless we all step back, all of us, that's why I wasn't here last week and I won't be here ever again. Because I've given up on you. I will be outside with a bullhorn and I will blast you from 9.30 until 11 o'clock every Wednesday. And I will embarrass you until you really start to do things.
 Mayor, you just wrote a letter to the police chief asking what happened. You were in the command center on the 4th. He wasn't. Why are you sending a letter to him? He should be sending a letter to you saying what happened.
 You also are doing some good stuff with the homeless. You talk about it and you say it's going to happen, but you're a liar, Mayor. I don't trust you. When you do it, I will sing your praises. The day you actually do something that's significant about the homeless in this city, I will come back and buy you a mocha.
 Perfect. Deal accepted. Thank you, sir. I look forward to hearing you sing. And I like mocha. Thank you. We'll share one together. Next item, please. 6.57, request of Sarah Hobbs to address council regarding complaint about rapid response on sidewalks. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs. I want you to see what I was wearing. This is what I was wearing on May Day. I was told I had to take off the vest when I came into City Hall, but Joe and Mimi German had a good talk with your staff, and I was cleared to wear it.
 I wanted to start by reading this. This was a communication, Mayor. I left with you dated May 31st. Dear Mayor, took Portland Police Crisis Negotiation Team Sergeant Troy King calling and vouching for me that finally had my messages taken seriously. Contrary to what you were told, there is not a policy in place concerning riot cops on the sidewalks.
 Apparently this fact has been brought up at the Portland Police Bureau, and so has the fact that this needs to happen. In light of what happened on May Day, I have been asked to sit in on these discussions. The police say we protesters do not talk to cops. They don't talk to us either. Had Sergeant King not called on my behalf, I would have been totally ignored. Talk about anger.
 The painting of cops and protesters and sole cause of problems is biased and totally unfair. You've heard me tell the story. I was on a sidewalk of Morrison at Second. We were ordered by the speaker truck to go west to get out of the area. I'm literally now being pushed, not even a warning. They were back there, not even an order to move.
 Hands, it's literally like this the whole way. I'm disabled and going as fast as I can, and they push harder. I'm 54 years old. I've birthed big kids. I now have middle-aged female bladder problems. In addition to my back now having ended up in spasm, I'm down kettled on a corner a third more than having wet my pants.
 for the sole thing that because of my disability, I was moving slow and I just got in their way. We should have the right when we have done nothing illegal to expect that we will be safe on a sidewalk.
 You know, I understand the instant my toes went off into that sidewalk, into that street, I would have been involved in civil disobedience and I would have been at risk. I have been pushed by riot cops when I have been out on that street and you have never once heard me complain because I accept that that's a risk I take when I engage in civil disobedience.
 But on May Day, I did nothing at all illegal. I was doing what I was ordered and just trying to get out of the area the way we were ordered to go. There is an issue. We still have a right to expect that a sidewalk will be a place of safety.
 I mean, I got clared out by three truckloads full of riot cops. If Clare was going to get killed, we all would have ended up dead. But they left me alone because I was on a sidewalk by myself. I was never expecting what happened to happen by myself. Thank you, sir. We appreciate it. Next item, please. Item 658, request of Dominic Kukla to address council regarding civic education. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, my name is Dominic Kukla. I was raised in Selwood. First off, thank you for your service to the city, and thank you for giving me this time. For the sake of time, I wrote out my statement, and for the sake of attention and entertainment, it is a poem. Tremendous political energy in this city. How will you contribute to transmute it to something pretty? I got involved in politics fast by chance. I got involved in politics by chance.
 Bumping into a group of those who'd known in advance, listened with wide ears to find out how things are done by locals here with Portland's Million. But relatively few are vocal, much fewer run. In fact, it was the first time I'd met anyone who knew how to do more than vote or protest, talk about a presidential quote. I was empowered to do things like come here to City Hall and listen. Seats often empty, work stack always tall.
 Come into a world where plans are unfurled, and every few moments there's a new person at ball. So much to do. How can anyone be bored? And why do we feel the need to crowd the streets in scores of thousands? Is that how we do democracy? Reasons to get involved are growing. Are we about to see a change? Certainly. But how will it feel? Civic progress arranged together. The need is real.
 People want to make a difference, but most don't know how. And whose job is it? To tell them what it is about. News just telling us to keep watching TV. Politics make no sense until we listen locally. And not enough of us do. So who's going to teach? I say you. And yeah, you already have. Thank goodness it's true. Office of Citizen Involvement and others too. But here's the thing. Demand is up. Many hands raised hungry for something to pick up.
 New leaders emerging, ideas range. The thing that is consistent is the need for change. I hope the next time you see a mob, you'll remember that they're asking for an unpaid job. Revolutionary energy across the nation. Who's going to lead the way in civic education? Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Next item, please, Carla. Item 659, request of Matthew Mesetic to address council regarding the great work of the Portland Bureau of Transportation with the continuing challenges of the Foster streetscape. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. I'm a little envious of the poem. That was great. That was good. Yeah, I've never heard that before in council. So my name is Matthew Sedeck. I own and operate Red Castle Games on Southeast Foster Road. I'm also the president of the Foster Area Business Association. And I'm here today just to talk about the Foster Streetscape, which this council approved three years ago, almost to the day.
 And it's certainly been a longer process than we all hoped, like many major projects are. But I really want to emphasize how great a job PBOT has done in reaching out and working with us and continuing that work past the planning stages. It started out with Mauricio LeClerc during those planning stages, but it's really been picked up by Rich Newlands, the project manager with PBOT.
 When we had a concern as a business organization about the bike route and connecting to the 50s bikeway, he came out, he met with our business owners, and they did their best, and they were able to change that route slightly to really benefit the businesses. Likewise, as issues have come up with drainage,
 We thought we were going to lose as many as 40 on-street parking spots, but through their hard work, they've limited it to about four to six spaces. So they've really come out, gone above and beyond, and addressed the concerns of the business community on Foster, and I really feel they should be recognized for that great work.
 The communication, the working together, the willingness to come meet us and hear us and not just listen but also take our concerns and put them into action. It's a model for how these projects could go, and I really appreciate that. And I want you all to know how great of a job they're doing. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate hearing.
 Next item, please. 660, request of George Middle School sixth grade students to address council regarding the 3D map project. Morning, kids. We're glad to have you. Good morning. Morning. Good morning.
 So we worked with an organization called Wind and Ore at George Middle School. And I'm really sorry. Could you state your name for the record? Oh, I'm so sorry. Darcy Gill. I'm their teacher at George Middle School. So we worked with an organization, Wind and Ore, who are here to create a 3D map of St. John's.
 with the sixth graders in the intro to STEAM class, and these are eight of the kids that worked on the map. It took the whole year, and it's upstairs on the third floor. If anybody wants to go check it out, it's eight by eight feet wide, pretty heavy. So it was a fun job moving it here, but it's done. Do you guys have any questions you want to ask the kids about it? I do. Or I can ask them. Yes. I had a chance to look at it yesterday, and I looked at it a little bit this morning as I was coming. And how long did it take you to make that?
 Long time. It looked like... It took about two semesters. Two semesters. And it even has little bridges. And what are they made of? Well, we bought... We built... Carboard. Popsicle sticks. Toothpicks. Hot glue gun. Lots of stuff. Lots of stuff. It looked like lots of stuff. And when you finished it, what was the most surprising thing to you? What did you learn? How... We learned a lot of stuff, like how to measure...
 make sure things are too right, not too big, not too small.
 things like that, I guess. Yeah, it's a problem if one side of the bridge is bigger than the other, right? And so you learn proportionality and how to measure things. And what about just in terms of the topography, in terms of whether it was flat or not flat? Did anything surprise you about the neighborhood? Well, we had to study the map of Portland. We had to really dig deep into all of the...
 topography and vegetation. Did anything surprise you guys about the elevation? Just how weird it is. When you look at it with normal eyes just standing on the road, it doesn't look like much but then when you look at the map you can see just how crazy it is.
 And you sure notice that if you're on a bicycle, going through the bicycle lanes. All of a sudden you realize, wow, it's a really hilly neighborhood. It took a lot of elevation. First it was confusing, but then when you finish it, it's huge. And you had to kind of double it, so it doubled in size. Oh, that's great. Lots of paper shades. Yes. Right. Oh, styrofoam got in my ears, my nose. Right.
 Mayor, I have a question. Yeah, Commissioner. Based on the great work these young people did and their obvious interest in the city and the natural environment, how many of you would consider a career working for the city someday? I'm not sure. First ask if he's hiring. We may have some work to do here. So could each of you lean into the microphone and tell both the people here and the people at home what your names are, please? Yes.
 Well, my name is Emma Arnold. My name is Jaden Quincinella. My name is George Robinson. My name is Fatima Allen. My name is Enrique Elizaldez. And I'm Jamie Incock.
 Well, thank you for coming to tell us about your project, and thank you for working hard all year at school. Thank you. I know you'll be having a good summer and get back to it again in the fall. Thank you. I'll say one more question. How much longer do we get to have the display here in City Hall? Peter? Several weeks.
 Several weeks. So I would encourage people. It's on the third floor of Portland City Hall. It's really exciting. It's a great effort on the part of these kids. I want to thank you. I want to thank your teachers and your parents for sharing it with us. It's really exciting. Thanks for coming in. Very good. So on the consent agenda, Carla, as I understand it,
 We have pulled 664, 665, 666, 667, 669, 670, 671, 672, 676, 670, 672, 673, 674, 672, 673, 674, 673, 674, 674, 673, 674, 673, 674, 674, 673, 674, 674, 673, 674, 674, 673, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 674, 67
 678. Those have all been pulled. Is that correct? Correct. Very good. So could you call the roll on the remainder? Mayor, just another housekeeping matter. 664, 666, and 667 will all be heard together. That is correct. Can we hear those at the beginning of the agenda, the regular agenda? If there's no objection, that would be absolutely fine with me. And then just by way of...
 Wait. So let me tell you the housekeeping ones I know. Just so we can do that, Commissioner Fish, with 664-666-667. We'll do those before the time certain, Carla. No, no, after the time certain, before the regular attendance. And it's a very brief presentation. Okay, that's good.
 And then it's my understanding, Commissioner Saltzman, you'd like to pull 678 and move it to after 663. Is that correct? That's correct. Okay. So we can do that, Carlos. So we'll do 663 immediately after 678 because the staffing on that is aligned and the others are pretty straightforward. So with that, we'll go to the first time. Sorry, call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda, please. That's been pulled, yes.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted, so we'll move to the first time certain item 661. Thanks, kids. Appreciate it. Thank you. Carla, could you call 661, please? Thank you.
 661, amend code to allow Green Street stewards to remove sediment from and plant vegetation in public Green Street facilities and to discourage removal of dead plantings. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. The streets of Portland are now filled with small green spaces, which we call Green Street facilities, including bioswales, planters, and rain gardens that store and absorb rain or stormwater that runs off our streets. Thank you.
 Green streets are an economical and beautiful addition to our city. They keep stormwater out of the public sewer system, reduce the need for more pipes, save ratepayers money, while also greening our neighborhoods and reducing heat island impacts. We're fortunate to have nearly 2,000 green street facilities in our city.
 While the Bureau of Environmental Services is responsible for maintaining Green Streets, the Green Street Stewards Program offers Portlanders the opportunity to volunteer and keep our green streets working effectively and looking good. Currently, we have over 150 stewards helping to maintain 360 facilities.
 Based on the feedback we've received from the community, including our stewards, we're proposing today three small code changes, which will remove some barriers and broaden the range of activities that Green Street stewards can engage in. With the code changes, we are reintroducing the program and encouraging more people to sign up. Now I'd like to introduce Amy Chomowitz and Svetlana Pell from the BES Green Street Stewards Program to give us a brief presentation on the program and the proposed changes. Ladies, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Oh, by the way, I should say that we do have a letter. Mike Hauk has submitted a letter on behalf of the Urban Green Spaces Institute in support of this application. Thanks, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner. I'm Amy Chomowitz, and as Commissioner Fish said, I'm Program Manager for the Bureau of Environmental Services. And first, I want to thank you for allowing us time on your agenda. We know you're busy with many things, and we do appreciate your time.
 I'm going to provide some background on Green Street facilities and the ordinance with the code changes. Svetlana is going to talk about the Green Street Stewards Program, and we have some invited public comment as well. Thank you.
 So just some background. Green streets are bioswales or even street gardens, as some people call them, manage stormwater runoff from paved surfaces such as streets and sidewalks, and they do this sustainably. So green streets, they collect runoff and infiltrate it into the ground, and they provide many benefits for the community and for the city. They add vegetation to our neighborhoods, which is good for human health and good for watershed health.
 They reduce pollution reaching the Willamette River and our smaller streams. And they are part of the city's efforts to control combined sewer overflows.
 And the way they do this is by reducing the amount of water or runoff that enters into our pipe system. And by doing that, they preserve capacity of our pipe system. And this can also help save ratepayer dollars. Just one example of saving ratepayer dollars is the Tabor to River Program. And this project entailed replacing aging and undersized pipes.
 And we could have used a completely gray system or gray solution to resolve these issues, but instead we combined gray with green streets. And in doing so, we saved ratepayers $63 million. I'm sorry, what's a gray solution? Oh, that's a pipe solution. So pipes under the ground, laterals, things like that. Okay, thank you. Pipes and pumps, things like that. Sorry. Okay.
 So as Commissioner Fish mentioned, we have about 2,000 Green Street facilities in the city right now. By 2025, we expect to have about 2,300 facilities. And with so many Green Streets, we recognize that there's a growing maintenance responsibility for the Bureau. And the Green Street Stewards Program helps us engage the community in helping us to maintain these facilities. Thank you.
 So what we're here today to ask you is to consider changes to the code that will allow greater flexibility for stewards. And the first change will allow stewards to remove sediment from the facilities. I'm sorry, there is a slide missing. In your packet, you have our PowerPoint presentation, and there is a slide with the proposed code changes in it. Sorry about that. How would people remove the sediment, and what would they do with it?
 They will, thanks, good question. So first, sediment collects in facilities in relatively small amounts, and this is what we want the facilities to do, because it keeps that sediment then from going into our rivers and streams. So it's very simple. They could take a small shovel or a trowel, scoop it up, wearing gloves, and put it in a plastic bag, and dispose of it in just the regular garbage.
 So it goes in the trash, it doesn't go in the compost or anything? It doesn't go into the compost, no. Also, I'll just mention that Svetlana is the Green Street Stewards Coordinator. She provides one-on-one training for stewards. And so handling sediment is one of the things that she talked about, and, of course, adopting safe practices. The second change will allow stewards to plant additional vegetation in facilities that they adopt.
 And the third change is a little bit different. It actually removes language that currently allows volunteers to remove vegetation that appears dead. So sometimes vegetation can appear dead when it's really dormant. So we'll leave that to our professional maintenance crews to manage those plants. Thank you.
 So these changes are small, but they're important, and we're using the code changes as an opportunity to reintroduce the Green Street Stewards Program to the community. So now Svetlana is going to tell you more about the program. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you this morning.
 This is the correct slide now that you see. The goal of the Green Street Steward Program is to engage the residents, business owners, and nonprofit organization in the care of Green Street facilities. By being involved, our stewards will develop a sense of ownership of the green infrastructure and understanding of what the green streets are doing for the stormwater management, watershed health, and livability in their neighborhoods.
 Engaging community in stewardship activity has a potential to decrease the amount of time that bureau crew need to visit individual facility. And these are some of the examples of resources that we provide to our stewards. I'm not sure what's going on, but every single slide is not present correctly.
 But the packet's correct. But the packet's correct. As a volunteer coordinator, my job is to educate the public about green infrastructure and encourage their participation in the Green Streets Steward Program. I do this through tabling at different events throughout Portland, taking community to the bike or walking tours of green infrastructure, and organizing cleanup events.
 As volunteers, the Green Street stewards are helping the city by performing simple activities that include removing trash and debris from inlets to preserve the capacity for the facility, weeding and watering in the summer. With the code changes, volunteers will also be able to remove the sediment and add additional plants. I would like to emphasize that the idea for these code changes came from current stewards.
 and adoption of these changes would open additional opportunities for the community to engage in stewardship and develop a sense of ownership for the facility they adopt.
 As I mentioned, the Green Street Sewer Program building relationships with nonprofits and business owners and residents. And here's the example of the cleanup event we had with a partnership from the Surfrider Foundation and the Widmere Brother Brewery, where in two hours we collected 75 gallons of trash and two gallons of cigarette butts.
 We also found that free beer and snacks after the cleanup provide the opportunity for us to meet new stewards and have fun. Currently, we have 150 volunteers looking after 360 facilities. As Amy mentioned, we are expecting the number of green streets to continue to increase, so we need to promote the program and feel that the code changes can do that for us.
 This pilot project is the example of how we would use the code changes and work with the community to enhance this type of green streets. We call them Grassy's Whales.
 This particular project was done in collaboration with the Greenlands, a non-profit in the Lands' Neighborhood. Greenlands worked with the community to find out if people will be interested in working with the city, and in the end we were able successfully to enhance three facilities by replacing grass with pollinator-friendly vegetation and at the same time provide better-looking green streets in the Lands' Neighborhood.
 And for the future, with these code changes, we can reintroduce the program in a way that we know will attract more community members. We will do this using social media campaign by creating partnerships with businesses and individuals by focusing in East Portland.
 Now I would like to provide you with testimony for the program. We have enclosed two letters of testimony in your packet, one from Mike Houck, the Executive Director of Urban Green Spaces Institute, and the other one from Julia Person, Sustainability Manager at Widmere Brother Brewery. In the interest of time, I will read the shorter one. Testimony to the Council, City of Portland. Thank you.
 Widmere Brother Brewing supports the Green Street Steward Program. As one of the longest-running and largest breweries in the region, we are committed to support our local communities and the environment through our sustainability efforts.
 With the help of the Green Street Steward Program, we have become caretakers of seven Green Street facilities in our neighborhood and are filtering pollutants from stormwater to protect the watershed that is critical to making great beer in Portland. Our employees volunteer their time for cleanup events, and we have partnered with our community organizations, such as Portland Surfrider Chapter. With Mere Brewery,
 Widmere Brother Brewing would love to see the important Green Street Steward program continue to be funded and grow. Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony. Please reach out with any questions. Julia Persson, Sustainability Manager at the Widmere Brewery. Any questions for us? Great. Now I would like to invite Linda Nedakoven, Sydney Mead, and Ian Cannelli to provide their testimonies for our program. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good morning. Sure. My name is Ian Cannelli. I'm a volunteer with the Portland chapter of the Surf Rider Foundation. It's an international nonprofit, and we care about water quality. We do a lot of beach cleanups. We do cleanups upstream here in Portland on the Columbia River. We also go out to the coast. And one of our best partners that we've had since 2011 has been BES and the Green Street Stewards Program.
 We oftentimes try to lure volunteers with commitments that aren't too heavy or time intensive, and Green Streets has been one of the best that we have for bringing in new volunteers. So once a month we get together. We start at my house the first Tuesday of the month, and we pick up trash and clean out bioswales on Northeast Alberta Avenue.
 It's a really great way to meet people, and we've really seen an incredible effect by doing this in the same place over and over again. Northeast Alberta, or at least our little stretch of it, is a lot cleaner. BES has just been a really incredible partner with the Surfrider Foundation. Svetlana specifically has outfitted us with these very snazzy vests, as you can see here.
 And one of our bigger incentives is that everyone gets this awesome grabber to help pick up trash.
 which is a lot of fun. And I also wanted to talk quickly about some of the cool partnerships we've had with local breweries. They mentioned one with the Widener Brothers. Tomorrow we actually have an event at 5.30 p.m. with Alameda Brewing. So we'll be picking up trash on Northeast Fremont Avenue. And all of you are welcome. I believe you'll find this flyer in the packet. Actually, anyone here is welcome to come. It's a free event. They'll have free refreshments and food afterwards.
 So once again, I just really wanted to say what an amazing partnership this has been, and I really hope it continues on into the future. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Hi, Linda. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commission members. Thanks for the opportunity to speak in support of this excellent program. My name is Linda Neddikhoven. I live in the Hossford-Abernathy neighborhood, and I'm a founding member of the Division Vision Coalition, which began working to transform Southeast Division way back in 2001, trying to make it a green Main Street. And I'm here today, again, to support the ongoing efforts in this direction.
 We began advocating for bioswales and other green features before they were trendy, or most people had even heard of them, aside from city staff and other visionaries here in Portland. And we even worked with BES to prepare a self-guided walking tour of the bioswales in the neighborhood when they were sort of popping up early days.
 We're obviously, as Amy's pointed out, very aware of the functions that the Bioswales offer our neighborhoods. The ones that especially we wanted to comment on today are their potential to educate people
 as to why we have bioswales, what these features are about. And that speaks to the need for signage. I've been thinking Burma shave signs. I know we have some official approved signage that already exists, but we're hoping that we can, again, spur creative thinking for more of that in the future. The other is the issue of adding attractive plantings to a Main Street environment or any neighborhood environment for that matter. And so...
 Since I'm close to division, we're looking ahead to see what we can expect from the green stewardship program in the future. We're finding ourselves without adequate maintenance of our bioswales at the moment, partly due to some contracting issues and other challenges in their installation.
 But the fact that the bioswales aren't attractive means that they not only don't contribute to livability, they actually undermine it. And so I really want to stress the need for adequate resources for this program. It's really important. It really makes all the difference in terms of, I think, the community's acceptance of other green features going forward. We want to demonstrate what an amenity they can be.
 So as I mentioned, we're looking forward to the continuation of the written materials for potential volunteers, some new signage for our bioswales, and then the option that we're excited about of having the stewards have some opportunity to choose some additional plants, you know, carefully selected.
 in keeping with a plant list or other guidelines that the Bureau has put in place. But that, again, contributes to that ownership feeling that this is my bioswale, and not only am I keeping it clean and working, but also I have a little bit of say in terms of some additional plants that could be planted there. I think Sydney's going to cover the role that the Business Association is going to play in the future as this partnership continues on Division Street.
 Good morning. My name is Sydney Mead. I'm with Habitat Property Management and a board member for the Division Clinton Business Association. And in the last couple years, we've actually had a great opportunity to partner with Silvania and the folks from Surfrider and even Solve together on cleanup programs in our street and in the bioswells.
 We're very supportive of the transformation that's happened on Division Street. And part of that transformation and the vibrancy that we're seeing for our little main street in Division has been around the trees and the plantings and the bioswales. I think when you visualize a vibrant region,
 retail and business core, what you're visualizing is something that is well maintained, has plants, and has a vibrant community. And I think that these bioswales actually have the ability to do that.
 We've had a lot of challenges with them. Again, as Linda alluded to, there are some issues with the contracting. But we are hopeful that with the correct resources, we can maybe correct some of the plantings and get some of the dead vegetation out of there. And then have the type of bioswale that can be a real asset for the city and for the program moving forward.
 what I would encourage, what I've really seen is with the cleanups and trash pickups, there's a real sense of community. People enjoy getting out and having a say and being involved in their community. But there is also a sense of frustration that there are not enough resources to care for these bioswales. And I would just encourage if
 a stormwater facility or a factory had been built, there would be maintenance funds for it. So I would make sure that this program, even though it's not a physical warehouse or plant, it has adequate maintenance dollars to make sure that it's successful. Let me just say, if I can, to both you and to Linda, having worked with both of you,
 over a long period of time on the Division Street reconstruction, and it was a fantastic collaboration between the Neighborhood Association, the Business Association, PBOT.
 and others, I'm chagrined to hear about the frustrations you felt with some of the bioswells because they were a controversial component of the overall design. So you have my commitment. We'll take a close look at how we can get in front of those problems because we did make a commitment that they would be operational and functioning. And so we'll figure out what the problem is and get back to you. But I appreciate you sharing those concerns. And just from our side, the
 A part-time staff member for the Division Clinton Business Association has already pledged that she's willing to carry the word on her appointed rounds on the street. She's also a building manager, so she knows the other building managers there and is hoping, again, to be able to reach out to residents so that we've got an extra big pool of people to draw from for potential stewards. So we're optimistic and looking forward to that.
 I may even ride my bike up division over the weekend just to get a closer look. But thank you. We'll get back to you with a solution, and I really appreciate your testimony. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Are there other invited panel members? That's it, Mayor. Very good. So, folks, we had a busy agenda to start with. We've had 10 items pulled off the consent agenda, so I'm going to ask people to keep testimony within two minutes. That's the same amount granted by the legislature. I won't be crazy about it, but if we can just be as concise as possible. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have one person signed up, Star Stauffer. Come on up.
 Star, you're up. Good timing. Wow, that was really good timing. Star Stauffer, one of the things that I... I mean, I'm all for green streets. I mean, obviously, one of the things that makes Portland great is its green streets, but again, where's the representation from the communities of color in this initiative? What...
 Why is it just, I mean, do you think black people don't like clean streets? That maybe they don't have some kind of an input here? Why have they not been invited to the table on this? Why in that picture of their little beer party was there one black person? That means they're not going out into these communities and offering them the key to activation, which again, white people are the gatekeepers. They've got to wait for them to go to the neighborhoods and offer them a key to be activated and get involved in this. But they don't invite them.
 But they come up here and they ask for money and they say they care about community. White communities. Where the hell is the representation of people of color in their supposed green and wonderful organization? Every single week it's another group after another group after another group coming up here. They're white, white, white, white, white asking for money, money, money, money, money. They say they care about communities yet I never see people of color represented. Shame on you.
 Why don't you get yourselves out there and activate in communities where there's people of color? Clean their, give them some money to make their neighborhoods cleaner and safer and more livable for their children so that they have a chance to thrive, survive, and be healthy. Be included. That's why I hate the word diversity and inclusion. Because they're the ones, you're the ones with your white faces, their white faces. Yes, I know I'm white for all the people that feel the need to point that out. No kidding. Why do you think I call out other white people?
 telling people of color, here, we're going to invite you. That should be a foregone conclusion. This is shameful. You don't care about community. You care about white people. There you have it. Thank you. Are there any further comments or questions from the city council? Hearing none, this is the non-emergency reading of a first ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, please, 662.
 Grant a revocable permit valid from July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2022 to Metro to close Southwest Main Street between Southwest Broadway and Southwest Park. Excuse me. This is an interruption in violation of council rules. If you continue, you'll be asked to leave. And Southwest Park Avenue East to accommodate specified temporary uses and activities within the right-of-way and wave fees. I am professing. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Carl Lyle with the Spectator Venues Program at the Office of Management and Finance. I have with me Executive Director of the Portland Five Centers for the Arts, Robin Williams. And I'm sorry, I actually wanted to introduce this. I got sidetracked. I first of all want to start out by thanking you and thanking the work that OMF and the Fire Bureau and PBOT have done
 putting this ordinance to the council, and I appreciate it. It's going to ensure that Portland 5 can continue to close Southwest Main Street, as they have for many, many years, in the interest of public safety and also to be able to hold the many wonderful events that...
 our marquee events throughout the summer. Southwest Main Street and Portland Five are generally great community assets, and the city has been very happy to partner with them as owners of the theater buildings and as the streets. So you've already introduced yourself. I'll let you continue, but I want to welcome you and thank you for being here today.
 Great. Thank you very much. So I'll just give a very brief overview of what this ordinance is, kind of how we got to this point. And then Robin can talk a little bit about how important it is for the operations of Portland Five Venues and the activities they have. So this is about Southwest Main Street. And I do have one slide, about one slide for this, because this is a case where a picture is probably worth at least 1,000 words.
 But what we're talking about is Southwest Main Street between Broadway and the park blocks. And as you know, it's between the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall and Antoinette Hatfield Hall, two city-owned facilities that are operated by the Portland Five as part of Metro. So these improvements, it's a unique street, right? And it has special plantings and pavings, and it has railings.
 bollards and automatic gates that allow the street to be easily closed, both to improve public safety when there are events and lots of pedestrians involved with events in the theater buildings, but also for events in that street. It was designed and developed when Antoinette Hatfield Hall opened in the late 1980s, I think 1987, and it's been pretty successful ever since.
 the actual sort of rules and permitting and regulations about that street, because it remains a city of Portland right away, a piece of actual street, have become pretty complicated over time and have been governed by a series of different ordinances granted by the council, but also administrative permits related to uses and various different things over time. And so really in the
 course of kind of going through that process or beginning to enter that process of conversations about how to allow the closure of the street for the regular events, we realized in working with our partners at transportation, and we do have staff here if there are any questions for transportation as well,
 that it would be beneficial to consolidate those various different permits and clarify exactly what was allowed and what could be allowed and do it for a longer time period rather than just one or two events at a time. So that's really what you have. We work closely with the PBOT staff both in permitting group, Rich Eisenhower, and also the traffic engineering folks, Carl Snyder, and they're both here if there are questions.
 and with the Fire Bureau, who has a role in ensuring public safety during events and closures as well. And what we've come up with is this revocable permit, which would be valid for five years, and allow essentially the Portland Five to continue operating the street, closing it regularly for both improving public safety, emergencies.
 but also allowing events in the street and then increasing safety when there are lots of things and people happening and going back and forth between the two theater buildings adjacent to that street. So it's not really a change in existing practices. It's kind of a housekeeping measure that clarifies the intent and the importance of their ability, Portland Five's ability, to use that street and continues it for a period of five years. So with that, I'll turn it over to Robin. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. It's been a wonderful opportunity for us to be able to close Main Street in conjunction with some of the things that we do at Portland Five Venues. Certainly the safety aspect of being able to keep our patrons and certainly all the children that come to our student events safe is really, really important to us. But we have found Main Street to be an important tool to us
 to provide free programming that we can open up to the entire community in a way we believe it allows our buildings to kind of open their arms more. When we started our, I believe we're on our 11th or 12th year with our Music on Main free concert series once a week through the summer. And prior to that, our Summer Arts on Main series.
 program, which starts around the noon hour in conjunction with the farmer's market. And we use that opportunity to bring in local arts organizations, smaller organizations that don't get an opportunity to perform in our building and don't get in front of a downtown audience all the time.
 This is a great opportunity to bring them in. Our volunteers run a program of free arts activities for any children that come down during this time period. We have a partnership with the farmer's market to do vegetable car races and all kinds of really fun activities at lunch. Then we segue into the evening where we present local musicians. We raise the funds to pay these musicians so that we are supporting them.
 local performers. But we offer this program for free. And I have a friend who lives in Section 8 housing a couple blocks away. And she told me how important it was for us to have these events so her residents...
 could come down and sit. There's no obligation to buy anything or pay any money, and you get this free activity. And I think that's a very important part of who we are and who we have become when we made the name change to Portland Five. It was because we really want to be Portland's
 performing arts center and main street to become a real important part of that for us to be able to continue doing that. We have very much appreciate this partnership with the city over the past 30 years and the ability to continue doing this well into the future. So thank you very much. Thank you. And I would just add one more thing. You'll notice that there is an emergency clause in this ordinance. And that's because the first of the annual music on main Wednesday, Wednesday event, um,
 It's scheduled to happen July 5th. July 5th. So we need to get this taken care of. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Is there a public testimony on this item? We have three people signed up. Very good. If you just hang out for a minute. Star Stauffer, Robert West, and Joe Walsh. Good morning. Morning. Star Stauffer. Again, I have the same question. Where is the representation of the black community to sit up here and talk about this art program? What...
 I mean, I know it sounds like a broken record, but quite frankly, racism is a broken record. And this is ridiculous. So who's the performers that are going to be paid? Are any of them black? Is the art that's going to be up going to represent the historical struggle of black people?
 I mean, are we going to educate this racist community with white hate crimes happening literally every single day now? I mean, even you have acknowledged the rise in white hate crimes. So are we going to actually stand as a community? I mean, if you're going to use that word community, I hate to break it to you, but that includes black and brown people.
 So if you talk about community, why are they not being represented when we live in a city that is, number one, one of the most racist in the country, and number two, one of the highest for white hate crimes in the country right now? There better be some education for people of color or that stuff. It might get shut down. I don't know. I can't say how people in the city will react. They're pretty pissed.
 I mean, they're tired of being marginalized by white people. They're tired of white voices drowning out their voices while they're being killed and maimed in the streets. So where's the education on that?
 Or is this just more celebrating white people with white money and their white privilege, having a permit to shut down an entire street, to pat themselves on the back and call themselves a community? That is shameful, shameful, shameful. No KKK, no USA. You know what I'm saying? This is disgusting.
 I'm sick and tired of seeing these white groups get up here without any representation from the black community and speaking about community. We're tired of hearing their voices. We want to hear the voices of people of color coming up here, not just being invited, but being allowed to help lead. And I hate to use that word aloud, but when white supremacy rules everything, what other word is there? Shameful. Thank you. No, you're not welcome.
 My name is Bob. I'm with Film the Police. And I find it really interesting that you guys want to grant extended permits for yuppie stuff and people with money. But when it comes to...
 Areas like street parties and stuff in northeast Portland or protests, you guys want to charge the protesters a lot of money and other people in the street parties and stuff a lot of money to shut down the street. And these people don't have a lot of money. What you're doing is financially unfair to disadvantaged people.
 I think what it is, is if you grant these people a permit, then you need to remove the money things from the permit system and allow people to get permits without having to pay for them. And allow protests without riot cops coming in and beating people up and kettling them and gassing them.
 That was really bad. You want to close down the street so yuppies can have parties for a year, five years, whatever. But when it comes to protests where people are tired of racism in their city, you want to kettle them and gas them? And you call that all right? That's shameful. Shameful.
 That's why you're seeing all these anti-racist stuff. I sat there and watched the Portland police go up to a Muslim house on a welfare check on a guy. Right? And as soon as they found out there was children in there, the police wanted to know the names and ages of every one of those children. Right?
 Because the guy supposedly doesn't live there, and the lady was on welfare. So they wanted to do that so they could notify CPS of what was going on. Thank you. And the Muslims were black. Okay, I'm sorry, sir, your time is up. Thank you. Mr. Walsh?
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh with Rucket. I represent Individuals for Justice. One of the things I can't figure out is why Metro is asking you to waive the fees. I mean, Metro has some bucks. So why are they asking you to waive the fees, and what kind of fees are we talking about? If they want them waived, it must be significant. And if they got the money, they ought to pay.
 I think it's a great idea to close the streets. And I think what the other speakers are trying to tell you is this year, 2017, is the beginning of people going before city councils and school boards and saying, hey, folks, do your job. That's what we're demanding. And we have a right to do that if you read the First Amendment.
 The last line says, I have a right to petition my government. And that's what we do, whether you like it or not. Do your job. And people are crying out to you. Go into the community. There is a reference sitting here. Get together with her and say, okay, how can we help you? That's your job. Hi, Joe Walsh. How can we help you? That's your job.
 And that's why we get so angry with you. Metro's got money. You're waiving the fees for Metro. That's what we're asking you. And how much are you waiving? Is it $10 or $10 million? I don't know. Do you? Thank you. It's $1,200 a year. Mary Seip. I don't consider myself a yuppie. I am white. I'm low income. Um...
 Without this program, it would be very, very unusual for me to get to enjoy the entertainment that they provide. I can't afford to even go to a movie theater. And so the programs like this that the city provides are...
 I get to take advantage of. My neighbors get to take advantage of it. I've been going to these concerts for years. I see a diverse audience. I see diverse groups that perform. And I do understand the concerns about waiving the fees. To me, I think the thing that needs to be balanced is, are these fees going to...
 cost so much that they can no longer do this. I think that's an important consideration.
 I do have concerns when I see one city agency collecting fees from another city agency for different permits, and I think that's something that we need to look at. I know that the Noise Control Office has a program with the city parks for all of the multiple events that they have, and they wrap it up into one permit and charge one fee. And so maybe not waive the fee, but...
 condense the fee. But in any event, I just want to say that without this type of program, there are a lot of people in the city that would never get to enjoy these events or see these performers ever. So thank you. That's correct. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Again, the amount of the fee was addressed at $1,200 per year, and I do agree with the other speakers that
 That shouldn't be waived to Metro. And it's my understanding that the permit we're talking about is to Metro for their use of 20 times per year with an extension of, I believe, 10 more times with a written approval. Now, my big issue on here is these are city-owned buildings.
 And I don't think the city should own these buildings. I don't think the city of Portland should be in the performing arts venues business. I think these should be sold out to private investors. The reason why I say that is I always thought the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall, which I know Jordan Schnitzer, was owned by the Schnitzers. Now, I'm kind of surprised on that. I'd like to actually see this sold to the Schnitzers.
 let them own this building. Why you're in the real estate business, holding business, is beyond me. Why you think you're a land banking institution is beyond me. Why you think you're a philanthropist is beyond me. All conflicts of interest, and I hope that somebody pursues this and lets you understand you're not in the real estate business, okay?
 And these should be sold to the private sector. The private sector should have control of this. And again, as far as on Metro, being able to consolidate all the permits and waive the fees, I think is inappropriate. And it shouldn't happen like that. So again, put these buildings up for sale. Get out of the real estate business, land banking business. Let the private sector have their properties. Thank you. Thank you.
 Any other questions, colleagues, comments? I will just say this. Well, I shall say it during my vote. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Britt? You daily. I'm very happy to support this item. It's wonderful that we have free programming for the public and...
 These are great spaces that also provide opportunities for culturally specific organizations, provide access for low-income audience members. And just back after a week gone, and I'm feeling highly amused by some of this testimony. I. Fritz.
 Well, thank you very much to Metro and to the Portland Five for managing these city assets for us so that everybody can enjoy them. And I agree that lots of people of all kinds come to the concerts and other events in that space, and it obviously makes a lot of sense to consolidate all the permits, so you cut down on paperwork and time spent doing fairly routine things. So also thanks to Janine Gates on my staff who had it in my notes about how much the permit fees being waived is. Hi.
 I believe it is absolutely critical that these venues and arts and culture be accessible to everybody in our community. And so I'm a little surprised by some of the testimony that seems to suggest either people don't understand that this is about access, in many cases for free.
 for people in our community to be able to participate in activities that in other cities cost a lot of money in order to be able to participate in them. And I want to thank the various groups and organizations that actively participate in the planning of
 and the running of these events with the clear intention of including the community broadly. So I am very happy to support this, and I encourage everybody to, you know, I think one of the most exciting things is when they have the noon concerts. I think those are great on a beautiful day. Anybody who wants to come can show up, bring your bag lunch or whatever, and enjoy it. So I'm all for it. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 The ordinance is adopted. The permit is approved. Next item, please. We're going to do 663 and then move on to 668, please. 663, approve funding recommendations. Excuse me. This is a disruption in violation of the council policies. If you do not stop, I will ask you to leave. Please have her removed.
 Next item, please. 663, approve funding recommendations made by the Children's Levy Allocation Committee for July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2019. Good morning. Good morning. Another day in paradise. How are you today? Good. How are you? Commissioner Saltzman. Excuse me. Excuse me. Do you think that's smart? Commissioner Saltzman, sorry for the interruption. Watch out! This is our decision!
 This year, the Portland Children's Levee marks its 15th year of serving the city's children and families. Since 2002, the levee has strengthened our community by helping thousands of children from birth through age 24 to achieve their potential. We have done this through increasing children's access to proven programs that provide positive early childhood development assistance, school engagement, and academic achievement.
 high school graduation assistance, family safety and stability services, and we are very thankful to Portland voters who have chosen to make children a priority each time the levy has come before them. We're gratified by our community's confidence that the levy is empowering not just children, but parents and caregivers to become more skilled at advocating for their children in the classroom and in life. Today, Lisa Hansel of the Children's Levy staff...
 is here to present to us a request for the council to approve about $32 million of investments over the next two years made by the Children's Levy Allocation Committee. These investments will provide a smoother route to kindergarten through early childhood programs, safe and high-quality after-school and mentoring programs that will now run through the summer, strong community connections and transition assistance for children in foster care,
 Programs to help children overcome the trauma of abuse and neglect, and parenting classes and respite care for families struggling with violence. Also, healthy and nutritious meals for children to address the dire hunger problem in Portland, where more than 12,000 children in the city rely on emergency food boxes each month for their basic sustenance. I'll turn it over to Lisa to speak, make the presentation, and then we do have some invited panelists I'll also call up.
 Lisa Hansel. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. My name is Lisa Hansel, and I'm a grant manager for the Children's Levy. I'm here today to request City Council approval of the Allocation Committee's recommendations to fund investments totaling $32,191,172 for a two-year period beginning July 1, 2017. Thank you.
 The recommended investment amounts are detailed in Exhibit C, titled PCL Grant Renewal, and additional funding amounts approved by the Allocation Committee. The five-member Allocation Committee is charged with making all funding decisions for the levy. The committee is comprised of Dan Saltzman, a city commissioner, and also the chair of the committee, Chair Deborah Kifori, a county commissioner.
 Julie S. Young, a citizen member appointed by the City Council, Serena Stoddmeier-Wesley, a citizen member appointed by the County Board, and Mitch Horniker, a representative of the Portland Business Alliance. Most of the funding requested, just over $30 million, will be used to renew current grants for the final two years of the current levy period. The renewal amounts include a 3.5% COLA each year.
 After reviewing performance data for each grantee, the allocation committee recommends renewing a total of 67 grants, including 17 early childhood grants, 16 after-school grants, 15 child abuse prevention and intervention grants, eight foster care grants, six mentoring grants, and five hunger relief grants. There are some additional amounts that have been recommended for...
 current grantees to address specific policy advancement. The first, the allocation committee recommends that just over a million dollars be awarded to 16 grantees that offer home visiting services and two grantees that offer preschool groups. The purpose of these funds is to reduce caseloads or group sizes and increase reflective supervision while maintaining current service levels.
 This funding supports quality improvement efforts undertaken in early childhood, child abuse prevention, intervention, and foster care program areas. The Allocation Committee also recommends that $385,000 be added to an existing grant that provides early childhood mental health consultation services to early childhood programs with center-based programs that are funded through the levy.
 The additional funding will expand the mental health consultation services to include home visiting programs in early childhood, child abuse prevention, intervention, and foster care program areas. I just want to say thank you, and I appreciate that you're giving the cost of living adjustments for the program staff. In the past, we haven't necessarily done that in all of our grants, and I appreciate that we are. Thank you. The grantees also appreciate it.
 For the salaries increases for staff, it helps to make sure that minimum wage is addressed as well. The committee also recommends awarding about $360,000 to expand summer programming for 10 after-school grantees over the next two years. The purpose of these funds is to prevent summer learning loss, as well as expand the availability of summer programming in the community.
 And finally, the Allocation Committee recommends awarding just over $50,000 to nine after-school and mentoring grantees. The purpose of this funding is to support the implementation of the Youth Program Quality Assessment Process and covers things like staff time for training, assessment improvement planning, logistics, and materials.
 In summary, the Children's Levy requests that the City Council accept these recommendations of the Allocation Committee to fund the investments totaling $32,191,172, as detailed in Exhibit C, titled PCL Grant Renewal and Additional Funding Amounts, approved by the Allocation Committee.
 This request does not include any cost to the city general fund. Children's levy revenues are generated by a special property tax levy, and the children's levy proposes to use a portion of the proceeds of the levy to fund these allocations. Thank you, Lisa. Thank you. And now we'll hear directly from three of the programs that the children's levy invest in. We'll start with Albina Early Head Start, and then we'll hear from Latino Network, and then from ERCO.
 So I'd like to invite Albina Early Head Starts Director Elaine Harrison up first, and she'll introduce a few of the families they serve. Welcome, Elaine. Thank you.
 Good morning. Morning. Good morning. I'm Elaine Harrison from Albany Early Head Start. We are very proud and grateful recipients of the levy. And I have with me a coalition of parents, staff, and children here to speak to you today. And we realize we only have five minutes, and they all want to speak. So I hope they at least get to say their name a little bit about what they do. Okay.
 hi my name is bami arabam and i have two little girls in abana head start and well both are an early head start um i really appreciate it um the oldest one started when she was 14 months and the young one started exactly at four months and she is so well advanced i really appreciate the teacher the time and the effort they put on her because she and um she's she's like
 I can't explain. I just tell the teachers, you know, the program needs to continue, and they deserve the funds because they have been a blessing for both my family and, yeah.
 Thank you. Thank you. Hi there. My name is Marta Lewis. First of all, I just want to thank you for your service. And second, I just want to say this program has been life-altering for my daughter and I. Maisie has been in the program. She's a little over two. She's been in the program since she was four months old. And I started with in-home, the home-based services, and she's now been in the classroom for a year. And she's also  she has just flourished in the program. I am a full-time student at PCC. And 
 Because of this program, I've been able to go full time. And it's helped me to be able to get good grades, knowing that my daughter's in safe hands. We both go to school at the same time. And she loves the program. She speaks Spanish at two years old. She loves to read. They have been very loving to me and my daughter. There's times, being a single mom,
 Sometimes I don't know what I'm doing. I feel like I'm out of my element, and I have a lot of questions. And I feel safe asking the teachers that. And they have not only given me the answers, but they have plugged me into resources, such as parenting classes and stuff like that. And I'm so grateful for this program. It's been a real blessing for me and my daughter.
 Thank you. What's you studying at PCC? I'm doing my Associate of Science, and then I want to do Theology, hopefully at Multnomah University. We'll see. Cool. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Julieta, and I really love this program. I know them since my first girl. I was pregnant with her. Now she's 13 years old. And then I have four years later, I have my other girl. She's nine years old, and now this baby. So I really love the program. It's really very well for all the children. They have the opportunity to be in there. And I'm really happy for this program. Thank you very much. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you.
 I'm also really grateful. Thank you so much. I've been on the program for three years, three or four years. I just don't think it's a great help for kids, but I also think it's a great help for parents, like psychological. I was really attached to my kids. I didn't really want to work. I prefer my husband working. I didn't want my kids to go to school. They quit.
 they cry a lot with other people. They're even attached to me, but the teacher helped me understand how they can go to school, learn. My daughter, like the other moms say, she's two. She already speaks. She can already see all the colors. They're well-developed. Most parents...
 say, like, I get a lot of good compliments back just by that way saying a good mom just because I already have teachers for my kids at a really young age. And I'm also really grateful because without the program I wouldn't be able to
 achieve my goals. We were struggling a lot in money and my teacher knew this for like a couple years and she said we couldn't, like she saw we couldn't move ahead for those two years so she helped me a lot to like pay a test for a certification for medical assisting and so I passed it and I'll have an interview and I'm really, really grateful for all that, my kids and my future. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
 My name is Sabrina Ursland, and I am currently an employee of Albina, but I am a previous parent. I was asked to come and share a little bit about my history, and I was a child that grew up in the foster system in the city of Portland. Group homes, juvenile facilities, adult jail to prison.
 And when I became part of the Early Head Start Head Start community as a parent, both my life, my children's lives, and my husband's lives changed. My husband and I had had a lot of time in state custody and throughout the systems growing up. And being able to connect with Early Head Start and the resources and the services that were provided from being a home-based family to a center-based family to a Head Start center-based family was a big part of that.
 We really received the support that we needed to care for our child. We received the education we needed. We both went to college, which wasn't something we anticipated ever doing. And it's really provided that support and safety for a place for us to go to and get what we need to go further in life than what we had ever thought we would have. Yeah.
 And, you know, this Sunday I actually walk from Portland State with my master's in early childhood education, and I've become part of the Albina family. Thank you.
 And it's just been a saving grace. It's the people, the home visitors, the teachers, the staff, the education coordinators, the directors, they all come in and they wrap themselves around us as parents, and they help us walk through these obstacles in life that sometimes we don't foresee ourselves getting through. And so...
 That's who I am and kind of why I'm here, and the program has been great. And I just want to touch on the fact that I have been a family that's received home-based services. I've received early Head Start center-based services and Head Start center-based services, and it's really helped my family make it to where we are today. That's awesome. Thank you. Okay, so I just want to wrap up and say thank you again for your support. As you heard today, it's very valuable, very needed. Thank you.
 Thank you. Well, thank you, Elaine and all the Albina Head Start families for being here. Next up is Sadie Feibel-Holmes, Director of Early Childhood Programs Latino Network and one of their families. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning.
 So yes, for the record, my name is Sadie Feibel Holmes. I'm the Director of Early Childhood Programs for Latino Network. And I'm here today with Rafaela Soto to express our support for the Portland Children's Levy expanded investments. And just to give an example of what those funds pay for in our city, I'd like to tell you just a little bit about our program and then turn it over to Rafaela to share her experience.
 Juntos Aprendemos is a culturally specific parent-child kindergarten readiness program that brings three- to five-year-old Latino children and their parents into their neighborhood school for 30 weeks.
 By the end of the program year, children demonstrate measurable gains in kindergarten readiness indicators, with 90% of our kids showing improvement in early literacy and early math skills. And at the same time, over 90% of their parents report engaging in more educational activities with their children at home, reading more frequently with their kids.
 and utilizing positive parenting strategies. So we know that the parents who graduate from our program are literally building their children's brains at home and they're building that strong foundation of parent-child attachment that we know fosters resiliency to set these kids up for success in school and life.
 So I really want to thank the Portland Children's Levy for their commitment to Portland's kids and families. Commissioner Dan Saltzman for your leadership on the allocation committee and to the whole city council for your support of Portland's children. Thank you very much, and I'll turn it over to Rafaela. Buenos dias. Mi nombre es Rafaela Soto.
 I speak a little bit English, but I think it's better if she translates for me. Because I want you guys to understand everything, what I want to say. My name is Rafaela Soto. I have a three-year-old child. I have two years with the program. And this is an excellent program. I would like everyone to know. Thank you.
 My name is Rafaela Soto. I have a three-year-old, and I have two years participating in this program. It's an excellent program. I would like everyone to know that. Este programa nos brinda las herramientas necesarias a todos los padres de familia, ayudarles a nuestros hijos a lograr las metas que ellos tienen en la vida. The program gives all of us parents the necessary tools to help our children build the skills that they need in order to achieve their goals in life.
 Este programa nos ensea a los padres la importancia de involucrarnos en la escuela de nuestros hijos. The program teaches us the importance of being involved in our children's schools. Este programa cuenta con excelentes maestras. The program has excellent teachers.
 Ellos no solo se involucran con los nios, se involucran tambin con los padres y nos dan ideas de cmo trabajar con los nios en casa. And they don't just work with the children, they also work with the parents and give us ideas of how to support our kids learning at home. Este programa es solo dos horas por semana y realmente hablo por todas las mams que estamos en estos grupos. Es de gran ayuda.
 But we would like to have more funds so that the program could be two times a week.
 And in my own experience, my son has advanced so much in one year of just going one day a week for two hours a day. So you could imagine how much more he would grow with two days a week.
 I am very happy with this program and I would like to thank you and tell you that this program helps us a lot. It has changed our lives as a family. It teaches us how we can help our children move forward.
 And the focus on parents has been really important because not only do they teach us, but they also show us the importance of being involved. And...
 The first child that I brought to this program, he was five already, and he barely spoke.
 and the teachers worked with him and helped him and by the end of the year he was able to communicate with other children and now in kindergarten he's one of the more advanced students in his class he can read and he can write. Lo importante tambien es que este programa se nos presenta en espaol y es una de las cosas que nuestros nios no deben de perder. And one of the important aspects is that the program is conducted in Spanish and it is something that we don't want our children to lose.
 Ahora l habla muy bien ingls y habla muy bien espaol. And now my son speaks English and Spanish very well. Y pues muchsimas gracias por darnos los fondos necesarios.
 Y esperamos que para el prximo ao sea un poco ms, para que podamos seguir contando con el programa y podamos traer ms familias y posiblemente tener ms das para nuestro programa. So thank you very much, and we hope that the program will continue and with additional funds be able to serve more families and maybe even more days of programming. Thank you. Thank you very much, both of you. Thank you.
 And last, we have Jorge Nava Marin, coordinator of ERCO's Inspire program and a family that they serve. Thank you, Commissioner Schatzman. Thank you, City Council, for having us here today. My name is Jorge Nava Marin, and I am a program coordinator for the Immigrant and Refugee Community Organizations Inspire program.
 The INSPIRE program is the In-School Program for Immigrant and Refugee Education, and it provides academic advising, group activities, and parent engagement for Slavic, Latino, African immigrant, and Asian and Pacific Islander families. I am here today in support of the Poland Children's Levy suggestion to increase summer funding this coming summer, as well as to introduce you to a wonderful family who is a member of the program.
 First, with this adjusted increase, we will be able to serve at least an additional 25 students during the summer months, and we will be able to do so in a way that we haven't been able to do before. We will be working under the All Hands Race umbrella to provide a summer transition program.
 and we will have the capacity to provide crucial academic support as students transition from 8th grade to 9th grade. Research supports 9th grade transition models and it's especially important for English language learners to not miss out during the summer months. Additional funds will allow us to add two 9th grade counts programs to the INSPIRE program, one in Portland Public Schools and the other one in David Douglas. Students will have the opportunity to participate in meaningful
 academic supports, and social and emotional supports. They will also have the ability to earn high school credit and be able to familiarize themselves with their feeding high schools. We know from research and our own experiences that the opportunity to participate in programs is essential for the impact to their success in high school and beyond. So we thank the Portland Children's Levy and the Allocation Committee for their continued support for a valuable program.
 Now I want to introduce you to Patrick Rivera. He's a Jason Lee student, a seventh grader, and he has been in the program since he was in fourth grade, as well as his dad, Martin Rivera. Buenos dias. Mi nombre es Martin Rivera. Les quiero dar gracias por la oportunidad de estar aqu. Good morning. My name is Martin Rivera. I want to thank you for the opportunity to be here. Como padre de Patrick, estoy muy agradecido con el programa Inspire porque ellos les han ayudado mucho con las programas
 They help us with our homework, they give us the opportunity to talk with the teachers about math problems. As a parent of Patrick, I am very grateful for the program as they provide support for Patrick and as well as the opportunity for us to talk to the school whenever they have problems.
 Gracias a este programa, mi hijo ha conocido lugares divertidos de acorde a su edad. Thanks to this program, my son has also been able to get to know different places that are age appropriate for him. Tambin nos da la oportunidad de ellos siempre estn, los integrantes de Inspire siempre estn dispuestos a ayudarnos. The Inspire staff are always available to help us and that's something that I'm grateful for.
 And thank you. I want to thank all of you for your help. Thank you. Hello. My name is Patrick Rivera. I'm a seventh-grade student from Jason Lee School. I am here to talk today about my experience in the Inspire program. Inspire has been...
 beneficial to me in the following ways. First, the after school group has helped me improve my math skills and reading skills. For example, we played board games that taught these concepts. Another time that Inspire has been officially is during my classes. Jorge was in my class. He was able to help me answer my questions. As an example, I could ask him what a metaphor was.
 When it got to the end of the term, as a reward for participating in the group, we went on a field trip. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Good job. Thank you all for your time. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all to both ERCO, Latino Network, and Albina Early and Start for being here today and for the families. And thank you for all your work on behalf of Portland's children and families. And that completes our presentation. And this is an emergency ordinance.
 Very good. Any questions before we call for public testimony? Any public testimony on this item? We have one person, Star Stauffer. Good morning again. Star Stauffer, I love this program. I am super grateful that you are leading the charge in allowing these communities that are marginalized and marginalized
 and in desperate need of more resources and services. So thank you for that, Saltzman. But I would like to add, I think that the city has the ability, and I think that if the city is serious about taking care of our communities and educating and lifting up people of color so that they have a chance to succeed right next to their white counterparts,
 I challenge you to double the funding for each of these programs. 25 students, they're only asking for enough funding, this Inspire program, to just add 25 more students over the summer. Why can't we make that 50? Maybe 100. Let's give these guys more funding. I think that what they're asking for is...
 is it's not enough. And I think that as a city, we can stand up and show them that we're willing to do more. So I'm challenging you guys to...
 to think about doubling the funding for each one of these individual programs so that they can help even more, so that next year when they come forward and they're testifying, they have double the families talking about their success stories. They have double the success stories amongst their children in kindergarten and beyond. So I think you should think about doing that, and I'm challenging you to make that happen. Thank you. Any further questions or comments before I call the roll? Commissioner Fish? Nope. Please call the roll. Fish?
 Dan, thank you for bringing this presentation to council, and thank you to all the families that joined us today. I've served with Dan Saltzman since 2008, and what I have come to understand is that this program, the Children's Levy, and this mission around supporting children, all children in our community, is really at the heart of why Dan Saltzman serves.
 why he sought public office, why he has continued in public office. And frankly, Dan, there are obviously a lot of people today to thank for these accomplishments, but there's one indispensable person, and that's you. And you are the person that has initiated this, and every time there's a renewal, you're in the forefront of seeking the funding from the public. So thank you for this, and thank you for your work, and it's inspiring.
 It's inspiring. And, Joe, it's not about you right now. It's about this program. Thank you for your good work, and I'm very proud to support your work. Bye. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank, in addition to the programs who do the great job helping our children and families, the programs we invest in, I do want to thank also my fellow members of the Allocation Committee, County Chair Deborah Kifori, Mitch Horniker, Julie Young, and Serena Stoudemire-Wesley,
 We have a lot of demands for the money we have, the limited funds we have, and we try to do the best we can and make sure we invest in proven programs and to hold our administrative expenses below 5%, which I'm pleased to say we do.
 So more money goes directly into these programs that serve children and families. And lastly, I also want to thank the staff of the Portland Children's Levy, who work very hard to make sure that we make the best decisions we can under the circumstances about who are the best organizations, who have the proven programs, and whose programs can best benefit from our investments to expand their capacity to serve more children and families. Thank you. Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 Well, I think they're all gone, but I wanted to thank the families who came here today to share their very compelling stories. My son did not attend Early Head Start, but he did attend a fantastic preschool on a scholarship, and it really was a life-changing experience for us and one of the most inclusive experiences that he's ever had.
 since. So thank you Commissioner Saltzman and staff and board and I vote aye.
 Well, I concur with Commissioner Fisher's comment. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for initiating this, for continuing to champion it and for getting it renewed each time. And your service, obviously, is a great investment to our community. Thank you to the families who came. It's unfortunate that we had to start that out a little late, otherwise perhaps they could have stayed to be able to hear what we were saying here, because it was very inspirational. This emergency ordinance allocates over $32 million. $32 million.
 and that's from the children's levy, which is paid by the taxpayers of Portland. And so I appreciate the investment in our children of today so that the adults of tomorrow are going to be better prepared to meet the challenges that they will face. Thank you.
 So I am obviously a huge fan of the children's levy. I had the privilege, Dan, of serving on the allocation committee when I was county chair. I just want to share one story. Back in 2008, my wife was hosting an event. It was a Women for Obama event. And the guest speaker was then U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
 and she noticed a children's levy sign on my front yard coming in. And as is typical with people at that level, they're always 20 minutes late for everything, and they're being rushed from one thing to the next. She got halfway up the stairs, saw the sign, and stopped.
 And the whole delegation stopped behind her and she said, what's that? And she wanted to hear all about it as somebody who herself has championed the cause of children, particularly disadvantaged youth in her own community and nationally. She thought this was an outstanding model. And the more she heard about it, the more she said, you know, we need to take these ideas back to Washington, D.C., and help expand it to other communities. Right.
 I like the challenge that was put before us. How can we actually increase the funding for these kinds of programs? My quick and dirty count is that about 70 different community-based organizations received funds from the levy this year, and I know that there are always far more excellent requests than there are resources provided by that tax levy. And so the work of the Allocation Committee is actually a very challenging task,
 very challenging process. And I'm, I'm always appreciative of the fact that you have these different, if I can call it subject areas, and there's an attempt to balance it and attempt to focus on outcomes, results, and accountability so that the taxpayers will be willing and the voters will be willing again, time after time, uh, to renew this important levy. So I, I want to thank you commissioner. I want to thank your staff. I want to thank all the folks from the community organizations who work collectively, uh,
 in our community to help make this a raging success. So obviously I'll vote aye and the ordinance is adopted. Thank you, Commissioner.
 You wanted 678 first, correct? Because it's the same staffing. 681. Oh, that one. Right. So if you don't mind, Commissioner, we'll do 678, and then we'll move to  Let's do 681 since the auditor is here. Yeah, that's good. We'll do 681, then 664, 666, 667 in that order, and I'll remind you if you've forgotten. Thank you.
 So 678. Please. Approve a grant agreement with Catholic Charities Immigration Legal Services, a nonprofit corporation, to provide immigration legal assistance and relief at the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services for $60,000. Great. Thank you. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Since the presidential election, the Trump administration's abrupt actions have created an unnecessary climate of fear across our country.
 Regardless of legal status or residency, our immigrant and refugee neighbors are scared to engage in everyday activities, especially when intersecting with public safety services. The Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services offers important services to domestic violence victims and their children, including crisis and safety planning and the processing of more than 50% of all restraining orders issued in Multnomah County.
 Immigrant victims of domestic violence can be especially vulnerable, especially when abusers use the victim's immigration status to trap their partners in abusive relationships. In just the first few months of 2017, the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services has seen a significant drop in the number of immigrant clients seeking our services. Because of the particularly vulnerable status of immigrant victims,
 We feel an imperative to offer on-site legal immigration services at the Gateway Center. And that's what this agreement would do. We need to let our immigrant victims know we can and will offer help. We will stand with you, and we will do our utmost to protect you. And now I'd like to...
 Here to talk more about it is the director of the Gateway Center, Martha Strawn Morris, and she is joined by John Herrera, Catholic Charities Immigration Legal Services, and Patricia Rojas of El Programa Espaol. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Good morning. Good morning.
 Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, I'm Martha Strunmore, the director of the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services, and I'm here today to ask you to support a strategic expansion to our services. We would like to bring, with your approval, immigration legal services on site to the Gateway Center, as well as engage them to represent survivors we serve in immigration proceedings.
 By way of reminder, the Gateway Center is a walk-in, drop-in center on 102nd and East Burnside. Most survivors come to us initially for crisis and safety interventions like restraining orders and safety planning.
 But once there, we're able to inform them about and help them avail themselves of a wide variety of wraparound services. The wraparound services are vital to helping break patterns of abuse that keep survivors from stabilizing and healing.
 On average, 36 survivors a day come through our doors seeking our help. And as Commissioner Saltzman noted, the number of immigrants seeking our services has declined this year. For example, while last year 15% of all of our participants identified as Latina, in the first quarter of 2017 that number dropped to 11%.
 Though this decline is new, it has heightened a long-held wish to bring immigration legal services on site. Abusers will exploit any vulnerability to maintain control over their victims, and we have long understood that immigration relief would help wrest control from abusers, which is our mission and our job.
 And we could not hope for a better partner to help us in this mission than Catholic Charities Immigration Legal Services. Over the last 20 years, they have built an unparalleled reputation as a provider of services to the immigrant community. And by bringing them on site, I truly hope that we send a strong message and the message is heard, that the Gateway Center continues to be a safe place to seek services.
 And to talk more about the partnership is John Herrera, and he'll be followed by Patricia Rojas. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and City Council Commissioner, and especially Commissioner Dan Solmans, for the opportunity to testify today in support of this agreement between Catholic Charities Immigration Legal Services and the city and to provide services at the Gateway Center. Thank you.
 My name is John Arena and I am the Director of the Immigration Legal Services at Catholic Charities. And I am an immigrant myself from Colombia. Catholic Charities Immigration Legal Services has provided the high quality immigration legal services to low immigrants and refugees for over 20 years. We have significant expertise in providing services specifically, especially for domestic violence survivors and victims of crimes.
 For over a decade, a portion of our program has exclusively served victims of domestic violence and sexual violence. We have built an extraordinary reputation with the immigrant community for providing high-quality immigration legal services in the nonprofit setting. This agreement to provide services at the Gateway Center sends a message to the immigrant community, especially survivors of domestic violence and crime victims.
 that they don't need to choose between reporting a crime or the fear of being deported. In Portland, we want to assure people that our local officials are making an effort to support public safety, and we are also taking steps to prove that we are a welcoming city for immigrants and refugees. We respectfully ask the City Council and the Mayor to please consider and approve
 this agreement so we can provide this much needed service for our immigrant communities and survivors. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Patricia Rojas, and I'm the Executive Director of El Programa Hispano-Catlico. We are a culturally specific partner of the Gateway Center. And there's nothing more important than being able to provide safety in our community, and the Gateway Center, supported by the City of Portland, is one of those primary areas of commitment to that principle.
 However, we have to reconsider what safety means. And the Gateway Center has spent so much effort and commitment and intentionality in building the right types of wraparound services, the right type of environment, the right types of partnerships that are meaningful for communities of color, that are meaningful for survivors of all walks of life to feel safe and supported.
 However, we do have a changing environment politically, and we have to understand that that means we have to resource the Gateway Center appropriately to respond to that new reality and the implications that it has on survivors. I think you may be aware, I think many of the folks in the audience are aware of a situation in Texas.
 where a survivor went in for support from public safety on a domestic violence situation, and they deported her or they detained her for deportation. That story has resounded across the nation.
 including here in Portland. And we're seeing reductions in people seeking assistance, not just in domestic violence, but across the board. So in the children's levy, we are a recipient in other areas, and we're seeing declines in those areas as well. And I think that this is the case for many culturally specific organizations.
 Putting in a resource for immigration legal services will allow the Gateway Center to be able to support survivors more effectively. And right now we're asking folks to go to Catholic Charities, to go to a different center, to go to all over the county or the region to get immigration legal support services. And we're putting undocumented survivors at unnecessary risk in doing that.
 So I can't emphasize enough how important it is to resource immigration legal services at the point of entry and contact with a survivor. We know that there are resources in T&U visas and Catholic charities as one of the key partners in the community has extensive experience in this.
 As a provider of DV services, we have partnered very well with Catholic Charities ILS Department. We have many cases of survivors that we're working together on to support those survivors and who have been able to access U visas, T visas with the help of Catholic Charities. How wonderful would it be if they didn't have to go through these extra steps to accomplish that and gain additional safety, additional safety.
 So I highly encourage you to support this very meaningful investment in the safety of immigrants and refugees in Portland. Thank you.
 I know we're running late, but what are the U visas and the T visas? John would probably be the best to answer the question. The kinds of visas that people can get in this situation. Well, there is visas for victims of crimes like the U visa. Anyone who reports a crime, regardless of the legal status, can get a temporary visa.
 a visa that ultimately will let them to stay in the country, work legally, and at the end become a legal permanent resident. Those are unfortunately, there's not the best way to get legal status, but at least it's something that allows the victim to go forward and
 report a crime. That's the meaning of the U visa is to report the crime and stop the abuser and criminals and don't use the legal status of someone just not to report because they're afraid to go to the police and say I'm reporting a crime because immigrant community we tend to think that anyone in uniform is an immigration officer that can deport you from this country. So that's one of the kind of visas that help people
 victims. And TV is also out for people who have been brought to the country or is in the country in a trafficking situation, any labor or sexual trafficking issue. And the VAWA program
 Cases are specifically for victims of domestic violence married to a U.S. citizen, a legal permanent resident whose spouse has been abusive, and use the power of the immigration status to put more control and more abuse on those victims. Also, using the children as a tool to, you know,
 Tell someone that if you report me, I'm going to kick you out of the country and take the kids. But you can actually make sure that they can stay. That's fabulous. Thank you so much. And with this kind of program, we can just serve the client and assure them that it's always a law that can protect them. That is really good to know. Thank you. Thank you.
 I have a couple questions. Commissioner Daly. This is just one of the most horrifying outcomes of the anti-immigration agenda to me. I've also heard that reports of sexual violence are way down, that families aren't showing up for custody orders, restraining orders. So my question is, number one, is there a plan of action if ICE...
 or show up on your property? And number two, what kind of outreach to the community are you going to undertake and can we help in any way? Because as you said, these stories reverberate across the country and although they may be few and far between, I'm afraid that very few people are coming forward for help right now.
 We are  actually, we are, as a Catholic Church of Immigration and Legal Services, among the other partners in the Paramus panel, we have been doing a lot of outreach to tell the community what they know you're right and what to do if they encounter an ICE officer and how to protect them. But also we've been working really hard on a safety planning for immigrants
 Commissioners and Mayor, you can't imagine how hard it is to tell a parent to be ready to give someone else
 the control or the ability to take care of your kids, you're going to be put in jail for removal defense, for removal case, meaning you're going to be deported from this country and your kids are not going to be able to stay with someone that is not a foster care but a family member. So we're preparing families to have a safety planning and that's
 It's also that we plan to do at the Gateway Center is to do a little bit of know your rights setting presentation as it become available.
 We do have a plan. At least I've talked to you. The Gateway Center is guarded by the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office, and our facility security officer understands that he would treat ICE officers like any other member of the public. Any member of the public that came to the Gateway Center could not learn who was inside the Gateway Center seeking services. And as you know, it's a very secure building. We make very conscious decisions about who leaves our lobby.
 space. So I feel fairly confident that we won't have an incident, but we're also cautious and on guard. I think about the docket of the downtown courthouse for restraining orders. It's not
 or if it is public, it's not public for long. But we're cautious, for sure. In terms of outreach, we certainly will go to all of our domestic violence partners, and they'll understand that the service is available, and they'll be talking to their clients. And my understanding in this community, it's word of mouth that's just incredibly important. And so just the fact that Immigration Legal Services is with us is part of our...
 strategic design to reach to the community. But, yeah, we would certainly be happy to make sort of public, and it will go on our website, things like that, that this service might be available. You know, they're going to hit capacity in almost no time flat, too. So we don't want to create too much expectation that we can't meet is the balance of the outreach question. Okay.
 I think we, you know, and we do need to spread the word that this resource would be available. So, for example, a lot of the partners that are at the Gateway Center, like El Programa Hispano, like NEA, others, we have relationships in the community. El Programa works with 13,000 Latinos a year. And so we have a very deep and broad connection with the Latino community. In addition, we have partnerships with Latino Network, with ERCO, with others, where...
 who would also participate in being able to share that information. So management of, if you will, capacity is a different issue, but I think that we have the ability to spread the word far and wide. Please share any public online resources with my office, and we'd be happy to help push that information out. Thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate that. She puts it on the front page of Portland Online, ma'am. Yeah.
 I really appreciate that you were here to explain about this and that you pulled it from the consent agenda because this is one of the active ways that we can provide help to people who need it. Thank you. We appreciate it. Thank you, Martha, John, and Tricia. Thank you. Any further questions before we move to public testimony? Is there public testimony on this item? This was pulled. I don't have a sign-up sheet for pulled items, but I know Star at least wants to speak to this. Very good. Come on up. Robert West, just come on up if you want to address this. Okay.
 Good morning again Star Stauffer so to me what they're talking about as far as for services for immigration people who don't have their visas who are victims of not only community violence but domestic violence this is a serious priority in our communities these people are in jeopardy just walking outside
 Not just from their partners who are dangerous, but as I've said many times coming up here today, white hate crime is on the rise. And people like this program coming up here are exactly what we need to prioritize in this city so that we can better protect our neighbors and our sanctuary city. $60,000 is...
 barely one person's salary in a year in some cases. I really don't think that is enough money to accomplish the goals that they set forth in regards to wanting to help people and expand their program. I really don't think it's enough. That's not even going to cover the overhead to run this program for more than six months. And we know, based on what we're seeing in our city and the rise in hate crimes and the attack on immigrants...
 and our black and brown communities that this is a serious problem and we're not going to be getting rid of it anytime soon, unfortunately.
 So really the consideration here is how can we really help beyond just putting it on the front page of our website? Well, let's double, triple the funding. This is a priority. We have to give these people more money. They need more money than what they're requesting. We need to make sure that they have those services and that resource available. Whether we have to crowdsource it from this community or take it out of our city funds, we have to give them more money. Thank you.
 Good morning. Yes. My name is Robert West. I'm from the police. I'm all for funding this kind of funding. The only thing that I also noticed on the agenda was the $50,000 for Homeland Security, their grant, and I'm sure hoping that...
 This is not an agreement with Homeland Security that will pass this if you allow us to buy your weapons with your money. And I'm, like I said, I'm all for this, but I'm not for anything, any kind of negotiations with Homeland Security. And I know that's on the agenda.
 All right. That's what I wanted to bring up. Good. When we get to that, I just want to be very clear. The Homeland Security Grant is an OASI grant. That is emergency preparedness. So that is in response to the kinds of issues that took place in New Orleans to make sure they don't happen here in the event of a wide-scale emergency situation. Thank you.
 That being the end, any further questions, colleagues, before I call the roll? Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Dan, thanks for bringing this forward. In a perfect world, we'd be able to seek federal reimbursement for these dollars, but we'll have to wait at least three years for that. Thank you. Aye. Saltzman? Well, this is going to provide much-needed critical funding, albeit probably not enough.
 to provide legal services to our immigrant and refugee communities. So I want to thank Catholic Charities Immigration Legal Services for stepping up to provide this critical service. I want to thank Martha Strawn-Morris of the Gateway Center for her capable leadership, Shannon Callahan of my staff, who conspired with Martha to figure this out, how to use this money in a positive way for our immigrant and refugee community. Hi. You daily? Yeah.
 I see this as a small step towards strengthening our sanctuary city resolution. I do agree it's not nearly enough money, and we'll just have to see how fast it goes and where we can find more funding. Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Thank you very much for being here to explain about it. I learned about the visas and that's really encouraging to know that there is a path to legal citizenship if folks are able to have the courage and knowledge to go to the Gateway Centre.
 This is part of the action. We did pass the welcoming, inclusive sanctuary city resolution. And we promised that we were going to do not just one thing, but a whole range of things to support people in our community who are vulnerable and terrified. And I'm just glad that we're doing this one. It's not all that we need to do, though. We need to combat racism and racism.
 that we're currently challenged by, and we need to do it upfront and as strongly as we can. Wheelert. My recollection is that this is our third distribution of funding for this purpose. We had one in the fall bump. We had a larger one through the budget process. Now this, and I want to be very clear,
 that the organizations who spoke here today and are doing great work in the community, they are ongoing partners with us. And so we'll continue to work together, and if the 6D doesn't turn out to be anywhere near enough, obviously we're going to continue the conversation. This is something that both philosophically and operationally we have committed to.
 And so for those who say this is not enough, I agree, it's not enough, and there will be a continued refinement of the resources as we go forward. And again, I want to respect the partnership that we have and express my appreciation for it. I think it's a great partnership and I look forward to continuing it. I vote aye the ordinance is adopted.
 Thank you for being here. So next we're going to move to item 681, which pertains to the auditor. And for that reason, I'd like to move 669 right after that because it's the same conversation and the same staffing. So 681 will be up next. Subsequently, we'll do 664, 666, and 667 as a block.
 Item 681, proclaim results of the municipal nonpartisan special election on measure 26-189. Amend charter increases auditor's independence from audited agencies as duty. Good morning. Good morning. There it is. So we have a proclamation.
 Ladies and gentlemen, and before us we have our amazing auditor, Mary Hill Caballero, who's done some tremendous work since January and worked very collegially with this council to put forward an auditor independence ballot measure, which won in a landslide. I'd like to read the proclamation.
 Whereas the Council of the City of Portland referred to the voters of the city at the municipal nonpartisan special election held on May 16, 2017, a measure with the ballot title caption, a men's charter increases auditors' independence from audited agencies adds duty.
 and such measure was designated on the ballot as Measure 26-189. And according to the official canvas, 108,068 votes were cast in favor of said measure
 and only 16,991 were cast against said measure. Now, therefore, it is hereby proclaimed by the underside mayor of the city of Portland that the measure with the ballot title captioned Amends Charter increases auditors' independence from the audited agency's ads duty has been enacted and is in effect, dated at Portland, Oregon, this 14th day of June 2017.
 Thank you, Auditor. And I don't know if you have comments you'd like to share. I do. I just would like to take the opportunity to thank the Council for referring this item to the ballot. I think it is an important expression of your commitment to accountability and to having a strong auditor's office, and I very much appreciated that. And I also want to thank the voters for embracing the measure.
 And I have to in advance thank the staff in my office in the Management Services Division who are going to take the lead in implementing these changes. And I just very much appreciated your support. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I don't know if there's any other comments or questions. Mayor, I just want to make two quick comments. The first is, auditor, we are going to conduct an investigation and determine why 16,991 people voted no. I would be interested in the answer to that question. We're looking for a full audit on that. And the second is, since the next item is 26-194, I just want to express my concern that,
 after the overwhelming victory of 26189, Mayor, there did seem to be a case of voter fatigue that was reflected in the vote on 26194. That's funny. Congratulations, though, and thank you for the great work you did. Thank you. Great. Thank you very much. And that is a proclamation 669. If we could move that next, please.
 Proclaim results of the municipal nonpartisan special election on measure 26-194, amends charter, authorizes council to change scope of transit lodging tax obligations.
 And this proclamation is very similar, but I will read it for the record. Whereas the Council of the City of Portland referred to the voters of the city at the municipal nonpartisan special election held on May 16, 2017, a measure with ballot title caption, Amends Charter Authorizes Council to Change Scope of Transit Lodging Tax Obligations.
 and such measure was designated on the ballot as Measure 26194, and according to the official canvas, 80,467 votes were cast in favor of said measure, and 48,394 were cast against said measure. Now, therefore, it is hereby proclaimed by the undersigned mayor of the
 Amends charter authorizes council to change scope of transient lodging tax obligations has been inactive and is ineffective. It is in effect. Dated at Portland, Oregon this 14th day of June 2017.
 So proclaimed. Commissioner Fish, congratulations. Any further comments on this item? I just want to thank the voters, Mayor. And as a result of this change, we will see additional revenues coming in to the general fund, and we will see more tax fairness where...
 A mom-and-pop bed-and-breakfast in St. John's is paying the exact same lodging tax as an out-of-state internet company like HomeAway, as it should be. So thank you. Very good. Thank you. That completes that item. Item 664, please.
 Authorized grant agreements and intergovernmental agreements with 11 community groups and native plant mini-grants related to the community watershed stewardship program up to $100,000 total. Let's read all these together, Mayor, with 666 and 667.
 666, authorized grant agreement up to $73,000 in fiscal year 17-18 to Southwest Neighborhoods, Inc. to provide outreach, technical assistance, and community involvement for watershed projects in Southwest sub-watersheds. And 667, please. Authorized five-year contract with the Columbia Slough Watershed Council for $255,000 for Columbia Slough-related education and stewardship projects.
 activities. Mayor, I'm pleased to bring forward these three actions from the Bureau of Environmental Services this morning, which will leverage local nonprofits and volunteers to protect our community's watershed. The first item, Council Item 664, is part of the Community Watershed Stewardship Program, which provides many grants to support activities like natural area revegetation, environmental education, and watershed stewardship.
 As we will hear today, grantees include Verdi, which will be working with the Columbia Slough Watershed Council, Habitat for Humanity, and homeowners to install rain gardens. Depave, which will partner with the Ascension Catholic Church Congregation and Elemental Technologies to depave a church parking lot.
 and the National Indian Parent Information Council, which will collaborate with the Johnson Creek Watershed Council and Portland Parks and Recreation to engage youth in restoration projects, and Blueprint Foundation, which will work with students from Roosevelt High School to make stormwater improvements at the Dharma Rain Zen Center. The second item, 665, is a grant agreement with Southwest Neighborhoods, Inc. It will support watershed education at the Southwest Watershed Resource Center.
 watershed protection grants, invasive plant removal, and native plant landscaping in southwest and northwest Portland. And the third item, 667, is a five-year agreement with the Columbia Slough Watershed Council. It will build on our work to promote community stewardship and stream and wetland restoration for the Columbia Slough. In partnership with BES, the Columbia Slough Watershed Council connects over 2,000 people annually to watershed improvement events.
 And this agreement includes new support for participation from underrepresented groups in environmental education and stewardship work. I'm very proud that the Columbia Slough Watershed Council will continue to be our partner in promoting and protecting the health of the Columbia Slough.
 I want to thank BES staff, particularly Jennifer Devlin, who is with us today, for their commitment to community partnerships and the work in the Bureau of Environmental Services work. I also want to thank my colleague, Commissioner Amanda Fritz, who has been a strong voice of support for these programs over the years. We believe these partnerships strengthen both our watersheds and our communities. And, colleagues, with that, I'll turn it over to Jennifer Devlin. Ladies, good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. I'll let us each introduce ourselves and what ordinance we're here to talk about. I'm Jennifer Devlin. I've been with Environmental Services for about 18 years now. And I'll be able to talk about and answer questions about the Columbia Sioux Watershed Council ordinance.
 Good morning. My name is Merylda Sanchez, and I'm a Portland State student, coordinator of the Community Watershed Stewardship Program. I'm part of the Indigenous Studies Program at Portland State. Terrific. Hi, my name is Becky Tilson. I'm with the Westside Watershed Team at BES, and I can answer any questions you might have about the agreement with Southwest Neighborhoods.
 Let me just say that even though we're jammed today, we pulled a couple of these from consent because we wanted to celebrate the great work of these partnerships. And I'll turn it over to Commissioner Fritz.
 I was just reminiscing with myself because I think I got one of the first grants in 1995 when Patrice Mango and Ivy Francis were in Bureau of Environmental Services. And that was kind of another step in my progression to get here, is realizing that good things can be done by community members in partnership with city government and can be good for the health of the watershed as well. So thank you very much for all the work that you've done. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for continuing this program.
 I want to follow that up with, since the Portland building staff are all moving, it is up to staff that are here now to go through all those grants and put the final reports into long-term storage. And your grant report is really a nice one, I have to say, Commissioner Fritz. Can I give you my copy as well? Because it's kind of taking up space in my house, but I don't want to throw it away. Yes. Thank you.
 Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on item 664, 666, or 667? So, Mayor, the second readings are just 666 and 667. Yeah, that's correct. That's correct. Is there any public testimony on 664? I didn't have a sign-up sheet for the pulled items. Is there anybody who wants to testify? Seeing none. Item 6. Any colleagues? Any further discussion on 664?
 So that's a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading. Please call the roll on 666. Fish. We're very proud of these partnerships and grateful to the council for supporting them and want to thank all of our invited testimony this morning. Aye. Saltzman. These are great partnerships and really help improve our community. So thank you, Commissioner Fish. Aye. Eubaly. Aye. Fritz.
 Well, this partnership with Southwest Neighbors Incorporated recognizes that neighborhood coalitions are the experts in getting messages out to their communities within their geographic areas and partnering with many different ethnic communities as well. So I very much appreciate your work and that of your predecessors on this grant, and thanks to the Bureau of Environmental Services, who've realized very early on that having the community do the outreach is a good way to get things done. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. The grant's adopted. The ordinance is accepted. Thank you. Please call the roll on 667. Fish? I want to thank all the team members at BES, particularly Jennifer Devlin, for their great work in overseeing these programs. Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Gidaley? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 So why don't we begin moving through the remainder, as much of the regular agenda as we can get through. I'd like to dispose of 685, 686 first, please. Can you call 685? 685.
 685 amend the boundary of the Northwest 20th Avenue local improvement district and include traffic signal replacement in the space in the scope of the improvements authorized for the Northwest 23rd Avenue and Northwest Bond Street and the US Highway 30 intersection.
 Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Seltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call 686. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Northwest 20th Avenue LID project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Please call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, item 692 is being, if you could call item 692. Aye.
 Amend relocation assistance regulations in affordable housing preservation and Portland renter protections. Colleagues, this item is going to be held over until July 12th, unless there's any objection. Seeing no objection, that item is held over. With that, please call Item 682. Authorize memorandum of understanding with the American Red Cross for cooperation in emergency preparedness, response, and recovery. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Jonna Poppe-Efthimiou and I work at the Bureau of Emergency Management as the Planning Policy and Communications Manager. And I'm joined this morning by Monique Dugas from the Red Cross. We're here to present a memorandum of understanding between the city and the Red Cross that renews a previous agreement. It states that the Red Cross and the City of Portland will work together to prepare, respond and recover from emergencies.
 to share information about the needs of Portlanders affected by disasters, and to cooperate to meet those needs. It is not about the exchange of funds. I work on call as a duty officer for PBEM, and from time to time I get called to an incident where a fire or another event has left Portlanders in need of emergency shelter. And I am always so grateful for the very prompt, professional, and free resources of the Red Cross.
 As the planning manager at PBEM, I also participate in a countywide process to plan mass shelters that might be needed in a widespread event such as an earthquake. And the Red Cross has also been an invaluable partner in that work. The expertise that they have built in our region over many years increases our collective capacity to respond to a major event. So with that, I'd like to turn it over to Monique.
 Thank you so much for that, Jonna. And thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today. Like Jonna said, my name is Monique Dugas, and I'm the Regional Director of Communications for the Red Cross.
 When there is a need for disaster relief services, service to members of the armed forces, international assistance, life-saving blood, and health and safety training, the Red Cross is there to help. Each year, the Red Cross helps more than 60,000, responds to help at more than 60,000 disasters across the nation. Our local volunteers board planes and travel to locations where they've never been to help people that they've never met.
 And in 2016, our local Red Cross in Oregon and southwest Washington responded to approximately 650 local disasters, many of which were home fires affecting ordinary families, and we came to help our neighbors in need. We provide shelter, food, and other assistance, sometimes something as simple as a toothbrush, to help that family get back on their feet.
 Many of these disasters do not make headlines. It's a responder coming in the middle of the night to help a family who has just lost everything. But a number of our responses do make headlines. And I'd like to share just a couple of those with you where the Red Cross has provided help and hope.
 In October 2016, Portland Fire and Rescue heroically evacuated a densely populated area of northwest Portland. You're familiar with this story, the gas explosion in northwest. Very shortly after the explosion, the Red Cross was there to help with public information needs, to establish a reception center for information, and to help people who had been affected to find a safe place to stay and get back on their feet.
 The Red Cross also helped to provide emergency assistance such as water and food to local first responders. In another incident over the winter, a large fire destroyed the Hotel Alder, a low-income residential property in downtown Portland. The Red Cross was there, mobilizing rapidly to help the people affected with providing food, shelter, prescription medications, health and mental health assistance for two weeks.
 And an example that did not make headlines. Last year, Jimmy, a Portland resident, woke up from a nap he was taking to his home engulfed in flames. The Red Cross had installed smoke alarms in his home the year prior and helped his family to put together a family evacuation plan. Jimmy credits the Red Cross with helping him know what to do and alerting him to the fire. Everyone in the home made it out safely.
 We also responded to help Jimmy immediately after the fire. He and his family were provided with a place to stay and other basic needs from the Red Cross. Every day, on average three times a day, the Red Cross responds to help a family who's lost their home in a fire, flood, wildfire, or windstorm. In fact, this past year, the Red Cross has responded to more than 100 disasters within the city of Portland.
 Helping people in need with nowhere else to turn. I think you probably see a theme emerging. When there is a need, the Red Cross is there to help. And I would like to encourage you and ask you to please to adopt this ongoing memorandum of understanding with the Red Cross. We appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions at this time?
 Is there any public testimony on this matter? Yes, we have four people signed up. The first three are Robert West, Star Stauffer, and Veronica Bernier. Very good. And just out of curiosity, we had a number of items pulled from the consent agenda, items 670, 671, and 672. Are you able to testify on those matters as well? I am. Great. Okay. So we'll take care of this one first. Thank you.
 Veronica, let's go with you first. Okay, good. Good morning. It's lovely to see you all this morning. I am Veronica, Portland State University, graduate in the School of Public Health and Safety. My field is pediatric. Having been a former pediatric nurse, intensive care unit nurse,
 for over 10 years i think just like amanda here who is a nurse herself i'm i'm happy to be talking to you mayor ted wheeler i know you're busy and and my um email page is sometimes up and down and of course i we support you continue to support your work as a nurse and we're grateful to have one on the board
 we'll get to know one another further on I know that and Commissioner Dan Saltzman of course we know our paths across before and you've always done good work being the senior member of the board I don't see Nick Fish here but I know he's very comfortable I know him from the Sacramento area okay
 Mrs. Fritz, you're an RN. I'm an LVN, local 250 San Francisco, and your background is unimpeachable. The mayor comes in with great colors and credits from his background as a political servant. And, of course, Commissioner Dan Sossman is our little hero of the day, always one to pick up the ball when someone drops it. I think that whenever there's a fire, there's always a questionable area about what,
 started what and when and where. The Red Cross always comes through. Within 24 hours, they're always there, even though like under Rodney Rogers, within 24 hours they should be to your doorstep to help out the families. So I support all this work unilaterally. I think the blood bank's a good idea, and I also think
 We could use some more snacks out there. I do have a food handler's license, and it is with the Red Cross. So National Red Cross knows I'm out here. Great flood of 95. Kudos to you on the board for continuing to support our administration, even in these troubling political up-and-down times. Wonderful. Thank you. Yes. My name is Robert West. I'm with Family Police 911. I do support the Red Cross, yes,
 The thing is, is sharing is not necessarily caring. And what I mean by that is when you start putting nonprofit organizations like the Red Cross and the city together,
 there's issues of people's personal confidentiality. Like, for instance, if my house burnt down, I wouldn't want the city council or city bureaus to know what assistance I'm getting from the Red Cross or that I received any assistance. And that's my main concern, is that, you know, then all of a sudden, my information becomes public...
 because all your documents are public record. And so my concern is the confidentiality with the assistance the Red Cross gives and what your guys' records would indicate. So that's what I wanted to bring up is the confidentiality of the people that are receiving assistance from the Red Cross because their assistance should be confidential.
 And if you put it with city stuff or city information, then all of a sudden it's not confidential. And you also have an issue with security where people could look up records of women, children, and stuff like that on public record. And that I think the city should really look at. I don't think the city should be involved in the Red Cross stuff.
 unless there can be a way of doing it where names and ages and stuff like that are not public. Thank you. Good afternoon at this point, Starstoffer. I have to concur with Bob. I'm concerned about the safety aspect as far as the partnership or cooperation, however you want to call it, with Red Cross.
 I understand that certain tragedies don't necessarily fall in resources lent out, don't necessarily fall under HIPAA agreements. However, once again, with the political climate that we're in, people who have nefarious intent will utilize these records to target certain individuals who are receiving public assistance, whether it be from Red Cross or...
 or another public resource, especially if the city is in cooperation, like he said, those records become public.
 As we know, the people are often targeted in this city at this point by way of public record searches. Their names are pulled out, their houses are gone to, they receive hate mail, they receive death threats for receiving services, for speaking out, for just being black or brown, especially if the Red Cross is assisting anybody who happens to be a person of color. Where does their privacy start and where does it end?
 And as far as the city's cooperation, exactly what does that entail? What amount of cooperation are we talking about here? Because that seems very vague. There is no real description of what cooperation means when the city is partnering with Red Cross. And I can't feel comfortable with a partnership, and neither should the rest of this community, if we don't fully understand everything that that means and what comes with it, including possible and potential privacy invasion. Very good. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. One more. We have Adam Maram Milan. Keep up the good work. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good afternoon. Good morning. Afternoon. I want to thank city council members, commissioners, and Mr. Mayor. My name is Adam Murray Millen, and I am a full-time student. I am a service industry employee, and I'm also a recent member of the Portland Human Rights Commission. I'm very proud to be here today, and thank you so much for hearing my testimony.
 I chose to speak on this issue because I feel very thankful for nonprofit organizations collaborating with the city to address issues of public health. And what we heard today in regards to this specific issue is a disaster response.
 And I think that's really pertinent right now because I review the current climate that we live in politically to be more of a public health issue than really anything else. I think that there's a lot of rhetoric politicizing the issue and as a person of color,
 The way that I experience the shift into people feeling emboldened to engage in hate activities, I feel...
 more empathy than anger. I see it as a conflict where we're struggling with with the identity of the city and when I look at City Council, I don't see folks to be bad people and I don't think that you set out to to represent the side of evil. In fact, I'm struggling to humanize hate activities and people that feel that
 initiated through those ambitions to kind of engage in like ethnic cleansing and things like that. So what I want to encourage is maybe some preventative action in terms of you folks have heard about the threats on like the Good in the Hood parade.
 I want you to be there and I think that the Red Cross should be there and I think that we should really encourage folks to, rather than focus on the victims receiving the violence, maybe focus on the perpetuators of that violence first.
 and engage them and address their mental health needs. Because really, I think this is a public health issue and a mental health issue. Thank you so much for your time. I'm done. Excellent testimony. I appreciate it. And I will just note that I have seen the Red Cross in the Good in the Hood parade on previous occasions, and I'm looking forward to walking in again this year. Thank you.
 So is there any other comment on this, colleagues? If not, this is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading. Could you please call together items 670, 671, and 672?
 670, apply for a grant from the Oregon Military Department Office of Emergency Management for their Emergency Management Performance Grant Program in the amount of $285,000 for administering an integrated all-hazard emergency management program for the City of Portland in 671. Accept.
 and appropriate the fiscal year 2016 Urban Area Security Initiative Grant in the amount of $2,822,000 from the Oregon Office of Emergency Management to enhance emergency preparedness through planning, training, and equipping emergency responders in the Portland urban area and 672 areas.
 Authorize application to the Department of Homeland Security Urban Areas Security Initiative grant program for a grant in the amount of $2,837,000 to enhance emergency preparedness through planning, training, and equipping of emergency responders in the Portland urban area.
 Good afternoon. So these were polled, and my guess is people are going to ask, what are the grants for, what kind of equipment and training will be provided through these grants? So if you get to that, I think you'll answer some of the questions that people may have on these items. Thank you.
 I'll start with 670, the Emergency Management Performance Grant. This is a pass-through grant from the Federal Department of Homeland Security to the Oregon State Office of Emergency Management to the City of Portland. It's a non-competitive grant that's awarded on a population basis, and most Oregon counties and large cities receive the grant. We use it to pay our rent, to pay salaries for two staff people, and to pay part of our phone bill.
 And the agreement that comes with the grant is that we have to submit our annual work plan and then follow it. And that work plan is exactly in accord with our strategic plan. So it says we develop emergency response and mitigation plans, and we practice them, and we do community outreach around preparedness. Thank you.
 All right. My name is Amy Cole, and I am the Grants Program Coordinator at the Bureau of Emergency Management. And I will start with the Urban Area Security Initiative FY16 grant. That's 670. That's 671. Sorry. 671. This grant also comes to us through the state agency.
 from the Oregon Emergency Management. The city has received this grant since 2003. It is a regional grant for the Portland urban area, which includes five counties, the Port of Portland and TriMet. The five counties served are Multnomah, Washington, Clark County in Washington, Columbia, and Clackamas. The city of Portland is the fiscal agent for the regional funding.
 Last spring, Council approved the application for the funds, and we are just now getting the grant agreement, and so we're asking for acceptance, approval to accept and expend the funds. The funding is focused on region-wide emergency preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation for both natural and man-made events and disasters. Examples of the projects to be funded include...
 Regional neighborhood emergency readiness, including community responders, so that's training and planning and equipment for those responders. Medic training for firefighters around the region. Urban search and rescue training for firefighters. Equipment for the state medical examiner's mobile morgue unit.
 a fuel management exercise, hiring of a consultant to develop a recovery framework for the region, and it also funds 3.5 staff to run the grant. Thank you. Appreciate it. Sure.
 And so I'll move on, I guess, to 672, which is the application for the UASI 2017 funds. A lot of the information is the same. It serves the same region. Again, we've had this funding since 2003. We're asking council to approve the application.
 for approximately $2.8 million. The application is due June 22, 2017. It was an extremely fast turnaround this year for that. So we're asking for approval to apply. We'll come back to council when we have the grant agreement, like we do with 16 right now. So that will be probably in the winter or spring of 2018. Very good.
 Great. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions before we call for public testimony? Is there any public testimony on 670, 671, or 672? These were pulled by Mr. Lightning. He's gone, but Mr. West would like to testify. Very good. If you want to just cool your heels for a couple of minutes. Thank you. Yes, I'm against us receiving any money or equipment or anything like that from Homeland Security or the military, right?
 Regardless what the situation is, I can see a lot of it going toward police. And if you guys haven't noticed, the police have been extremely rough on protesters. They've been extremely vigil on doing stuff against cop watchers.
 And my concern is if you start receiving federal money, what's the federal government going to ask for in return? The federal government doesn't just give money and say, okay, here you go. They, a lot of times they'll come back and say, well, we gave you money here, now this is what we expect in return. And that return might not be what people want. And if you're receiving money from the federal, from Homeland Security and the military,
 for this emergency preparations, what are you telling the activists in this community? What are you telling the people of the city of Portland? That, yeah, we're going to accept money, and sometime down the way our government's going to sit there and say, well, we want this, this, this. You know, you're saying we're a sanctuary city. What happens down the way when the federal government goes, well, we're going to accept money?
 you're a sanctuary city, so we're not going to give you these funds. Or what happens when the federal government turns around and says, well, you're assisting illegal aliens, so we want all these people you're assisting or you're helping, we want their names and addresses. I totally disagree with receiving anything from the federal government.
 If the city can't afford to do their own training, then they need to come up with other ways of paying for it besides going to the federal government. All this stuff that they're talking about, the fire department's trained in that anyway. You know, we have an urban search and rescue truck and stuff like that. I would greatly go against what this measure says. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Star Stauffer. I'm disturbed at the idea that we're going to be receiving money from Homeland Security or the federal government and the military, especially under this administration. I'm concerned under what stipulations we would be accepting those funds. Second of all, what outreach work...
 Where? What neighborhood? What people are you activating? How many people are attending these classes, these trainings, these services? Why are we only, if you're so concerned about public safety and emergency preparedness, why are these trainings and services not opened up to the public? Why not train your own citizens to be emergency prepared?
 Third of all, why is any of this money being allocated to TriMet? The Department of Homeland Security already allocates money to TriMet, which is how come they have the money to hire Portland cops to be their personal security for their bus lines. So really what you're saying when you say that they're going to be allocating some of this money to TriMet is that you're giving some of the money again to the Portland police. Yes.
 As we know, the Portland police are dangerous. They're criminals. They're killing people. They attacked over 900 people because one brick was allegedly thrown. And we want to give these people more money. Are you crazy? This is insane. You don't reward thugs by paying them for being thugs.
 So I'm against this completely. I'm with Bob. This is extremely disturbing. And I think in a sanctuary city where protesting is an enormous part of the culture because there's so many freaking problems to address every single day because of measures like this.
 It sets the wrong message. It sends the wrong message. It sets a bad example. You're telling, you know, the undocumented and black people in this community, you're just putting a big fat middle finger in their face and you're telling protesters your days are numbered because it was the Department of Homeland Security that declared us terrorists. Thank you. Mr. Walsh, you're up.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I'm not going to go through a whole list of things because this is an emergency ordinance. You're all going to vote for it anyway, and I'll just give you a warning. Keep it up. Keep it up doing this kind of stuff. Just keep it up. And Commissioner Dudaily, you got my vote. I want it back. Ever since you've been on this council, you've disappointed me.
 The rest of you are not a disappointment. I've been dealing with you for years, except the mayor, which it seems like I've been dealing with you for years. Because you're the same as Hales. You're the same as Sam. The only one that you're not the same as is Potter. So I like him, even though we disagreed a lot. But I like him.
 Because he used to start his meetings every week with how are the kids doing, how are the children doing. And his theory was if the children are doing well, then so is Portland. Since you've taken office, we're not doing so well. And I grant you I am not a child. But I'm telling you, keep doing what you're doing, folks. Just keep doing what you're doing. And you guys are up for reelection.
 And it's going to be really interesting what the people of Portland do with you. If I had my way, I'd recall both of you. And I hate recalls. I just hate them. But I would do it. This council is a shame. Absolute shame. Because you do not stop this guy. You do not stop the police department. And you could. The procedure allows you to do it. Study it. Figure it out.
 You can override this guy any time you want. Thank you. Your time is now up. And you know that. Is there any other public testimony on this item? Why don't you learn? Mr. Walsh, you're out of order. Mr. Walsh, you're out of order, and I don't want to have to ask you to leave. Oh, my God.
 Here's my exclusion. No! Giving more money to Homeland Security and the fucking cops! No, they're giving us money for emergency preparedness so we can prepare the community. No, you didn't read before you came down here to testify. You should at least know what you're testifying on. Excuse me, sir, you're excluded. You're going to have to leave. You're out of order! You!
 You are a criminal. You tried to kill me, you idiot. You tried to kill me. Why did you do that? You are in the... Why don't we take a three-minute recess while everybody calms down? You better get the cops here in two minutes, you foamy bastard. Are you done? Good. All right, let's continue then.
 So, folks, we respect the right of people to pull items from the agenda, but then when we have staff come here and testify on what the agenda items actually are, we'd ask people to at least listen to what the staff said. Mr. Walsh, please. Shut up! You are a criminal! Don't you tell me to be quiet! Mr. Walsh, you're interrupting all these other people. I'm not here to buy your mocha!
 Very good. Well, I guess I'll just have to pay for my own vodka. Yeah, fuck you, Wheeler. Yeah, that's very mature. It's very mature. You know what? You need to leave, please. You're in violation of the council rules. I was very clear with those rules. You need to step down. Fuck the council rules. You're disgusting. Thank you. Did I give you back? Bring shame to this city.
 So anyway, were there any further questions? Excuse me. Security, could you please? Security, get rid of them, please. Security, please have them removed ASAP. Yeah, we're moving. And you'll never get the decision in federal court. I'll bet you do, Mookie. You know what? Please leave. Thank you. If you can't participate in a mature manner, you're going to have to leave. That's the rule. I'm sorry.
 So, at any rate, back to the order at hand. Now that we've completed public testimony, can you please call the roll on item 670? Mayor, I'm sorry. Commissioner E. Daly. Could we just address a couple things very briefly? I'm moving. I've got to take it. I've got to take the brats.
 First of all, just for those of you watching at home, we actually do train community members to perform emergency services through our NETS program. And if anyone's interested in that, please look it up. We just did, I believe, the largest NETS training in the U.S., several, four or five hundred Portlanders. Get out.
 Secondly, I just want to clarify that these are grants that we are accepting for emergency preparedness and resiliency. We are not giving money to Homeland Security. You know, folks, I'm sorry. We're going to take a five-minute recess. Please, Mr. Walsh, let's take a five-minute recess. That's fine. We'll move that one next. Good. Good.
 And then I'm sure my commissioners, there was one Dan has to recuse himself on. Do you recall? And is Commissioner Fritz coming back? I heard she was leaving at 1230. Fritz is gone. Okay, so we can't do 691 then. That's fine. We're not going to get to it anyway. 683. 683. Okay. And those are both Bureau of Transportation. So...
 Okay, so let's do 665-676. Then we'll go to  and 683 is a short presentation, correct? Then we'll do 683-684. Yes. Yes.
 So let's do this. Let's open the record on these items because there's people from the private sector here to testify. And so we'll keep the records open. Yeah, we'll have to keep the records open and not take a vote on 665, 676, 683, or 684. So we'll commence. We'll take public testimony. I'll close the record, and we'll keep them open for a vote when we have Commissioner Fish back.
 So we were in the middle of a vote, was my recollection. But we don't have enough now for 670, 71, or 72 to vote. So we will close the record here. Why don't we reconvene? We're reconvened as the Portland City Council in a moment. Thank you.
 Okay, we are reconvened as the Portland City Council. A little bit of a disruption there. Nothing we can't handle. We were in the middle of a vote. Carla, can you remind me which items we were in the process? We were on 670, 671, and 672. And so 670, 671, 672.
 And 672. Those are all emergency ordinances. We do not have a quorum. So what I will do is close the public record on those items, but we'll continue those items to the time when we have Commissioner Fish here back in about 15 minutes.
 Next, what we will do is hear from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement on two items that were pulled from the consent agenda, items 665 and 676. If you could read the items, we'll hear from the staffs, we'll take testimony, and we'll withhold the vote. We'll continue those items until we have a quorum.
 Did you want them read together? 665 and 676. Read them together? Read them together. 665, amend fee schedule for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement Noise Control Program, and 676, authorize a grant agreement with Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods, Inc., for $90,000 to provide cleaning services as part of the overall management of Inner Northeast Eastside Industrial Clean Start PDX Project.
 All right, 665. We have some people from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement here and patient. How are you doing? Well, how are you doing today? Representative of the Council, Paul Van Orden. Paul, is your mic on? I had it down. Just a moment. It should be good. Paul Van Orden, the City's Noise Control Officer, to speak to the first item.
 The city's noise office has been looking for ways to fund some of our staffing challenges. And last year we examined some opportunities for pretty notable fee increases. And after examining the impact on many of our partner agencies like ODOT and even the city agencies, we backed off from that idea. So currently with all of the change going on at Oney, we have...
 move forward just a basic 5% fee increase for the noise variance fees, which have been doing very well for our program the last several years. And then we will be re-examining what is our best mode to move forward to help fund the noise office and get more staffing. So right now, we're just looking for a basic 5% fee increase. Then we will re-examine what tools we have at the table to help get more staff in the noise office. And just as a
 Talking point, the city's noise office is one of the only entities that since 1976 has not increased in size. We're actually a little bit smaller than we were in 76. So we are definitely in a mode in serving 600,000 plus people with three and a half FTE that we're going to try and find some way to find some innovative tools to fund the office. And so that's where we're at currently. Okay.
 Paul, thank you. And I want to reflect that capacity shortfall that you've been working with, and I think you've been doing a fantastic job. We've obviously had a lot of testimony about noise and other related issues because of the incredible amount of development and construction that's taking place in the city, and you guys have done a fantastic job, and I just want to acknowledge that. I don't know if the individual who pulled this 
 is actually present. Do we have, is Mary? Very good. Come on up, Mary. Mayor, I did have some introductory talking points, but I could save them for after, I guess. Very good. Okay. Before Carla starts the clock, Mary Seip, I'd like to ask for my full three minutes after sitting through almost 14 minutes of one individual testifying, cutting into my time. May I have my full three minutes? Go ahead. Go for it. Yeah, because we're still waiting for the
 In fact, I wish everybody was here. I support this request for a 5% increase to the existing noise variance fee schedule only as an emergency measure. Simply increasing the fees by 5% does not adequately address the inequities of the structure of the fee schedule. In September of 2015, I was appointed to a noise task force convened by Commissioner Fritz to consider specific changes to Title 18 of the city's noise code.
 One of the issues Commissioner Frist asked the task force to consider was a cost recovery model to fund additional staff
 through increased noise variance fees. As a member of the task force, I did extensive research and analysis of the fee schedule. I prepared a proposal to revise the structure of the fee schedule to provide more equitable assessment of fees for various types of noise and generate additional revenue. Unfortunately, the noise task force got bogged down and never got around to addressing this issue before their final meeting in November of 2015.
 So in March of 2016, I decided to share my proposal with Teresa Marchetti. As it turned out, Teresa was in the process of reviewing an increase in the fee schedule. She was supportive of my recommendations and told me that I'd saved her a lot of time. In April of 2016, a revised noise variance fee schedule, which Paul referred to, was presented to the Noise Review Board. It was projected that the revised schedule could generate as much as maybe $90,000 or more in increased revenue for the noise control program.
 The proposal was almost exclusively everything that was in my proposal, and I was excited to see that. After outreach to stakeholders, a special public meeting, the proposed revised fee schedule seemed to be moving forward. Then, in April of 2016, the Noise Control Office advised City Council that they would simply be requesting a 15% across-the-board increase to the existing schedule.
 I believe that one of the concerns, as Paul mentioned, was the fees that would be imposed on other businesses.
 city agencies such as PBOT, and I do believe that that can be addressed much like the parks permits have been addressed. So I hope that doesn't go away just for that reason. The Noise Control Office did tell the City Council that in the fall of 2016, they'd be conducting a tracking study of actual staff time costs associated with the variance process to present to City Council in the spring. Okay.
 Was that study conducted? Is the noise control program still looking at revising the fee schedule? Is this just an interim step with this 5%? It sounds like it is. Over the years, oversight of the noise control program has been passed from BDS to ONI to Mayor Hales, back to ONI under Commissioner Fritz, then to Commissioner Udailey, now under Mayor Wheeler, with a new interim director, and in the future, a new director. All this bouncing around and change of leadership,
 appears to me has resulted in a lack of continuity and oversight with many false starts and stops in reorganizing and redesigning processes and no serious attention being given to the underfunding and understaffing of the noise control program. How's that for three minutes? Perfection. Well done. Thank you. You bet. And so that's that item. Is there any other public testimony on that item, 665?
 Okay, we will continue that 665, Paul, until Commissioner Fish is here so that we can take the proper quorum vote. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you very much. And 676, is there somebody who wanted to speak briefly on that subject? Here he comes. Another very patient team from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. Thank you. 676, authorize a grant agreement with Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods, Inc.,
 for $90,000 to provide cleaning services as part of the overall management of the inner northeast Eastside Industrial Clean Start PDX project. And could I just ask who pulled this item? This was, sorry, Mr. Lightning. Okay, so he's not here, but since you're here and you've been very patient, I'd love to hear a little bit about it. So I'm Adam Lyons from Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods. I'm Kate Merrill from the Central Eastside Industrial Council.
 Jessica Rojas, Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods. Do you want to start? So this project kind of was born out of an idea that came from the Elliott neighborhood. They've been working for years with the Moda Center to hammer out a good neighbor agreement. And the Moda Center was generous enough to give them a little start, but not enough. They wanted to hire day laborers to do litter patrol in their neighborhood. Now, personally, I find that problematic.
 to not pay people a living wage, not even a minimum wage, to come and pick up litter in a neighborhood that they may never, ever live in.
 So we started looking further out, and Adam is just innovative in his ability to reach out and create some pretty cutting-edge relationships. So I'm going to let Adam talk about the next piece. Yeah, so we reached out to Central City Concern about their Clean and Safe program that goes on downtown. I'm sure you're familiar with it, Vocational Rehabilitation Program.
 And so we kind of hybrided it, and we are working with Central Eastside Industrial to bring a pilot project called Clean Start PDX, which is one full-time, one FTE, to basically clean about a square mile of some of Central Eastside Industrial land.
 The Lloyd District and also Elliott. And this would be a year pilot program. And the idea long term is to hopefully replicate it throughout the east side, especially areas that are getting  that have kind of visible livability issues. Like I think Central East Side Industrial has experienced and Elliott has expressed that they've been experiencing. So 
 Yeah, we were very happy when Adam came to us because this is something that we had already been thinking about. We had been in conversation already with Central City Concern, and this really gives us some leverage as we try to find some long-term sustainable solutions for a clean and safe district. One thing that's great about Central City Concern and this project is that we will have one point of contact 
 We'll be going around these neighborhoods, and we'll be our eyes and ears for the neighborhood. We've seen a lot of increased drug use in the neighborhood and a lot of trash dumping. We just had a Solve event and picked up over 1,000 pounds of trash with 60 volunteers. That's impressive. Thank you. So it's our hopes that by bringing in a clean and safe environment,
 worker to these neighborhoods, that they're going to be able to provide wraparound services to people who directly need it. So it's just more than just litter patrol, but it's about getting people connected with the resources they need, and also so that people who are vulnerable, they could see what might be on the other side. Well, this is great, and I'm sorry that the individual or individuals who pulled this program didn't stick around for the testimony. Okay.
 And again, this is our third or fourth or maybe fifth ordinance today that speaks to the concerns that they have been levying towards this city council in fairly recent years.
 direct terms. So I just want to say how much I appreciate the innovation that went behind this and the fairness angle that you're putting on this in terms of family-waged jobs. I think that's great, and I'm super appreciative of this. I don't know, colleagues, if you have any more comments on this or if there's any public testimony on this item. Does one individual, Paul, like to come up and speak a piece on this? Thank you. Yeah. Thank you.
 Paul Van Orden, I'm actually going to take a liberty. Please. On my lunch break at the moment, and just want to say as the president of the board at Northeast Coalition, I am most excited at the innovative programs that our staff are pulling together, and just want to thank council for support as we move forward. I think you're going to be very pleased with the ways that we're trying to build community and transform Northeast Coalition and neighbors into communities.
 new entity unlike we've seen in the past. So thank you very much for the support. That's great work. Great. I'd just like to thank everyone who sat out this lengthy session to give testimony and say how impressed I am with the Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods and all our neighborhood coalitions. They're all doing really innovative vital work in our community and I'm
 pleased to see this moving forward very good and again these are emergency ordinances so we won't be able to take a vote just yet but i want to thank you for coming in and providing that clarification so the public record on these two items six six five and six seventy six are closed we'll continue these items until we have a quorum uh next up 683 please
 Accepted grant in the amount of $2,877,000 from Oregon Department of Transportation for Flanders Crossing Active Transportation Bridge. Very good. Thank you for your patience. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This has been a long time coming.
 We have before us the opportunity to complete an important active transportation vision directly connecting northwest Portland with the central city along northwest Flanders Street across the 405 freeway. This project has been on the books and so in our active transportation plan for over two decades, and it's a true pleasure to be a member of the council that will finally make it a reality. Here to tell us more about it is transportation planner Zef Wagner.
 if you walk us through the project. Appreciate it. So yeah, my name is Zef Wagner. I'm a planner at the Portland Bureau of Transportation. And I've been involved in developing and trying to get funding for this project for several years, so I'm just delighted to be here as we present you with an ordinance to accept the IGA with ODOT so we can get started on design and construction. So I just wanted to do a short presentation running through the project. I know we have some new faces since the last time we
 came to City Council with this project with the grant application. So like I said, this is an IGA with ODOT for construction of a new pedestrian and bicycle-only bridge across I-405 connecting Flanders Street across the freeway. The IGA provides $2.9 million in Connect Oregon funds for the project, and then transportation system development charges would be funding the remainder of approximately a $6 million project.
 So the need for this project has been in plans for a long time. The crossings at Everett and Gleason are very challenging. There's on-ramps, off-ramps, same at Burnside and Cooch. There's missing sidewalks.
 It's very challenging for pedestrians. The bike connections are not really all ages and abilities friendly. It's very busy traffic. And really, I-405 has divided the neighborhoods ever since it was built. You know, this trench cut through, and it's arguably at its worst north of Burnside because of all those ramps.
 So this project would be building a new pedestrian and bicycle-only bridge. And we've started a tradition in Portland of doing this. We built a car-free bridge across the Tilkum Crossing across the Willamette. And this is similarly a car-free bridge across sort of a concrete river bridge.
 The project would build a bridge and also signalize crossings at 16th and 14th to create a really all-ages and abilities friendly bike and pedestrian route. Could I ask you a sort of silly question while I've got the schematic up there? It appears that the bridge crosses in the middle of the street on Flanders. So it's offset to the crosswalks. Is that intentional? No.
 Yeah, we would be building transition points. We felt like a 60-foot wide bridge would be just too expensive. So I'll go through. I'll show a cross section of what it would look like. But we could have some transition points. Notably, we would also build this to be seismically safe, to be a lifeline route in case of an earthquake. So it'd be built to be able to handle emergency vehicles.
 So we went through an alternatives analysis at PBOT, looked at a lot of different criteria, trying to balance making a bridge that could be future-proof, serve the demand that grows in the future, but also be cost effective. And so we looked at everything from sort of a 12-foot wide bridge to a 60-foot wide bridge. We settled on this as our preferred concept, a 24-foot wide truss bridge.
 with separation between bikes and pedestrians, because that's something that's come up a lot, is needing that adequate separation. It's also wide enough, like I said, that an emergency vehicle could drive down the center if it had to. And this is obviously subject to change based on the design engineering process. We'll be doing public outreach and letting the public inform the design of the bridge.
 And I want to put this in context. This is just a piece of a long-planned neighborhood greenway route that would connect all the way from 24th Avenue to the Steel Bridge, with crossings at major streets, sort of traffic calming, to provide a really nice, calm alternative for people walking and biking. And it's connecting an area of major growth to our biggest job center.
 There's high concentrations of affordable housing in these areas. And we've also invested a huge amount in bike town stations in the northwest and the central city. And so we want to make it what we've heard is that people don't have enough comfortable and safe routes to get between there. I just want to highlight the huge public support that we've got for this project during the grant application process. This is showing the logos of various neighborhood associations, business associations, organizations,
 Legacy Medical Center, private employers, these kinds of things. And we just got a huge outpouring of support. People are very excited about this project. And I just wanted to leave you with this. This just came in my inbox a couple days ago. It was a pedal palooza ride. And I think it's just indicative of the excitement about this project. I don't think I hear  I think this is the project I hear most about from people. People are always asking me, when's it going to happen? I've heard about this.
 Please build it. And so people are very excited about this, and so we'd love to get the ball rolling. And are we building a new bridge, or are we reusing a bridge? This is a brand-new bridge. Yeah, you may recall about 10 years ago there was  Where's the Saudi Island bridge? Yeah, there was  I think that's been fully recycled at this point. I'm not sure where the pieces went, but, yeah, there was that attempt. Yeah.
 We gave it some time, waited for things to cool down, and then we looked at it again and decided the need is still there. And it's actually a lot more cost effective to just build a new bridge. Definitely. So. Okay. Good. Colleagues, any questions before we call for public testimony? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Fish. How long has this been on the drawing board? 20 years, I think.
 Yeah, it was in the previous central city plan before the one that we're looking at now. It's been in the transportation system plan since, I think, 2002. It was in the bicycle plan for 2030. So it's really been long recognized as a need. Thank you.
 Well, fantastic. Well, Commissioner Saltzman's had PBOT for about four months and got it done. Not surprised. Congratulations to everybody who had a hand in this. Aye. Saltzman? Well, it is good to see this finally coming to fruition, and it will be a great improvement for pedestrians and bicyclists in our city. Uda Lee?
 Almost makes me wish I still lived in northwest Portland because all of those crossings over the freeway are pretty nasty for pedestrians and cyclists. I do hope that we can bring the same kind of innovation and resources to neighborhoods outside of the central city. Aye.
 Wheeler. Looks good. Aye. Thank you. The ordinance is adopted. So, colleagues, we have an individual who's been waiting patiently for 684. What I propose before we break for lunch, complete 684. Since we have the quorum, take the quick votes on the items that we have carried over from previously without the quorum, and then call it a morning if that works for everybody.
 So could you please call 684? Authorize the Bureau of Development Services to permit environmental remediation.
 and Portland Bureau of Transportation to permit construction of the Southwest Mead Street interim improvements under the authority of the city engineer and without land use review approval. And just before we start, the Bureau of Emergency Communications, you're here. Are you just waiting for the vote or was there another item? You're not required to stay here for the vote unless you'd like to. You're certainly welcome to, but I didn't want you to think you had to sit here and wait for the vote. Great. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council, Kirk Kruger with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. We had a short slideshow. We had a little presentation. You guys had a long morning. We'll wrap this up quickly. A little less exciting than a bridge. We're talking about dirt in South Waterfront. I'm sorry. I just committed a horrible faux pas, and I want to correct it before these guys leave and get the Bureau of Emergency Management. I apologize. Thank you. Sorry. No problem. Thanks, Carla. Thank you.
 The City of Portland Bureau of Transportation in conjunction with Prosper Portland has been underway with the construction of Southwest Bond Avenue and South Waterfront. The first stage of that project is placing a lot of dirt to consolidate the challenging soils in South Waterfront.
 and waiting for that to settle before we come back and finalize the construction of a street. Likewise, OHSU is expanding their campus and South Waterfront and is looking at the next phase of Southwest Mead Avenue. They are facing the same challenges of soil that needs to consolidate for a number of months so it actually doesn't settle when the new street is built.
 We hope to share contractors between each other and one of the hiccups that we've ran into is the current city code requires design review and greenway review when we move more than about five truckloads of dirt. So what the ordinance here before you, and I believe you had an amendment that was introduced in your packages earlier this week.
 Just a minor code clarification referencing the right code that we're asking you to approve waiving. Removes that requirement for that design review and greenway review for the movement of dirt in South Waterfront. We're not waiving any other design review or greenway review for any buildings or trails or anything else in the future. This is more just to allow the construction of placement of dirt on Southwest Mead Avenue.
 Michael Harrison and Mike Buckwilkins are here from OHSU to answer any questions you have. And the reason why this is an emergency is our contractor would like to move and start work for them. Can you just explain to us, when you say that we're waiving design review of moving dirt, what would design review actually review? You don't want to know. What's the action that they would take? Commissioner Fish, I think you hit on exactly why we're asking to waive this. We've gone back into the legislative history of the code, and there is 
 There's not a good reason why there would be design review. There's no criteria that would align placing dirt up against a code review. I think you made your case. I think you just made the case very persuasively. Michael, since you're here, you've got a lot of construction going on. So we've got the Knight Center. You've got the new building to the south of where I get my health care services. Yes.
 And you've got, I guess, a parking lot adjacent to that and a new building going up there? Right, the Rood Family Pavilion, which will be six floors of parking, but above it will be four floors of patient housing, half that will be run by the Ronald McDonald House, the other half that will be more for adult patients, many of them cancer patients. Okay.
 It's really amazing when you  I rode my bike the other day down there, and you had the three construction projects plus Zydel's last barge. In fact, my son said wryly, or my son Chapin said with a wry since a few years. He said, has that barge always been there? It is rather shocking to see that barge sitting there waiting to be launched. A lot of good stuff going. And somehow you managed to still make the parking for the public accessible. I don't know how you do that. Okay.
 Michael Harrison, OHSU. We really appreciate all the staff work from a variety of bureaus that came together to sort of iron out the wrinkle that would have required design review of a pile of dirt. And we really appreciate the longer partnership with the city where we're always sort of leapfrogging
 someone will develop something, then we need to work together to improve the transportation system to keep the flow of people in and out of the district, whether it's by transit, by bicycle, by car. I mean, we're, again, in one of those steps now where Bond and Meade are sort of catching up with the development of buildings. But it's definitely a partnership between many partners, including us in the city, that keeps the system moving forward and allows us to continue to serve our patients. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. The amendment. Oh, I'll move the amendment? Sorry. I'll second it. Commissioner Saltzman moves the amendment. Commissioner Udaly seconds. Please call the roll on the amendment. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Very pleased to give my blessing, save everyone some time and money by not doing design review on a pile of dirt. Aye. Wheeler?
 I sort of would have enjoyed seeing what that would look like. But that being said, I'm all for government efficiency. Aye. The amendment is accepted. Please call the main motion. Is this an emergency? Yes. It is an emergency. Fish? Fish?
 When the mayor says he would have enjoyed seeing that, you know what he's actually just copped to. He would have looked forward to the appeal that came from Design Review to the city council, and we would be convening here about a year from now, and Michael would be here crying his heart out. I would have been replaced. Michael would have been calling in from his new retirement home somewhere outside the country. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thanks, gentlemen, for your patience. So why don't we go through the votes in order that we took these. Could you start by calling the roll, please, on item 670? Fish. Aye.
 Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? So before I cast my vote, I'm speaking to this and the next two items. We had a number of people come up and testify in opposition to these three items. I want to say why I strongly support all three of them.
 as was clearly illustrated by the situation in New Orleans, emergency management and emergency preparation are key obligations of a municipal government. And core to fulfilling that obligation is making sure that communities, all communities,
 are adequately prepared. That includes the first responders in terms of having the tools and the training that they require. It includes all of the government jurisdictional partners that require training as collaborative partners as well as having the communications equipment and training that they need to collaborate successfully in the event of a widespread disaster.
 And importantly, it also includes preparing individuals, families, and neighborhoods. And I don't usually comment on public testimony, but I'm going to in this case. I was surprised that the public testimony was so at odds with the facts that
 of these grants. And so I would simply say this again. I said it before, I think I was being shouted down at the time and being sworn at and whatnot. And I'm okay with that, but I want the public to hear this. You have every right to come to this microphone and to speak your mind in any way that you see fit. We don't edit people's commentary, but it would be helpful to at least read the item
 Before you comment, because there's a lot of people who watch on TV, and they may be confused by what they're hearing if the testimony just doesn't dovetail at all with what the items are. And finally, we respect the right of citizens under the charter of this city to be able to pull any consent agenda item off of the agenda, and we respect that right. But,
 There is a responsibility that comes with that right. When we call in staff members from all over the city to come here and testify on items that have been pulled, in some cases just a few minutes prior, I would at least ask people to have the courtesy of being in the chamber and hearing the testimony that they're providing rather than running in at the last minute and then speaking just flat-out falsehoods.
 about what the agenda item is. I think as adults in a civic discourse, we can all figure out how to make this work, but I frankly thought what we saw today was disrespectful to...
 to the public employees of the City of Portland. I thought it was disrespectful to the other people who came to provide testimony and be heard in this chamber. And as was duly noted, this City Council has established clear rules and clear codes of conduct that we enforce uniformly to everyone. So I'm...
 I strongly support this because I don't want to be the next New Orleans when we have an emergency on our hands. I want our community well prepared, the first responders, the city, our regional partners, our communities, and our families. And these grants from the federal government enable us to be ready when the time comes. So I vote aye, the ordinance is adopted. Next item, 671, please. Call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call 672. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call 665. Fritz. I'm sorry, Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 I want to thank Mary Sipes for coming today and giving her testimony. She told a story that I am hoping that we will hear a lot less of, which is of citizens putting in their time and energy and expertise and not having their work valued or implemented. I would like to see...
 The noise office getting closer to full recovery. I believe we have some kinks to work out on our way there. But in the meantime, I vote aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And last but not least, 676, please. Fish. Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. So, colleagues, that left a rather lengthy to-do list. I'll let staff sort it out, and we'll figure it out later. We didn't do the consent agenda, did we? We did do the consent agenda. Okay, sorry. Yes, we did. I missed that. So, with that, we're adjourned until 2 p.m. this afternoon. Well said. All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday afternoon session, June 14th.
 for the Portland City Council. We're now in session. Carla, please call the roll.
 Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. So just quickly on code of conduct for meetings, please, everybody, do your best to be respectful. Everybody here needs to feel safe, welcome, and heard. We request that there not be any heckling of either residents or of staff making presentations. Thank you.
 Any disruptions obviously aren't tolerated. If there's a disruption, you'll be asked to leave. And if you are asked to leave and you choose not to do so, then you're subject to arrest. But hopefully that is not even on anybody's mind on such a beautiful afternoon when we have so many great things that we want to accomplish. There are a number of items we did not finish this morning.
 So, Carla, I'm going to ask you to read the following four together, 687, 688, 689, and 690, please. And that's procurement, Christine. 687, accept bid of Stellar J Corporation for the Alder Pump Station Upgrade Project for $3,169,500.
 $688,000, except bid of Titan Utilities LLC for the Fano Creek at Southwest 45th Avenue Colbert Replacement Project for $902,605. $689,000, except the bid of Landis and Landis Construction LLC for the Raymond South Tabor Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $4,176,283.
 And just for the record, 690 is a second reading, so there'll be no further testimony. The record's closed on that item. But perhaps you could briefly tell us about the others, and we'll ask if there's any public testimony.
 So good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I understand you've had a long morning and trying to get to the time certain, so I was just going to answer any questions if you had them on any of the procurement reports. Colleagues, are there any further questions on any of the procurement reports? Seeing none, is there any public testimony on either 687, 88, or 89? No one signed up. Please call the roll, 687.
 Commissioner Fish. I move the report. Second. I'm sorry. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for reminding me that the report had to be moved, as does 88, 89 need to be moved. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds the procurement report for 687. Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fritz? I'm sorry, Fish. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Well, as usual, Chief Procuratorial Officer, Christine Moody, your right of this exemplar, and it's very easy to know what's happening here. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Thank you. The report's accepted. 688, please. Can I get a motion? So moved. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Udailey seconds.
 Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish. I just want to acknowledge that the MWESB participation on this one is just terrific. So, nicely done. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udemy. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. Please call 689. Motion from Commissioner Fish. I move.
 I move to accept the report. Motion from Commissioner Udaly. Second. Second from Commissioner Fish. Any further questions? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report is accepted. And that leaves us 690. That is a second reading. Please call the roll.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro to provide funding in the amount of $50,000 for the regional construction workforce market study. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The intergovernmental agreement with Metro is accepted. That takes us up to the time certain item 693.
 Appeal of John Hollister against the Portland Historic Landmark Commission's Historic Resource Review decision of approval with conditions in the River District Subdistrict of Central City Plan District for construction of a six-story office building with a penthouse and three-story underground garage at Northwest Gleason and Northwest 13th Avenue, LU16-153002HRMAD.
 So the city attorney is going to start off by making some announcements about today's hearing. Thank you, Your Honor. The correct city attorney will be down in one second. So can you, like, fake it for two minutes? I have no idea how to do that. I'm just saying so.
 Well said. Well said. I bet that frames the discussion. That does. So let me take a shot at it, and then the city attorney will come in and correct all of it. This is a land use hearing. The first thing that we're going to do is publicly declare any 
 actual conflicts of interest, and any ex parte contacts we might have had with regard to the parties. We will then hear a staff report. The staff will have approximately 10 minutes to provide their staff report. The appellant will then have 10 minutes to clarify their appeal. I want to be very clear that both for the staff report and the appellant, we will not deduct time.
 if there are questions asked by the city council. So the time that is spent asking questions, the time that is spent answering questions, does not count towards that 10-minute time frame. We will then hear from supporters of the appeal. You will have three minutes each to provide your support of the appeal. The principal opponent will then have 15 minutes to respond.
 discuss, rebut, or provide answers to any issues related to the appeal.
 Then opponents of the appeal will have three minutes. The rebuttal by the appellant is five minutes. There will be counsel discussion and then either future scheduling or a decision. I want to be clear that the timeframes that have been provided here are part of code. They are not arbitrary to the city council, so the timeframes I'm giving you are actually standardized required timeframes. Wow.
 Legal counsel, I don't know how much of that you heard, but hopefully I provided mostly accurate information. To clarify, it sounds like you've gone through the entire schedule of order of presentation? That's correct. Then I will not talk about the order of presentation. I will jump to the fact that this is an evidentiary hearing, which means you may submit new evidence to counsel in support of your arguments.
 I'm going to announce several guidelines for those who will be addressing counsel today. First, to submit evidence into the record, if you have any letters or documents you wish to become part of the record, you must give them to the counsel clerk over there after you testify. Similarly, originals or any copies of slides, photographs, drawings, maps, videos, or other items you show to counsel during your testimony, including PowerPoint presentations, should be given to the counsel clerk to make sure they become part of the record.
 Second, testimony must be directed to the approval criteria. Any testimony, arguments, and evidence you present must be directed toward applicable approval criteria for the land use review or other criteria in the city's comprehensive plan or zoning code you believe apply to the decision. BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as part of their report to Council. Thank you.
 Third, you must raise an issue clearly enough to give counsel and the parties an opportunity to respond to the issue. If you don't, you will be precluded from appealing to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue.
 Finally, the applicant must identify constitutional challenges to conditions approval. If they fail to raise constitutional or other issues relating to proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit court. And I think that covers what I need to cover. Very good. Do any council members wish to declare a conflict of interest at this time?
 Seeing none, no council members have conflicts of interest to declare. Do any members of the city council have ex parte contacts to declare information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose?
 Mayor, just because we have a large audience today, I'll just note for the record that we have a tradition in this building of shielding the electeds, the decision makers, from meeting with parties to these quasi-judicial proceedings. That does not prevent people from meeting with staff people or from communicating with staff and to seeking guidance about how this process works as long as the elected is shielded. So I have no ex parte to disclose. Commissioner Fritz, then you daily. Yeah, my staff has also met with the appellant.
 Commissioner Udali? My staff has also met with both the applicant and the appellant. Does anyone present in the council chambers wish to ask any of the commissioners about ex parte contacts or information he or she has disclosed? I don't see that. Have any members of the council made any visits to the site involved in this matter?
 No member of the council has made a visit. Commissioner Fritz, sorry. I'm sure. I must have walked past you at one time or another, but I did not make one specifically for this hearing. Very good. I will adhere to the same standard. Does anybody wish to ask either Commissioner Fritz or myself about our observations on the visit? Yes, sir. Come forward and state your name for the record, please.
 John Hollister, for the record. And what did you have at Andina? It's really hard to get a reservation. And my schedule doesn't allow me to reserve that far out. But I do love the place, I will confess. Thank you. Good question, John. Do any council members have any further issues that need to be discussed before we commence with the hearing?
 Seeing none, we'll start with the staff report, approximately 10 minutes. Good afternoon, and again, name for the record. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Mike Gushard, City Planner for the Bureau of Development Services. And Tim Herron, Senior Planner, Bureau of Development Services. Presentation, is it up? Not yet. There you go.
 So, these presentations sort of have a way of starting with mystery and then we get to the point. So I'm just going to summarize why we're here and then get into the details. This is about an appeal of an approval the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission created for an application for an infill project in a historic district.
 I'll go through the context, both the regulatory context and sort of the urban context and neighborhood for a bit. We'll discuss the proposal very, very briefly. I'll go through the process of how we got here and the decision that was made. And then the appeal and sort of our BDS's reaction to the appeal. And then at the end, questions, of course. Yes.
 So it's at Northwest 13th and Gleason. I think John did the heavy lifting for me on pointing out the location. It is Caddy Corner from Andina, which is delicious. It's on the, I think on the left there, you can see the height map for this neighborhood. It's 100 feet.
 That hashing indicates that there is a bonus height potential of 40 feet for this section, so 140 feet altogether. The limit on the floor area ratio is 6 to 1. With bonuses, it can be up to 9 to 1. It's in the employment zone, which is one of our more forgiving zones, and is a non-contributing resource in a historic district.
 So when we talk about historic resources and historic districts, it is very easy to get kind of lost in the details and forget to talk about why they are significant and why they're important.
 In the case of the Northwest 13th Avenue Historic District, it's important for two reasons. The first reason is it tells the story of Portland becoming an important center of warehousing and distribution on the West Coast. So if you are going to have a proper city and people are going to have things and they are going to make things and send them other places, particularly in the 19th century when logistics were not as good as they are today, they had to hang out in a place before they got to where they were going.
 And you can see up in the top left, that's a historic picture from the 30s looking into the district. It's actually one block out of the district. The taller buildings down there are the historic district.
 The other reason that it's important is because of its architecture. A lot of the most significant architects working in that time had buildings in that district. I think that's a testament to how important a place this was to the development of the city, that you would have someone like the Office of Doyle and Patterson come and build a warehouse for you. So when we talk about historic districts, we use a term called character-defining features.
 and those are the parts of a district or a historic building that communicate to you why it's important. And in the case of the 13th Avenue Historic District, some of those character-defining features are the use of masonry and brick, which you can see in the photos, a three-part design, which in the turn of the century was a way of organizing taller buildings, and then loading docks, which really sort of hits home
 This is a place where shipping and moving of materials is going on. Could you elaborate on three-part design just briefly? Sure. If you look at the new photo, the contemporary photo there under the historic photo, you can sort of see the building on the left has a pretty emphasized base, middle, and top.
 The other contemporary photos I have sort of illustrate that too. Tall buildings were sort of an American invention, at least commercial buildings. And the architects of that time were trying to think, well, what's a good way of organizing this system? And so they created an entry base, a set of middle floors that are all the same, and then a top that's distinct. It's actually based on a column. Thank you. Yeah.
 And then there's a map of the district over on the right.
 So the approval criteria for this project and this location are the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines and the appropriately named Northwest 13th Avenue Historic District Design Guidelines. And the latter is in two parts. There's an exterior remodeling section, which we didn't apply to this because this isn't an exterior remodel. It's a new building. And there's a new construction section, which is what we focused on.
 Site description, it is currently a parking lot. Like I said, at Northwest 13th and Northwest Gleason, it slopes east to west. It's on a major transit street. And the lot area is around 10,000 square feet. And I have a set of photos here that are just sort of context photos of the area. This is looking north. You can see the lot there on the right.
 This is looking south, now it's on the left. You can see the loading docks and that three part design. Looking east and looking west. So the proposal, the,
 The application was for an office building with retail at the bottom. It's six full floors with a penthouse. It's at 96 feet, so just under the allowed height limit without a bonus. And has an FAR of 8.16 to 1.
 If you remember from a few slides before, the maximum with bonuses is 9 to 1. They got to their bonus height through a bike room. Exterior materials, brick, aluminum windows, and sneak preview, there's a little loading dock feature, which is something that was added to make it compatible with the neighborhoods.
 Could you tell me about the parking? It's clear in the schematic there's parking. Could you talk a little bit about that, unless that's later in your presentation? No, no, it's not. So, yeah, there's three floors of parking with 45 spaces and entry on Northwest Gleason. Normally, Gleason wouldn't be a street where we would want that. That actually required an adjustment. It was moved on to Gleason to support the...
 historic district and the character that it had that street wall and the set of loading docks being interrupted by a large hole for parking would would be suboptimal okay and i assume that parking is intended to be private parking for the tenants of the building as opposed to a public parking
 You know, I think in the hearings, the exact use of the parking wasn't completely laid out. Is that your main to the hearing? No. Okay, fair enough. This is all height. All right, thank you.
 So there's on the top is a rendering. You see a three-part design. The brick, actually use of some distressed brick to sort of make it look older and sort of feel right in the district. And a loading dock feature, which also acts as an ADA ramp. That's actually one of the interesting things about the docks along this street, is many of them have been altered to also function as ramps.
 You can see the penthouse on the top and the axle rendering on the lower left. Six full floors with that three-part design and then a penthouse on the top. Here's the process that this application went through. This is just the BDS process. There was a pre-application conference in January 2016.
 At that conference, one of the things staff suggested was a design advice request hearing with Landmarks Commission. Often with a project this size, particularly in a historic district, it's just good to have that first chance to talk to the commission to make sure a project is on the right path.
 That meeting was in March 2016. The compatibility came up. If the Landmarks Commission was worried for a little bit that it was too compatible and asked that a date stamp be put on the building just so that it showed that it wasn't part of the historic fabric of the neighborhood. The height also came up, which is sort of the point of controversy here. They were fine with the height given all the other gestures that the building made to be compatible with the district.
 but made a point that anything higher would have to have further discussion. At a first Landmarks Commission hearing on December 2016, I was not approved at that meeting. There was some fine-tuning in the design that had to be done and some conditions that were out.
 The applicant responded to those, and the landmark submission was ready to approve at the February 2017 meeting. The appellant asked that the record be held open, so that moved things on to another hearing.
 March 2017, the Landmarks Commission unanimously approved the application. Then their appeal application was in April 2017, and now we're all here today hanging out together.
 So the decision, this is right from the staff report. Proposed building fits into Northwest 13th and meets the guidelines. It demonstrates key character-defining features, tripartite design, thoughtful detailing of red brick, and a gesture toward the district's iconic loading docks.
 There were an adjustment, or there was an adjustment in modification. Those are not part of the source of the appeal, so I didn't emphasize those in my report to you today. There were some conditions of approval which also were not part of the appeal.
 which while we're talking about the appeal, this is right from the application. The appeal statement says the building does not meet the Northwest 13th Avenue Historic District Guidelines approval criteria for height and visual compatibility. That's directly from the application, and the appellant will, I think, dig down deeper into that. So in considering this, staff in the Landmarks Commission 
 we're familiar with the district enough. I have a set of historic buildings in the district, and they're approximate floors and heights. So Irving Street Lofts, I think, is the tallest building in the district. It's around 89 feet tall, depending on how you measure height. These are approximations of the sort of perceived height or the parapet height of the buildings. That building actually has things that are taller on it, like a penthouse and mechanical units there.
 The Keene building is directly across the streets, the historic Simon building, actually. It's around five floors and 75 feet. The Chown Lofts, seven floors and 85 feet. At the bottom is the proposal. The parapet is at 86 feet, and the top of that penthouse is at 96 feet.
 And the Commission felt like that was acceptable in part because the visual height of the building would be the 86 feet. And that's because the penthouse is set back?
 You conjured up my next slide. Yeah. Yes, that's why. The penthouse is in the red marked out there. And it's set back 20 feet from Northwest 13th Avenue and 25 feet from Northwest Gleason. So there's a sight line on the bottom. So it's not sort of visible to passersby. And you can see in the top left there, there's
 sort of the parapet with a kind of human form next to it to give you an idea of just how deep that is. They're using it as railing, so it actually had to be pretty hefty.
 Yeah, so there's one guideline in the Northwest 13th Historic District Guidelines that deals with height. It's the Height and Bolt Guideline 2. It says buildings in Northwest 13th Avenue Historic District display consistent mass. Buildings are typically two to six stories in height.
 And new construction should not exceed the maximum allowed height and density requirements. So the building's six full stories with a penthouse above. I felt like it met that part of the guideline. The maximum height with bonuses is 140 feet. Maximum height just on its own is 100, and it's 96. The maximum density, 9 to 1 FAR, in the proposed building is 8.16 to 1 with that bonus requirement.
 Before you get to the alternatives, you've addressed height, but what was the nature of the, quote, visual compatibility argument? You know, the visual compatibility, I think, was addressed all the way through the guidelines. And there's so many little details on the building that are pulled off from all of the historic buildings. So, you know, I distilled those character-defining features down to brick, a three-part design, and loading dock.
 Each of those sort of has fine detailing within them, the punch of the windows, the patterning in the windows, and all of that is reflected in both of this building and the historic buildings. Maybe I misunderstood you, but I understood that there were two grounds for appeal. One was height and one was visual compatibility. The visual compatibility component of the appeal wasn't explained in the application. Okay.
 Yeah. Okay, thank you. It's been mostly focused on height. And I think it's height, you know, I'll let John speak for himself. I think it is height as a component of visual compatibility. Go ahead, Mike. You're doing good. Can you remind me what the allowable FAR without the bonus? It's six to one. Six to one. And how many stories would that roughly translate to? That would be about four. Yeah.
 Could be six stories actually, yeah. Okay, thank you. So the council alternatives today are to deny the appeal and uphold the Landmarks Commission's decision, deny the appeal and uphold the decision but make modifications to either conditions or to the approval, or grant the appeal and overturn the Landmarks Commission's decision and effectively deny the project.
 Are there any other questions? I'm happy to answer. So is the main source of concern, as you understand, at the penthouse? Is that really what we're talking about here? The main source of concern, I think, is generally the height.
 I don't think it is the aspect of the penthouse or I think it is the height in total. Mr. Hollister did testify at several of the hearings and it wasn't just the penthouse. We'll obviously have a chance to hear from him. Yeah. Good. Thank you. I guess just as a give me some context, when we evaluate height in a historic district,
 Are we supposed to give greatest weight to buildings that are proximate to this building, or do we look at the context of the entire district? You gave us a slide that showed us quite a...
 a larger lens. So, I mean, is there a rule of thumb there? You know, there isn't a perfect rule of thumb. It depends on the resource. And when I say resource, I don't mean just buildings. A district is sort of a resource, too. I mean, if this were a residential historic district with completely uniform height and maybe one or two outliers, I think...
 I think that you would want to use that uniform height. That would kind of be a character-defining feature, and you would use that to say this is the height that's compatible with it. I feel like in the case of this district, it's a district that has varying heights, and so height isn't the kind of main determinant of compatibility. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Commissioner Fritz. I'm just wondering, is this your first presentation to council? It is. Very nicely done. Oh, thank you.
 Very good. All right. Thank you. If you can take a seat, gentlemen, we'll hear from the appellant. Welcome, Mr. Hollister. You know the drill name for the record, please. Take me a while to get seated here. No worries. That's me. Thanks, Carl. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is John Hollister.
 And I'm the appellant. I was actually hoping that they were going to go over time so I could have some extra time, too. If I go over my time, can I use some of my rebuttal time on this first part? Sure.
 That's really up to the council as to how they want to address that. So how much overtime do you suspect you might need? I don't know. Hopefully it will be quick, and hopefully you ask me a lot of questions so the clock stops. But I don't think  I think it might be five minutes. So the way I  obviously this is a legal hearing, and therefore we have to be 
 fairly strict in terms of how we run it. Unless legal counsel has a problem, here's what I would recommend, or if any of my colleagues have a comment. Let's get to 10 minutes, and let's see where we are and how much additional time you think you need in order to make a solid case. And then what I would do is grant the same amount of time. It would have to go back to the staff report.
 No, you would grant the same amount of time to the applicant who's opposing the appeal. Very good. Okay, so why don't we consider that as an option, colleagues? Let's see where you are after 10 minutes. Okay. Very good. I want to be fair in terms of making you feel like you've had an opportunity to fairly present your case, but I don't want to disadvantage the other side in the process. Yes, thank you. In fact, I can't legally. Thank you. Could we pause for just one second? The staff's asking a question that I want to make sure.
 Very good. Okay. Thank you, Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler, for this opportunity. It's been an interesting road the last 18 months since it started on 11 of 15. John, I'm sorry. I need you to state your name for the record. Oh, I'm sorry. John Hollister. John Hollister.
 Okay, so this is a journey that I really hadn't intended on being a part of, but the people that I have met during this process have made me appreciate all the wonderful people we have in Portland. And I have met a lot of people that are  good, you can look at that. That will be a little helpful there. There's a lot of people that I've met that support me, and what I'd like to do is just take a minute and acknowledge them. And would all the people that are supporting the appeal just raise their hand?
 Thank you very much. So right now what we have is a situation where the historic district is in danger. The only reason I knew about this was because I was within 400 feet and I got a notice. And this particular process was a flawed process. There were procedural mistakes. There were inaccurate facts. Yes.
 The PD&A bylaws were, there were some violations there, and there's some potential conflict of interest things that I really can't talk about, but they're currently under investigation. Counsel, could you let us know when we stray from what's actually in the record here? Because I'm having this sense we're getting way outside the record. So this is an evidentiary hearing, so they can raise evidence issues at the hearing. New issues? Yep. Okay. Yep. Thank you for the clarification on that.
 This is not so much about the building as the entire integrity of the district. Consciously or unconsciously, this building is what I termed a Trojan horse that will lead to demolition of the smaller buildings in the future with putting economic pressure on those smaller buildings.
 The public voice was just not heard on this. I have spoken to over 500 people on this. I was standing outside on our first Thursday talking to people with my little sign that I came in my three-minute thing a few months ago and was talking to people, and not more than a handful knew that a building was going up.
 So the appeal outcome, what am I looking for and what do I think the public is looking for is...
 Building height must be respectful of the historic district. And what is respectful? 75 feet is what was said at the beginning at the pre-application process of what the maximum height would be allowed at the beginning. And that's actually what the Landmarks Commission testified originally for in the 2035 plan. And I have several examples that mark around the 75 foot as being a historical district respectful height. Thank you.
 I think that this would be a good time to review and enhance some of the processes. I know there's a number of things going on with some of the things that some of your offices are taking up. And I'm going to take you through my view of the process. They're good people. I really enjoyed working with Mike. He was always very, very responsive and very, very willing to work with me. And it was a real pleasure.
 The Landmarks Commission, I think they do tremendous work, as I said, at many of those meetings. And I think sometimes just the volume of work is just excessive. Leadership, I think in talking to some of the people, I would get the sense that city staffers are looking for some leadership as well as the public. And to all those people I talked about, there are too many people that just felt that there's nothing they can do.
 Here is the project website, and to identify myself, that first picture is from my window, and that window is at 21 feet high, and I overlooked the proposed site. When I bought my condominium three years ago, I assumed that a building was going to go up in that lot at some point. I just didn't know when.
 So from the standpoint, I'm at 21 feet. Whether this is three stories, five stories, or ten stories, my view to the south will be altered. So it's really not an issue where I am fighting a building going up there. I believe a building at the proper height should go there. And to me, whether it's 75, 100, or 200 feet doesn't really have any more of a negative effect on my view.
 The pre-application process was not really a public meeting, but I was invited to attend, and I just was sitting there learning the process. The applicant presented a project, and one of them was 140 feet, which represents what Mike said was the limit. The city told them quite emphatically that 75 feet would be the maximum they would get.
 And that's because it's in the historic district. And the guidelines from our historic district supersede. And that gets to, Commissioner Fish, what you're talking about, the visual compatibility, and as well as the compatibility with the adjacent buildings around it. And that was historically disrespectful for me. I was asked to speak at the end of the meeting. I told them I was excited about the process and looking forward to working with the developer and being a good neighbor. The...
 Then we got to the April meeting, and the first couple of things concerned me a little bit with the Landmark Commission when they were unfamiliar with the district, and they'd never reviewed a project in the district. And I was a little surprised, but after I understood that there has been no new construction in that building, in that area since 1945, no one was even alive. So that's why no one was really familiar, and they weren't really spending much time.
 The staff then presented a 100-foot project rather than a 75-foot mentioned. And I went to the staff and said, well, what's going on here? It was 75 last meeting. What happened between now and then? And he said, well, this is where you give your testimony. And I said, well, I'm not prepared. I haven't done any due diligence. I'm prepared. And then I was assured that at that meeting that I would be able to give testimony at a future meeting. And so I began my due diligence there.
 So you've seen this already as the site here. Let me just do... And here's Johnson over here, and here's Davis over here, and here's the site right here at Gleason. And let's see here. Oops.
 And when we were looking at the different heights of the buildings, here were the four buildings. It was talked about as being the fourth largest building in the district, and I think that was a lot of why people were feeling very comfortable about it being compatible. But then one of the buildings, the Casey building that was used as a comp, that one is not even in the historic district. So we kind of take that one out of the picture. And...
 And then we have the, I went in front of the Wyden Kennedy building, and I looked at it, and it was four stories tall, and it had 122 feet, and that didn't make any sense. So I looked that one up, and it was more relevant in the 58-foot level. So we'll get rid of that one there. Okay.
 And then over here it was listed at 120 for the Irving Street lofts. And so I went to a number of different sources on this, and one that the city used was 89 feet. And so, you know, Carla, is there a reason why I have to hit the forward key on each one of these? Let me see if I can do this another way. Yeah.
 Okay, I can do it that way. So what I found was I just went over to the building owner and said, hey, what's the doggone height of this thing? And I looked, there's so many different things on the building. And they said, well, it depends. It depends on where you are. It's 92 feet on Northwest 13th, but there's penthouses in the back that fit 14 that's 120 feet. So it's all over the board. Okay.
 Here's a chart that more effectively talks about all of the heights in the buildings of the whole historic district. The average height, and this goes back to the compatibility, the average height is 50 feet, and this one is proposed at twice the height of the average district. These buildings, whether this is 89 feet or 120, that was built in 1924, and over here the Chown Pell is the other one, it was 1910.
 The only recent construction in the area or projects are right here. These are just outside the historic district and three of the commissioners voted on this one. This is project block 136 where it, and I'll show you a little later, came in at 76 feet because they wanted to respect the historic district.
 And this is another building that's outside the historic district that's also going at 75 because they want to respect the historic district. So my first question, if we are respecting the historic district outside of the historic district, why aren't we respecting the historic district inside the historic district? We don't want anyone to get kicked out here. So I have a couple of buildings that are historically respective, and I'll try to go here a little faster, is...
 This is the Grand Belmont Building. It's in the historic district on the other side of the river. Sorry to interrupt. So that's ten minutes. So how much time do you think you need to get through your presentation? 4.5 minutes. Perfect. Colleagues, does anybody have any objection, assuming I provide the same balance to opposing points of view? Is this okay? Very good. Continue. Okay, here we go. Four and a half minutes, please. I'm going to talk a little faster here.
 The developer presented three properties, 14, 15, 23 stories. This particular area is zoned at 175 base with a 50-foot FAR. And the Landmark Commission said that's not compatible. And what the developer presented, a compatible building at seven stories, 81 feet high. And that's what the building is there. It's six stories with a penthouse.
 The next one is block 136, and this was part of what I talked about in the judgment that was said about the step-downs, and the City Council decision was 76-1 for Northwest 13th Avenue and 150 for 12th. And here are those two buildings. When was that decision made? What's that? When was that decision? I believe it was 2015 or maybe the beginning of 2016. Thank you. Yeah.
 This is a building that is currently in design review. It's on the other side of the street from Block 136, and that is being in at 75 feet. It's still doing some more design work. So I was really proud of all my research I did, and when I went to the next meeting, the commission said that the height was already decided last meeting.
 And then Kurt's here so you can talk about this. He said the project is a little larger than we'd like, but it's not really setting a precedent because it'll last a buildable lot. And then it moved to materials, and I felt, and I wrote in a subsequent letter that I felt my testimony was pretty much ignored.
 And I couldn't understand why it had switched between a date to date. And then I found some more information as I dug before the next meeting is in the 2035 plan, the Landmarks Commission had recommended 75 feet. And here's what the zoning is. Here is our existing zoning where Mike went through it, 75 plus FAR and 100. Here is where the subject building is.
 What the Landmark Commission, just to make it easier, said 75 feet the entire way. That's what we want to have. And then with testimony from the masses, it was switched from 75 to 100. And that is what is going to you in September, that height. So we'll look at the masses here. Five people spoke. Okay.
 And I redacted the name of, this is a property owner, but it's come fairly public who this person is. So it's Al Solheim who spoke. So really it was Al Solheim, Patty Gardner, and...
 Dana and Tim that were speaking. And poor little Kurt down here was saying, I want 75 feet. And the property owners would say, no, we want it the way it was. And then Patty, representing the Pearl District Neighborhood Association, said, no, I'm going to reject what Landmark Commission says, but we're okay with it being 100 feet south of Hoyt.
 So they changed the decision. So I'll make this a little bit bigger so people can see it. This was the staff rationale of why they wanted to change it. And so basically we're saying because of the buildings at 75 feet, I'm going to go quick. You have to be speed readers.
 And so all these 75-foot buildings that we were talking about, they're affected. There's two. There's Chown Pella, and they'll never agree on being able to add additional heights. And the other one over here is the only other 75-foot building, and that one is actually owned by Al Solheim.
 All these other buildings here are very, very low, and they're going to face real seismic, mandatory seismic upgrades. And so if they say financial hardship, they can possibly have their building demolished and rebuilt with a higher building. Okay, there we go.
 Violations of PD&A. And so both the letters that were written by Patty Gardner are null and void because she didn't follow the proper procedures. And then there's also some personal conflict of interest. A lot of reasons. And I'm done, I guess. And then maybe I'll have a minute or so left in my rebuttal to read my last slide.
 Commissioner Fritz. So in your mind, what would you think that the height should be? 75 feet is what represents to me historic respectful. So are there any other buildings in the area that are higher than 75? Say that again? I'm now confused with which ones are accurate and which ones are not. Are there other buildings in the district that are above 75 feet? Yes. And how big are they?
 Well, that's not really sure. One looks like it's 85 feet, and another one is anywhere from 89 to 120, depending on which measurements you want to look at. Thank you. I have a couple questions. You began your presentation by referring to this as a Trojan horse, and it would lead to demolitions. I think I understood your argument, but I want to give you a chance to state it again. Good, good. Thank you. Let me go back up here. Okay.
 With this building going at 100 feet, all of these small buildings will have tremendous economic pressure because if I have a 25-foot building and I can build a 100-foot building, that building has a lot more value.
 And if I am facing a, if I have a small building here and I'm facing a $200,000 seismic upgrade, it would be a lot simpler for me or a lot more profitable for me to say, hey listen, why don't we just tear this thing down and build a taller, more expensive building. And so the further part of that argument is, this is a very similar, almost exactly what happened in Greenwich Village in 1959.
 And in Greenwich Village in 1959, Commissioner Fritz, to your point as well, is there was zoning for diversity. A slightly advanced development of this concept was proposed by Greenwich Village Civic Groups, their area adopted by the City of New York in 1959.
 On certain streets, the height limitations for buildings were drastically reduced. Most of the streets affected already contained numerous buildings in excess of the new height limitations. This is not evidence of illogic, but it's precisely why the new limitations were asked, so that the lower buildings remaining could not be further replaced by excessive duplication of the more valuable tall buildings.
 Again, sameness was being zoned out or, in fact, different zones in, even though in a most limited fashion or in a relatively few streets. And so that was in Greenwich Village, and they had buildings over 100 feet, too, in that district. So it's New York. So I figured that, I mean, the limitation probably wasn't that much. But the height limitation in that area of Greenwich Village is 40 feet.
 And let me ask you one other question, if I could. I want to make sure I have all the numbers right. The proposed building comes in at 96 feet. If you did not count the penthouse, it would be about 86 feet. And you've suggested the height should be 75 feet. Does your 75 feet, is that inclusive of any penthouse space? Yes.
 yeah and and the my 75 is 75 and and with with nothing nothing higher than 75. so i'm i'd just be interested in your thoughts about the penthouse because the penthouse space seems to be set back and therefore it it has i mean to me from the sidewalk if i were looking up and i couldn't see it the building might actually look like an 86 foot building with a setback penthouse do you
 What are the aesthetic concerns you have in terms of historic context of having a setback penthouse? Yeah, and once again, that's a great question. And I'm a software salesman that's pretty good at research, so I don't know. I'm not an expert. I do have some experts that are testifying in my three-minute type things. So I'm just going off of...
 So the expert I would go to was the Landmark Commission and what they recommended to 2035 before five people came and had everything changed. So I go with their expertise. And so I hope that didn't sound flip. Oh, it's helpful. Thank you. Further questions for now? No.
 Very good. You can take a break. Okay, great. Thank you, John, for your testimony. Next, supporters of the appeal will have three minutes each to testify. And then the principal opponent originally was scheduled for 15 minutes, but we'll add. Was that four and a half additional, Carla?
 Yes. We'll add four and a half minutes to the principal opponent, should they wish to take that extra four and a half minutes. So if you could please call the first three supporters of the appeal, state your name for the record, three minutes, and we're going to be pretty hardcore about that three-minute cutoff. Gary Riddick, Jim Paternori, and Danny Cohen. And, gentlemen, you'll see the yellow light flash when you have 30 seconds, and it'll beep once, and then it goes crazy when you hit the three minutes. Okay.
 he's very very high maintenance okay go ahead welcome uh gentlemen whoever would like to start great thank you uh thank you um my name is gary reddick i'm an architect uh in portland uh mayor commissioners it's uh
 It's a great opportunity to be here and share a few of my remarks. I haven't been here in some time. I've kind of been out of the spotlight. But I made a decision to come in today to offer some observations and remarks to what I hope is a constructive conversation. We are here because opinions seem quite divided on the issue at hand. We are here...
 because of Senate Bill 100 and the passage of a requirement for putting boundaries around urban growth. And we are here because of the expert hands that have designed our land use strategy, professional planners, politicians, citizen activists, and setting about to make Oregon and Portland a model of livability along the way the good work got discovered. The integrity of our strategies was on display.
 We received accolades and awards internationally, and it seems now everyone wants to move to Portland. The construction of new buildings continues to amaze. To meet this unprecedented arrival, we have had to revisit our planning strategies and the capacity in our zoning to accommodate the migration. And inevitably, we increase our height limits and enlarge the FARs,
 Because we must. Let me pause for a minute in order to put my remarks in context. I am an enthusiastic urbanist. For my 45 years as an architect here, I have supported our land use planning. I've taught about its virtues at universities around the country. Along the way, I've pressed heights and FARs to the max.
 Quite a few years ago, my firm was on the front page of the Tribune for five days in a row for trying to import FAR from the Lloyd District to a site in the Goose Hollow neighborhood for a high-rise. We have seen many examples over the years where neighborhoods have risen up to offer protection of their precious place. We were quite appropriately defeated in Goose Hollow.
 We worked with the neighborhood, scaled the building back, and passed design review on the first trip. I've come to have a great regard for the word precious. It seems to always lead to a good place. It was behind the making of the urban growth boundary, and it should be in every conversation as we continue to shape our urban place. Protect your precious treasures. One and a half more minutes. I'm sorry.
 Let me ask this, Gary. What is the basis of your support? If you could just summarize why you're supporting the appeal. Yeah, and I hate to cut off testimony. I don't like doing it ordinarily. It does. And ordinarily during normal council session. I'm just saying that I think as an urban planner that 75 feet was the right decision in 2015, and it's the right decision now. I would just end by saying...
 We never know what is enough until we've seen what is more than enough. From my opinion, 75 feet is enough. Very good. You answered the question well. Thank you. So we'll hold people at three minutes because this is a legal process, and if we don't give everybody the same standard, that's grounds for an appeal to our process. Thank you for your testimony. I appreciate it. Good afternoon. My name is James Petaneri. I am a...
 Professor Emeritus of Architecture at the University of Oregon and a former director of our Portland program who worked with the city on many different issues concerning urban design. We are the ones back in 1983 who did the first real study of this area, then called the last place in the downtown plan.
 And it was called the last place because every other area had been studied and studied except below Burnside. And so the American Institute of Architects sponsored a national study, a RUDAT study.
 RUDAT studies mean Regional Urban Design Assistant Team was a service of the National AIA to help cities work on various projects in their cities and was very influential for over a decade in directing places like Boise, Santa Fe. And RUDAT was held...
 In this district in 1983, RUDATs contained teams of experts, architects, urban designers, economists, transportation experts, municipal finance people, and social studies people from all over the country, came mostly from the East Coast to study the district B.
 below Burnside called the last place in the downtown plan. We issued a two-week study and a report which was given to the city and is responsible for establishing the historic districts that exist now and made all kinds of recommendations that are responsible for what
 is now called the Pearl District. And I'm here to sort of defend the legacy of that work because it was very impartial, done by very good people. Our Portland program offered students in Eugene and new students an option to study and work and live in Portland.
 oftentimes with the City Planning Commission on various urban issues. We worked a lot with neighborhoods on their light rail station design, on the east side freeway removal,
 Uh, possibilities? Sir, we're about to, I hate to, the Mayor's about to cut you off, so I'm just gonna, I'm gonna ask you, I'm gonna ask you the same question. Okay, so what I would like to do here is kind of outline the, um, recommendations of our study at that time, which, uh, is 1983. Everybody pretty much agreed.
 that the national economy was undergoing a major transformation, and to do an approach that would re-industrialize this area would be a mistake. So at the same time, it was really recognized that the outdated, historical, significant, multi-use collection of buildings could really be reused with skillful planning
 And that my favorite statement is the value and attraction of the district lies in its differences. And that it's different than every other place in the downtown. And not in the possibility that it can be made to look like every place else. And so we, in this study, we...
 documented all the historic buildings. We defined a historic district which exists today. And we recommended a preservation district be identified to help guide and protect the character of the area. And it was the character of the area, its distinctive character, as a collection of all kinds of different sized buildings. We didn't really deal with
 any specific height limit, but there are so many different kinds of buildings here, two-story ones of all different kinds of materials, all kinds of different heights. Great. You made an excellent point and answered the Commissioner's question very thoroughly. One question about visual compounding.
 Sir, I'm really sorry. I'm going to have to move on to the next person. Thank you. We have to keep the standard consistent. Good afternoon. I apologize. And if for any reason the council decides to keep the record open, obviously you can submit written testimony if that is the wish of the council. Continue. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and city council. My name is Danny Cohen, and I just graduated from Lincoln High School.
 So I'd like to begin my testimony by thanking John Hollister for giving me the opportunity to speak on such a critical issue, and I want to acknowledge Portland City Council for listening. When John first approached me with this situation, I wasn't convinced of its importance. My home is nearly six miles away from the proposed development, and I had trouble imagining how it would affect my day-to-day activities. Once I finished speaking with John, however, I realized this hearing is about more than just a building
 As a 17-year-old recent high school graduate, I represent the next wave of American voters, a generation that demands government transparency and encourages civic engagement. The actions taken to advance this development jeopardize the core of democratic participation, and while the 13th Avenue Historic District may be small, this precedent of backroom proceedings and silent citizens will ripple across the entire city.
 Though I generally find myself on the pro-business side of economic discussions, the proposed initiative concerns me for three reasons. First, as an active member of the Portland community and a supporter of dialogue between a government and its citizens, I reject the notion that corporations and politicians can draw plans behind closed doors without acknowledging the input of citizens who will be affected by the decision. Second,
 Because the choice to increase Pearl East's height to 100 feet was made before John had the opportunity to express his opinion, the decision should not be considered valid. Second, I am concerned by the misrepresentation of data that occurred during previous hearings. Due to the use of high-uncertainty satellite approximations by the developers, Pearl East appeared comparatively smaller than it is in reality.
 While 25 extra feet may seem insignificant, it's telling that a manipulation of the facts was necessary to convince the Commission. The purpose of government is to arbitrate conflict between its constituents, and when blatant exaggerations become permissible, the situation yields profoundly unfair results.
 Third, I am troubled by former PDNA President Patricia Gardner's unreported conflicts of interest and her lack of accountability when choosing not to seek mandatory retroactive board approval for her actions. A governmental decision cannot be considered valid if the public is unaware that its consequences may secretly and disproportionately benefit a given party.
 While we are here today to discuss the height of a building, what's at stake is far more than 25 vertical feet of concrete and rebar. To approve this development is to sideline future ethical business and reject the transparency and engagement that our citizens demand.
 Whether you're anti-development, pro-business, or somewhere in between, it is evident that the proposed height increase for Pro-East has not been arrived at through legitimate means. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you again. Appreciate it. The next three are Tracy Prince, Brent McCarter, and Matt Craven. I think it's the same thing. We're going to go with the way we went. We're going to go with the way we went.
 Hey John, John, Mr. Hollister, could you grab his test? There you go. Don't want to lose us. Mr. Hollister, this is perfect. We don't need a third chair. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Dr. Tracy Prince, faculty member at PSU's Portland Center for Public Humanities, and I write books about race, gender, and social equity.
 I'm also the vice president of the Goose Hollow Foothills League, and Goose Hollow advocated for lowered heights in this area of the Pearl in the Central City 2035 plan because of exactly what John Hollister has argued. If allowable heights are too high, it will incentivize the demolition of this historic district. I'm also on the board of the Architectural Heritage Center and a member of the Portland Coalition for Historic Resources.
 Both organizations argue that the most affordable and most sustainable buildings are the ones already built. Research from the National Trust for Historic Preservation shows that in city after city, historic districts help achieve density without demolitions. Yet Oregon has some of the most lax laws for protecting historic buildings than anywhere in the country.
 Allowing excessive heights on this project will artificially inflate the value of the underlying lots, putting incredible development pressures on the 13th Avenue Historic District. I really appreciate John for spending $5,000 on this appeal, but I'm very disappointed that his Pearl District Neighborhood Association didn't join him on the appeal.
 As I discovered through John's advocacy and the Northwest Examiner article, the former Pearl president sent land use letters on Pearl letterhead, which the PD&A board was unaware of and did not vote to approve. I have read the PD&A bylaws which were in place at the time the letters were written, and this is absolutely not allowed. The bylaws explicitly state that any letter not approved by the board should be declared null and void.
 As John has stated, these letters were important in shaping the landmarks decision. So it is necessary to reassess the decision. Number one, because of misleading information on nearby heights that landmarks used to base their decision upon. And because of landmarks based their decision on letters indicating Pearl District support of increased heights. When in fact, this appears to be the opinion of one person and was not endorsed by the board. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Brent McCarter. I'm a resident of Portland for some time. I bought my home in the University Park area, neighborhood, in 1976.
 In all those years, I've watched as Portland has grown and expanded and at the same time held very precious its areas that would not change or at least would maintain their historical significance. Areas such as East Portland Grand Avenue, Irvington, Ladd's Addition, most recently near me, Kenton.
 These are areas where one can look at them and get a sense of what people looked at many, many years ago, and I value that. We use words recently, at times I believe too lightly, historic, conservation, planning, sustainability. Specific to today's concern, we talk of compatibility in an area of 21 buildings.
 where only two exceed the height of 75 feet. I would suggest that if a building now is going to be built and is compatible, it's hard to understand how it can exceed 75 feet and be that. I drove up this historic district today on the way to this building, and I had that sense of someone who went along the loading docks many, many years ago,
 And although this new building will respect the facade of a loading dock and the facade of the building, it will tower above some 18 other buildings. And the two that exceed the 75 preferable height were built nearly 100 years ago. I submit this with great respect. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Matt Craven, and I'm here as a friend to support John Hollister. John and I have worked together for about eight years, and one of the things I've always appreciated about having John on my team is he has a unique ability to collect and correlate and present information in an unbiased and nonjudgmental way, which allows decision makers the opportunity to make the most informed decisions possible.
 As a longtime resident of Northwest Portland, I'm grateful that he's used this unique ability to collect and present this information to all of you today so that you can make the most informed decision possible. My wife and I have both lived in Northwest Portland for almost 15 years, 10 of those in the Pearl District where we met.
 The Pearl is such a unique neighborhood, and as someone that travels throughout the country, I see so many cities working to attempt to create the environment and the community and the atmosphere that exists and has existed for so long in the Pearls District. And it's hard. And the historic district is the heart of this. And when you walk through the historic district on a summer night, you know, you can't help but turn to whoever you're with and say, this is like walking through a movie set.
 And in the winter when it snows, Northwest 13 becomes this amazing little village all it up. It's a special place. So I'm glad that John has had the opportunity today to share this information with all of you to consider as you make a decision that could potentially impact the authenticity of the historic district, which is such a special place. Thank you. Thank you. Well under three minutes.
 The next three are Mark Smith, Mary Seip, and Sean McLeod. And that's all who signed up on the support. Very good. Thank you. Well, I guess I'm the first one up. My name is Mary Seip. Hello again. I just want to say a few things. I've been a Pearl District resident since 2000. I've watched the neighborhood change and grow over the last 17 years. It's my home. Thank you.
 When I first moved to the Pearl District, the PDNC restrictions were seven stories, and then a waiver to that height was granted to the Park Place building at 19 stories. And ever since then, it's been nothing but 16-, 17-, 18-, 19-, 20-, 26-, 28-story buildings.
 I live in a building that is six stories tall, and it's flanked by a 28-story building, a 20-story building, and a 26-story building. Imagine that. Let me see here. I scribbled a bunch of notes here.
 Well, originally the area was to be warehouse design. And if you walk through the neighborhood now and you see the high-rise, shiny buildings, it's completely lost that except for little pockets where the neighborhood was first developed.
 A couple of things that I just want to point out. John is absolutely spot on about the risk and the danger of demolition of existing buildings and the precedence this will set, and I hope you keep that in mind. That's a really, really important issue. I also want to say, like the penthouse, seems like that's, you know,
 not even being counted as part of the height. And it needs to be included because, again, it sets a precedent. And, again, we're already looking at, well, if you look at it this way, it's so tall, and if you look at it that way, it's so tall. Let's keep it at 75 feet. I am concerned about, I think if you look at the crowd of neighbors that are here today, a letter on a neighborhood association letterhead supporting this project says,
 Unfortunately, I do not believe it's representative of what the neighbors really want. And I hope you won't give that a lot of credit because I think there'd be more people here if it wasn't 3 o'clock on a weekday afternoon. I think this comes down to two words. One is, well...
 So increased height, we hear, equals density. And density is great for some reason. But what does density do? Density equals more units, and more units equal more money to the developer. It's about money. Let's keep this also to one other word, respect. Respect.
 I think this morning's Senate Council session is a great example of lack of respect. And so to me that word is really important, and it should kind of be the word of the day. Let's respect this neighborhood. Let's respect the work that went into establishing these guidelines. And let's not just throw the baby out with the bathwater.
 Thank you. Four seconds. And just to clarify the lack of respect at this morning's session, I'm sure you do not mean this august body. No, I mean the lack of respect shown not just to this body, but to the people here from the city who were participating. Absolutely. I agree with you. Yeah. Thank you for saying so. Thank you for your testimony. There were two other folks. Are they here? Mark Smith and Sean McLeod.
 Are either of those individuals here? Very good. So we will now move to the principal opponent. Ordinarily, they'd have 15 minutes, but we've added four and a half. If you'd like to take that or not, it's at your discretion. And again, name for the record. Good afternoon, sir. Mayor Wheeler, members of the council, Stephen Pfeiffer, 1120 Northwest Cooch, Portland, Oregon, 97204. I'm joined here by Phil Kisling and Susanna Stanley.
 will comprise our presentation. We won't take the 20 minutes. I'm fairly confident because we're pretty organized for 15. At the outset, I'm a land use attorney, and I'm familiar with land use appeals. Many of them have a legalistic flavor. Many of them address, I'm sure you agree, to the micro level, criteria, the credibility of evidence conflicted in both ways, and a few other things.
 This appeal does not rise to that level just by the nature of the review. The criteria are highly discretionary. Design guidelines, be it Central City or the landmarks, are just that. There's a lot of flexibility. They're grounded in policy. But we've afforded the commissions, both design and landmark, a lot of latitude. It doesn't turn on traffic counts. It doesn't turn on substantial evidence in any real way. What the evidence is is what you see and what the landmarks. I will admit...
 And so my remarks were going to be even shorter than they're going to be, but I came to this hearing confused about what this appeal was about, and it was difficult to prepare because the appeal statement didn't mention any of the guidelines specifically, didn't identify any specific error that the commission made allegedly in applying those guidelines. It was rather kind of a blunderbuss statement, and some of the questions from you of the appellant reflected that. I expected I'd be educated with a much more...
 focused testimony about, again, where the error is, allegedly, in that Landmarks Commission review. I didn't get that. What I heard from the appellant, and I heard less, frankly, as to the criteria from the other speakers, was he clearly doesn't appreciate or enjoy the procedural process that affords substantial amounts of participation in this commission and any other BDS system in the city. And I practice throughout the state.
 The transparency of our process, the opportunity for participation is unparalleled in Portland. Often to some of our collective chagrin, but it's there and it's served us well. Secondly, I didn't hear a single guideline or criterion mentioned at any point in the appellant process thus far. Not a one. There's no amplification or greater detail from what was in the written. I still don't know which guideline they think has been violated. What I hear instead is a challenge to the policy. The policy that was set by your predecessors.
 I was on the Planning Commission in 1990 when we set that 100-foot height limit. It was thoughtful. It was deliberate. It was based on a lot of testimony. It took into account the character of this particular historic district. They clearly don't like the policy that's in place. They participated, and maybe they'll succeed in front of you with that height change. I have a very difficult time believing that in a DAR proceeding for this, one of your staff said the height limit was 75 feet.
 When, as Mike pointed out, and as the maps have reflected since 1990, it is 100 feet, with bonuses of taking it up to 140. Now, that either reflects a misunderstanding or a misrepresentation, and I don't particularly care which, but it doesn't support this appeal in any way. With that, I'm going to leave you with one thought. There is a place where I do agree with the appellant. Your decision on this building, this landmark's decision of approval, will set a precedent for the district, but it's not the one they claim.
 The underbuilds in that district, of which there are many one and two stories, some with more architectural character than others, will ultimately be replaced. There's little doubt in my mind. It's not a museum piece. The precedent will flow from what the next building, the new construction thereafter, like this building, looks like. There are two measures of protections that this city has put in place, guarded by the BDS staff and your commission's review, at the ultimate stop at this point with the council.
 The commission's landmark, the landmark guidelines themselves, and the central city fundamental guidelines will dictate the look, feel, massing, and height of any subsequent buildings that are built in this district. This building, I would argue, and you'll decide, sets the bar for those subsequent redevelopments, those subsequent new buildings that are going to be constructed in this district. So if you do think of this as a precedent, I agree. And you'll have to decide whether it's a positive, a neutral, or a negative precedent.
 But it is a precedent for the next new piece of construction that comes in that district, measured by your commission and staff against those guidelines, and it will happen. And what you decide here will either set that bar or another bar. And I'll leave you with that and turn it over to Phil to talk about what's before us today, which is the building. Following that, Susanna will talk about what otherwise should be before us today, which is the specific findings and criteria that were addressed by the Landmarks Commission and what their conclusions were and why. Okay.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. All right. My name is Paul Kissling. I'm the principal of architecture with McKinsey. We were tasked with designing this project. And first of all, I'd really like to thank the city process. We've had great interaction with city staff, both with Tim and Mike, and our meetings starting with the pre-application through DAR and two presentations at hearings and then a final unanimous approval from Landmarks Commission for this project.
 A couple of things we'd like to point out before we go to the next slide is, you know, the 2035 guidelines are not at issue here. We are currently approved in this district at 100 feet. And we certainly started this project with that knowledge as well as the research of all the guidelines of both Central City and the district. I've been in historic preservation for something over 40 years. I take that very seriously. Thank you.
 And our client, who has invested in the city of Portland and in this site, also takes that very seriously. And one of his major marching orders to us was to deliver a building that looked like it had always been in the district. As the planning staff has noted, this is kind of the infill of the missing tooth.
 It's a significant building, but it is very small and completely adjacent to us when we talk of underbuilding. You know, just to the east of us, a building can be placed on that side at 175 feet and still be within the Pearl District overlay. So, I mean, we are balancing our design within the district to without the district. That's the entire Pearl neighborhood, but we're driven specifically by Central City and the neighborhood and the historic neighborhood.
 We kind of want to talk a little bit about the amount of outreach that we put out with all of our projects. We started this project in September of 2015. We worked through our planning staff, of which we have a very robust planning staff, which most of you have probably encountered, researched all these standards. They codify everything for us and start to build the vocabulary that we're going to use to design the project.
 At an appropriate point, we outreach and set up our pre-application with the city to make sure we clearly understand all the guidelines, all the restrictions. From there, we applied for and had our first DAR, which Landmark gave us a very good review. It was almost an approval hearing. The design was along, but still obviously subject to different people's interpretations and desires.
 Prior to that DAR, we did present to the AIA historic committee and received their support by vote of the whole committee. We were not able to present to the neighborhood for their schedule in front of the DAR, but we met with them thereafter about a month, presented the project to them as it had been and the recommendations that we'd received from the DAR. Their Landmarks Commission votes on whether they're going to support a project. It's not one person's process.
 And they agreed with concerns that we tried to deal with, that they endorsed the project as well. Height was obviously in bulk are very much discussed in all of these proceedings. And on the next slide, we kind of came away from our DAR advice with five major areas we really wanted to address.
 specifically as well as all of the projects criteria. Height and bulk being one of them and then also
 The commission had pretty much told us they could support, as the guidelines require, a two to six story building in the district. They were uncomfortable if the building appeared to be over six story. So that led us to, it was an option whether there was an active roof. As you guys probably realize around the city, rooftop amenities have become a very desired amenity to offer tenants on commercial office buildings. So...
 We did proceed with a, quote, penthouse, and it's really a, you know, we refer to it as an active roof. It's well set back from the street wall. The street wall of the building is 86 feet, still below the height criteria, and even at the highest point of the building, we are still below the 100 feet that is currently the standard.
 And we'd like to point out that height is only one issue of compatibility. If we, you know, we would feel like we could have designed a building 140 feet that would reach, still be compatible with this district and still meet the guidelines. There was discussion with Landmarks that they weren't comfortable with that, and the client was in support of that notion, so we worked in that direction. This is just, you know, our study of massing buildings.
 The base height of the district is 100 feet, 6 to 1 FAR, with height bonuses to 140 feet. And if you were doing residential, you could have actually went to 175 feet. We're doing office only, retail on the ground floor. The client has an obligation to replace the existing parking that is on that lot that is empty right now.
 and we are compelled to go underneath the building to provide that parking which is a relatively expensive endeavor but we do need to replace the parking. There's discussions on how that parking will be used obviously for tenants of the building but after hours in the Pearl, much of the Pearl parking is used by other valet parking or other monthly parkers as well. So it probably will, given the cost of each stall, we'll find a way to maximize their use for the district.
 As you notice from the site plan, on the east side we're up against an existing building. And on the north, we are tight against 50 foot of our 100 feet against the building. And then the confectionary loft sits back 20 feet from the face of our building.
 In our early discussions, we met with John personally, and we presented the project to all of the owners of the confectionary loft. It's a seven-owner condominium, both retail and residential. We offered to build a better facade with their help. We are compelled, as we are built to the property line, to have no openings on our exterior walls, on the inner walls, etc.
 With their acquiescence, we could potentially pursue a better design right on that street corner in that 20 feet. So far they've elected to not give us that cooperation, but we do have it as an approved part of our proposal. So we can either give out a blank wall or with cooperation we can make it look better. And that's part of the unanimous approval by Landmarks.
 As you can see, we've kind of set the penthouse back. Our neighboring most attributing building is the Keene headquarters across the street from us at five stories. We appear to be six stories, which is required by the district of two to six. We set our penthouse level back, our active level back substantially out of sight line so that the appearance of the building is a six-story building, very compatible within the district.
 and meeting all the heights. And then section-wise, as you've seen from the staff report, the program is an active roof, amenity to the building, creative office space, ground floor retail, highly visible on especially the 13th side with the loading dock and parking underground. And you can see midsummer when the sun does shine, although we're a little late this year,
 We do not actually shadow the confectionery lofts building in the middle of the summer. And the buildings next to us are lower and have no openings toward us. Just from an overall above view, the building has an active roof on kind of the two street sides. The penthouse is pushed well back. All the mechanical equipment is set on a
 Well behind the penthouse that is at the same level as the actual penthouse deck, if you will, the outside area. It's back behind on that far corner. And then eco-roof where we can provide one. And again, when we get done, we want to look down this district and see a building that doesn't look like it's ever been there or has always been there.
 And one thing I would argue a little bit out of recent experience, historic buildings in the districts have such a high value, they're not necessarily torn down. We recently participated in the remodel of a building just one block north of the district at Kearney and 13th as a loading dock. It has now been fully seismically upgraded. It has not gotten any bigger. It's a two-story building, reputedly the oldest warehouse in the district, which,
 And it has been a national retailer, Design Within Reach, has taken that building, and it's now an active building, and we participated in that building. So we take the district very seriously, and all the property owners do as well. There are some less significant buildings in the district that may or may not be
 taken down. And I'll turn over the planning issues to Susanna, who can kind of address the actual findings of the commission, who we support. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you. I'm Susanna Stanley. I'm a land use planner at McKenzie. My goals here for you today, after Paul and Steve, are to first understand
 Note that we, as representing the applicant, support the Landmarks Commission's decision and the staff report and the Northwest 13th Avenue Historic District design guidelines that were set in the early 90s for this area. And our project beats those goals, as the Landmarks Commission found. And second, I want to talk about compatibility. It's a multi-component process.
 And height is one element of compatibility. So we'll talk a little bit about a few key criteria and guidelines of the 13th Avenue Historic District and Central City design guidelines that speak to compatibility and demonstrate how this project is compatible, as the commission found. So one finding that Mike pulled out in his detailed staff report.
 was that item two in the historic district design guidelines is height and bulk. Now, the first elements of this standard are just general statements that buildings generally display consistent mass. Buildings are typically two to six stories in height. Those are background statements. Those are not guidelines or standards. The guideline is new construction should likewise be at least equivalent to two stories in height, which we are,
 and should not exceed the maximum allowed height and density requirements in the zoning code. That's a straightforward guideline. Our project beats that guideline. These findings that I have here are from the commission findings and staff report and state that while the building is six stories with a penthouse, it appears to be six stories and it meets the zoning code standards and clearly states it's in keeping with guideline two of the 13th Avenue Historic District Guidelines.
 Now, generally, thinking about height guidelines and standards, the purpose of any height standard is to guide new development. It is not so that all new buildings match the height of existing buildings. The maximum height limit is to move new development in the direction that the district is headed and wants to be moving. And so questions about whether the height standard should be 100 feet or not
 in the base zone are a completely separate conversation. Our proposal meets the zoning code standards and historic district guidelines in place at the time of the proposal. And we've had some questions about the heights of other buildings. So here's a few photos. The Irving Street lofts is seven stories, it's eight story equivalent, has a large ground floor with a penthouse on top. The Wieden and Kennedy building, these buildings are all within the 13,000 historic district and
 The Widening Kennedy is five stories in one area, six stories in an area, plus a penthouse. And Chown Pella is up to seven stories, the southern portion. And our GIS data that we provided is from the Metro Regional GIS System, and the metadata indicate that it was provided by the City of Portland Permitting Services, and it indicates the ranges of heights shown here, up to 127. What is GIS?
 Geographic Information Systems, excuse me. It's mapping data specific to geocoded data for each building. So we refer to permitting services data for the heights here.
 A couple other findings. Those were really the height focused, as guideline two I presented previously. But other guidelines do speak to compatibility. Compatibility can include materials, the dock, as Mike has emphasized, full lot line buildings, which are also a requirement in the 13th Avenue district, and the windows and other historic patterns required.
 Quite a few components. Height is one of them. So these are just a few. You don't have to read this, but just, you know, so I've pulled out here. Guideline four, scale and proportion. New buildings should be of scale and proportion that's compatible with historic architectural pattern. The findings clearly stated that it was. The loading dock and the three-part design were consistent. Five is materials, color, and texture. The findings clearly stated that our brick materials, colors, and textures were appropriate. Okay.
 Now to the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines, which also apply, speaking to several other character-defining features of the building, unifying elements, identifying areas, finding stated that we've done that with the design and brick and dock, 7 and 8, our urban enclosure. Can I stop you and ask a question? Yes. Can you stop the clock? So you have 20 seconds left.
 I have one slide left and I can generalize. Okay, I just wanted to give you that warning. Thank you. Great. Go ahead.
 Well, this is stuff that we deal with all the time, but you don't have to get into the details. But these are design guidelines which guide the proposal. They're not clear and objective standards. They're guidelines. And these generally speak to urban enclosure, streetscape. The thoughtful findings created by Mike after the commission's hearings speak to how the building meets all of these design guidelines. Here's a couple more. Context of existing buildings and coherency. So...
 I'd ask the commission to look to the left on this last slide. This is what we're meeting for our client's challenge and the district, so that that building looks like it has always been in this district. Mr. Mayor, I have a couple of questions. Commissioner Fish. Thank you for your presentation, and let me start with Steve. What is the precedent we're setting here? The guidelines allow up to 100 feet.
 the appellant has expressed concern about setting a precedent for future redevelopment. Strictly speaking, what is the precedential value of whatever decision we come to today? Commissioner, that's a fair point, and I guess I wouldn't have used the precedent if not to make the point that it was made first by others. Right. Because as I've argued to this body and others, in a quasi-judicial land use context like this where specific criteria are applied to specific building,
 It's difficult to set a precedent unless you're interpreting a code provision or something. These provisions are so flexible and nuanced and subjective that you're going to be hard-pressed to be forced to repeat that interpretation over and over again. The way I see it is the policy statement was made by the city in various settings, but essentially in 1990 when we adopted the plan update and the new code. That resulted in this map, both the EXD and the mapping of the 100-foot corridor on 13th.
 That's the macro policy. In an absence of design overlay or landmarks, a historic district, as in this case, as you all know, that is the maximum height. And people are entitled as of right to get there if they don't need discretionary review of some kind. Now you superimpose the sub-policies of design review and landmarks, or historic in this case, be it on a building or a district.
 There's some debate, not in my mind, those superimposed next set of sub-criteria allow the Commission and the BDS staff to reduce an approved project below what's otherwise allowed in the base code. You can reduce the height from 100 feet if it's required to meet those guidelines and design or landmarks. So that gets you down to the precedent question. The question would be,
 To this point, let's say there's another building that shows up, either in another buck-tooth open space or be it a redevelopment or a casualty loss. The precedent will be what are the elements we expect of a new building that should be replicated in the applicant's design to ensure that the guidelines are met. And it's what Susanna talked about here. Everybody's focused on height. Height is only one of many factors in compatibility with the existing districts.
 And what Mike talked about, and I think Susanna echoed, the loading docks are a paramount example unique to that district of something that should be replicated. And the Landmarks Commission said that here. The distressed brick, for lack of a better term, some of the ornamental designs, cornices, the three-tripark construction that Mike referred to, those are all things I would expect the Landmarks Commission, being the sitting members or the next generation of members, to do.
 to go back and say, let's look at the last big new construction we did in this district and see what it wanted to be and what we made sure it was. And those are the elements you would then tick off. And staff in the DAR would say, here's what that building offered up, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. If you can't meet this, you might want to try again. So that's helpful. Thank you. My next question is, from time to time, even in a quasi-judicial proceeding,
 I think of our role as a referee at least to the extent of making sure the process was clean. And there could come a time when there's enough evidence of irregularities that we might say we want to send it back to make sure that what comes back to us is clean.
 You've heard some of the claims made in this hearing about whether people had authority to submit letters, whether there was enough public process. Without asking you to give your judgment on all those claims, from your perspective, at what point would we reach a point that we'd be well served to send it back to the deciding body to make sure it's a clean decision before we rule on it?
 I'll answer in reverse. In my experience, in this city and elsewhere, it is almost seldom, if ever, because there wasn't an opportunity for somebody to present their view or their proposal below.
 That's not a reason for remand in the city of Portland. There were no procedural flaws here. There's no allegation of somebody not receiving necessary notice, mail notice, the 400-foot radius. There was the ability to attend a DAR. I do a lot of DARs, and it's rare to find anybody there other than the applicant or BDS. Yes.
 Mr. Hollister apparently attended that DAR. He also attended one, two, and perhaps even, I have to go back and look, three public hearings, and his direct request for a continuance to allow him more time to submit yet another round of input and testimony led to a third hearing or at least an opportunity to comment. This process took a year and a half in a state where the statute is 120 days absent a waiver.
 There were ample opportunities below. And if that wasn't enough, he had a full opportunity today with a de novo opportunity to present new evidence with time given him by the grace of this council for more opportunity. I see no legal flaw in the procedure, and there's certainly no practical flaw. Anybody who testified today had notice. Nobody was deprived of notice. What would be the basis for remand?
 It would delay the project. Interest rates ticked up again today another quarter point. It will jeopardize this project if this is delayed that much longer. You're not going to see a change in a unanimous design commission vote, I would suspect. So I don't see a basis for a remand, Commissioner. What I see as a hard decision of the three alternatives you have is to deny or approve. Because a remand back to a unanimous landmarks commission who spent a year and a half and three hearings...
 going through this process is highly unlikely to change its mind. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. I'm just seeking clarity along the same lines as Commissioner Fish. I believe there is this bone of contention over a letter issued by PDNA indicating a general support from the Neighborhood Association of this project. It sounded like...
 One of you, and I'm sorry, I'm jet lagged right now. I'm very tired. One of you said that perhaps it was a subcommittee that took the vote, and then a letter was issued saying,
 Well, I'm trying to clarify where that letter came from and what it really reflects. I guess I'd offer two points. First of all, I wasn't there, Commissioner, but Paul can speak to the process. Secondly, that is not a criterion for landmarks approval. That is not a criterion for your approval. And that is not a basis for denial, even if it's true. That was my second question, what weight would a neighborhood association
 either an admonition or a general reminder to the neighborhood association that they didn't get it right to get it right next time, but it does not reflect on the process, compliance with your code, nor does it provide a basis for council to do anything other than think about it. You know, at the end of the day, they are only one participant in a very transparent open process. And as you know well, we have 86 neighborhood associations now, I think. Oh, 95, I want to say. Okay.
 It's been a while since I've had to think about that. There, one more layer of input. The real implication of a neighborhood association, as I know you know, is that it affects the appeal fee that an appellant has to file if, in fact, it's the neighborhood association for very good policy reasons that files it. That's it. Now, we may have someone from the neighborhood association speaking after us because there's still an opportunity, but I can't promise it. Okay. Thank you. Further questions, colleagues? Very good. Thank you.
 Thank you. We appreciate it. Next up are opponents of the appeal who would like to speak for three minutes. The first three, please, come on up, are David Dysart, Patty Gardner, and Riza Farhudi. Come on up. And again, name for the record, we don't need your address. At least I don't believe we do. Legal counsel, you don't need addresses for the hearings. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Thank you. My name is David Dysart. I'm on the PD&A Neighborhood Planning and Transportation Committee. I also live and work on 13th Avenue, a block from this site. And I just wanted to make the point, I think the defendants have made a solid case about the zoning. This site has been 100 feet. I have the guidelines here for the historic district written in 1996.
 that 100 foot zoning was there the whole time. And the guidelines specifically stating that it should, that height should be appropriate to the zoning code is very clear.
 In terms of the Neighborhood Association, you know, the strange thing is I see a lot of people in this room who are opposed to this project, and I have yet to see any of them attend one of our meetings. We are a very open committee. We welcome new members. There's a clear process to participate and to provide input and become a member and a voting member. We do not write letters regularly.
 I've never seen Patty write a letter on her own without the support of the committee. She's very clear to call a vote and we, you know, we deliberate. We are independent and we form an opinion and we vote on it. So I really resent the insinuation here that there's something underhanded or untoward. The architects came before us twice. The first time they came before us, Patty actually wasn't an active chair at the moment.
 The second time, she was. We voted on it. We deliberated it. We found the project to be very compatible and we support it. And we wrote a letter in support of that. And it's as simple as that. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, Patty Gardner here. We actually wrote two letters.
 There was a first letter written by Kate Washington, who was the planning chair at the time. They are part of the record. I've re-put them in again. That was written in May of 2016. I was not engaged at all in the committee at the time. I was not even at any of the meetings deliberating this. And then there was a second meeting.
 There was a second letter written because John Hollister came to the committee and presented to the committee, presented his side. We probably weren't going to even take a vote on this project because we already had a vote in the record. And we took a vote.
 at that time after John presented, not before John presented, after John presented, we wrote another letter. So there have been a lot of lies, slander, innuendo, unfounded personal attacks of me, which I absolutely do not appreciate. But that doesn't negate a couple of things. And you have asked about some zoning stuff, and I want to talk about that. Because you
 Let's talk about zoning. In the 2035 plan, we asked specifically, and you can go to that planning commission hearing that was also slandered, we put in a letter that asked for all the bonuses to be taken off the
 the historic district. If you think about it, the current building is 8 to 1 FAR. If the bonuses were gone, it would be 6 to 1. It would be a smaller building. We did not... So we've targeted the bonuses hard. And so 2035, there will be no bonuses on the historic district. That's going to make a huge difference. You'll never get above the base height on any project. You'll never be able to add any FAR off of...
 but the base FAR, which is four to one. So that's important. The other important thing is that's also in code. Where's that 75 foot number coming from? It's coming from a lot of work on my part in the North Pearl Plan, where I got a 75 foot reduction of height from Lovejoy all the way to the river. It's 50 foot setback
 on 13th avenue both sides we have a two block gap that is between johnson and lovejoy that i that will be part of the 2035 plan well there there will be a 75 foot setback along 13th avenue for the first 50 feet and it's going to go
 If I'm victorious, it'll go from Johnson all the way to the river. And the reason we did that was, again, to try to have that feel like a special street. We know it's special, and we know that historic buildings are imperiled, and we've been working very hard through the process to make sure that they're protected. Thank you. Ms. Gardner, I just have one question. Because you were singled out,
 I think it's only fair that we give you a chance to respond to one of the allegations. I don't do this to embarrass you or to highlight it, but it's in the record. So I think fairness dictates we give you a chance. One of the claims that you've now addressed has to do with the process and transparency. I think the two letters you have before us fully respond to that.
 But there's a claim that you had some kind of conflict of interest. And conflict of interest as a concept that we apply usually means there's some undisclosed personal financial stake in something that's before us.
 that if it was disclosed might result in a recusal of some kind. So would you care to respond to that? I have no conflict of interest regarding this project. I don't work for the developer, don't work for the architect, have nothing to do with that. It was put in the paper that I was, for some reason, that I was working with Al Solheim. I worked with Al Solheim, I think, up until like the beginning part of 2012, I think.
 and I haven't worked for him since, so I don't understand where the conflict of interest is coming from. I would argue that having a conflict of interest, being a condo owner who wants to use a neighborhood association to protect your view right next door, that might be a conflict of interest. And so just, you know, I have none, and that's just reality. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Well, first of all, thank you for your long-time service to the Neighborhood Association. And I'm hoping your memory is better than mine, because I know we did discuss this in the Comprehensive Plan and the West End Plan. And we had a specific discussion about the Historic District, didn't we? Yeah.
 Yeah. And so what did we end up deciding? So in the historic district, like I said, we took off all the bonuses. And so what was told at the time by staff that if we tried to take all the bonuses off and we reduced the height, it would be a taking. Okay.
 And so we focused all our effort, every bit of our effort, in eliminating all bonuses. And so that means, like I said, no FAR, no height. You know, you've got to, like, what you get is what you get. And when that code changes, that's going to be. So that's where we ended up.
 And that's a big deal. And did we leave the height at 100 feet? We did. And the reason why it's 100 feet and it comes back to 1990 is because we have a number, the conversation about that is we also have a number of historic buildings that are over 75 feet. So all of the historic buildings inside the district would be out of compliance.
 And so, again, staff, and this is very wonky, but the staff was not in favor of reducing it, one, for taking, and two, because it made every taller historic building nonconforming, basically. And my last question, the...
 Current proposal does rely on that bonus. Would this proposal be allowed under the new system? Under the new system, they would not get that 8 to 1 FAR. They would have gotten a 6 to 1 FAR. If the code existed today, there is no way it would be the size it is.
 It'd be just from a square footage. It might be the height, but it wouldn't be the size, the bulk. Okay, I was just trying, you know, we obviously had a lot of controversy. We've got two new members of the council who were involved in those decisions. Sure, sure, sure. I really appreciate the question. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thanks for having me here. My name is Reza Farhudi. I'm co-chair of the Pearl District Planning and Transportation Committee. I want to walk you guys through the process and how we got to this point. April 19th last year, the developer came to our committee. Patty was not involved in the committee at that time. Kate Washington was the chair, the planning chair. I'm the transportation chair of the committee.
 We voted on it and voted in support. We like the fact that it fit the character of the neighborhood almost a bit too well. We actually wanted to see a little more variation. We supported the garage entrance on Gleason because we wanted to protect the integrity of Northwest 13th and the historic district by not having the garage entrance on 13th. And, you know, with the base height...
 With the maximum height of 100 feet and the maximum FAR of 6 to 1, this project met code. And those requirements were established in the 1988 Central City Plan. So we're going back 30 years here. I just want to make this point. We play an advisory role as a neighborhood association. We play an advisory role in this process. We compare the proposed height and FAR to what's in the code already.
 And it is not our place to relitigate the code each time a new building comes to our committee. And if we're telling the developer that they're not allowed to build to the maximum height in the code, that is tantamount to a land use taking. So just to be clear, we are dispatching observers in this process. We only serve an advisory role. And I cannot make this any more clear. There is no substantiated proof of any conflict of interest. None whatsoever. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next three are Carolyn Dow, Kirk Ranzetta, and Glenn Tonisi, I believe is the last name. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. And just, Carla, a time check. How many more people do we have? One more after these three. Great. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and city council members. My name is Kirk Ranzetta, and I'm the chair of the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission. I'm here today to provide the council with some very brief comments concerning the appeal of our decision to approve the Pearl East building. Before I begin my testimony, I wanted to convey my respect for Mr. Hollister and everyone who is testifying today. I feel that through all their efforts,
 raising awareness about the issues with neighborhood character in the city of Portland is facing. I wish we had more people like the folks here today who would take an interest in the places that really make Portland matter. In our final analysis for this building under the Northwest 13th Avenue Historic District Guidelines and the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines, after reviewing the staff report and also considering public testimony,
 It was the belief of the commission that the height of the Pearl East building was in fact compatible. And when we considered the height in this particular case, I just want to reinforce the fact that we do consider it on a case-by-case basis. The commission felt that the applicant had made significant strides in terms of
 the architectural detail the setback of the penthouse the integration of quality design features overall window fenestration pattern and to building materials to justify the additional height on the building i think it was stated earlier that all those factors kind of play into an almost mitigation for the height that if you're going to make a building a little bit taller in a historic district that
 it often helps to have more compatible features so that the building resonates or has a dialogue with those buildings that are adjacent to it. The clinician absolutely did take into account the physical context of the site and its proximity to other buildings.
 that were similar or close to similar in terms of scale massing and height. The Commission typically also considers height on a case-by-case basis because we're constantly in this balancing act between detail and other factors. Okay.
 So that's basically it. Any questions? Commissioner Fritz? I just want to stress what you just said, that you do consider on a case-by-case basis. The Landmarks Commission has said that you cannot build to the maximum height in other cases, right? Correct. There's not enough mitigation for that if it doesn't fit in. Correct. And I mean, just as a point in matter, I mean, if there was another more modern building that was outside the historic district that was shown as an example,
 If you were to include that in a historic district, we'd be like, you know, we would probably want some other, something else to kind of mitigate for the overall modern approach to the design. And so you're constantly kind of going back and forth between, you know, what the design guidelines say, what the entitlements are, and trying to come up with a happy medium. Thank you. Thank you for your volunteering. Sure. You're welcome.
 My name is Caroline Dow. I'm a former Historic Landmarks Commissioner. I was actually present at the initial DAR. I was also a former chair of the Boise Neighborhood Association. The last time I was this close to Commissioner Fritz, we were moving the Edwin Rayworth down Mississippi Avenue two miles north. Okay.
 in 2013. So I've spent the last 10 years of my life in civic engagement, particularly around reducing demolition of the... reducing residential demolitions. And that was my role at the Landmarks Commission
 And so I do remember this design advice request. It sounds to me like the system... I know there's a lot of situations where you feel like the system isn't working, that the intent of the zoning code isn't being met. I don't think this is one of those cases. I've been a part of new developments, especially in Mississippi and North Williams, where community design guidelines are used. Infill is, you know, terrible, low-quality materials. And again, I don't think this...
 I think this is an example of a process that has worked. So the applicant attended neighborhood association meetings. I'm assuming that those meetings were...
 announced and I personally have had a couple grievances filed against me as a chair of the neighborhood association and it's it's not fun when That happens, but usually it's surrounding notification. Somebody the letter of support is written and somebody feels like they weren't notified and you have to dig into the bylaws and clarify what your notification procedures are and
 I've also rewritten bylaws. I'd be curious to know if a formal grievance has been filed in this situation with the parent coalition. If it has not, there's a good indication there that the bylaws, you know, they were acting pursuant to the bylaws of the Neighborhood Association. So I would urge you guys to ask that question. And then is a grievance open with the parent coalition, and what is the status of that grievance? Okay.
 So, and I guess I'll just end real quick. I think, you know, this is high-quality infill. When we... One of the things I take issue with is the notion that this is an altruistic effort to reduce demolitions. I think that's a little bit misleading. I think we want to be really careful when we say that there's things, there's developments that are incentivizing demolition. I don't think this building is one of them. I think that this is a building that we can be proud of. High-quality materials, loading dock, they've... The design overlay...
 In my mind, they've done everything right. And I actually went and listened to the original tapes for the original design advice request, and John Hollister himself says, you know, this is a gorgeous building. Right.
 You know, this is going to happen anyway. I wish it wasn't happening. And I sympathize with him because of the height and where that penthouse is located and maybe where he lives. But I would say that I would just urge you guys to respect the process that's been undertaken, the choices that were made by the Neighborhood Association. We should empower neighborhood associations to write these letters and have them upheld.
 And then the landmarks decision as well. I think we should uphold those. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon My name is Glenn Traeger I'm a member of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association board and also the Planning and Transportation Committee I'm here to present myself not the board right now I'd like to make two statements. I make two points as far as the issue about height
 I think it's pretty simple and clear. The existing height is 100 feet for the current code. It's been there for over 20 years. It seems like a lot of the dialogue we're talking about is maybe changing heights, but the height is pretty specific. So is the building over 100 feet or is it under? I think it's pretty simple and clear for the commission here to make a decision on that.
 Also, you have to look at the building in context. One is just the way the building looks in this historical district. And I don't think there's anybody here that would probably disagree that this is a beautiful building and a great framework for the neighborhood.
 Also, the building, as far as the land use, the building is compatible with the existing neighborhood around it. One of the reasons that the Pearl is such a desirable neighborhood
 neighborhood to live in and you can ask my neighbors behind me because people want to be able to live and work and not use their Cars they'd like to be able to use walk or bike to their places of employment This building is an office building and it fits well in the context of the pearl right now there's quite a bit of residential development in fact a lot of residential in the Pearl District and Being an office building this complements the residential with commercial to allow people to live and work together. I
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The last person I show is Ian McVersie.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hi. My name's Ian McKenzie. I'm an architect, although I have no involvement with this project. I'm a resident of northwest Portland and a former resident of the Pearl. And I love the Northwest 13th Avenue Historic District. It's one of the most beautiful historic districts in the city. I walk along the street almost every week. And if I thought this building placed the district in any jeopardy, I would be here speaking to you on the other side of this appeal.
 And there's two arguments I've heard about how this building could harm the district. The first is that it will create pressure to demolish historic buildings in the district. And I don't believe that to be the case. The demolition of a contributing resource in any historic district in the city requires a type four demolition review where city council makes the final vote.
 and that's a really, really high bar to pass, as I'm sure you're aware. There was a building in my district on 17th where Gurney Edlin requested the demolition of the building a couple of years ago, and the council at the time unanimously voted to deny their application to demolish the building. And I certainly haven't heard anything to believe that city council would act differently now. So
 If City Council doesn't believe that historic buildings should be demolished, I don't believe there's any reason to believe that you would start approving the demolition of contributing historic buildings on Northwest 13th Avenue.
 And secondly, does the building do harm to the district just by its height and design? And, you know, I don't believe so. That's my own personal belief. I think it's actually a really beautifully designed building that fits the neighbourhood really well. But more importantly, that was the view of the Historic Landmarks Commission as well.
 to one active and one former member of which you just heard from. And that commission is comprised of very dedicated volunteers, all of them who are professionally involved in historic preservation. They take huge amounts of time out of their professional lives to serve on the commission.
 And if they had issues with the building, you know, you can guarantee you'd be hearing about it, but you aren't. And, in fact, as you just heard, they were very complimentary about the building. So I believe that it's something that really does fit the district and will be an asset and, you know, a dramatic improvement on the condition that's there at the moment. So that's all. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony.
 And the last part of the process before council deliberations is rebuttal by the appellant. Five minutes. Good afternoon again. My name is John Hollister, for the record. And just a clarification, I am a voting member of the Planning and Development Committee that were questioned, so I have become involved. And, yes, I did. It's a gorgeous building. I just think it's too tall.
 And I fear the same things that Jane Jacobs did in Greenwich Village. And with other stuff there, there is  but that was done way back in 1959, so how would that really apply today? Also in the 
 Also in New York, I'll use them as a good model. West Village, they had no height limits in the West Village, zero height limits. And a 100-foot building was proposed, and it went to meetings, and they came with a council ruling that they had maximum 65 feet with a setback to go to 80 feet with a 20-foot setback.
 So they also said, you know, they talk about the buildings being nonconforming. Right now, if 40% of the buildings in Manhattan could not be built today, so there are 40% of the buildings that are noncompliant in Manhattan. And Manhattan has so many historic buildings that they are trying to protect. We have so few in comparison. So just even the hinting of moving towards doing something well, you know what?
 The developer will never do that. They'll never go that way. They'll do this. And that might be true for this particular developer or the developers on the property. But if somebody buys it from New York or somebody buys it from somewhere else where it doesn't have the same attachment to this historic neighborhood, I don't think that still will apply.
 And then just the parts that I just don't like to do, but they just have to be brought up, is that we talk about the two letters from the Pearl District. And one of them, and specifically the one for approval, they didn't follow the bylaws. There's nothing in the records that went to, this was a committee, never went to the Neighborhood Association Board. But also the context of the letter was wrong.
 I'm going to read to you for the minutes that were approved at the meeting to support the building. Kofel moved to not write a letter. Some of these seconded. Dysart said we have to take a position. Gardner discussed that a vote was not taken the last time. August made a motion to write a letter in support since the committee had embraced the project previously and acknowledged the concern for heighth.
 Excuse me, Mr. Hollister. I just want to interrupt because you've only got a couple of minutes left. Yep, this is pretty big. Whether or not the Neighborhood Association doesn't make the decision on this. Absolutely. So whether the letter was germane or not is not relevant to the appeal. So, okay, my thought that it is relevant to the appeal, and the reason why it's relevant to the appeal from a subjective standpoint, because this is all subjective, is that when the 
 The Pearl District Planning Committee, I think they're a valuable resource, and I think that they're organized to be able to be heard and to be considered strongly in decisions that go up, and we use them as that tool. And as someone in the district that had someone say that it was approved for them to have acknowledgement of concern for heighth,
 And then in the letter, the letter that they said that we are happy with the height and we love everything in the letter, that is not representing the individuals in the district. And that goes to Landmark, and that's part of Landmark's policy.
 you know, unanimous decision because they're saying, well, if the district is in favor of it, then the district's in favor of it. Another group that got presented to was the AIA. AIA did approve it, but I went and spoke to the AIA and sat there because they love design. I love the design. And when I talked about height, two or three of them looked at me and said, oh, my God, we never thought about height.
 So everything is subjective. And also with regards to the strength of these guidelines for the historic district, the Landmark Commission has been trying since 2009, and maybe I can make a little pitch for them, since 2009 to get funding and staffing to update the guidelines in the Northwest 13th because what it says here is there are antiquated guidelines here
 The standards review are low, vague, and often not currently reflective of the neighborhood interests. Please consider allocating resources for the 13th Avenue Historic District. That was made in 2009 and again in 2011. So this is all subjectivity. When they say you're allowed up to the maximum height, it also says in documents that in a historic district, 100 feet maximum is not an entitlement.
 It's not an entitlement. Now we've got 29 seconds. The height and foreign districts are allowances, not entitlements. Regardless of the number set in the zoning code, the overriding factor is compatibility with the historic district and the guidelines. So 13 seconds.
 That's what I got. Great. Could I just ask one clarifying question? So stipulating that height is not an absolute guideline, which of the other guidelines do you think is violated specifically with regard to disallowing the maximum height limit?
 The height is a guideline, and it's a guideline both height compatibility is both in the state code and also in height compatibility is also in the historic district. So it's the difficult part and the reason why Kurt went to get 75 feet because this is a very frustrating process for developers.
 Because what can I build? I don't know what I can build. What can I build here? Well, we go do this type of thing. That's where they're trying to eliminate it and make it the same. So when he does 75 the whole way and it gets changed to 100 on one end, that doesn't make any sense because there's no vacant lots. So why would it get changed to 100 if there's not going to be anything built? What would be the same thing if it were going to be 75 across because there's no buildings going up?
 And it would only be if they're wanting to do something to those existing buildings, existing contributing buildings, and anything like that that gets raised has the potential of having a future conflict with that contributing asset. So this is my little 21 building. I want one frigging spotted owl of buildings allowed in all the vast amount of Portland. Thank you. Yeah.
 Very good. All right, colleagues. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Obviously, thank you, everybody, for coming today. This has been a very interesting and on-the-point hearing, and I appreciate everybody who's spoken and shown up. I, as Commissioner Fish and Saltsmore will remember, was a big advocate for lowering height limits in the West End Plan and the Comprehensive Plan in this area. So I find myself in something of a quandary in that I...
 firmly agree with the Landmarks Commission in this case, that the building, despite being taller, is very compatible with the design guidelines and I think is going to be a really...
 I'm not sure that Mr. Pfeiffer said it would set a precedent. I'm not sure that's actually true because the Landmarks Commission does rule on each one at a time. In this case, if it does set a precedent, I think it's a good precedent for the district. And I appreciate that. Thank you, Commissioner. Could I ask legal counsel a clarifying question? Because there were many issues raised.
 and I'm sympathetic to many of the issues were raised. But for the purposes of this evidentiary hearing, what are our options and what is the scope of our decision-making?
 The scope of your decision is the approval criteria, so the design guidelines that are in place. You need to determine whether the facts that you've seen and that are in the record demonstrate whether the proposal meets or does not meet the historic design guidelines. I think there's been some discussion of the Neighborhood Association and whether their recommendation is relevant here.
 There is no criterion that says you must get a letter from the neighborhood association. So, you know, it's up to you whether the information in those letters is relevant or not to the criteria. And I have not read those letters, so I don't know. But, I mean, generally speaking, just the fact that there is or is not a neighborhood association letter is not relevant.
 Whether one of the other items I heard is the Central City 2035 plan. Those are not, whatever is going to happen when that comes to council is not relevant to the decision based on the criteria. The state land use laws and our code require that you do it on the criteria that are in place at the time they apply and have a complete application. Okay.
 I don't know if there were other issues you wanted to address. I'd like to ask staff a specific question with regard to the height guidelines. So we heard testimony...
 about the 100-foot height guideline. Could you offer some clarification? My understanding is that that is not an absolute, but could you explain in what circumstances that is the case? So the guideline was the text about two to six floors and meeting the maximum. The 100 feet is in the zoning code. That's the maximum that is allowed.
 So there's the base zone, which allows for 100 feet, or the zoning code language. And then above that is the guideline, which makes no specific statement about an exact footage. So reconcile the two for me. You have the base zoning, 100 feet by right. You have the 100-foot guideline, which is, as the pirate movie says, a guideline.
 reconcile those two for me. Well, Tim, do you want to... The 100 feet isn't from the guideline. The two to six stories is from the guideline. So the 100 feet is the entitlement. The two to six floors is... To be clear with them, you are interpreting code as the 100 foot is an entitlement by right. No, Tim Herron, I wouldn't say that.
 I'd say it gives us a hard line to kind of look forward to. I was in some of those earlier conversations when the team was considering 140 feet. And to be clear, there's actually bonus incentives up to 175 feet. Staff's direction very early on was let's keep it under 100, and if we need to have a place to start, 75 could be one. I think the important point that Mike's raising right now is relative to the guidelines, it's two to six stories here.
 Stories is definable. There are 100-foot-tall, four-story buildings. This is a six-story building with a penthouse on top of it, and it reads from the street about 86 feet. And so I think it's about feeling, it's about scale, it's about massing, and that's a lot of where the Landmarks Commission made their findings for this case, and Mike wrote in his staff report.
 So hopefully that's helpful in dispelling this idea of two to six stories doesn't mean it's 20 feet or 60 feet. Warehouse architecture often has much taller floor plates that can get you to 100 feet. And just so I understand, so the 100 feet is the base, plus there's the opportunity for bonus.
 And it's my understanding from the testimony that this project includes a substantial number of bonus features. Is that correct? It has one bonus that allows for a little more FAR. Okay. It has a bike room bonus. Okay. Were there others? There's not another bonus that's being used to extend the height. They stayed under the allowed height. Got it. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. So the 100 feet is an allowance, and then in another section of the code, that's where the discretionary guideline is. Tim, why do we have to wait until 2035 to look at the question of whether we have the right bonus scheme? It just has to get acknowledged through the  Yeah, it's not implemented yet. Right. It's in the future. But we could address that. We could, if we wanted, speed up the review of that issue, couldn't we?
 That's probably better suited for a Bureau of Plane Sustainability person. I'm just a BDS planner. Tell us why we can't do that. But that's what you mean to this issue, because we have to use the guidelines in place today. I understand. I understand. But the issue was raised, and I think...
 Frankly, I think that the bonus system should be tightened up. And I think we can have that as a separate conversation. I think it is being reviewed as part of the Central City 2035 process. Yes. It's coming very shortly. Yep. So, Mayor, can I just make a comment? Commissioner Fish, you bet. I'm going to join with Commissioner Fritz on this one for a couple of reasons. We have a unanimous recommendation of the Landmarks Commission, which,
 We have Mr. Hollister, who I have to say, as a first-time appellant, has done a masterful job of representing his view in this proceeding. But even the appellant has said that he, quote, loves the design. And I think someone else earlier said that it is a high-quality infill. I'll go further. I think in the nine years that I've served on this body, I don't know that I've seen a more compatible  take height out for a second 
 I don't think I've seen a design that has more historical compatibility than this. And, frankly, there were a number of photographs we saw today that made it almost  I kept having to remind myself what building were we looking at because I forgot which side of the street it was on because it was so beautifully blended in. I actually think that if we do deny the appeal and uphold the Commission's recommendation 
 I believe we're actually setting the bar very high in terms of future precedent. Because the question that will be asked is, in addition to height, have you gone the extra mile with materials, design, windows, brick, all the various elements in this particular building that has, I think, all of us united in complementing the design team in the design they presented. The question of height...
 for me, comes down to 76 feet versus 86 feet. And the reason I say that is that I think in adding the penthouse and then setting it back, I think that actually should be an approach in the future that we encourage because it is not, in fact, visible from the sidewalk. It does activate the space in an interesting way, and I would hate to see that debited against the overall height that is awarded to developer space.
 So for me, it's the difference between 76 feet and 86 feet. And under the circumstances, because of the extraordinary effort made to make this compatible with the historical fabric, I think the applicant has earned the extra 10 feet. And after all, 86 feet is still within the guidelines. I do want to revisit the bonus system, though. I'm not entirely comfortable with the idea that 
 very modest changes could result in potentially above 100 feet, which I think would be a mistake. So I'm going to join with Commissioner Fritz on this. So we have a couple of options, and I'd ask legal counsel, and then I forgot because I was so engaged in your answer on my other question.
 We can close the record. We can make a decision. We could continue the hearing. We could continue the hearing and keep the record open. We could continue the hearing and keep the record closed. May I recognize the distinguished lady from Southwest Portland for a motion? So I just move to deny the appeal and uphold the findings of the Landmarks Commission. Second. Second.
 So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Udaly, did you have a comment? Commissioner Udaly seconded it ahead of me. He always beats me. No, she got there first. Okay, so I'll retract that. We had a motion from Commissioner Fritz. We had a second from Commissioner Udaly. And to be clear, the motion was to deny the appeal of John Hollister against the Portland Historic Landmark Commission's Historic Resource Review Decision of approval with conditions...
 In the River District Sub-District of Central City Plan District for construction of a six-story office building with a penthouse and three-story underground garage at Northwest Gleason and Northwest 13th Avenue. Did I get that approximately correct? With one small modification. Please. This would be a tentative vote today. As we had an evidentiary hearing, we would want to come back for additional findings. And then also to clarify that the record, you would want to close the evidentiary record.
 We have the option to close the evidence of your record. That would be my recommendation. However, legal counsel, I'd like to ask for one slight modification. There were a number of people who testified today who were not able to complete their testimony, but they had written testimony. Am I allowed to collect the remainder of that written testimony for people who are here today? Right now?
 Before closing the evidentiary? If they were so willing to submit it to the council clerk, would that be within? I would do that before you close the evidentiary record today, yes. Okay, so if there were people here today who testified who did not get to complete their testimony who can submit written testimony to the council clerk, I would be more than interested in reading those materials. And so... So, Mayor, why don't we just keep the record open until 5 p.m.?
 And take a vote. The legal counsel is squirming. Well, you're taking a tentative vote based on the evidence you have in front of you. Correct. If you're going to take more evidence, then you probably shouldn't be taking a tentative vote. And at this point, there's a motion and a second. Okay, so I'm greatly complicating things. Sorry. Let's move to the vote, Mayor. Okay, very good. Further conversation before I call the roll. Call the roll. Fish? There was a reference earlier in this hearing to 
 The conduct that occurred this morning at our morning session, a session that was repeatedly disrupted by people that came not to reason with the council, really to be heard in any meaningful way, but to just obstruct. And we had to take a number of breaks, and it was very disheartening to all of us. Profanity, horrible things said, really for no particular purpose. Thank you.
 By contrast, this afternoon to me represents the best of Portland, and I say that on a number of occasions on these land use, these kinds of appeals, excuse me, quasi-judicial, because I truly believe they bring out the best in our community. This has been a very thoughtful hearing. In all the years I've served on this body, I can tell you without exception, my colleagues come to these proceedings with an open mind,
 listening to the testimony, and then trying to work through what they've heard and apply the law. I can't think of an exception to that. Reasonable people can disagree on these because there's a discretionary standard that we're applying. But I want to compliment the appellant for the case that he made and the arguments he made, and I want to compliment the developer in this case who I think has proposed a building that will be a tremendous addition to this historic district.
 And as I said earlier, I think we're actually, because of all the attention paid to making this building compatible with all the other standards that apply, all the other criteria, I think we're setting the bar very high for future development. Reasonable people can disagree about the difference between 76 feet and 86 feet, but we will be vigilant in looking at height going forward because I think the point has been made that height is important to the overall feel of our city. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I do believe this building, as proposed, does blend in well with the neighborhood. The height is well below the guideline. And I do think that the 13th Avenue Historical District is not going to see other properties redevelop because of this building itself. And I think as somebody, I think from the Pearl District, testified, all the buildings on the 13th Avenue Historic District are redeveloped.
 either historic resources or contributing resources. So to demolish them requires a type four review, which is the city council itself reviewing it.
 And I believe I was somebody who actually authored that with Mayor Vera Katz some years ago. So we don't take demolitions very lightly. And we wouldn't, particularly in the 13th Avenue Historic District. So I'm not worried about the precedential value here. And I do think, as I said, it seems to be a very well-designed, high-quality building. And the height seems well within the guideline. And, therefore, I also support this and vote aye. Udailey? Yes.
 I think a lot of long-time Portlanders are experiencing, are shell-shocked right now at the rate of change in our city. And I certainly am shocked by the number of new buildings that seem...
 that I would consider a travesty of good taste and design that are utterly out of character and scale with their neighborhoods. But I believe the applicant here has gone above and beyond to create a building that is compatible with the neighborhood and will add...
 to it. There may be issues around zoning and FIR and whatnot that we need to revisit, but this is not the time or place for that. So I vote aye. Thank you.
 I think Commissioner Fish is catching my enthusiasm for land use reviews, so this is very encouraging. It's rubbed off. Thank you for being here. And what happens with land use decisions, as Commissioner Fish said, they're discretionary decisions. Reasonable people can disagree. And so almost by definition, you win some, you lose some. I appreciate Patricia Gardner reminding us that we did get, Commissioner Fish and Saltzman and I, did...
 recommend modifying the bonus provisions and that I believe is coming back next week so if you don't like the rules by which this got approved come back next week because there's several other decisions that are going to be coming up for the rest of this year about height in the downtown area, about height
 on the waterfront. Some of those decisions I won in the preliminary rounds and some I didn't, but I've now got two new colleagues so we can have another bash at it. So please stay engaged and as was invited, go to the Neighbourhood Association, participate because this is really a place where
 this place in particular, City Hall, but also the city of Portland, is where you can make a difference. An individual can make a difference. And again, I thank the appellant for highlighting the issues, which really set us up nicely for next week for that discussion. So thank you very much. Aye. Wheeler. Oh, one more thing. Sorry. I did just want to say Mike Gashard and Tim Herron in the Development Services Bureau. Thank you. Excellent work. Wheeler. So by the time these issues come to us,
 We are fairly narrowly constrained in terms of the way we frame the decision that we make. It's an evidentiary hearing, and as you heard, it is about the guidelines and the interpretation of the guidelines. I was actually very interested in some of the other questions that were raised that frankly are not part of my decision-making process with regard to this evidentiary hearing. I think the policy questions that were raised are paramount.
 including the preservation of historic assets in this community. If we lose them, I think it is to the peril of this community. We don't want to be like every other city in America. We have our own history, our own traditions, and our built environment and our architecture reflect those histories and traditions, and we dare not lose them. I think that the process...
 questions that were raised are paramount as well. And it's always disappointing for me to have to come to this pointy end of the conversation and have people feel that
 they were disrespected or their views weren't heard or the process didn't reflect the input in the considerations of the community. That's also really important. So these policy issues, these process issues, they are paramount and they are important. But with regard to the evidentiary hearing today, I think it is clear-cut that 
 The appeal, in my opinion, based on the vast preponderance of the evidence, the appeal should be denied. John, I want to thank you. I think you have gone the nine yards and then some on your own, and frankly, I sort of wonder why you were out there alone. And I'm going to be thinking, okay, how did it come to be that,
 that there was one guy initially sort of going through this process attending these meetings. It feels like it should be broader than that. So I look forward to that conversation with you. I want to thank staff. I think they did a great job of laying this out and answering my myriads of questions.
 questions and helping me understand it. I want to thank everybody who took two hours out of their busy day to come in here and be heard. I'm truly appreciative of that. I always feel grateful to be the mayor of a city where this kind of dialogue takes place. So I will vote aye. The motion carries. The appeal is denied. And so we need to set this for adoption of findings. So can we set a date, please? We believe that July 5th is available and we have
 Just the mayor is gone, or the 12th, and everybody's here. Are we on the clock? No, we're not on the clock. But the parties have  staff has said they could meet the 5th, but if you want to do the 12th, that's okay with everybody as well. Is that in the morning? It'll be in the morning, right. Yes, because I'm not here in the afternoon of the 12th. Does the applicant care either way? I don't know.
 It sounds like we have a full house on the 12th. So we've taken our tentative vote. We will then carry this over to the 12th of July. That is the consensus. Correct? Time certain. July 12th, it will be 1020 a.m. July 12th, 1020 a.m. Time certain.
 July 12th, 10.20 a.m. Time Certain. For those of you who would like to come back and do this some more. Except there's no testimony. Right, no testimony. The record is closed. Very good. Thank you, everybody. So with that, we will move to Item 691.
 Mr. Dan, I'm at office. 691, amend contract with Impact Northwest for relocation services by $79,308 for a total value of $238,308 to support expansion of housing relocation program and extend the date to June 2018. Colleagues, giving the reaffirmation,
 rate of rising rents, short-term housing, and including hotels and motels, which are also increasing their prices. We're bringing forward this contract with Impact Northwest. The rising rents create a problem for households that need emergency housing and for households seeking low-barrier options because of credit, health, or past criminal histories.
 Due to the Portland Housing Bureau Rehab Policy and the Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisitions Act, more commonly known as URA, there will be an increased need for resources and partners to temporarily house or relocate households when the Portland Housing Bureau funds the rehabilitation of a given building.
 The OR Act is very prescriptive in terms of how the process must take place from the timing of notices to the calculation of benefits to ensure that no tenant experiences any financial burden or displacement as a result of
 of a public entity's acquisition. So Portland Housing Bureau benefits from having partners that can assist us in meeting these guidelines in a way that provides the most benefit to affected renters. Good afternoon, and thank you for your patience. Yes, good afternoon, Commissioners. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler. Before you start, Carla, what's the number of the item before us? This is 691. 691.
 So, Commissioners, the item before you is to increase the amount of compensation to our... I'm sorry, Mayor. I should be clear, colleagues. This is the final item that was brought over from this morning's agenda. Have we read it? Have we formally read this? I read the title. You already did? Yes. I'm losing it. And could you give us your name for the record, please? Put your name into the record. Oh, yes. Thank you. So, I'm Kim McCarty from the Portland Housing Bureau.
 And I'm here to answer your questions about increasing the amount of compensation to our subrecipient contractor, Impact Northwest. It's for two purposes. One is to increase the amount of resource that they have available to them when they help us with relocation of households that have experienced
 environmental hazards in the home, and those would include fire, mold, lead, issues of that nature. And then the second purpose is to help us with a new scope of service, and that is to relocate highly vulnerable households that have the relocation assistance because they are renters in a building that we're in the process of rehabbing. Very good. Thank you.
 Any questions before I ask if there's any public testimony on this item? Is this an emergency? This is an emergency, so I'm waiting for Commissioner Fish. Here he is. Oh, here he comes. Is there any public testimony on this item? She's no longer here. She's no longer here. Is there anybody here who wanted to testify on this item? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Southland?
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? Thank you very much for your patience today and for all your work. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for your patience. And the last item is 694. Support smart autonomous vehicle initiative implementation. So, colleagues...
 As you know, some number of weeks ago, Commissioner Saltzman and I held a press conference where we talked about the city's approach to autonomous vehicles. To be clear, when we talk about inviting autonomous vehicles into the community, what we're talking about is predominantly research.
 Self-driving cars are, at best, many years away. Just for the record, I'm told by experts that self-driving vehicles have never driven in excess of one mile on any city's streets. So we're very much in the early stages of this. We see this as an opportunity. Unlike other technologies that were developed...
 adapted and then brought into the community well ahead of a regulatory environment. We see an opportunity here with autonomous vehicles to get ahead of that curve and work with innovators and work with entrepreneurs in the autonomous vehicle space
 to make sure that rather than having this technology happen to us, this technology works for us. And I'm delighted that we have private sector partners and university and research partners who are willing to work with government to help make the most of this opportunity.
 They're an opportunity for us to begin to meet Vision Zero goals. It also is an opportunity for us as a city to meet our very aggressive climate action goals.
 They're an opportunity potentially to reduce congestion on our roadways. And most importantly, they're an opportunity for us to learn through testing to ensure that we know enough to both avoid the pitfalls that could come with disruptive technology and also know enough to make good decisions to keep us on the path towards meeting all of our goals.
 This request for information will take advantage of the opportunities around the autonomous vehicle space and help us to identify issues so that Portland can be proactive rather than reactive in this new space. Commissioner Saltzman has been with us every step on the way as the Transportation Commissioner. Commissioner Saltzman, I'd like to offer you the opportunity to help me introduce this. Okay. Thank you, Mayor.
 As we've learned from the introduction of ride-sharing services, it is imperative to establish close, clear, and effective rules early in the process to ensure those technologies produce community-wide benefits and, most importantly, public safety. Cities have a lot to gain and lose from the widespread use of autonomous vehicles, and while the federal and state governments focus on the vehicles, the cities have a critical role in determining how these vehicles will be used. Thank you.
 We have the authority and the responsibility to ensure that these new technologies protect the safety of the public and advance our goals. And because of that, Mayor Wheeler and I have launched the Smart Autonomous Vehicle Initiative, and we directed the Bureau of Transportation to bring forward the following set of actions. The first is to approve a request for information for autonomous vehicles pilot or test programs.
 Those will be drafted by both Bureau of Transportation and Procurement to engage the private sector in a way that ensures our standards and values are met. Second, we are directing the Bureau of Transportation to develop an autonomous vehicle policy and an interim administrative rule that establishes a clear path for innovators to apply to test, pilot, or deploy autonomous vehicles in the city of Portland.
 Lastly, we are directing the Bureau of Transportation to develop a public engagement strategy, as well as reporting and evaluation plans. Transportation Director Leah Treat will come back to Council on this set of actions. And I want to make clear that before we begin that what we are not approving
 is for autonomous vehicles to operate in the city. We are not doing that at this time or by this city action. As stated, PBOT will return with the policy, rules, and regulations for testing or piloting for the council to consider at a later date. Thank you. Mayor, I have a friendly amendment I will offer now. Commissioner Fish. I'll hand out and pass down. And it piggybacks nicely off of what Commissioner Saltzman has just said. Okay.
 First, let's see if there's a second for my amendment. Second. Thank you. Mayor, I share Commissioner Saltzman in his opening remarks identified two issues that are important to me. One is making sure that the benefits are distributed fairly to our community, and the second is safety. I would say there's a third issue.
 that we, I think, have to address sooner rather than later, and that is what is the cost of making changes to our infrastructure in order to accommodate autonomous vehicles. And I do not want any of our actions to be seen as simply assuming that we're going to 
 spend money in a certain way to update our infrastructure so that autonomous vehicles can operate. And I do believe, ultimately, there's going to be both a cost associated with that and an equity lens we're going to have to use. For purposes of my amendment...
 It simply clarifies in what Commissioner Saltzman just previously said, that prior to issuing any permits for autonomous vehicle use or approving any pilot activities based on the request for information, the Portland Bureau of Transportation will bring a summary of the request for information responses and recommended actions to City Council. Thank you.
 Very good. And I know, Commissioner, you have a prior engagement, so why don't we  This amendment has been accepted as a friendly amendment, but I'd be happy to have it put up for a vote. Why don't we do that just to make sure we've crossed the T's and dotted the I's? Please call the roll. Fish. Thank you. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Good amendment. Aye. The amendment's adopted. Thanks, Commissioner.
 All right, thank you, Commissioner Saltzman and the rest of the City Council. As we had a little preview last week when we were talking about the Smart Cities Initiative, we are learning that autonomous vehicles are likely to dramatically change how people and goods move throughout the city of Portland.
 And in order to ensure that autonomous vehicles are going to serve the needs of the people of Portland, PBOT was directed to develop four actions by June 19th, which have already been articulated by Commissioner Saltzman. So today we're here to report back to you on our progress on those directions.
 Over the past two months, we have collaborated with our partner city bureaus, with ODOT, with Metro, and other city leaders in NACTO, which is the National Association of City Transportation Officials, and also with staff in Transportation for America. And so as a result of that, we are delivering to council today a draft policy, a request for information, and a public engagement plan.
 If we want to achieve our Vision Zero goals, our equity goals, our economic goals, and our climate goals, we really need to establish very clear rules of the road for autonomous vehicles, and we have to establish them early, which is what we are intending to do. The intent of the draft policy is for new technologies to serve our goals rather than our streets serving new technologies.
 Everyone, Portlanders and autonomous vehicle companies win when we have clear rules that require safety, prioritize trips that carry more people, integrate with transit, and improve access for all Portlanders to jobs and educational opportunities.
 Later this week, PBOT is going to post for public comment a draft administrative rule designed to ensure we have clear processes in place when an organization seeks to operate an autonomous vehicle on our streets. Our intent is to avoid the problems that we've seen in Pittsburgh that resulted from the lack of clear rules and reporting requirements.
 We believe that clear rules will create strong partnerships as well. So we obviously support the resolution before you today that directs us, PBOT, to manage the use of autonomous vehicles on Portland streets. And with that, I'm going to invite Art Pierce, Policy Planning and Projects Group Manager, and Kevin Martin, BPS's Smart Cities Manager, to provide you more details on how we're ensuring that AVs deliver more benefits than impacts to the city of Portland. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you for having me. So I'm going to give a quick brief update on sort of where we are with initiative and a little bit of background. It sounds like there's already been some really good conversation happening with the council just around smart cities in general and how autonomous vehicles may fit into that context.
 We've been having very robust conversation with cities throughout the country about how to really articulate this vision very, very clearly and have, as technology gets introduced to the city, have it really be steered by us. And so really pleased that we've made all the progress we have here. And there's a number of cities who are excitedly watching how our progress goes throughout the country, which is great.
 One piece that I think is important for us to understand is what do we mean by autonomy? So there's a useful graphic that we're showing here that shows various levels between 0 and 5 in terms of levels of autonomy. And so the levels 0, 1, and 2 are essentially the levels of autonomy that we commonly see now, which is essentially no automation at all or very little partial automation at all.
 you know, in terms of cruise control. We're starting to see some providers, automakers heading into level three in terms of conditional automation, where there may be some instances where they're able to let the car or the vehicle take over.
 But the direction in terms of what we talk about of autonomous vehicles is really in this level of level four and five of either high automation or full automation. And so that's sort of the future that sparks the imagination of what might the world look like if we start to have vehicles that have this level of self-governing capabilities. Yes.
 The first questions that come to mind, in fact, in a conversation with Commissioner Fritz yesterday, I think she even raised this exact question of, well, what happens to us all if we're being transported everywhere? And so the movie WALL-E gives us one dystopian future of people being advertised to and entertained as they're slurping Big Gulps and transported around their cities.
 And we know that's not what 10,000 steps look like. We know that the human body will not benefit from that level of being transported. And so that's one potential concern that we might want to consider. The other is around congestion. How can autonomous vehicles help impact congestion? One of the things that we know to be true is that a person driving themselves in a car...
 An Uber driver driving just one passenger in a car or an autonomous vehicle driving just one passenger car makes no difference in terms of efficient use of the roadway. Portland's goals have been very, very clear. We're trying to make efficient use of the roadway system that we have. And the way to do that is to focus on making more efficient use. So for instance, getting more people to be using transit, more people to be biking and walking, we know will be better for our streets and for our citizens.
 And so understanding how we can govern autonomous vehicles to support this direction that we've established for the city and continue to move it, including using pricing as an incentive tool, is going to be very important for our future.
 One of the other areas of crucial importance to our city is around parking, and parking is becoming an increasingly contested space in our cities, and we know that will only grow. There's a great benefit, potentially, of autonomous vehicles being able to head on to their next passenger rather than needing to park themselves.
 But then there's also definitely other implications. One of the other concerns that we have around the future of our city is around the cost of transportation and who bears higher cost transportation. And so we want autonomous vehicles to help not perpetuate this trend.
 Another item is in terms of how can we create great places, a city that we can be proud of. The postcard on the left is a literal postcard from Portland from the 50s that said, be careful crossing the streets in Portland. We know that's not the future postcard that we want for this city. And so how can autonomous vehicles fit into our strategy of creating really great places that emphasize equity and health and access and safety and climate outcomes? I kind of prefer the first postcard. Okay.
 Just on an aesthetic level. Right. So there's a number of ways in which there's a potential promise for autonomous vehicles. There's a belief that they can improve safety, reducing congestion, help with reducing climate pollution, improve freight benefits.
 But on the other side, there's a lot of potential concerns around what might be the inadvertent outcomes that we might see around either in the near term, around the incorporation of autonomous vehicles with mixed fleet of continued human driving. Also, the concern about if it is no longer a delay in your day to be in traffic,
 maybe it won't matter as much to you that you're having a meeting, you're finishing your breakfast because you're being driven around, and it starts to make it so there's really no time penalty to being in a vehicle and we'll just see more and more congestion on our streets without the incentive to switch over to other modes. Definitely a continued concern around health and climate. And then I think in particular one of the real big concerns we want is we want to make sure we're addressing equity.
 If the benefits of autonomous vehicles really is only accrued to the wealthy, we haven't done our job well, and we're not going to be supporting continued transit ridership.
 Last couple relate to funding. We have a transportation system primarily funded through parking and fuel tax, and autonomous vehicles likely are to decrease that amount of funding. And then lastly, around jobs, we believe that there's a lot of concern around retraining of our population if we're going to have less people who have driving as their primary employment. I would like you to please add social cohesion to that list.
 Because if people can do everything by themselves and never have to talk to anybody, I think that's a definite threat to our sense of community, which is part of why we love Portland. That's a good comment. Thank you. So the...
 One of the great things about Portland, and certainly what I've committed the last 20 years of my career towards, is using policy to help drive the future that we want to create. And through the recent adoption of the comprehensive plan and the transportation system plan, we have created really strong direction on where we want this city to go. We have the guidance of Vision Zero around equity, around climate,
 and a lot of it drives for us, there's a new acronym that's floating around through cities which is FAVES or Fleet Autonomous Vehicles that are Electric and Shared and we think that that is a good representation as a platform that can help tell us what does good look like in terms of when autonomous vehicles are coming into a new city.
 So what we brought before you today, based on the directive of nearly 60 days ago, we thought we gave ourselves a lot of times, but it turns out 60 days goes very quickly, is a series of products. So we have the draft policy that has been delivered on to the Planning and Sustainability Commission, but we do have a draft before you today, and that will come back to this City Council for formal adoption later this fall.
 The request for information posted last Friday, and so that is out for industry response. We'll get that response later on this summer in August. The administrative rule is going to be posted later this week on our website for public comment. And then lastly, a public engagement plan. We've started to lay out the steps of how we might engage the public to talk about where it might be beneficial to see pilots occur in the city. Okay.
 Just for the sake of time, I may keep us moving quickly here, but I think one of the ways that we can see some of the exciting outcomes, certainly first-to-last-mile transit in East Portland, for instance, connecting folks who don't have full infrastructure to our existing transit system, late-night or early-morning types of connections to the rest of the transportation system. We see a lot of benefit where autonomous vehicles might be able to fit in where the rest of our system is not yet able to fully serve our citizens.
 So in terms of timeline, we're here with you today in the middle of June. We expect that we would be back to City Council coming in September once we've had an opportunity to compile the RFI responses and that we would be then moving on through the adoption of the policy and consideration of potential pilots starting in late September, early October at the earliest.
 So happy to answer any question, and then we'll pass it on. Great. Commissioner Udaly? Yeah. I'm sorry for you hit this already, but do you have an estimated timeline for when we might hit phases four and five? Yeah.
 I really do not. There's a lot of assertions from various members of the industry around what might be possible, but I don't think we have even a clear understanding of how ready different elements are. There are certain providers that believe that they could come to that
 quite quickly. And so I think at this point, the key for us was making sure that we were ready. We had clearly articulated the rules so that if it took one year or 10 years, we were still ready regardless. And these would be both privately owned and for hire? Yeah.
 Potentially. I think we believe that the shared use model probably is better in terms of their function, but that's really sort of the Wild West in terms of understanding what the future might look like. Yeah. I think my primary concern besides safety is the equity piece because some people are already shut out of our transportation for hire vehicles if you don't have a credit card or a bank account. Right.
 Thank you for including that. Maybe pass it on to Kevin, who's got some supportive remarks. Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Art. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and the rest of the council. Thank you, Director Treat and Pibop, for inviting us here today. I'm Kevin Martin. I manage the Smart Cities team in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And I'm here today to express BPS's strong support for the Smart Autonomous Vehicles Initiative and the resolution before you here today.
 BPS commends PBOT for its effort at raising policy issues early so that autonomous vehicles technologies are in service of city goals and aspirations. Transportation accounts for nearly 40% of all local carbon emissions. Switching to low-carbon fuels such as electricity is a key strategy in our climate action plan and our electric vehicle strategy.
 In the absence of policies to discourage single and zero occupancy trips, vehicle miles traveled may increase as AVs become more readily available to the general public. BPS supports developing policies that either encourage or require AVs to be shared and electric. The potential impacts, positive and negative, of autonomous vehicles go beyond transportation with implications related to land use, climate, housing.
 emergency management, equity, and other goals described in our various city plans. From a land use perspective, AVs could impact our centers and corridors strategy and healthy connected neighborhood concepts. Space used for parking could have other uses if demand for parking decreases as a result of AVs. There may be less demand for retail storefront as e-commerce is expected to increase as the ease of autonomous deliveries increases. Thank you.
 Centers and corridors will need to be designed to be attractive for customers and residents, and walking and biking to discourage people from relying on home deliveries or taking unnecessary trips in AV. Emerging AV technologies therefore have the potential to either contribute to city goals or to undermine our efforts. There are both risks and opportunities. BPS looks forward to working with PBOT, with the Mayor's Office, and with other city agencies in constructively engaging these new industries in support of our shared vision of Portland's future.
 Last week, City Council, as you may remember, adopted a resolution to establish a Smart City Steering Committee to help coordinate our smart city's work, including PBOT's Smart Autonomous Vehicles Initiative, across our city bureaus and commissioners' offices. Approaching this coming technology as a united city is critically important. We are excited to expand on the strong BPS-PBOT partnership to bring this discussion to the Steering Committee.
 We will also need to be coordinated in our efforts to engage the community, building on past outreach around our city initiatives and plans, to assess and address our residents' mobility, livability, and affordability needs, and to ensure that all Portlanders benefit from this technology. Finally, BPS is leading the open data governance program adopted by City Council back in May. There are important data implications to autonomous and connected vehicles.
 What data should be provided to the city as part of a pilot? Could Portland potentially inform a data standard around data coming from autonomous and connected vehicles? We've done this kind of thing before. Where will the data be stored and managed? And how will it be made available to the public and the city staff and leadership to evaluate this pilot to inform our decision making? We look forward to continuing to support PBOT in this work and strongly support this initiative. Thank you. Thank you.
 Great. If there's any more questions, we're happy to answer them. Otherwise, we have some invited testimony we can bring. Let's hear the invited testimony. All right. Thank you. Thank you. So we have representatives from ODOT, Metro, TriMet, University of Oregon, and AARP. Very good. Welcome. Good afternoon. Do you have a particular order? Left to right. Left to right. Very good. That's how I usually do it. Well trained from art.
 So good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Jenna Adams-Kalik. I'm here on behalf of ODOT. And I'm happy to be here. And I wanted to thank our colleagues at PBOT who have been incredibly helpful and collaborative as we tackle this complex policy issue. ODOT shares many of the goals outlined in this resolution, most notably increasing safety. More than 400 people died in crashes on Oregon roads in 2015, which is unacceptable.
 We must continue to be vigilant and think creatively on how we can reduce crashes, including looking to technology. ODOT also recognizes the potential for increased mobility with the deployment of automated vehicles, from Portland residents connecting to transit to rural Oregonians with limited transportation choices, and everyone in between. Until state regulatory authority is established, ODOT can neither sanction nor prohibit AV testing in the state while a licensed driver is operating the vehicle. So we're very grateful that Portland's taking the leap.
 Currently, we have a voluntary notification process where AV companies can inform ODOT of their testing plans. And this form and more information about that process is on our website. And though it's not mandatory for companies to do this, it's been helpful for our agency to understand the scope of testing that's currently taking place in Oregon.
 We look forward to following the RFI and working closely with Portland as we eventually develop regulations for full-scale deployment. We're interested in a policy that maximizes safety and benefits for all Oregonians and does not create a restrictive patchwork of regulations, hampering the ability for the AV industry to thrive here in Oregon. So thank you again for your vision to improve safety and mobility in Portland, and we support the goals of this resolution and urge the Council to approve. Thank you. We appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Tyler Frisbee. I'm the policy and innovation manager for Metro. My team's job is to make sure that our transportation and land use policies keep peace with our transportation and land use plans, which given the volume of planning that Metro does is sometimes a challenge.
 I also want to applaud the city for moving forward today. There are, as you've heard, a lot of questions around autonomous vehicles. What is going to be their impact on safety? How are they going to improve our quality of life maybe by helping us avoid something that many of us hate, driving in a car? Are they going to create more time for all of us?
 What are their impacts on our mode share? The city has ambitious mode share goals in terms of the number of people you want to move by transit or by bike or by walking. What do they mean for greenhouse gas emissions or congestion? And as flagged by Commissioner Newdaily, what do they mean for our underserved communities and communities of color? It's impossible to answer these questions without data and without being able to monitor and understand the impact.
 So particularly when something comes from the private market, as autonomous vehicles will, it requires early government policy to help understand and protect the public interest. And we believe that the resolution in front of you today begins that process.
 It's consistent with the best practices across the country in terms of understanding autonomous vehicles and their impact on our communities. And it provides the city with the ability to understand and analyze the impact and creates the backbone for a regulatory system so that the city can respond as necessary.
 From the region's perspective, my team is kicking off a program to develop a regional autonomous vehicle policy. And that's, I think, particularly critical in the light of the work that you're doing because the city can move forward, but if there's not regional support, you could be flooded with autonomous vehicles coming in from Hillsboro or from Gresham. And so creating a bottom line and a basic understanding that we can work together.
 to implement is going to be really important. So I can't promise exactly what's going to be in that policy framework, but I can promise that we're here to be a good partner and support the work that you're doing. And we appreciate that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and members of Council. My name is Eric Hessa, Coordinator of Strategic Planning at TriMet and Policy Liaison to PBOT and BPS from TriMet.
 TriMet also applauds the City of Portland's recent launch of the Smart and Autonomous Vehicles Initiative, SAVI. The initiative's four-pronged approach is a well-conceived and holistic strategy that will support the development of the strong policy framework needed to ensure the emerging transportation innovation and technologies serve our community livability goals and enhance the safety of our residents.
 We specifically applaud the city's decision to squarely define a preference for the FAVES model that you heard Art describe, because we believe that will be essential if these new technologies are to be supportive of the city's and the region's existing transportation, land use, equity, and climate goals.
 By setting terms of engagement through policy direction, while also creating clear opportunities for learning through partnership, SAVI will play a key role in advancing the city's and the region's understanding of and strategy for how best to harness these emerging technologies to help achieve our desired outcomes. It is a natural complement to the work that Metro is undertaking that you just heard about as part of the RTP update at this time.
 Transit plays a critical role in mobility and community building, helping manage congestion and helping keep our air clean in a space-efficient way that supports our regional and city land use policies and goals. Transit is also affordable and provides access to jobs, school, and community services, especially for those who are lower income and are communities of color.
 TriMet sees the opportunity for these emerging technologies, including AV, to complement our transit system, including options for first and last mile access and for other trips that extend the reach and accessibility of our regional transit system. The technology also holds the promise to help make transit even safer through operator assistance.
 As we partner both locally and nationally to build AV policy, we need to ensure that the evolution in technology and the emergence of potential new service models support the essential role that transit plays in serving and shaping our communities. Space on our roadways is limited, as is the room for transportation infrastructure that connect and serve centers and corridors, including the curb space where people and goods are picked up and dropped off.
 Transit remains essential to achieving the region's goals, and TriMet looks forward to continuing to work with our partners, both public and private, to use all of the latest tools to help all of the people in our community meet their needs, while easing congestion and reducing air pollution, making our region a better place to live.
 Thank you for taking this action, and we look forward to working with you. We appreciate it. Thank you so much for being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for having me here. My name is Nico Larco, and I'm an associate professor at the University of Oregon, living and working here in Portland and teaching here in Portland, and I'm the co-director of the Sustainable Cities Initiative.
 Over the last two years, SCI has taken on a nationwide initiative we call Urbanism Next that focuses on how emerging technologies such as autonomous vehicles, e-commerce, and the sharing economy are affecting urban form, design, and development. This initiative is bringing together experts around the country from the private, public, and academic sectors to address these concerns.
 In this work, we found that most of the conversations around the country are on the topic of autonomous vehicles has been about around how to accommodate these vehicles and not on their secondary effects in cities or how to leverage this technology to help attain community goals.
 It's an important distinction and one that I'm heartened to see the City of Portland addressing as you put community goals first in your discussion and as reflected in the PPAP policies you have before you today. I encourage the Council to aggressively pursue the piloting and testing of these vehicles, but to do so in a way that's not only focused on testing the technology, but on testing their secondary impacts on cities and how this technology can be leveraged to achieve the outcomes we want.
 Autonomous vehicles are not a transportation issue, or not only a transportation issue. AVs will affect land use, land valuation, our labor force. There's currently 4 million driving jobs in this country and the organization of our cities. AVs will cause shifts in how people travel that could dramatically challenge the viability of transit as we know it and could tremendously increase sprawl.
 Studies are showing dramatic increases in traffic congestion if vehicles are not shared or managed in fleets. The FAVES model is one that we favor absolutely. This will affect equity concerns, sustainability concerns, and will undoubtedly create challenges to quality of life. We're currently completing a study on the potential effects of autonomous vehicles on municipal budgets that shows this technology having disruptive, if not detrimental, effects on municipal revenues and expenses. For instance, AVs have been projected to reduce parking needs by as much as 90%.
 As parking revenue dwindles, this will challenge not only incoming municipal revenue, but also the financial viability of many parking structures that are backed by municipal bonds. There's also the cost that was mentioned before in terms of the cost of changes that we need to infrastructure. And as driving jobs are reduced, there will be a need for labor redistribution and training. Potential rises in unemployment could increase the city's need for workforce development services and housing assistance.
 There are definitely plus sides to this technology, safety being the highest among them, but also the opportunity to reshape cities without the need for parking, which will increase the development potential of properties and increase the feasibility of housing construction, which we know is of great importance to our city right now.
 I'm convinced that there's no greater threat but also opportunity within our lifetime to affect a range of issues we hold dear, such as equity, sustainability, and quality of life. We're convinced this will be as transformational as the advent of automobiles was when they were first introduced. This could go in a positive or negative direction, but only if we're prepared, have forethought, and create policies that keep people and communities first, address secondary effects, and are proactive and not reactive.
 We believe Portland has the opportunity to lead the country in this area. It's a really fantastic moment in terms of framing and the people who are together thinking about these things. We support the goals of the PBOP policy that's before you and urge you to approve it, and we at SCI and University of Oregon look forward to helping with work around this issue. Thank you. We appreciate that. I'll reach over. Actually, the mic moves. It probably is here. I'm Jerry Cohn, State Director for AARP Oregon. Nice to meet you. I appreciate being here and appreciate a very savvy approach we support.
 I'll be brief because the handout you have hits a lot of the bullets. I'm just going to hit a few of those. Starting with the fact that disruption, obviously, as pointed out earlier by Commissioner Fish, was good, bad, and challenging. Opportunities, starting with equity. Clearly, when it comes to individuals isolated,
 at risk, low income, those with limited mobility of all ages, this provides a great opportunity and window of choice. It does obviously alter the landscape in many ways, but can promote livability in doing that. It also gets to choice. And so certainly when we talk about shared use mobility, we are talking about choice, particularly for the one-third of folks that do not drive.
 So let me hit a couple points in terms of questions. Safety. Certainly safety is paramount. You've already heard it here. One specific policy AARP wants to hit on is to bar the use of partially automated vehicles on non-controlled access streets, i.e. mainly most city streets. That's level four from what was presented by PBOT before.
 built environment some questions that are both challenges and opportunities starting with the fact that most of us like to be dropped off right at the front door think of PDX and getting dropped off right at the departure spot, wish it could be right at the gate
 Well, think about that when it comes to this type of opportunity. It does change, then, our street design. Parking can be an issue, not just where you park, but what to do with useless parking garages. Maybe a nice opportunity here. Continuous use of those vehicles. If they're a fleet, where do they go between rides?
 Do we redesign streets because of this? And does that also mean that we narrow lanes for drop-off lanes, as I said before, and or bike lanes? So opportunity there. And speaking about bikes and walking as well, how does that address public health? It can maybe free up space for bikers and walkers, or it could create more of a challenge. Again, unintended consequences.
 Back to transit in public health and environment, does it mean that we really don't need as much public transit? Or the flip side, does it mean that we're going to need perhaps more or it's just a nice balance of what we have right now? And how does that affect where we live?
 many millennials and boomers, if they can afford it, are moving into cities, Portland in particular. But what if I'm in a suburb, or what if I'm finding it's more affordable to stay in a suburb? Does this actually encourage sprawl, good or bad? So just think about how that can affect back-to-land use.
 Back to money, which was, I think, raised in an amendment by Commissioner Fish. How does this affect our revenues as well as expenditures? Fewer tickets, traffic tickets, fewer traffic police officers, which may save money, but also are there ways to track the need for repair on sensors of vehicles that may allow us to better anticipate what road work to pay for and to do?
 From the private sector, auto repairs, maybe not as many. Trucking and hauling, how is that going to affect the flow of trucks and commerce? As well as parking garages, do we need more? Do we need to redesign? Do we even need them attached to buildings?
 Last and not least is the reality that this needs to be transparent. It needs to engage us consumers and users, particularly an array of diverse consumers. So on that note, I thank you all for taking this leadership, and we look forward to working with you. Thank you. We appreciate all of your testimony, and thank you for your patience today. It's been a long afternoon.
 And some of you may have even learned something about land use and building appeals. Thank you. If I may just compliment the AARP, this is a very comprehensive list of all of the things that we need to be thinking about tonight.
 I have not spotted all of these things, so thank you. I can't say thank you, but also what this has done, and a couple weeks ago I was able to be at a forum that the governor sponsored on this very issue, which is how I connected with Art and why I'm here today. But AARP is just beginning to really dive down deeply in terms of this issue. So anything I can get from our national team of volunteer leadership and staff, we'll be glad to share. Thank you. Great. And I just want to second what you've all raised here. There's a lot of opportunity here today.
 there's also a tremendous amount of risk. And so I want to be clear by taking a leading role here and working with all of you and working with educators, nonprofits, innovators, and entrepreneurs, we're walking this walk together. We don't want this to be part of a dystopian future. We want, as I said right up front, we want the technology to work for us, not have it surprise us.
 And as you know, there's a lot of discussion about there in particular. What does this not only do for the environment, what does this do for congestion, what does this do for mobility, what does this do for the workforce and employment? And how do we take that walk together and not just treat this as yet another product where those selling the product can just walk away from the social consequences because they could be dramatic consequences.
 So I really appreciate everybody who's worked together to help make this a reality. I think it's a good first step, and it's a good framework for us to begin this process. So thank you for that. I don't know if we have any public testimony on this item. Could I ask how many people? I show five people signed up. Very good. The first three are Noah Siegel, Chris Hargerbaumer, and William Henderson.
 And our colleagues, are we in any danger of losing our quorum anytime soon? Okay, good enough. Thank you. I'm already missing impact, so that's all right. There you go. Okay, two minutes, please. Name for the record. My name is Noah Siegel. Many of you might know me from previous stuff, but I'm currently working... Sorry, Noah, that mic's turned off. No, you can turn your one on. You can turn it on. Yeah, this one. Press the gray button. Press the base. Yeah, there you go. Sorry. So I'm Noah Siegel. I'm currently working...
 with an interesting coalition on the issue of congestion pricing. It includes my colleague here at the Oregon Environmental Council, the Port of Portland, Metro Regional Government, and the Nature Conservancy. I want to just keep my comments very short because it's been a long day. But there are a number of us. We just wanted you to know, first of all, how many organizations 
 have a vested interest are following and supporting what you're doing on this autonomous vehicles study and what the great work that PBOT is doing. We all care deeply about it and the outcomes. So we wanted to let you know that. Specifically, we wanted to let you know how important this issue of linking it to congestion pricing is.
 I'll leave you a full written testimony. But congestion pricing is important, even leaving aside the question of autonomous vehicles. But you add that in the mix. So at peak hours right now during rush hour, as much as 25% of the traffic is entirely discretionary. Yeah.
 Those trips don't have to be made at those times. We argue that by pricing those trips, you would encourage people to make different transportation choices, get better use out of your system, less GHG emissions, lots of good things. If you add into that autonomous vehicles and lots more discretionary trips, possibly with nobody even in the car, you're exacerbating that problem, not improving it. So pricing the roads.
 and usage of those roads through a road user charge is a very important precedent to set early. I would just make the very specific point that the ORAGO technology, a voluntary program, currently exists.
 through the state of Oregon, I would really encourage council to think about a future ordinance that requires autonomous vehicles to have that technology installed and used in their cars. Because it's an easier transition to make to get people accustomed to something when it's brand new as opposed to changing when they're already used to something.
 I just want to leave also the testimony of people who couldn't stay through the end. I just really wanted you to know that they were here. One is William Henderson from Business for a Better Portland, who wanted to come and lend his support to this effort, point out that...
 ride share companies like Uber and Lyft already do surge pricing, which is a form of congestion pricing. They're just pocketing the profits. And so he wanted to make sure that we understood that this is a practice that's already done. And Joe Cortright from Impreza Consulting also, along similar lines to what has been said, wanted to leave his written testimony in support of linking congestion pricing with autonomous vehicles. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. We appreciate that testimony.
 Good evening. My name is Chris Hagerbaumer. I'm the deputy director at Oregon Environmental Council. And we primarily focus on state-level transportation issues. So I have testified many times at the Oregon legislature, but I was thinking the last time I was here, it was a hearing on skateboarding and the streets. So it was with Mayor Katz, and it was like the most exciting hearing. It was fantastic. But that was a long time ago.
 So nice to be here, and thank you all so much for really getting ahead of the curve. And basically my testimony really reflects what folks on the earlier panel said. But one thing I thought about was way back when, when our great-grandparents, or great-great-grandparents, back in the late 1800s or early 1900s, were thinking about the car. The car became the dominant vehicle.
 cities thought we have to accommodate cars. It was the shiny thing of the future. I wonder if our great-grandparents ever said there could be some unintended consequences. And Commissioner Fritz, you mentioned the social cohesion. What are cities about? Cities are meant to bring people together for commerce, for socializing, for
 and all those types of things. And cars actually drove people further apart, not closer together. So when we think about autonomous vehicles, you actually heard a lot of the negatives, and I will actually say that I think there is some real potential for positives, including that fact that more than 50% of the land in most cities, I'm not sure what it is in Portland, is devoted to the car, either the road or the parking space.
 wow, what if we could free up that space for more housing? The more housing we have, the lower housing prices. We get more affordable housing. If we can take some of that space currently devoted to cars on the streets and make protected bikeways and walkways. So there's a ton of potential, but people talked about all of the other potential negative consequences that I'm going to send my testimony in that repeats those.
 But the pricing piece that Noah mentioned is going to be critical. It's not just congestion pricing, but parking pricing and other types of pricing that I think can really make it go in the right direction rather than the wrong direction. Yeah, if I could just comment on that. And I know it's been a long day, so nobody wants to hear me proddle on, myself included. But I will say this. Where I feel like we've fallen short with some of these other new disruptive technologies...
 is many of the companies that provide those technologies have cleverly figured out how to cream the profits off the top and shove the externalities on the broader society. And that's their profit model.
 And so our opportunity here is to actually figure out in advance how we push the externality costs onto the user or onto the provider as opposed to onto the public at large. Okay.
 And so that's one of the great challenges here is continuing to see that there is a potential win-win here, provided that we're willing to share those costs as opposed to have the public bear all of those externality costs. That's the end of my commercial on economics.
 Can I just respond to that briefly?
 It hasn't been as effective of late for a variety of reasons. So I think there's a way to create a similar virtuous circle where people are paying for their infrastructure in a more positive system if we structure it that way with proper price signals ahead of time. So I totally agree, Mr. Mayer. Thank you. Yeah, thanks. And the last two who signed up are Shedrick J. Wilkins and Lightning. I don't see Shedrick. I do see Lightning. I'll be glad to take his word. I know you all want to do that. All right.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning, Super Watchdog X. Again, Transportation Department, I'm really disappointed. Great speeches, but let's talk about all the people that have become unemployed. The drivers. You really think these corporations, Google, Apple, Tesla, are putting all these billions of dollars in there to continue to pay labor costs for the drivers? It's not going to happen. It's not going to happen.
 We're looking at maybe 2020 to go driverless. And let me tell you something. Projections are we're going to lose 3 to 5 million jobs national. If you look at just the commercial truckers alone at 3.5 million, they're going to save $168 billion per year by moving the drivers out of these trucks. You need to understand it's going to happen. We're going to have mass unemployment.
 We're going to have to create a universal basic income. We're going to have to look at this very close. On looking at this, the same thing that happened in the manufacturing jobs back in early 2000, and we lost about 3 to 5 million jobs there. We're going to do the same thing right now on what we're talking about. Mass unemployment. You're going to have truckers that are going to rebel, revolt like you've never seen before, and you've experienced that with Uber.
 Get ready for it. Talk to these technology companies. What are we going to do about it before you enter with your autonomous vehicles? What are you going to do about it before you begin to chip away at our public transportation system, which Uber and Lyft have done by using UberPool, by dropping the cost down so low that they can use Uber or Lyft? Guess what's going to happen with these autonomous vehicles?
 No labor cost. They can drop those prices so low they will be buying the infrastructure of the transportation department at a low cost. If you're going to sell these
 parking structures, like I suggested, sell them now when you can get the highest value. And that's why I suggested that, to do it now. You have five parking structures, 3,800 parking spaces. Sell now while you can get the highest market value. Because when they get set up, your values will plummet. Like the local taxi cab companies that you did not...
 The previous mayor did not protect their interests, which he could have done with thinking very clear and implementing certain things in place to stop these technology companies from taking everything from the locals. And that's their jobs. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. And I do really like Elon Musk. Keep up the good work. Very good. Excellent.
 So, and that concludes our public testimony on this item. We've already voted to approve the amendment. Colleagues, do you have any more questions on this before we call the roll? Very good. Carla, please call the roll. Soltzman? Well, I want to thank Bureau of Transportation, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for doing the work that the mayor and I did.
 called you to do, although you're not finished yet, but it's moving along. And I do think, you know, just to echo some of the sentiments that Lightning just said a minute ago, I don't think we can underestimate the impacts on labor of these changes, and we have to be more intentional about it than we have been, I think, on other 
 other innovations in our economy. And I think it's just a little too cavalier to think that we have such a dynamic economy that we can just naturally expect truck drivers to reemerge as, you know, chip makers or something like that. It's not that easy and old traditions die hard. And I think we have to be intentional about how we think about and how we mitigate the displacement of labor that could come from,
 the autonomous vehicles becoming more widespread. With that, I'm pleased to vote aye. Fritz. Well, thank you for bringing this resolution, colleagues, and thank you to the staff for doing it and for giving me the briefing. Let's learn from the lessons of the TNCs, the transportation network companies. That has put people out of work. The taxi drivers, the owner drivers are suffering because of that. Insurance is going to need to be expanded.
 much tighter than what we were able to get done on the TNC regulations. We need to make sure that people who are injured by these vehicles, that it's seen as a commercial vehicle and they are, if that's what they are, and that there's
 way that people can get compensated. Like the discussions we had a year or two ago, providing services for people experiencing disabilities and making sure that these autonomous vehicles, who's going to help somebody who might need assistance getting into them? Are they going to be wheelchair accessible? That's a big concern that needs to be addressed. Yeah.
 And similarly, if you're going to have shared vehicles, what about the safety of the occupants who haven't met each other before? When I get on a bus or there are people around me, there's a driver. And if there's something that's a problem, the driver will contact police and that will happen. Who takes care of people, even worse than Uber and Lyft, when people are unscrupulous? And that also needs to be addressed.
 And then finally, regarding the issue of whether garages are going to not be necessary anymore, either way, we've got a problem. If there aren't any parked cars, that means they're all circulating round and round and round, calling congestion. If they're not circulating round and round and round, then they need somewhere to stay until they're called to the next stop.
 So it's very wise that you're looking at this right now and figuring out how to get ahead of it. I certainly don't want to be in the reactive mode as we had to be with some of the other technologies that we've had coming here. I do think that it can be a safety measure,
 I think I was actually on an airplane where after it landed, the pilot came on and said, this plane just landed itself. Of course, I was there in case anything went wrong. And I was like, I'm glad you didn't say that before we started down because I would have been a basket case. But, you know, we do have cruise control on cars right now. There's all kinds of technologies that didn't exist when I was learning to drive, for example. And I would very much like to have a car that would park itself. That would be fabulous.
 So thank you all for all your work. Aye. Wheeler. So I'll be brief and to the point. I think I've already spoken most of my piece on this. This testimony raises lots of questions, and I think we have to be clear. We don't know exactly where the autonomous vehicle movement is headed. Right.
 We do know that it has the potential to impact the global economy and global social structures. And we know that this technology is coming.
 There's no question about that. Nobody disputes it, although there's lots of questions about how quickly the technology will be adapted, how quickly it will actually be able to function. I happen to be one of those who think that for some applications, it's going to happen relatively quickly. For widespread citywide or statewide or societywide applications, it's going to take a long time. And I'll just give you one example.
 When you're in a car and you're driving it and you're going down Marine Drive and a child runs out into the street and you have a split second to decide, do I run over the child or do I drive off the road? I'd like to think I'm driving off the road. But if a car is programmed for a safety protocol, how does it make that decision? It is a moral choice.
 as opposed to a technology or a platform-driven solution. So there's lots of questions around ethics. There's lots of questions around technology. There's questions around infrastructure. The gentleman who testified raised the, I think, very real question about what does this do for economic structures, not just locally but globally.
 And what are the social implications of the disruptive nature of this technology? So these are heady issues. But I think it's very important if we accept the reality that it's coming, it makes sense for us as policy leaders to get ahead of the curve.
 and be able to help drive the conversations. And it won't just be the city of Portland. I'm proud that we're taking a leadership role, but at the end of the day, as I say, this has global implications, and ultimately we're going to be wrestling with this technology question on a global scale. But we would be irresponsible, I believe, to simply stick our head in the sand and assume it's not coming. I believe this...
 resolution that we're passing captures the appropriate sense of both opportunity on one hand, and you heard people describing possible economic opportunities, possible mobility opportunities, possible opportunities around achieving our climate action goals, but we're balancing that with the very real sense that there are major unanswered questions that still provide a tremendous amount of risk.
 to this community. So I think it's entirely the appropriate thing to do. We have the right players at the table. We have government. We have nonprofit leaders. We have innovators. We have academics.
 We have our private sector entrepreneurs working with us. This is exactly the right platform, and I applaud the hard work that's gone into this. Commissioner Saltzman, thank you again for your leadership as our Transportation Commissioner. To our amazing transportation team, thank you. To everybody who came today to testify on behalf of this resolution, I'm very grateful. I vote aye to resolutions adopted as amended.
 And we are adjourned. All right.