I believe we are. Okay. I will call to order Wednesday's city council meeting, Portland city council meeting, our 9.30 meeting. Caller, please call the roll. Daley. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Hardesty. Here.
 Carla, before you move on, I just want to say that I want to share my condolences on the loss of the mayor's mother. He will not be with us today, but he plans to be back tomorrow for council session. And maybe just a couple of minutes of silence before we move into the agenda. Thank you all.
 Under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of Council are attending remotely by phone, and the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. The public can also provide written testimony to Council by emailing the Council quote.
 The Council is taking these steps as a result of COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and promote social distancing. The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your patience, flexibility, and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the City's business.
 Lindley Reese, would you give us the rules of decorum or is that Robert today? That's me, Madam Presiding Officer. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances.
 The published council agenda at PortlandOregon.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony.
 Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting.
 Finally, please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Thank you very much. Caller, has any items been pulled from the consent agenda? We do have one communications speaker. Oh, my apologies. Would you please read 430, please? Certainly. Request of Anna to address council regarding proposed budget. Welcome, Anna. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning, city commissioners, and my condolences to Mayor Wheeler and his mother. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. Again, my name is Anna. I grew up in Portland and worked as an administrative assistant in the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office as a summer job for three years.
 In the wake of the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, James Scurlock, Tony McDade, and so many Black people before them, I'm asking you to withdraw $50 million from the Portland Police Bureau budget and reallocate those resources to trauma-informed crisis intervention, affordable housing, and other community resources that will benefit public safety for all.
 The proposed $7 million reduction to the original budget still increases the PPB budget over last year and thus increases the policing of black Portlanders and other marginalized members of our community. When I worked for Multnomah County, I filed countless reports illuminating disproportionate policing of black and brown community members.
 On more than one occasion, I heard staff referring to black men going to prison and say his dad was in prison too, as though it was inevitable. If you acknowledge that policing and imprisoning adults leads to policing and imprisoning their children sooner or later, why aren't we investing in community-based solutions to break this cycle?
 I saw so many people punished for repeat offenses like shoplifting to obtain necessities like food and hygiene supplies or goods to resell to support themselves. At the root of this, quote, crime are individuals and families unmet needs.
 and illumination of the inequity in our community. Instead of using $240 million of our city's resources towards ineffective punitive measures like endless fines and jail sentences, what if we prioritized offering employment counseling, mental health care, and other social services to address the root cause? I often heard DA staff members say of these individuals, when will they learn? And the question I would like to ask is, when will we learn?
 Can we admit that our justice system isn't addressing the root of the problems facing our community? According to the Oregon government's website, 56% of people released from our prison system after being convicted of a felony reoffend within three years.
 This emphasis on policing isn't actually correcting our problems. The Oregon Department of Corrections says 61% of people in our prisons have documented dependence and addiction issues, while only 11% receive treatment. 33% suffer from mental health challenges that go largely unaddressed, and 50% are experiencing houselessness and do not arrive in a better socioeconomic position post-release. Where is the justice in that?
 When I began my work in the DA's office, I believed it was the right thing because that's what I was taught. And now I know there are better options. I cannot take back the ways I unknowingly contributed to systemic violence against black people in my community. But I can choose how I participate in fighting for racial equity today and moving forward.
 You have the incredible opportunity to be true leaders and make a commitment to stand on the right side of history. Redirecting $50 million away from the PPB and towards services that will decrease the need for policing is a step in the right direction. You will be in the history books for this either way. Cutting the Portland police budget by $50 million will show your commitment to making Portland a truly safer, healthier city for black Portlanders and for all of us.
 Thank you very much for your time. Thank you so much for your testimony. It is greatly appreciated. Thank you. Carla, we have a time certain item 431. Sorry. Did you want to do the consent agenda? Yes, Carla. Thank you so much. I'm a little bit Bob related this morning. Yes, I do. I understand that there have been many items pulled off consent.
 There has, and without having four, I understand we're continuing it to next week. Yes. That did not get pulled. Is that everybody's understanding? That is my understanding as well. Okay, so I can read the numbers that were requested to be pulled. Thank you. Item 437, 438, 439, 441, and 442.
 Thank you, Carla. And so with the remaining item on consent, would you please call the roll? We need four people to do that. It was my understanding it was going to be the bulk of the consent was going to be continued to next week. Robert, you can correct me if I'm wrong on that. That's correct, Carla. So I think the items that have been pulled can be a
 considered later today on this agenda and then the other items can be on the consent agenda can be carried over until next week. Any items that were pulled that were emergency ordinances would also require four votes so they could not be finally voted on today without four commissioners in attendance.
 Excellent. So we are going to hold those items until we can bring them back when we'll have four of us to vote on it. Is that accurate? Robert, were we going to go ahead and read those? Either Gill has pulled those first four. Were we going to hear those and then continue them to vote next week? Yes, I think that's a good plan, Carla. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you so much. And thank you for the patience of the public that's listening. As I said earlier, we're a little discombobulated. And I think our hearts are going out to the mayor this morning. So we had to do all this on the fly. So I'm grateful for people's participation. And while we're clarifying how the council agenda will proceed today, I just want to make sure that people know
 that the item having to do with RIP, there is a, will be continued until Thursday afternoon.
 and it will be a date and time certain. So it'll be after 2.40 PM on Thursday. That was originally scheduled to be heard today, and that has been transferred to tomorrow. I should also say that for people who are planning to testify on the city's budget today, we plan to take public testimony later today.
 But we will not be moving amendments until tomorrow, where we hope the mayor will be able to come and participate with us. Just for the sake of the public knowing what's going on as everything changes very quickly.
 Yes, thank you, Commissioner. And on the item for RIP, that is scheduled for tomorrow. And depending on if there's time to hear that with the budget being moved to tomorrow, then the RIP matter might also be continued to a further date.
 So the public should stay tuned for that and we'll make an announcement tomorrow about the date and time certain for the RIP hearing if that gets moved. But I think that's what will likely happen given that the budget is also, the vote on the budget would move to tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that clarification and I know the public does. Yes, it's just been a whirlwind kind of week.
 And so, Carla, if you would read our first time certain, item 431, please. 431, proclaim June 2020 to be Portland Pride Month. Thank you so much. Can I have five minutes, please? It appears that the documents that were sent were not attached to the email. If we can take a five-minute break.
 Right. I will get my paperwork and come back. Thank you. Commissioner, are you daily? Yes. Yeah. Your item four 42 that was on the consent was pulled, but it was going to be referred back to office. Just reminding you that that still would need to be taken care of. Yes. At what point do we do that? It would have been good to do it right after the consent. So, um,
 I'm looking here. Any time would really be fine, just so before we recess the meeting. Okay. Okay. Thank you. So, Carla, I think we should probably finish the time certain, and then I'll do it. That'd be fine. Sure. Okay. I just don't want to disrupt the flow any further. Right. Okay. My apology, colleagues. Of course, that kind of day. Carla, would you please read?
 Item 431. Carla? I guess she was muted. It's that kind of morning. I think all of us should take a deep breath and just center ourselves. That is right. 431, proclaim June of 2020 to be Portland Pride Month.
 Thank you. I will, it is my pleasure to welcome today, Deborah Porter from Pride Northwest, Erin Waters from Equity, Inclusion and Diversity Consultant with Northwest, for Kaiser Permanente to provide our presentation today. I believe that Erin Waters wants to speak first.
 Please welcome to the council. Hi, everyone. Hi. I actually want to make clear I'm not here on behalf of Kaiser today. I'm just here on behalf of myself. So my name is Erin Waters. She, her pronouns. I am a Portland resident. I am Black. I am a woman married to a woman. And I'm transgender. My life has lived on a precipice of danger, danger which I had no hand in creating for myself and does not come with the benefit of hazard pay or paid time off to grieve.
 I can't say that I have a whole lot of original words today because everything I'm saying has been said before. Into the easy comfort of people's living rooms by James Baldwin, into ivory towers by Audre Lorde, from bookshelves by Angela Davis, and down into the very middle of our streets by Marsha P. Johnson and Miss Major Griffin Gracie. The heroes of my community never wore capes. What they wore was a sense of pride, strong enough in who they were to rise up and fight back against the discrimination which tried to erase them.
 Stonewall in 69 was without a doubt a turning point, a clear rising of revolution, that tide which will one day wash away all the dirt and tear gas and rubber bullets and pepper spray as having been worth it. It's a fight that continues today in so many ways, evidenced in part by Black, Indigenous, and people of color who are transgender, disabled, and neurodivergent who suffer the greatest abuses in our society.
 In order for us to find safety in our city, our neighbors and supporters must move beyond mere definitions of our identities, labels which allow people to languish in the idea that just because they can say the word intersectionality, that they are working with an intersectional lens. Our leaders must stop playing whack-a-mole when creating plans to fix the problems we face, as though you can fix this group and that group and that group without confronting the core of the issues which cause the discrimination against us.
 People are asking for more than platitudes and pretty words and virtue signaling for a world that has never actually existed. Angela Davis told us that you have to act as if it were possible to radically transform the world, and you have to do it all the time. And back in 1973, at the Christopher Street Liberation Day rally in New York, Sylvia Rivera told everyone to get up and support everyone, all of us, from the most to the least.
 So that's my ask today, that our neighbors in the city of Portland in particular become more than just allies in name. We need you to become accomplices, to stand up, speak out, offer real support, and be the courageous leaders and supporters we claim ourselves to be every rainbow-washed month of June.
 We need you to understand that Marsha P. Johnson and Sylvia Rivera and Stormy DeLavier and Miss Major Griffin Gracie didn't start what the white middle class called a riot for our white queer counterparts and straight neighbors of any color to stay silent. Mm-hmm.
 We're not done marching or protesting or being proud of ourselves, and we need that to be understood now as much as ever. Thank you very much. I appreciate the council's time and energy today, and I'm looking for a more radical future. Thank you. You and me both, Erin. Thank you so much for your testimony today. Deborah Porter, you're next.
 Thank you Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioners, I want to take a moment and thank Erin for speaking out today, speaking out as always and bringing truth into the room. My name is Deborah Porta, I'm Executive Director of the House. I struggled a lot to come up with the words that I wanted to speak today and I don't have a lot but I want to say what I'm feeling.
 In all of my years of Pride Northwest, coming up on 14 at this point, I've seen the progress that the City of Portland has made in its relationship with its LGBTQ plus community. I remember a time when Pride proclamations, the simplest recognition an elected body can give, were few and far between, when members of this body informed me that it was my responsibility to remind them to take notice and to recognize my community.
 I credit and honor the work of LGBTQ plus city employees like Debbie Castleton and the tireless work of DEEP with driving much of that progress. But I've also seen the backlash and experienced the backlash when Pride Northwest dared to speak truth to power and tried to open a doorway to progress. So I know there's still a lot of work to do.
 The roots of pride have much in common with the movement for equality, equity, and justice being born, or should I say reinvigorated, in our city and in cities and towns across this country.
 Pride Northwest stands firmly with the Black community and all communities of color, as their community is our community, and our community is their community. We appreciate this recognition on the part of Portland City Council, and we look forward to working with you to build a future that is long overdue. Thank you.
 Thank you, Deborah. Now I will open it up to my colleagues if they want to read me, if they have any remarks prior to me reading the proclamation on behalf of the city of Portland. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Madam President. I just want to briefly remind Portlanders that pride started with a riot.
 On June 28, 1969, the NYPD raided the Stonewall Inn in Greenwich Village. Marsha P. Johnson and Sylvia Rivera, both trans women of color, were empowered by the Black Power, Anti-War, and Women's Liberation movements, and together they led the LGBTQ community to push back.
 On the anniversary of the Stonewall riots in 1970, the LGBTQ community gathered for the first annual Pride to celebrate their identities openly and formally launch the Gay Liberation Movement. Now more than ever, it's crucial to remember where this movement came from and to remember who started it. Remember Marsha P. Johnson. Remember Sylvia Rivera. Remember Tony McDade.
 Remember that the fight for justice often starts with historically marginalized leaders, with unrest, with protest, and with a direct challenge to oppression in the status quo. Happy Pride. Thank you very much. Commissioner Fritz, would you like to say anything? Thank you.
 Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Deborah Porter, for your long-time leadership of the Pride movement and for all that you've taught me over the years. And I'm glad that you mentioned Debbie Casselton and the work of DEEP as well. There has been a movement within the city, and it's good to see. Pride Month is about many things. To me, it means supporting our LGBTQ plus communities in living freely,
 or fully and authentically. When pride month is often celebratory and the pride parade is one of the most joyful things I ever get to do on the council, we are in a moment where there's a great need for community healing to center black voices and for white elected
 people like myself to listen. Specifically, the Black Lives Matter movement has helped elevate an epidemic of violence against black trans women and trans women of color. It's crucial to acknowledge the resistance by black and brown trans women paved the way for the LGBTQ plus movement so many decades ago, as was just mentioned. Thank you Deborah Porter and Erin Waters for your honest words and
 Thank you also to Aja Blair and the City staff members of the LGBTQ plus and Friends affinity group for your work on the proclamation and in elevating equity issues not just in the month of June but throughout the year. And thank you to Claire Adamczyk on my staff who again has taught me so much. Thank you and happy Pride.
 Thank you so much, colleagues. The resolution that I will read is on behalf of the entire city council. I just want to say I've known Deborah Porter for at least 25 of my 30 years here in Portland and it's been an honor to
 to participate in community protests and to stand up for equal rights for all people in our community side by side. And the Pride Parade, man, that is one of the most fascinating and fabulous and joyful occasions that we all look forward to each year.
 This year, we will not have that honor, but our hearts and souls are still in pride and in the parade and making sure that we live up to the dream of equality for all. So this time I will read the proclamation.
 Whereas the city of Portland is committed to diversity, social justice, equity, and mutual respect as a fundamental aspect of a healthy community. And whereas in any movement, it is imperative to center the voices of the most marginalized and acknowledge the pain and struggle of the LGBTQ plus community, especially transgender women of color.
 who have helped lead the movement and continue to fight for basic human rights despite being continuously denied them. And whereas the long and ongoing struggle of transgender, genderqueer, lesbian, gay, bisexual and other sexual minorities for basic civil and human rights continues to provide inspiration to all of those who work against discrimination and oppression.
 And whereas the presence and visibility of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer community continues to enhance the quality of life in the city of Portland. Whereas 2020 marks the 50th anniversary of Pride around the world and the 26th birthday of Pride Northwest Inc., producers of the Portland Pride Waterfront Parade and Festival since 1994.
 And whereas Pride celebrations have been held continuously in Portland since 1971, and Pride marches since 1976.
 And whereas now more than ever, it is important to not overlook the LGBTQ plus community and allow them to be visible during physical and social distancing measures. And whereas the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the daily lives and activities for all of us, including our annual pride celebration.
 But that does not mean that folks in our community have lost their pride. Now, therefore, I, President of the Council, do hereby declare June of 2020 to be Portland Pride Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month as so.
 Thank you so much for once again giving us the opportunity to acknowledge the incredible work that is done by our LGBTQ plus community. And we stand with you in pride and appreciation for all that you have brought to our community. Thank you so, so much. And with that, we officially proclaim Pride Day, Pride Month. Thank you.
 Thank you. I'm going to check the time. We are ahead of time. So I'm going to go to Commissioner Udeli, who has an item that we need to address before our next time certain. Thank you.
 Yes, thank you, Madam President. We have a PBOT item on the consent agenda. It is item number 442. PBOT staff occasionally... Commissioner, I'm going to have the clerk read the item and then you can tell us about it. Okay, Carla, would you read 442? Yes.
 amend driveways code to pick and add clarification for the permitting and condition of driveways. Thank you. Oh, there we go. Thank you, Carla. Occasionally PBOT staff identify the need to clarify and update city code, but we are pulling this item back to further refine it so it will not be
 on, it won't be presented tomorrow. I think I said what I need to say. Okay. So you're pulling it back to your office for additional work. Thank you very much Commissioner Udalli. Our next item is a time certain at 10.05. My clock says it's 10.01. And so we will take a brief agenda unless there's something that we can do for four minutes.
 Nothing lasts four minutes on our agenda. So I think that we will take a recess for four minutes. Caller, can I have you read 432, please? In 432, appoint John Casey Mills, Alejandra Cortez-Rodriguez,
 Orozola, David Stachczyk, Wong Piantino, and Pune Abdul-Husseini, and we appoint Paul Agrimis and Mike Elliott to the Portland Parks and Recreation Board. Thank you. I believe that Director Long is here to make this presentation. Good morning, Commissioner Hardesty, Commissioner Udalli, and Commissioner Fritz.
 I was sorry to hear that the mayor is not joining us today and want to send our condolences to him and his family. For the record, my name is Adina Long. I am the director of Portland Parks and Recreation. Our mission is to support our community's health by providing healthy parks and natural areas, urban forest management, recreation, programming for preschoolers to seniors, and facilities that are accessible to all Portlanders.
 COVID-19 and the community protests are proving how vital our park system is to the community. Our advisory board was established by council in 2001 with the mission to ensure that we strive to deliver the park system that Portlanders deserve. As you know, parks is struggling to meet the needs of our community with a lack of adequate funding for operations, maintenance, and programming.
 We are currently pressing forward to identifying alternative funding to ensure a sustainable future for our park system so we can fulfill our mission and keep our doors open. This year, the board will be saying goodbye to four members who have served two full terms, Pat Frobes, Kendall Clausen, Gladys Ruiz, and Jim Owens.
 Their leadership, advocacy, and passion has helped our mission and ensured that equity continues to be centered in discussions and decision making. There are two additional vacancies to fill left by members who have resigned. One of their terms ends at the end of this month, and the other ends June 30, 2021. Earlier this year, the board selected members to serve on their nominating committee. They drove the recruitment effort with Bureau support and received 20 applications.
 Following the recruitment, application review, and interviews, the board voted at their May meeting to recommend Casey Mills, Alejandra Cortez, Alejandro Orizola, David Stacek, Juan Piantino, and Pune Abdul-Hassani for board appointment. I'd like to share with you some highlights from their bios provided in the appointment report.
 Casey Mills is a retired lawyer who practiced for 30 years focusing on reorganizations of financially troubled businesses. He lives in the South Waterfront and presently runs a website about Oregon golf courses. Casey has helped to create and direct diversity and equity programs and regularly volunteers for a variety of conservation organizations.
 He believes that equitable access to safe, open, and natural spaces for all Portlanders is the key for productive, successful, and healthy Portland, and wants to help the city retain a positive legacy of an exceptional art system. Alejandra Cortez is a biologist, naturalist, and an environmental educator for Metro Regional Government, residing in Vancouver, Washington. She has over a decade of experience conducting community-centered engagement and environmental advocacy.
 She would like to contribute to a safe and welcoming park system for all people of Portland. She is passionate about environmental justice, anti-racism work, and green space accessibility. Alejandro Orizola is the Conservation Director for the Forest Park Conservancy. He has over 10 years of experience in the planning and implementation of land conservation strategies and projects in both Chile and the U.S.
 Alejandro is convinced parks and natural areas play a critical role in the community's mental and physical health and in addressing issues of equity. David Sasek is an architect and designer at ZGF Architects. Originally from Toledo, Ohio, David found his way out west in 1992. In the last 28 years, David has worked to plan, expand, and renovate local and regional hospital campuses.
 David's work with healthcare institutions to design nurturing and healing environments has fostered a deep appreciation for the healing power of nature. He is an avid mountain biker, and he is excited to support Portland Parks and the work to continue making Portland a great place to live, work, and play. Juan Piantino is a child neurologist at Oregon Health and Science University. Originally from Buenos Aires, Juan moved to Oregon six years ago with his wife and their three boys.
 As a father and a physician who takes care of children with brain disorders, Juan understands the importance of open and safe spaces for recreation. Over the past 10 years, Juan has done extensive work with the Latino population, engaging them in health-related issues. Juan is excited to work with PPNR and provide access to parks for all communities. Huney Abdel-Hosseini currently coordinates the operational needs of the Regional Illegal Dumping Program
 for Oregon Metro Regional Government. Before this role, she worked in the Parks and Nature Department, where she managed the Racial Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Action Plan. She also oversaw an environmental education field trip program that served over 8,000 students a year. This included researching and updating content to be culturally responsive and respectful, and identifying the history around how white supremacy culture shaped and continues to affect our views of nature and wildness.
 Casey's appointment would fill the partial term left vacant that ends June 30th, 2021, with the option to be reappointed to a full three-year term next year. Juan Alejandro David Pune and Alejandra's appointments would be for the first three-year term ending June 30th, 2023.
 The board has two members up for reappointment. At the May meeting, the board voted to reappoint Paul Grimace and Mike Elliott. Paul will complete his first full term and Mike is finishing a partial term appointment at the end of this month. Paul is a civil engineer and professional wetland scientist with over 30 years of experience in environmental planning and design.
 Paul lives in Northeast Portland and seeks to create places that integrate cultural and regional context, meet the needs and interests of site visitors, and will become community and regional destinations. Paul is excited to continue engaging PPNR leadership to determine a sustainable future and shape important components of a healthy park system for Portland. Mike Elliott has nearly 30 years of experience
 with National Employee Benefits Consulting Firms. He is an analytical system thinker with broad-based experience that includes management, budgeting, consensus building, strategic planning, and consulting. A third-generation Oregonian, Mike is excited about serving the community to help ensure fair and equitable access to the city's abundant outdoor space and recreation programs. He believes that helping Portlanders play has very strong benefits to our collective physical and mental well-being.
 Paul and Mike's reappointment to the board would be for a three-year term ending on June 30, 2023. We know that this board's advocacy and collaboration will be important for the success of a sustainable future for parks, and we are looking forward to welcoming these community members joining the board this summer. We have submitted the report for these board appointments and reappointments for your consideration and approval. Thank you. I thank you, Director Long. Any questions for Director Long?
 Seeing none from my colleagues, Director Long, did any of the appointees sign up to testify today? I'm unaware. Excellent. In that case, if there are no questions, I will ask a caller to call the roll. Udaly? Udaly?
 uh thank you director long and thank you to everyone who's stepping up to serve the city this sounds like a really wonderful group of nominees appointees and i'm happy to vote aye prince um thank you i i i'm gonna
 I think I'm supposed to move the report, but let's just take that as read. It's okay. Obviously, we're all very supportive of the nominees, and I appreciate their willingness to serve. I need to note, Patricia Forbes and Kendall Clawson have done an absolutely amazing job on the Parks Board, and I know that Commissioner Fish also appreciated their service. And this is one of the most...
 diverse and talented groups of boards and commissions that we have. And it was an absolute honor to work with them for five years. I really appreciated all of the advice and insightfulness that they have done. Thanks also to Gladys Ruiz and Jim Owens, who also have given great service
 And particularly congratulations, Director Long, on this amazing group of people who bring such a wide variety of talents and experiences. As you move forward with re-envisioning the park system and how it's funded, it seems like you have a fabulous group of folks ready to assist. Bye. Hardesty.
 I also want to really compliment Director Long. This is a really diverse, talented group of appointees and reappointees, and they will be critical to help us think about how we provide park services to all
 community members in the years to come. I am so thrilled to see the intentionality around ensuring the diversity of appointees to the parks board. Parks is one of our gems in this community and we need people that are committed to making sure that we will have parks access for everyone in our community for a long time to come. I am
 I'm pleased to vote aye in favor of adopting this report. Thank you, Commissioner Long. Thank you for that promotion. And also thank you commissioners.
 Have a great day. And let's see, we're going to move on. It is too early for our next time certain. So I will just move to our regular agenda and our regular agenda. If I could have caller read 444 please.
 Authorized borrowing of not more than $42 million in anticipation of the fire and police disability and retirement fund levy for fiscal year 2020-21. Thank you. And who do we have that's presenting on this item today? I'm Matt Gerak, the debt manager and the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. Thank you, Matt. Please take it away.
 Sure. Thank you. So this ordinance authorizes the city to issue up to 42 million of tax anticipation notice to finance the projected annual fiscal year 2021 cash flow deficit in the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund. Under Chapter 5 of the city charter, the city's Fire and Police Retirement Fund is funded annually through the FPD&R property tax levy based on amounts needed to pay and discharge all requirements of the fund for that year.
 And you may recall that the FPD&R levy is separate from the city's general government levy and other levies. The vast majority of the FPD&R levy collections are received in mid-November of each fiscal year, resulting in insufficient fund balance during the July through October timeframe. During each fiscal year, the city utilizes tax anticipation notes, referred to as TANs, to provide interim funding for expenditures that occur during this period.
 Tax anticipation notes are short-term debt instruments that typically mature within one year of issuance. The city's debt management division will be facilitating a sale of the 2020 TANs as early as July, the scheduled closing in August. And this 2020 TANs will subsequently mature later in the fiscal year. Based on today's capital markets conditions, our estimated borrowing rate is approximately 0.5%. Those will vary depending on market conditions that occur in
 on the date of sale when the interest rates are locked. We were originally looking to have this presented as an emergency ordinance, but I know that we, sounds like we don't have a quorum for emergency ordinance. So I think it'd be fine to have this be as a regular ordinance. So I'd be to answer any questions on that. Thank you, Matt. Any questions, colleagues?
 I have my hand up. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for the presentation, Matt. I would suggest that instead of taking the emergency off, we just set it over and vote on it tomorrow when the mayor's back. Oh, OK. That works too. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. We will, with no objections from my colleagues, we could set this over and vote on it as an emergency as part of tomorrow's agenda.
 Can you tell us when that would take place tomorrow?
 My apologies, Carla. Actually, it would just take place at the beginning of the regular agenda tomorrow. I was thinking we had more than one council meeting tomorrow. I thank you, Matt, for your presentation. This is a first reading. Anticipating we're going to vote on it tomorrow with an emergency clause added if we can. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty, this is Keelan. I'm sorry. We actually have one person signed up for public testimony for this item.
 Okay, excellent. Thank you so much. Please, Carla, would you be the community member who signed up? Thank you. It looks like Caitlin Nissen. Welcome, Caitlin. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay. I actually was not prepared. I really did not think I was going to be heard today. Well, here you are. Great. Well, thank you. I am very excited to be here. I have a written testimony.
 Oh my goodness, okay. Growing up in the Pacific Northwest, now I'm sorry, I just joined. Are we talking about the budget gap
 No, ma'am. We're talking about item 444, which is authorizing us to borrow money as it relates to the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund. So this is something we do every year as we're waiting for property tax dollars to come in, in order to fund the retirement for police and fire. We will be doing the budget presentation starting at 2 p.m. this afternoon. Okay. Okay.
 Well, I just have something I'd like to say about funds preemptively going into retirement for police. With the way our state is currently, growing up in the Pacific Northwest was a blessed experience. In third grade, my teacher, Miss Michaels in Gig Harbor, she taught our class about civil rights. I was a young child who would go home outraged from what I had seen and learned about discrimination in America.
 And I would mimic Martin Luther King by making my own protest signs for equality at eight years old, and that was about 2000. Since then, I thought I knew who I was, standing up for any person that I thought needed it. For a time, I even dedicated my life to learning American Sign Language because I felt it could help make a difference. I guess you could say I've been a liberal my entire life,
 and supported body autonomy, gun control, and free speech. Today, free speech is a subscription limited to the people on the left, as long as you want to promote diversity of the correct race or gender. I have a specific example of this in our Portland economy. On June 1st, our police chief, Jamie, decided to step down in result of the protest.
 which was a commendable act on her part. And also, she wanted to promote diversity in the Portland Police Bureau. And by doing this, she decided to promote Mike Krantz, an Asian American in Portland, Oregon. He was promoted to the Assistant Chief of the Portland Police Bureau. And now, mind you, our police chief who's stepping down is a woman. And her being in a position of power is extremely inspiring.
 But movements such as the Black Male Achievement Group, the Coalition of Black Men, and Word is Bond had this to say reported by the Oregonian. Groups were outraged that Krantz was appointed without community input and that his selection made the Bureau's command staff, Retsch's deputy chief, and three assistants chief all white men. These groups also called this whitewashing by our Portland Police Bureau, who has stood by us in the riots.
 They stood up for our rights and they stood up for us to be able to have business and have a productive society for our most impoverished groups in Portland, Oregon. They stood up for those people. Now, I agree with everybody protesting. I want to show my support for them because I think everyone should have the right to do that.
 But I think we need to have hope and faith in our police department that they are indeed promoting diversity, and they are showing a great attempt to do that. And I support their attempt to show diversity. I do also support more people of color being in the police force. I would also like to say that as well. But in closing, I don't expect to change anyone's mind today. That seems a very moot point in the state of our country. But to preemptively adjust the budget and define...
 I'm almost done, I really appreciate, but to preemptively put money into retirement funds for our Portland police is a bad choice politically for you Democratic people running for mayor council next year. Being a longtime liberal, I can say with confidence that defunding our police will affect our most vulnerable and impoverished communities.
 And in closing, with regret, I would just like to say I will not be voting democratically. I want to see our police supported. I've been a longtime liberal, and you guys are pushing us out. You're pushing people out of your own party by defunding the police.
 Thank you so much. I'm sorry, Caitlin, your time is up. I really greatly appreciate you being here, even though this is not the item we're talking about. I wanted to give you a chance to actually speak on it. I greatly appreciate your voice and I greatly appreciate you being here speaking today. Thank you so much. The next agenda item, 445.
 I'm sorry, let's be clear. So this item 444 will be moved to tomorrow's agenda with the expectation that we will add an emergency clause and vote on it tomorrow. Now we'll move on to item 445.
 And I'm going to encourage people who have signed up to speak on the budget that that will happen this afternoon starting at 2 PM. And I'm going to be keeping people on track on the topic that we are actually voting on. I know there's a lot of passion around the budget. And we will have ample time this afternoon
 to deal with that passion and that input. So I greatly appreciate people paying attention, but call it, please read 445. I'm in contract with Marsh USA Inc. Insurance Brokerage Services for Owner Controlled Insurance Phase 6. Thank you very much. And who do we have speaking on 445? We have Mike Viner.
 Good morning, Commissioner Hardesty. Lester Spittler is here too. Hi, Lester. Excellent. Who's going to present? I'll go first and then I'll hand it off to Mike. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Good morning, Commissioner Udeli and Commissioner Fritz. For the record, I'm Lester Spittler, the city's chief procurement officer. Mike Reiner, BES's risk management, is here today as well to give a brief overview of the advantages and benefits of an owner-controlled insurance program, not just for the city, but for contractors and subcontractors as well.
 We're here today with a contract amendment primarily due to the fact that we weren't able to award the Owner-Controlled Insurance Program scope of work from a recent request for proposals that we issued for the Risk Management Division within the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services.
 Before we issued that RFP last fall, there was a collective decision to combine risk management's scope of work for insurance brokerage services with the owner-controlled insurance program scope of work from BES to attract the most attention and the best response from the market. As a result of the RFP, we received four proposals.
 And unfortunately, the highest scoring firm for brokerage services was not the highest scoring firm for owner-controlled insurance program services. So that scope of work went unawarded from the RFP. Subsequent to that decision, it was determined that the contract with Marsh had the potential to be extended for five additional years. So Mike Reiner and BES began negotiating with Marsh using the information that we obtained from the market as a result of the RFP.
 Although it's not where we had planned to be today, the resulting amendment before you represents a better deal than what we received from the RFP, actually, from all four proposers, from both a price and an equity standpoint.
 Marsh proposed the highest amount of certified sub-consultant utilization with their partnership with the National Insurance Consultants Incorporated doing business as transportation management services. They are a state of Oregon certified disadvantaged and minority-owned business enterprise, and the company is owned by an African-American male.
 So in addition to that outcome, Marsh also proposed an amount for the next five years that was less than any of the proposals we received for the RFP. So credit to Mike for the negotiation and his ability to get a better outcome. And I'm certainly happy to answer any questions about the procurement or contracting process. But if not, I'll hand it off to Mike to summarize the benefits and advantages.
 Lester, I just want to applaud the outcome of this particular proposal. You know how critical I am mostly when you bring these proposals in front of me. And I want to thank Mike for his excellent negotiating skills to get us this excellent contract. Mike, would you like to add anything? Yes.
 Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Mike Reiner, and I am the Risk Services Manager with BES. To give you a little background on owner-controlled insurance, we started the program with legislative approval back in 1996. And basically what the OSIP is, is a broad insurance program.
 on which we procure insurance on behalf of our general contractors and our subcontractors that are doing work on our capital improvement projects. We purchase workers' comp, general liability, builder's risk, excess insurance, and other specialty coverages to ensure the contractors that are doing work on our jobs.
 And in lieu of the city procuring the insurance, the contractors then deduct their insurance costs from their bids. One of the main benefits of this program is it's even the playing field from a DMWESB perspective, where small businesses are able to compete from an insurance perspective with larger insurance companies.
 Early on in the program, we did outreach at Awami, did risk management 101. We taught contractors how to assess risk and develop site-specific safety and health plans for projects. And it's one of the things that I'm really proud of is some of the feedback that we've gotten from the community is that when they leave a City of Portland job, they're a safer contractor.
 And they've seen their insurance rates drop, which actually becomes profit to them. So that's one of the neat benefits of the program that I'm super proud of. Secondly, I just want to say that we're in the top 5% of insurers in Oregon from a risk management and safety perspective. We save roughly over $20 million over the life of the program.
 Received dividends from the from safe for our safety and risk management performance over 2.5 million. So As we move into OSIP phase six, which was beginning the 25th year of the program. I'm excited to continue our work with Marsh and Providing the risk and and safety and
 loss prevention services on our projects to protect our employees and the general public. Thank you. Thank you, Mike, and great work in actually creating a more equitable contract. Do we have testimony, public testimony on this item, Carla? I do not see anyone signed up with that agenda number on them. Are there any questions from my colleagues?
 This is a first reading. We will move it to a second reading. Caller, please read item 446. Sorry, 446. Accept the 2019 Title XI Trees Trust Funds Report. Thank you. And who's presenting on this item today? I'm assuming it's Director Long or someone else here to testify on this item. No one?
 unless you're muted. Hey Commissioner, this is Derek. It's my understanding that the mayor had requested those get pulled 446 and 447 get pulled back to his office. Thank you very much, my apologies. As per the mayor's request, we're pulling 446 and 447 back and it will come back at a later date. Thank you for that, Derek. Caller, would you read 448 please?
 Should we read 447's title first? Oh yes, 446 and 447 title and then we'll send them back. Thank you. Okay, so we read 446. 447 is approve the designation of 13 trees as City of Portland Heritage Trees and remove the heritage tree designation from one tree. Thank you, Carla. 448 please. 448.
 A contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the Northwest Cornell Tunnel Rehabilitation Project for an estimated $3,180,000. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Madam President. There is some confusion as to whether or not I am pulling this back to my office. So if there is someone from PBOT...
 here who can clarify that, I'd appreciate it. It's an emergency item. So anybody? Commissioner Udeli, I think we have our answer. I guess we'll pull this back to another day. What would you like? Yeah, so I'll pull this item and we'll bring it. In light of how demanding
 Our schedule today is going to be, we've just been pulling every item that we can. So yeah, I'll pull this back to my office.
 Thank you, Commissioner Udalli. I concur. Clearly all of us understand that we're going to be really, really, really busy today. And I appreciate my colleagues helping to clear the agenda so that we can get to some other really critical issues today. And so at the request of Commissioner Udalli, and I believe that 449 has also been pulled back, is that correct?
 Excellent. So now we will go back to... We have to read it, though. Oh, okay. Yes, that is correct. Carla, would you please read 449? Increase fee schedule for the Office of Community and Civic Life noise program for noise variance applications in the amount of 5% as permitted by Code Section 814.020.B. Okay.
 Commissioner Udeli has requested that that item go back to her office and it will be rescheduled at a later date. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you.
 It is still too early for our consent agenda. So we will go back. I'm sorry, it's still too early for our time certain at 11. And so I'd like to go back to the items that have been pulled off the consent agenda that are still up for conversation. And I believe that would be starting with 433
 Actually, Carla, would you confirm for me which items off the consent agenda have been pulled for another day? We had the request for 437, 438, 439, 440, and 441. And it is my understanding the office has requested that, yes, these are pulled, but they be continued to the regular agenda next week. Okay.
 Thank you. So we can read those items and then just carry them over to next week's regular agenda.
 Okay, so call if you would be kind enough to read each one and then we will just officially carry it over till next week Thank you. Mm-hmm certainly Sorry Agenda here. That's okay. This is Kind of days, right? We are going with We will be just fine Thank you. Okay for 37 pay settlement of Ryan Ashland bodily injury claim for the sum of $85,000
 a motor vehicle collision involving the Portland Police Bureau. 438, pay settlement of Natasha Lester bodily injury claim for the sum of $35,000 involving the Portland Police Bureau. And 439, pay property damage claim of Mark Quimada in the sum of $7,209
 from a motor vehicle collision involving the Portland Police Bureau and 441, accept and appropriate $20,000 grant from Oregon Department of Education Community Nutrition Program Startup and Expansion Grant for the At-Risk Afterschool and Summer Meals Program.
 Thank you very much, Carla. Those items will be rescheduled at a later date. So, Carla, I want to confirm that we still have 434 and 435 and 436 that we will be hearing today. Is that accurate? Did you say 433? Yes. The 11 o'clock time certain? Yes. I did not say that one, but yes, I know that one because we're still waiting for 11 o'clock. We cannot do that before 11. Okay.
 But my understanding is we have three items still remaining on the consent agenda and we could not hearing those. Is that correct? I believe we were going to just continue the consent agenda items to next week as well. Was that correct, Robert? Yes, Carla. Okay. Yes. Thanks. Okay. And have we already read 434, 435 and 436? Yes.
 We will not need to read those individually because we're just continuing those remainder consent items to next week. Okay. Consent next week. I just want to make sure that me and the public both understand what we're doing here. Thank you. Sure. And so based on that, it appears that we only have one item left on our morning agenda, and that is the 11 a.m. time certain. Is that correct? That's what I show, yes.
 Well, clearly we cannot take that item prior to 11 a.m. So can we take a recess until 11 a.m. to hear our agenda item with the time certain? Thank you all. See you at 11. Okay, I'm calling the meeting of the Portland City Council back to order. Caller, if you will read our 11 a.m. time certain item 433. Okay.
 amend planning and zoning code, the comprehensive plan map, and the zoning map to implement the expanding opportunities for affordable housing project. Thank you. Eric Engstrom, take it away. Good morning commissioners. For the record, my name is Eric Engstrom. I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and Nan Stark, who's also with BPS, is here with me.
 We're here to take the next steps towards the final vote on the expanding opportunities for affordable housing project. The project, as you recall, includes two items, some zoning code changes to allow conditional use institutions in residential zones to
 add housing to their sites without having to revise their conditional use permit, as well as zoning map and comprehensive plan map amendments on a number of other sites, institutional sites where it would facilitate more specific opportunities.
 On May 14th, you held a public hearing and took testimony on this item. Some of the testimony suggested additional sites be considered for zoning changes, and there was also testimony expressing concern about several of the sites. You also discussed your own concerns about the project's actually result in regulated affordable housing.
 You extended the comment period for written comments until May 20th, and then on May 21st, you gave us preliminary direction to develop several amendments, including adding affordability requirements to the code proposal, removing Southwest Boundary Street from the package, and accepting a compromised zoning proposal on one of the sites.
 On May 27th, you voted on those amendments and then gave us direction on some follow-up items, one of which was to make this an emergency ordinance.
 effective on the 15th. And we also asked for some time to prepare updated findings to reflect your decision. So with all that in mind, we brought back several things for you today. And it's my understanding by the way that because of the mayor's absence, we'll continue this item for the final vote, but we'll make a couple motions to take the next steps today. Excellent.
 So first we've brought back an exhibit A, a revised exhibit A with updated findings and we're asking for a motion to substitute this in place of the previous version.
 We have incorporated your changes into the revised exhibit B, which is the as amended project report. So the code and the maps now reflect your amendments. And we also updated the commentary in that report to reflect your legislative intent. So that's a second motion. And then finally, we made some changes to the ordinance to add the emergency clause.
 incorporate two additional directives consistent with the discussion you had last time. The first directive concerns several specific sites that you had testimony about and in the interest of moving this package as quickly forward as possible your directive was to have us bring a recommendation on those back in the fall or in a few months. The second directive points to a broader community-led scope
 building exercise to that we would do as a next step to work with community to Develop a follow-up project So we're asking for a motion to make these changes to the ordinance as well consistent with the marked up copy we provided Which should be in your packet?
 And then I'll note that the emergency clause does list a specific date next week because this gives us time to publish the needed code changes to the website. And we'll of course have to change that date when we figure out when the final date is that we're voting on this. Nan is also here. I'm sorry, Eric. Would you like me to get a motion on each one of these first before you continue?
 I think you could do it as a package unless there are questions on individual ones. Okay. Could I? If neither of my colleagues. Sorry, Commissioner. Go ahead. Go ahead.
 So this is Lindley, city attorney. I would suggest that before moving the amendments that you figure out with Carla what date you're going to come back because one of the amendments, which is the emergency clause saying when the code amendments will come into effect is dependent on when this comes back for its final vote. And it may be as soon as next week, but I just want to make sure. Thank you, Lindley. Thank you, Lindley. Commissioner Fritz. Yes.
 Well, it seems like it was ready to go. And so potentially we could move the amendments as a package and then vote tomorrow, I believe the mayors. I know we've got a lot on the agenda tomorrow, but this is a, it would seem like it's a fairly quick vote. Would that work cleanly?
 It may depend on how much you have on the agenda tomorrow. I think I will tell you, I think the thought was, Commissioner Fritz, that we would simply push this to next Wednesday for a five minute item. So today you would move second and vote on the proposed amendments. So essentially it would all be queued up for a final vote.
 And then you would have the effective date one week after that. So it would only delay it by a week. And it is my understanding tomorrow is fairly packed. But that's, again, council's prerogative. Thank you. That's helpful. So what you need from Carla is the five-minute time certain on Wednesday. Is that correct? That sounds like that is correct. Carla, is that possible next week?
 Yes, we could do it in the morning at 1045 a.m. That's Wednesday, June 17th. Thank you. Please continue, Eric. It sounds like we got a plan to move forward. So please let you finish your presentation. We'll get to the vote. How about if I move the amendment? I'll move the amendment as a package. So the amendments package has been moved. Is there a second?
 I'll just clarify that with the amendment going to the Wednesday session, I guess we would make the effective date be the 22nd rather than the 15th. Is that correct? That would be correct. That would be a week later. Yes. Commissioner, you daily. Were you about to second? I did second. Yeah. Thank you. I think we could actually push the effective date a little bit earlier because it can take effect immediately. We were queued up to make it June 15th.
 So if the reading is on June 17th, it could be effective that day or the next day or two. Lina Lee, would you like to wait? Wait, let us stop. Let's have the vote on the amendments and then we can talk about when it takes effect and et cetera, et cetera. Okay? One thing at a time. So we're in the middle of a vote. Carla please call the roll. You daily.
 Fritz? So, aye, with the caveat that the date might change in the package of amendments. Aye. Gardiste? Aye.
 So the motion passes. Caller, or Lindley, who would like to weigh in on whether or not another week or whether we just, it takes effect within a couple of days? Lindley, I think we need your advice first and then I'll go back to Colleen. All right, so at this point we have a motion that the code goes into effect on the
 the 15th, which obviously isn't going to work. So we're going to need to have a subsequent amendment to change it to whatever date we decide. My understanding is that the reason we chose, you know, typically an emergency ordinance goes into effect the date we adopt it, unless we specify another date. My understanding is that we specified another date because BDS needed time to publish the,
 the revised code. So really I guess that's a question for Eric is how many days did they need to get the code published? I think we just need a day or two to make sure we have everything correct on the website. So if we wanted to, you know, not wait until Monday and keep it in the same week, it could go to the Thursday or Friday, I suppose.
 And so would that require us to put an emergency clause on it when we vote next Wednesday? So, Commissioner, the package of amendments you just voted on contains an emergency clause. So you don't need to do that. You need to amend that.
 the effective date in the emergency clause. And I would suggest based on what Eric just said, you could have it be Friday. You know, you wouldn't need to see Friday. You'd have it be June 17th, 2020, instead of June 15th, 2020. So you would need a motion, a second and a vote on that. Is that, Eric, does that work?
 The 18th would be a little bit more ideal just to make sure we have that turnaround time. Oh, I was suggesting the 19th, Eric. Oh, sorry. I heard you say the 17th. I did too, but... And I may have. My thought is that the Friday has furloughs with a lot of people right now, so Thursday might be better. That sounds like a plan. So can I have a motion? Move to amend the date to the 18th.
 Second. 19th. Eric just said don't do it on the Friday. It's been moved to take effect on what date, Commissioner Fritz? Eric, could you say don't do it on the Friday? I suggested Thursday the 18th just to avoid the day that a lot of people have furloughs. That's what we'd prefer as well. And that was my motion. Okay. So our motion is to change the effective date to June 18th.
 Commissioner Fritz has made a motion. Commissioner Udaly has second. Caller, please call the roll. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Ernestine. Aye. I tell you, all the technicalities we have to get right is a little challenging some days, but we got it. Okay, Eric, back to you.
 Okay, I think that's what we wanted to get out of you today. So the only thing left, I guess, would just be to say that you're continuing on the next Wednesday. That is correct. Any other questions? Just to clarify, sorry, record, the matter is being continued to Wednesday, June 17th. And Carly, you said 1045 a.m.?
 And there will be no testimony. It will only be for a final vote on an emergency ordinance with an effective date of Thursday, June 18th, with all of the other amendments that staff had proposed. That is correct. That's my understanding. Thank you.
 He's smiling, so I think Eric agrees. That's correct. Nan's smiling. Okay, so I think we're all good. Nobody's upset about this. Excellent. So with no other questions or testimony about this issue, is there testimony, by the way? No. All right. We have completed our bidness for today, and we stand adjourned. Thank you, commissioners. Thank you all.
 We got one minute till showtime. And we are still missing Commissioner Udaly. Commissioner Hardesty, will you want me to read the rules again? Since we have a lot of time. Yes, I will. Yes, I will. And I want you to read them very slowly. Okay. I will. I will. It's a totally different audience this afternoon. Yes. It is two o'clock, but I still don't see Commissioner Udaly unless someone else sees her. Hannah, is the commissioner on the way? Okay.
 She is. She should be just seconds behind me. Okay, thank you. This is the Wednesday, June 10th afternoon session of the City Council. I am calling the 2 p.m. City Council meeting to order. Today we will begin taking the final steps, final series of steps and necessary votes as part of the adoption of the fiscal 2020-21 budget as prescribed by Oregon State Law.
 I want to take a moment to read a statement from the mayor because I know it's devastating to him that he cannot be here today. I am sorry that I cannot be with you for this hearing. My mother died yesterday evening and I am with family today. For nearly two weeks, Portlanders have spoken clearly and with one voice. Our community is counting on us to reimagine what public safety looks like in our community.
 They are demanding transformation. I believe the actions I proposed yesterday meet that high bar, and I am prepared to help lead us through this period of reform. We are responding with changes to our police bureau, and we are calling on our partners to make changes to other parts of the justice system. Our immediate actions fall in several categories.
 internal policy changes, advocacy for changes to state and federal law, community conversations to figure out what we want policing to look like for the next generation of Portlanders. We are investing in the community and creating more spaces for direct engagement and oversight. And we are changing leadership.
 Tomorrow morning, we will swear in a new police chief, Chuck LaValle, who brings deep and longstanding community relationships and wisdom that will help guide and shape these changes. The agenda for today is narrower. Today's hearing is about the city's budget for the fiscal year that starts July 1st. I know most of you are here to talk about the police bureau budget.
 You have been talking with each other about changes you want to see. My colleagues and I have been having similar conversations, and we are looking forward to these discussions. We will hear from you today, tomorrow, and tomorrow. We will discuss and vote on amendments and adopt the final budget. I approach this exercise with optimism and hope. Together, we can build a bridge to a brighter future.
 Thank you for your passion and your engagement. Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland. I will turn it over to the budget director, Jessica Kinnard, to walk us through the many steps in front of us. Thank you, Director Kinnard.
 Excuse me, Commissioner, we should do a roll call first. Yes, I forgot that minor detail. I made sure we were all here. Thank you. Caller, would you please call the roll? Yes. Eudaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Hardesty? You can tell I'm excited about the day. I'm just jumping right to the chase. Here. Also, I would like to have Robert Taylor read the Rules of Order and decorum.
 Thank you, Madam President. And of course, we're holding this hearing electronically due to the COVID-19 pandemic. And these are emergency proceedings under the governor's order to hold this meeting electronically. And now for the rules of decorum. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda at portlandoregon.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary.
 Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions,
 A warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Finally, please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Thank you. Thank you, Robert. I will now turn it over to Director Kennard. Thank you, Commissioner, and good afternoon.
 As the Commissioner mentioned, we're here today to begin the process of adopting the budget for fiscal year 2021. As usual, there are a number of procedural steps we need to go through, and as we read into the record, we actually have four items in front of you today of this process, and actually that brings to mind, Carla, do you need to read into the record the items that we are, the number of the items that we're considering?
 Yes, I do. Did you want to take those one at a time or did you want to read all four together? Go ahead. Sorry, go ahead Commissioner. Sorry, I was just going to say I think we need to read all four of them and then Director Kanad will explain how the process will work. Thank you, Carla. Thank you, Director. I forgot that detail as well.
 Item 450, certify that certain services are provided by the City to establish eligibility for state shared revenues. 451, approve accepting funds from the State of Oregon under the State Revenue Sharing Program for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021.
 Item 452, adopt the annual budget of the City and establish appropriations for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021. Item 453, approve levying taxes for the City for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021.
 Thank you, Carla. Director Cunard, I think it really is your turn this time. All right. Thank you again, Commissioner. So as the clerk just read, we are considering four items today as part of this process. It's worth noting that with only three members of the council present today, we are unable to pass any of these items today. However, we will be opening each item and hearing public testimony and then continuing the items for a vote tomorrow.
 We will start off today, the first two items are, well first we will start off with a hearing on state shared revenue and then we will consider two items related to the acceptance of that state shared revenue.
 I think the item that is of most interest to the folks that have signed up to testify today will actually be the third ordinance that Council will consider, which is the adoption of the budget ordinance and the allocation of all of our resources. And then the fourth and final item that we will take up today is an ordinance to levy taxes, and that allows us to levy taxes to collect the revenue that supports services across the city.
 So again, we are going to start off first with a proposed use hearing on our state shared revenue. This is just to, this is a legally required hearing on the acceptance of our state shared revenue. Commissioner, you can now read the statement into the record for the state shared revenue hearing.
 Thank you, Director Kennard. This hearing is being held by the City Council of Portland, Oregon, in compliance with the provisions of the State Revenue Sharing Regulations, ORS 221.770. It is to allow citizens to comment on the proposed use of these funds in conjunction with the annual budget process.
 As proposed by Council adoption, the fiscal year 2020-2021 budget anticipates receipts totaling $25,024,268 from the state revenue sharing under ORS 221.770.
 As has been the case in prior years, it is proposed that this revenue be allocated in equal parts to support fire prevention and police patrol services. Is there anyone here today who wishes to testify or be heard on this subject? Carla, has anyone signed up to speak on this item? I'm going to check with Kaylin. Kaylin, do we have a specific sign up for the 450 item? No.
 I'm not... Yeah, I don't believe anybody signed up specifically for 450. Excellent, thank you. Thanks. If there is no one to that signs up for this, I will close this hearing on the proposed use of state revenue sharing.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Next, Council goes on to consider a resolution to certify that the City meets the eligibility requirements for state shared revenue. State law requires that we provide a number of services to be eligible for the state shared revenue, and this resolution certifies that we do so. The services certified by the City of Portland include police protection, fire protection, street construction, maintenance and lightning, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, planning, zoning and subdivision control, and water services.
 Back to you, Commissioner. Thank you very much. Is there any public testimony on this resolution? Carla? I'm not seeing any. Keelan, do you want to verify that? Yes. We actually did have a couple of people who registered to speak on 451. I'm not sure if they're in the meeting. If it's helpful, I can say their names and if they can raise their hand.
 or let us know that they're in the meeting. Thank you, Keelyn. That would be helpful. And for folks who are in the Zoom program, if your name is called, please raise your hand, and I will take you in the order that I see. Okay. The first person was Andrea Egan. The second person was Paxton Rothwell.
 The next person for 451 is Joe McFerrin. And let me see if there's anyone else. Sorry, Amy Levan. That's all who signed up for 451. Thank you. Anyone here who called for this item? I'm not seeing any of those people with their hand raised.
 Thank you, Keelan. It is my belief, and if they raise their hand later, we will definitely call on them, but I believe that people signed up expecting to talk directly to the budget itself.
 And if that is the case, that is the main attraction today, and those individuals will be able to do so. So thank you very much. So not hearing anyone that is saying that they want to testify on this resolution, we will continue this item until tomorrow, Thursday, June 11th. Director Kanaan. Great. Thank you.
 So the third and final step in accepting the state shared revenue is for council to consider and vote upon an ordinance to accept the state shared revenue. Now that we've held a hearing and certifies that we are qualified. We just need to take action to accept the revenue. So back to you, Commissioner. Thank you very much. Director Kennard, I will call for public testimony. Is there any public testimony on this issue? Keelan, should I start with you?
 Which number is this one, please? I believe actually this is 451. This is the ordinance. There was a resolution and the ordinance to accept the state-secured revenue. Okay. Yeah. The names that I called before, I'm sorry. Those were for 451. If there's anybody on from the list that I called before that wants to testify to 451, they can raise their hand. I'm not seeing any of the names we called.
 Excellent. Seeing no public testimony, we will continue this item until tomorrow morning, Thursday, June 11th. Great. Director Knud, back to you. All right. So the next item is the main event, the adopted budget ordinance. I will note that we still will have one more item to consider after the adopted budget ordinance. It's the adoption of the tax levy ordinance.
 I will open this item by describing at a high level the various adopted budget changes as filed. Next, Commissioner Hardesty will entertain, actually she will call for public testimony, which I believe is the main purpose and what folks are really waiting for today.
 And then I believe that after we hear public testimony, we will be continuing the item to tomorrow to then hear amendments and offer discussion and votes. That is correct. Thank you.
 Okay, so first off, the changes that we typically describe at a high level are the changes that are reflected in attachment B as filed, which is also known as the change memo. These changes are purely technical and predominantly relate to truing up interagency adjustments, correcting fund balance amounts, and making other technical corrections. In the interest of time, since I know we have several folks signed up to testify, I'm not going to walk through all of these changes.
 I would just highlight that there are a few adjustments within the Housing Bureau outside of the general fund where the Bureau is updating its budget to reflect updated anticipated project carryover costs between fiscal years. And then also within the Parks Bureau, there is a technical correction that is resulting in the addition of 0.2 FTE, which is cost neutral. Are there any questions on, does Council have any questions on these changes?
 Hearing none, I would also like to mention that the city's appointed community budget advisors have submitted their advice on the budget. And I would like to have that be read into the record and Pam Knowles is here to speak her perspective. However, I believe that Commissioner Hardesty will open with some remarks first, but I wanted to make sure that we made space for our community budget advisor census.
 during this process and with the onset of COVID-19, we've had to amend and change the way that we engage with our community budget advisors. So I just wanted to be sure that their voice was and their testimony was made available before public comment.
 Absolutely true. If it's okay with you, Ms. Knowles, what I'd like to do is just explain to people what the process will be today. Then I'll give you an opportunity to make a statement. Then I will give all my colleagues an opportunity to make a statement before we open it up for public testimony. Is that okay? Thank you. That's fine. Excellent.
 I want to speak directly to the public who has organized in ways that we have never imagined before. I can tell you that prior to me coming to this meeting, the last count that I had for emails into my office about the City of Portland's budget, the last count as of 1.55 p.m. was 61,300 emails.
 I can tell you that in my entire 18 months on the Portland City Council combined, I have not received 18,000 emails on everything that I have discussed in my 18 months here. What I want to say as I set the pace for today is that tensions are high. We have all been immersed in a pandemic.
 And we have all become aware of just how institutionalized racism is in our systems. And that system includes our police system, but in no way does it limit the inequality to policing in our community. Every single institution we have has been built on a foundation of white supremacy.
 And we are here today to take bold action, to ensure that we are on a path to make sure that when we say justice for all, we really, really mean it. And so it is my pleasure to introduce the chair of our budget advisory committee,
 Pam Knowles and allow her to provide some opening statements. I will come back with my opening statement. I just wanted to set the frame for today. And before I do that, let me explain how today will work. We will be here. I have extended this meeting until 7pm tonight. So we will take five hours of testimony. We will try to keep it to two minutes each,
 I am going to encourage people who are here merely to listen, to sign up via YouTube, to watch the live stream so that we can create space on our Zoom for people who want to provide testimony. I'm also going to ask people if they,
 are representing an organization, to find one representative, if possible, to read the statement from your organization. And then you may read the names of all the other people
 who have showed up in support of your testimony. The third ask that I have of community is that we prioritize BIPOC voices, that is Black, Indigenous, and other people of color. It would not be appropriate for us to be centering Black lives without hearing from Black voices.
 The last thing I will say is in the history of my time at City Council, I have never seen 700 plus people sign up to provide public testimony. And so I'm gonna ask you to try to be brief, try not to repeat other people's testimony. And I'm gonna encourage you to submit written testimony.
 I just want to say thank you to the public. I want to tell you how much I appreciate how engaged you have been. Without you, this would have been a very easy process. But now, because of you, it is going to be a much more in-depth process.
 And it's going to be a much more, I believe, humane process that really centers your voices. So if we work together, we will get as many people in today as possible, because that is the purpose of today, is to hear from you. Now, tomorrow, we will limit public testimony to no more than two hours, because I don't think we could stand another five hours of public testimony. But the goal tomorrow will be, quite frankly, to seek agreement.
 with all my colleagues on the proposed amendments that will be moving forward. And so I want to thank you, thank you, thank you, public, for keeping us on track, for pushing us to be braver than we thought we could be. And now I will turn it over to our Budget Advisory Committee Chair, Ms. Knowles. Thank you, Ms. Knowles.
 Please unmute. There you are. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. I do want to say that I'm not the chair. We are all equal on the Citizens Budget Advisory Committee and I'm speaking... I bet. Thank you for elevating me. Well, you know I'm the chairwoman. I just assumed.
 I do want to say that I am speaking on behalf of all of the members of the Budget Advisory Committee. That includes Andrea Paluzzo, Shodizono, Frida, Christopher, and Danetchka Otero-Sarano. And we all worked together to put together these remarks that we had for you today. So thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler and Portland City Commissioners, in our role as community budget advisors, we want to understand how the Council will engage in direct community dialogue and collaboration with the Black, Indigenous, people of color communities about the Portland Police Bureau budget.
 It feels essential that the city more formally and publicly consider the demands that are being made by community leaders around the Bureau budget. What will be the process for focused and public community dialogue about this specific budget?
 Portland faces an opportunity to embrace systemic reforms that are being called for by black community leaders reforms that allow The city to embrace the equity analysis and lens You've been working to implement citywide by both listening to BIPOC community voices and prioritizing programs That address historic and systemic racism throughout our city Portland
 Portland's approach to policing, historically and presently, has included abusive practices and state-sanctioned violence that have had devastating impacts on Black communities and fatal consequences for far too many Black people.
 The protests that have arisen from George Floyd's death are necessary and are arising from a deep frustration that the cycle of police brutality and systemic racism has only been met thus far with minor changes by city leaders instead of substantive structural change. Portland's leaders are being called upon now to divest from our existing methods for policing in order to both reduce
 the amount of trauma being inflicted by the Bureau on Black and Brown Communities, and to imagine a new way of creating a city that is safe for all of us. We are also being called upon to make greater investments in the health, social, and economic well-being of BIPOC communities. As budget advisors, we would like to understand how the City is considering the specific request for the Portland Police Bureau budget to be reduced by $50 million.
 and in what specific ways is the Bureau contract limiting these or other necessary spending reductions? Specific cuts have been demanded by community leaders, including defunding transit policy,
 gun violence prevention teams, SROs, and more. Leaders have also recommended specific changes to the city's approaches for policing our homeless, our houseless community, our undocumented community members, protesters, and others which seem to also impact potential budget decisions. Community leaders are also demanding that specific investments be made in community programs and policing alternatives.
 We would like to know what progress has been made in your consideration of these investments. We support the City's commitment to assessing racial equity impacts in our budgeting and programming decisions and to adopting systems and procedures that guard against or proactively prevent discrimination. And now we want to better understand what equity impacts you have assessed as you weigh the decisions now before you.
 It is urgent that the City of Portland take this opportunity to consider how we will do the City's business differently. We feel the City's leadership must work directly and transparently with the BIPOC community leaders to consider and address their demands and develop a common framework for moving forward on Portland Police Bureau disinvestment and community reinvestment plans.
 We would like to hear more about how the city is working with leaders to do this and what the plans are for future collaboration and action. And thank you very much for giving us this time today to speak. You're on mute. Thank you so much. I know, right? I was going to do it at some point today, right? Yeah. Thank you very much, Ms. Knowles. We appreciate that message from the budget committee. And I'm sure you're going to hear a lot today that will stop the answering of those questions.
 I will now ask my colleagues if they would like to have an opening statement before I make mine and then turn it over to the public. Commissioner Udalli. Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I hear that we're up to over a thousand viewers on YouTube stream, so hello.
 I want to thank every Portlander who has written to my office, which is quickly approaching approximately 10% of our population, with a total number of over 63,000 emails about the police budget. I want to thank every Portlander demonstrating in our streets, and every Portlander showing solidarity with Black lives during this pivotal moment in our nation's history.
 While the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery are horrifying crimes that have shaken our society to the core, they have also shaken something loose, the power of the people. You are the reason we are here today. And today we are here to listen to you in the hopes of creating real structural change. The appropriate response to this national uprising is action from our left.
 active leaders across the country and action from everyone here on Portland City Council. I believe my colleagues recognize that our community is demanding action and it's our obligation to respond. There's no time for equivocation or incrementalism.
 The deaths of unarmed Black Portlanders are on our hands, and as such, we must take bold steps to defund and reshape the Portland Police Bureau. Given Mayor Wheeler's absence today, I'll be introducing my amendments in collaboration with Commissioner Hardesty during tomorrow afternoon's session. However, I would like to let you know what I am calling for.
 I am supporting my colleagues calls to disband student resource officers, the gun violence reduction team, reduce CERT, and reinvest in community programs. In addition, my amendments direct council to remove cannabis dollars from the PPB and direct them to restorative justice grants administered through the Office of Community and Civic Life,
 and allocate $1.8 million of those funds for reparations through a community process driven by BIPOC Portlanders most impacted by the war on drugs.
 End the PPB's participation in and management of the Transit Police Unit as of July 1, 2020, and eliminate 24 associated FTE. Cut an additional 4.6 million and prevent the PPB from substantially increasing capacity on other teams by eliminating 50 vacant FTE and reallocate resources to a community-driven process.
 and for Commissioner Hardesty and myself to lead a collaborative community-driven process centering the communities most impacted by over-policing to inform the future allocation of the ongoing general fund resources reallocated from the Police Bureau.
 I want to acknowledge that these amendments don't go as far as I would like or many in the community, but collectively with additional council action, they will significantly reallocate resources and re-envision the role of Portland police in our community. It's important to remember that other cities like Minneapolis have been engaging their communities on police reform for years and have building blocks in place that empowered them to take bolder action in this moment.
 As your city government, we have neglected, although Commissioner Hardesty is the exception, as a long-time advocate for police reform, to do the hard and unpopular work that other cities have already done. We know from their examples that reform alone will not work. Reform must be accompanied by meaningful, rational defunding and the reallocation of resources.
 Lasting structural change requires relationship building and community conversations about alternative models that we simply haven't had yet in Portland. With that context, I believe the amendments Commissioner Hardesty and I will propose tomorrow will give the community the ability to dive into that work right away with significant resources to make it last and to yield a better, stronger outcome. For today, I look forward to hearing from all of you and learning from you. Thank you again.
 Thank you, Commissioner. You dearly. Commissioner Fritz, do you have an opening statement that you'd like to make? Thank you. No, actually, I would just like to get to the public testimony. I'll make my statement tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, I have a opening statement. I want to say that today...
 is the beginning of implementing almost 30 years of work that I have done in the community as a grassroots activist and organizer, attempting to change the culture of Portland Police Bureau and to make it more fair and just for all. I have worked with 14 police chiefs and eight police commissioners in my time in Portland,
 And I can assure you that the culture within Portland Police Bureau has not changed one iota. The changes that are going to be proposed by my colleagues, Commissioner Udeli, and by our incredible police commissioner, Mayor Ted Wheeler, will start the process of reimagining what community safety looks like. For too long, we have assumed that community safety meant
 armed individuals patrolling our streets, what we know is that that has not kept us safe. What we know is that the policing profession has consistently been
 over-policed Black and Brown communities, and under-policed white communities. What we know is that Black people are arrested at significantly higher rates. All you have to do is look at the data from the Portland gang unit, the gang enforcement task force that used to be in place that changed their name to the Gun Violence Reduction Team.
 59% of the stops were of people who were African American in a city with a 6% African American population. Clearly, the community, and I consider myself part of that community, that has been advocating with the police bureau, with the city of Portland for decades, that there is no way that this inequitable treatment was just or fair. And...
 I have to say, no one was listening. People were polite. They would accept the testimony, but no one listened. And here we are in a space in our time, in our history, where we have the opportunity to think big. And we've only been given that opportunity because over 50,000 people have made it a point.
 to write us, to call us, to make their voice heard. And my work with the police commissioner, Ted Wheeler, is gonna make sure that we are redesigning what we believe community safety looks like and what our vision is for a community that is safe and just and fair. I am proud of how much Mayor Wheeler has learned through these last two weeks
 It is not his fault that he was born white male and he did not have the same lived experiences that I did.
 But I want to say today, before we open this to public testimony, Mayor Wheeler has been at the center of helping us reimagine what community safety looks like. I want to be clear. It's just not about the police budget. It's about how we recruit police officers. It's about how we train police officers. It's about how we use police officers and
 And I am committed, as I've been for the last 30 years, to making sure that we look at this system-wide and make the necessary changes so that the community can feel comfortable that they are being heard, A, and B, that the police understand that they must be a partner, not a dictator, not an enforcer, but a partner in creating community safety.
 I have known the new chief, Chief Lovell, for a couple of decades. I have absolute confidence in him that he is the visionary leader that we need at this time. So I look forward to the hard work that comes after our budget vote, because that's just the beginning. We have a whole system built on white supremacy that we must change. And if not now, when?
 Again, I want to thank the public. You have been absolutely warm my heart. You've given me so much. You've given me so much joy, knowing that you see it clearly and you know we have to make changes. And so at this time, I'd like to turn it over to Carla. Carla, if you will call the first three individuals who have signed up for testimony and let me quickly repeat that.
 I'm going to ask you to please keep your remarks to two minutes. I'm going to ask you to please prioritize BIPOC voices. I'm going to ask you to please, if you're representing an organization, to have one person speak and then read the other names into the public record.
 I am so honored to be chairing this meeting today because this is what I've been waiting for. I've just been waiting for the public to catch up. The public has caught up, and let's see if the city council has caught up with them. On that, I will turn it over now to Carla to read the first three names, please. Thank you, Commissioner. The first three will be Hung Nam, Kim London, and Andrew Riley.
 Good morning, Hung. Welcome. Thank you. Can you all hear me? Yes, we can hear you perfectly. Hi, I'm a teacher and organizer with the Portland Metro People's Coalition. I also served as a budget advisory committee member for the Portland Police Bureau. I'm speaking today to support every single demand called for by Unite Oregon and PALF.
 and so many other community groups to cut 50 million dollars from the police to reinvest in communities most impacted by policing and this historic recession. We need to rethink public safety. Police have a monopoly over the use of violence but they should not have a monopoly on our imaginations. We can't police our way out of deep social economic problems and traumatize people while externalizing the costs that perpetuate cycles of incarceration and poverty.
 A recent study at Harvard's Kennedy School shows that police killings traumatized Black and Hispanic high school students in the area, and now killings by police is the sixth biggest cause of death for young Black men.
 We not only need to ban all crowd control munitions, but we need to completely disband our SWAT or Special Emergency Response Team. They have recently hired seven additional FTE and have budgeted millions in extra overtime to police protests. The New Directions in Protest Policing Study concluded that police dress for war and only inflame violence and jeopardize their own safety and that of the public.
 With COVID-19 pandemic, this mismanagement of PPB is endangering public safety and health for all of us.
 Defunding police is not a fringe demand. Ron Serpas, with 30 years experience as police chief, said cops spend most of their time responding to auto accidents, noise complaints, lots of calls about people dealing with substance abuse. About 90% of all calls have nothing to do with major uniform crime, rape, murder, robbery, burglary, assault, theft, or auto theft.
 We can even make this happen without many layoffs since there are already many vacancies and block exodus retirements are coming in August and January. We will be suffering austerity for many months, if not years. Thank you. You can finish your sentence if you'd like. That's okay. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Next. Should be Kim London. Welcome, Kim. Hi.
 There we go. Hi. Can you hear me? Yep, can hear you fine. I'm Kim London, the Executive Director of the Oregon Cannabis Association, Oregon's leading trade association for the cannabis industry. I speak today on behalf of our members.
 The OCA has joined with numerous other organizations in a coalition effort to insist that funds derived from the Portland Cannabis Tax appropriately go to social programs and services that aid Black, Latinx, and Native American people in our communities.
 And that no further cannabis tax dollars be used for police or law enforcement budgets. As businesses who benefit from legalized cannabis, we are obligated and committed to fight for communities of color who have been disproportionately harmed by the drug war. As retailers, cannabis dispensaries pay city licensing fees, city taxes, and alarm permits, just as any other business in our city does.
 Cannabis dispensaries are also required to pay a 3% tax to the city on top of existing standard business fees. During original negotiations around these taxes, the OCA worked hard to keep those funds directed back to the communities. The original agreement has not been honored. In the past two years, only 14.5% of the funds were used for social equity, the remainder going largely to fund law enforcement positions.
 After giving the police $410,000 in the first year for a service coordination team to access drug and alcohol treatment, there were no cannabis tax dollars spent on drug and alcohol treatment in year two. Last year, the police received an increase of well over $1 million, taking in more than $2 million of cannabis tax revenue. This is simply unacceptable.
 We will no longer allow the use of any of these cannabis tax sales dollars to fund the police, particularly at the exclusion of other critical services, which would provide a more direct and positive impact to the people of our city. We have submitted a letter which outlines how we would like to see these funds used. Thank you. Thank you, Kim. Next, please. Sorry, I lost my place here. Next is... It's okay, it's that kind of day. Okay.
 Nick, I'm sorry, next is Andrew Riley. And the next three will be Lauren Leffner, Jonathan Frotzweg, and Sai Sivakumar. Thank you. Andrew, welcome. Thank you. Can you hear me? Yes, we can.
 Great. Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Andrew Riley. I use they, them pronouns, and I'm an organizer for Unite Oregon. I know you got a ton of folks signed up to speak tonight who you need to hear from more than me, so I'm just going to keep this very brief and echo what I know you're hearing from tens of thousands of folks. It's simple. Defund the Portland Police Bureau. Unite Oregon and the Portland African American Leadership Forum have outlined a bold plan that you're going to be hearing a lot about tonight to do just that, drawing on what we've learned from longtime abolitionist leaders like Teressa Rayford and Don't Shoot PDX.
 Specifically, we ask that you cut the Portland Police Bureau budget by $50 million and commit to never increasing the budget again. Cut special units like the Transit Police, Gun Violence Reduction Team, CERT, and school resource officers that have caused particular harm to the communities that we organize. As you just heard from my colleague Kim, the City of Portland cannabis tax funds from the PPE budget and invest those into reparations for Black and Indigenous Portlanders and Portlanders of color who have been harmed by the drug war.
 reinvest police resources into Black futures through a community-centered health and safety model that's developing strong partnership with grassroots Portlanders and community organizations. United Oregon is in this for the long haul. We look forward to working with you. Please defund the police. Thank you, Andrew. The next three are Lauren Leffer, Jonathan Frotschweg, and Sy Sivakar. So Lauren Leffer.
 Are you on the line? Lauren? Yes, can you hear me? Yes I can, thank you. Good afternoon, Council. My name is Lauren Leffer. I live in southeast Portland. I'm here to say that the proposed new reallocation of police funds is not enough. I'm calling on the Portland City Council to commit to working towards defunding and abolishing the Portland Police Bureau entirely. Police do not prevent crime. They criminalize being black, being houseless, and being poor.
 Almost 30% of recorded instances of police use of force in Portland are against Black people, who make up only 6% of the city's total population. The City of Portland has done everything possible throughout its history to violently exclude, remove, and destroy Black people, and the Portland Police Bureau continue that history every day. We need justice for Quinny's Haze, and for every Black person in this city killed, assaulted, and surveilled by the police department.
 Black adults are, by the way, the fastest-growing houseless demographic in Portland. About 50% of the reported instances of Portland police use of force are against houseless people.
 What if instead of criminalizing healthlessness, we genuinely work to ensure that nobody in society was forced into it? With the funds allocated to the police bureau and the proposed budget, we could provide safe housing to every unhoused person in Portland many times over. We could provide wraparound health care services. We could protect the most vulnerable people in our society instead of alienating, assaulting, and neglecting them.
 Around 80% of reported crimes in Portland are nonviolent property crimes. How many of these offenses would still be committed if we eradicated poverty, if we decriminalized the victim-free actions of people merely trying to survive? If every person in the city of Portland had access to the resources they needed to thrive, what would the cops have left to do?
 Police do not prevent crime. They contribute to it by enforcing systemic inequity. People forced into prisons are not rehabilitated. They are further brutalized. People in overpoliced communities are traumatized. Every dollar that goes towards the Portland Police Bureau and not towards their communities is wasted. Police do not prevent crime. Investing community does. Lastly, any given year between 40 and 70% of reported violent crimes in Portland don't even lead to an arrest. On top of everything else.
 Portland police aren't even very good at the thing they claim we need them for, and if I did my job this badly, I would not expect or receive a raise. Thank you. Thank you, Lauren. Our next speaker, please. Next is Jonathan Frockswijk. Jonathan? Yes, I'm here. Good afternoon, commissioners. Good afternoon. My name is Jonathan Frockswijk. I live in Northeast Portland, and I serve on the board of NextUp, formerly The Bus Project.
 First of all, I want to thank Commissioner Hardesty, Commissioner Udalia, and Mayor Wheeler for responding to many of the community's demands. I know the steps you've taken are not insignificant. That said, Portland's Black community is asking for far more, and I believe white people must actively participate in anti-racism work. So I'm testifying today to ask for far more.
 And what we're all asking for is a truly creative reimagining of public safety and how we distribute resources in our community. The Portland African American Leadership Forum and Unite Oregon have asked that you reduce the police bureau's budget by $50 million in this year's budget and promise not to increase the budget in the future. I know that may seem unrealistic in the super technical, slow-moving system that is government, but that friction is by design.
 That resistance is white supremacy showing up in our institutions, and I urge you to push against it. We just witnessed a massive, rapid shifting of resources in response to one emergency, the COVID-19 pandemic.
 To Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Udailey, and Mayor Wheeler, if you don't feel the same sense of urgency about police violence and systemic racism, I hope you'll recognize that as white privilege and try to deeply empathize with the sense of urgency that the Black community has expressed over the past two weeks.
 I'll be frank, I don't really expect you to take the kind of sweeping measures the Black community is asking you to today, because political leaders have never delivered the level of change needed to begin to dismantle structural racism. But after the past couple weeks, the impossible seems more possible. Surprise us. Be national leaders like those we're seeing emerge in Minneapolis. Make Portland proud. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Jonathan. Next? Alright, next is Sai Sivakumar.
 Hi, welcome. Thank you. My name is Sae Sivakumar and I am a resident of Northwest Portland. I am here today to speak in favor of the proposed amendments calling for reducing the budget allocated to the PPB, including cutting funding to specialty units such as the gun violence reduction team and transit police, and divesting cannabis tax dollars from the PPB to alternate community resources, including community development, community services, and city grant funds.
 Defunding the police and divesting into community resources can help reduce violence, improve mental health response, and help make Portland a safer place for all of its residents. Other cities have successfully implemented similar programs, for example,
 Austin and Eugene have both seen success with reallocating money specifically towards responders trained in mental health rather than police officers. Data from the Treatment Advocacy Center shows that people suffering from mental illness are 16 times more likely to be killed in an encounter with the police than other civilians. Reallocating resources towards mental health professionals can both save lives and be a more effective solution to help those most in need.
 Oakland Ceasefire Partnership has cut gun violence nearly in half since 2012. This program works through analyzing trends within violent incidents and then providing social services to high-risk individuals. Law enforcement officials do play a role in this program, but a much more minor one. As a result, the Oakland PD has also seen a decrease in complaints due to use of force incidents. Black Americans are killed by police at a rate over double that of white Americans, so implementing a similar program and decreasing policing can further save lives that have been most negatively affected.
 affected by excessive policing. Committing some policies can be an important step in improving our community and making it safer for all, particularly Black communities and communities of color. These steps, in conjunction with allocating funds towards a research committee on the most effective ways to reduce crime and violence through community investment, will help pave the way for a safer Portland for all. Thank you, Sai. Next? The next three will be John Carter, Timothy Ho, and Ruth Rockefield. So we'll go with John Carter. Thank you.
 John, you're muted. Oh, not anymore. Not anymore. You're welcome. All right. You're welcome. I speak today as a citizen of Portland. I believe PBB needs to be defunded and the police union dismantled. As a power broker of the city, the union has largely escaped accountability and
 and can be funding for community protection agencies throughout the city designed by people who have connections of shared experience, true accountability and empathy because they are run by the community, the people for which they actually protect and serve.
 The police apparatus of today is constantly looking for ways to justify and solidify its need and existence. It looks to create and seek out problems, selectively enforce the law to extort money and liberty from the oppressed, and feed the prison industrial complex whenever possible. It's parasitic and enforces the caste system in all but name for black and other people of color.
 split the $246 million budget in half, 50% for a new community protection program, and for the other half, every penny of it goes towards reparations for communities torn apart by police oppression and gentrification.
 We can no longer hide a rigged system and call it a free market. Portland cannot truly thrive until black and other people of color can thrive as well. And as long as we have the PPB and the PPA in place and no reparations for a population victim to a system rigged against them, we will never reach our potential as a people. Given that all the cards have been stacked against these populations for the city's entire history, a complete reimagining of what law enforcement looks like is the least we can do.
 Thank you for your time. Thank you, John. Timothy's name? Yes. Yeah. I'm a person of color and a resident of Northeast Portland in the Coley neighborhood. And I am here, among others, to advocate for reducing the budget to the Portland Police Bureau by $50 million and calling for the abolishment of PPB and reinvesting those funds into the community. The $7 million announced yesterday is a start, but it's not enough.
 The route to policing in America had been less about public safety and more about reinforcing existing power structures. Given Oregon's racist roots, it's easy to see how communities of color can be negatively affected by an increased police state. Furthermore, I'm concerned about the increased militarization of local police forces in recent years, including PPB. During recent protests, we have all seen the photos and videos of Portland police tear gassing our own residents.
 But let's call it what it is. This is chemical warfare. These are tools meant to inflict harm. And I don't know why we are engaging in chemical warfare on our own community members. Now is the time to act. Now is the time for broad change. Now is the time to demilitarize, defund, and abolish PPB. Crime occurs because of inequities and divestment in our community.
 It's time to reappropriate public funds away from the police and towards making our community better. Towards schools, parks, housing, and programs meant to enrich our lives. Towards more substance abuse counselors, mental health, and homeless advocates. We can do better. The Nibble offer yesterday, the $7 million, does not satiate our appetite.
 Eliminating the gun violence reduction team, the TriMet police and SRLs are too incremental. We need to act more boldly. I agree with others here in cutting the budget by $50 million and abolishing the Portland Police Bureau. I want to be brief. I only have two minutes here and I want to hear from other BIPOC community members. Two minutes is all I have and it's over six minutes less than Derek Chauvin had his knee on the back of George Floyd's neck.
 So please stop the census killings, stop engaging in chemical warfare on our citizens. Let's be bold, demilitarize our police, defund our police, and invest in our communities. Thank you. Thank you, Timothy. Caller, who's next? Ruth Rockefield. Welcome, Ruth. Good afternoon, Council. My name is Ruth Rockefield. I am
 A resident of the Northeast neighborhood Concordia, which historically was a black neighborhood of Portland, which no longer resembles its former self in large part due to
 efforts by the Portland Police Bureau. I am calling for the defunding of the police, the same as Unite Oregon and PULF. And I will keep this very brief because I know you're going to hear the same thing over and over today from people better equipped than I. But especially in
 Defunding CERT, which we have seen deploy chemical warfare against our own citizens. The Gun Violence Reduction Team, which has been incredibly detrimental to the BIPOC community here. The Juvenile Gang Enforcement Team, which has also been incredibly destructive to so many young BIPOC members of this community.
 and also the homeless outreach programs and engagement, which has not served its purpose in the way it should. I'm calling for these portions of the budget to be reallocated to reparations, to community outreach programs,
 and community building programs, and especially to social services, which are so desperately underfunded in this city and are not able to provide as they need to for the very people that the Portland Police Bureau harms. Thank you. Thank you, Ruth. Carla, who are the next three? The next three are Catherine Hayes, Jeanette Ward-Horton, and Nicole Javali.
 So we'll go to Catherine Hayes. Welcome, Catherine. Catherine, you're on mute.
 Catherine, can you get your mute button off? I'm off mute, thank you. Thank you. I'm here just quickly to, again, support the defunding of the police, specifically supporting Commissioner Hardisky's amendments to the city budget. I am a resident of the city of Portland, I live in St. John's, and I'm also the daughter of
 former police officer and someone who has been really inspired by Commissioner Harvesty's commitment to this issue and has really been changed by the incredible
 support of my fellow city of Portland residents. I appreciate the opportunity here to come out and support defunding the police and thank Commissioner Hardesty for all of her hard work. Thank you. Thank you, Catherine. Appreciate you being here. Jared is next. Jeanette Ward-Horton. Oh, I'm sorry, Jeanette. Jeanette, welcome. Jeanette, are you there? Jeanette, you're not on mute, but it looks like we're not able to hear you.
 We'll see if we can help with that. Why don't we go to Nicole? Hi, can everyone hear me? Yes, I can. Welcome. Great.
 Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. I think I'm going to join with every so many other people here and expressing my deep concern about the Portland Police Bureau's behavior both in these past two weeks as they've gassed and shot at protesters and their previous work killing Deontay Keller, Lloyd, Tony Stevenson, Kendra James, Jahar Perez, Aaron Campbell, and many others.
 Policing in Portland is fundamentally broken and I would urge the City Council to take this moment when our contract with the Portland Police Association is about to expire to follow Minneapolis' example and disband our police force entirely. At the very least, I would urge you to consider defunding the Portland Police Bureau and insisting on amendments to the Portland Police Association contract that can help remediate these issues.
 As so many others, including Unite Oregon and the Portland African American Leadership Forum have called for, I would ask the City Council to reduce the Portland Police Bureau budget by $50 million and to listen to the recommendations of our community who have been most harmed by the Portland Police Bureau's actions in determining where reality was. Second, it is imperative to update the community on the status of the Portland Police Association's contract renewal. While it is understandable that COVID has canceled several meetings, the lack of information and transparency about the status of this process is egregious.
 I urge the city, please do not accept any contract with the Portland Police Association that does not include meaningful improvements to community oversight of policing and consequences for police misconduct.
 Specifically, I would ask that you A, fix the decision matrix that determines consequences for officer misbehavior. It's absurd that an officer must repeatedly commit biased acts and have these acts documented before the city can impose consequences, and that the cap on consequences for biased behavior is three weeks unpaid leave. B, the city needs a way to fire officers who use excessive force or engage in biased acts without those decisions being overturned by binding arbitration. These behaviors are unacceptable, and we should give no quarter to those engaged in them. It's also...
 Quite frankly, puzzling how, as an employer, we are unable to fire those who undermine our own work. Stop allowing officers who are accused of misconduct or breaking law to access to special information and resources and privileges that are not extended to all Portlanders. N.D. Increase civilian oversight of the Portland Police Association and inform a body that would be able to review...
 allegations of excessive force and biased acts, and specifically that would review all uses of deadly force. Again, while completely disbanding Portland Police Bureau, we want to achieve all of these aims much more efficiently. In the meantime, please update us on the status of the Portland Police Association contract negotiations and push for a contract that follows the recommendations I've listed above. Thank you very much for your time.
 Thank you, Nicole. And let me just say, you know, labor contracts does not allow labor negotiations actually really restricts our ability to talk to the public about what's going on. But next week, there should be something on the city council agenda that may interest you as it relates to that contract.
 Thank you. I'm simply concerned because there have been no updates since February that I can find. And legally we are obligated to actually not publicly talk about a contract that's under negotiation. So I just want you to understand it's not that we don't want to talk about it. We are just legally obligated to not do that.
 until we're at a place that we know what direction we're headed. Let me just say that I think if you, next week, I hope that you will support the direction that we're moving in. Right, thank you very much, Commissioner. Thank you, Nicole. Appreciate you calling in. Let's go back and see if we can hear Jeanette before we call the next three callers. Jeanette, can we, how's your volume now? How is it now? Oh, perfect. Oh, good. That's good. Great.
 Thank you. I'm Jeanette Ward-Horton and I'm from New Leaf Project. We heard yesterday that Mayor Wheeler has set aside $12 million to invest in black and brown communities, $7 million from the police budget and $5 million from other sources. It is a real step, but it's not the same as results. People writing and protesting are asking for real change. They can see.
 Commissioner Udailey mentioned this. We believe there must be a committee made up by Black and Brown community members who ensure those funds directly reach Black and Brown Portlanders. The committee and the city should set measurable multi-year goals for improvements in education, income, housing, and health care for Black, Native, and Latinx Portlanders.
 Those goals need to be transparent and available for public feedback. And the investments need to increase. POWF, Unite, and others have set aside larger numbers, and I support the continuation of these conversations and moving us further ahead. It's a start, but not enough. I have two young sons I'm raising in Portland. Ten years from now, I would like them to be able to see opportunity and excellence.
 within their community. And I would like them to feel that Portland is a place that they could raise their children and those children could see opportunity and excellence in their community. Thank you.
 So Jeanette, you may be happy with one of my amendments that I will be putting in tomorrow. I have an amendment to put a million dollars aside for a Black leadership development program that would be controlled by Black youth, not by people who say they represent Black youth, but the youth themselves.
 And so I think you will be excited about that amendment as it comes forward tomorrow, as we continue this negotiation. I'm excited to see that. Yes, I thought you would be. Thank you. Yes, thank you for the time. You're welcome. Carla, who's our next three? I have Ali Hamdan, Muf Maeda and Sage Hayden. Welcome.
 Who was first? Ali Hamdan. Ali? Welcome. I don't see Ali. A-L-I, Ali. I don't see him. Let's go to number two. If Ali is there, please put your hand up and we'll come back to you. We'll go with Muf Mayeda. Muf Mayeda.
 Hi there, hi. My name is Sarah Onitsuka. I'm stepping in from MOVE. I'm representing Asians for Black Lives Portland, a collective of Asians fighting for justice and liberation with Black and African people since 2014. We are testifying today to advocate for the disbandment of the PPB, starting with a 50 million dollar divestment of funds for this budget cycle and every year forward. We believe that policing is fundamentally white supremacist.
 American policing grew directly out of slave patrols, an organized effort to catch runaways and spread terror among enslaved people. Modern day policing continues its violent and racist legacy, and the Portland Police are no exception. We see the ways the PBB target and murder Black people, their ties to white nationalist organizations, the sexual assault and domestic violence perpetrated at their jobs and in their own homes. We do not believe the police can be reformed. They must be disbanded in order to end the violence and terror they inflict in our community.
 The reality is that no single alternative can replace police or prisons, but there are BIPOC abolitionists who have been creating practical alternatives for decades. These leaders believe that we must create new structures and systems that cultivate conditions of safety. This means access to healthcare, education, housing, and food for everyone, especially those who have been historically oppressed. Abolition is actually the most loving process we can undertake for our society.
 Agents for Black Lives is here today not as a monolith, but as a collective of diasporic individuals who've been directly harmed by policing and white supremacy, especially those of us with intersecting marginalized identities. As Asians, we simultaneously benefit from white supremacy and are frequently positioned to further oppress and criminalize Black folks. So we are here today to emphasize what the Council must do to break this cycle.
 It brings us hope to see power beginning to shift back towards the community in Minneapolis. This is not only possible, but necessary in Portland as well. City Council, we are asking you to take a real step toward justice and safety for our community. Vote to defund the Portland police and move toward a police-free future. Thank you. Thank you, MOVE. Next caller was Sage Payton. Sage, welcome. Thank you.
 Hi. First off, I'd like to say thank you for having me here. I'm a member of, I was born and raised in southeast Portland, but I currently live in northeast Portland. I'll keep my statement short because you're going to hear it a lot today, and I'm sure there are more people that can say it better than I can. I am asking that you completely defund and disband the police and start looking to get out.
 use social workers instead, because I think that something like that would be much better for the community. I would also like to point out Oregon's historical, oh my god, Oregon's history of white supremacy and KKK-related affiliates within our Portland Police Bureau. Starting out with Mark Kruger, who put up a Nazi shrine in our parks and was barely able
 uh, reprimanded at all. And actually his record was completely a sponge in 2014. I would also like to point out that in the 1980s, our police chief started a smoke them, don't choke them, um, campaign against, uh, people. And when he was trying to, when he tried to be reprimanded for it, uh, he was, uh,
 extremely against it. Sorry. All I ask is that you please get rid of the police union if you believe in change and that you completely disband the board of police and that you start being leaders that we asked you to be. Thank you. That is all. Thank you, Paige. Next? The next group of three will be Andrea Valderrama, Joy Davis, and Megan Myers. Thank you. Welcome, Andreana.
 Hi there, can you hear me okay? Yes, I can hear you fine, thank you. Great, thank you. I first just wanted to say my sincere condolences to Mayor Wheeler for the loss of his mother. Mayor Wheeler and members of the council, thank you so much for the opportunity to testify on this item. My name is Andrea Valderrama. I currently serve as the advocacy director for the Coalition of Communities of Color. I am a registered lobbyist with the Portland, with the city of Portland speaking on behalf of CCC.
 In the fiscal year 2020-2021 general fund guidance, it stated that Mayor Wheeler is directing and challenging leaders and managers to take bold action beyond their bureau walls to find ways to deliver services better and more cost efficiently.
 and more cost efficiently. However, there is $246.2 million for the Portland Police Bureau, which is about a third of the general fund budget. When compared to other priority issue areas, homelessness at $46 million, $214.8 million in PHB, parks at $197.5 million, climate change and...
 placement litigation, there is a significant discrepancy. The PPB budget is unstable, as noted in the CBO's review of the PPB budget, and we urge you all to vote to defund and re-envision what public safety looks like. Armed law enforcement, whether they are
 school resource officers, police officers, or ICE maintain white comfort at the expense of Black, Indigenous, people of color and do not equate to public safety for our communities. And so we're calling on you to stop funding this violence towards our communities to put Black lives before Black deaths and have three main asks led by two of our organizations
 Health and Unite Oregon. One, immediately defund the Portland Police Bureau by 50 million. Two, never again vote to increase the PPV budget. And three, refund and reinvest in community-led strategies for health, safety, housing, and basic needs for Black Indigenous people of color.
 Measures of community safety aren't just about 911 response times. It's about jogging, Ahmed Amri, sleeping in your own home, Breonna Taylor, walking from the corner store, Mike Brown, driving, walking, or biking to work, to going to school, and countless other measures Black community members have repeatedly died for.
 I also urge you all to find upstream approaches to redefining core services and addressing overtime. And I think PSEP is the right community led space to have those discussions. I'll close by saying that we need courageous leadership in this moment, bold visionaries ready to fight for black lives and challenge a status quo that clearly has never worked, was never designed to work for BIPOC communities. And I urge you to answer these calls today. Thank you so much for the opportunity to testify.
 Thank you so much. Is Joy next? Is that correct? It's Joy Elise. Joy Elise? Welcome. Can you hear me okay? I can hear you fine.
 Great. Hello. My name is Joy Elise Davis, Executive Director of Pulse and Pulse Action Fund. Thank you, commissioners, for this time. I urge you today to cut the Portland police budget by $50 million. Along with Unite Oregon, we sent a letter outlining our full request. We hope that you review that letter as a part of my testimony today.
 All across this country, black people live with the everyday reality of being subjected to police occupation. But we are here not only because of Breonna Taylor and George Floyd, we are here because of our own community experiences with violence, surveillance, exclusion and incarceration due to the Portland Police Bureau. We are here to name some of those who've lost to police violence here in Portland.
 I want to name Lloyd Tony Stevenson, Cornice Hayes, Kendra James, Andre C. Gladden, Keaton Otis, and Aaron M. Campbell.
 I want to hold that for a second. Whether the police chief has been black or white, the Portland police have been violent in defense of whiteness and private property. We are allowing the city of Portland to displace, to disenfranchise, and to do violence against black people. This can no longer be tolerated. Despite the attempts to reform and oversight by local elected officials, city committees, and the US Department of Justice, Portland police has not had any meaningful change. We hear our commissioners say that they recognize that we have
 seen real change in culture and activities of the Portland police. We are saddened by their analysis does not lead to the same conclusions that we have been led to. The proposals we've shared, we've heard from the elected officials are not sufficient and we ask that you catch up with us now. I say again, the proposals we have heard from our elected officials are not sufficient and we ask that you catch up with us now. As we follow our colleagues at Don't Shoot, Critical Resistance, Courtland, Care Not Cops,
 black and pink, we demand immediate reduction of harm to our communities through policing that compel the Portland police to stop doing violence against us. We do not support reforms that simply create friendlier or community-ordinate policing. I say that again, we do not support reforms that create friendlier policing. There is no policing that does not threaten us. We support a platform to defund, reinvest, and protect as a movement away from policing and towards a new imagination of public safety. Please cut...
 $50 million from the Portland police budget by this year and reinvest into black futures. I strongly hope that later today we hear the full list of the many black folks that have been killed by the Portland police. Thank you. Thank you, Joy Elise. Who's next caller? That would be Megan Myers. Megan, welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I just want to say that we're in a moment of history. You as the commissioners have the ability to create real and lasting change here, right here and right now.
 The entire country is calling out for revolution, for an overhaul of a system that has been built on the backs of Black people and the land of Native people. Portland considers itself a liberal haven, but I myself have witnessed the brutality of the police and the racism involved in our very department. Abolition of the police department is the only way forward, but I will say that massive defunding is the first right step. I urge all of you as the commissioners,
 and Mayor Wheeler to please start by defunding and taking away the money that polices or communities. Thank you. Thank you, Megan. Carla, who's the next three? You may be on mute, Carla. Yep, sure was. Allie Ferlotti, Scotty Lawrence, and Emma Firth. Allie, welcome.
 Hi. Okay. So my name is Allie Frilotti. Thank you so much. I want to propose that instead of giving $50 million to PBB, it goes to Whitebird or Cahoots, which is used in Eugene and Springfield, and it covers about 130,000 people, no, 300,000 people. So if you double their working budget, which is 2.6 million, we could have an organization meet...
 Over 50% of the 911 dispatch calls for 5.6 million dollars. These are mental health professionals domestic violence professionals People that are unarmed Medics and that would take care of so much stuff that the Bureau has
 has used violence again. Kelly, Ali, we're just, clearly, all of us are getting used to our new technology, so it's wonderful to hear children in the background and lots of activities. I just wanted to take a moment to let it quiet down again so we could hear your testimony. You may start again.
 Well, that was actually it. She kind of just, she silenced me pretty well. Rerouted to Cahoots, Whitebird or Street Research, you know, any one of these organizations that's taking the bulk of 911 calls and making it about housing, mental health, domestic violence and things that PBB isn't educated in dealing with. So Allie, I would also like to see some sort of oversight committee so that this stuff is followed through with.
 Allie, I just want you to know that will be one of my amendments. You may know that we were going to start a pilot, but then the pandemic hit where we were going to have one unit. I am proposing that we start with six and then grow it from there.
 CAHOOTS IS A FABULOUS MODEL AND WE WILL DEFINITELY BE IMPLEMENTING THAT AS SOON AS WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO BE OUT ON THE STREETS AND ENGAGING ONCE AGAIN. SO I APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT OF PORTLAND STREET RESPONSE IN THAT WAY. THANK YOU SO MUCH, COMMISSIONER HARDISY. THANK YOU. APPRECIATE YOU BEING HERE. I BELIEVE EMMA'S NEXT.
 Scotty Morris. Oh, I'm sorry, Scotty. Please, Scotty. Welcome. Yes, I'm here. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. I needed myself. Oh, okay. Thank you so much for having me. I am just going to cede my time to BIPOC boys. Thank you, Scotty. Is there anything you want to say that you support? Yay or nay? I guess Scotty was done. Moving on, Emma. Emma?
 Hi, yes. I am a Portland resident of the last 10 years, and I am here to urge you to adopt the divestment proposal made by the Portland African American Leadership Forum. For the last two weeks, I have been heartbroken and horrified at the way police have, at all the information about how police have been killing and brutalizing people, particularly people of color in both this city and across the country with violence.
 no regard for our rights or humanity. And I am very furious about how our police department has responded to those protesting policies with tear grass and curfews. I used to think that reforming the police was enough, but I no longer believe that that is possible. I think the only way to move forward is to deep on the police and reinvest that money into the community
 as the Portland African American Leadership Forum's proposal suggests, including cutting the PPB budget by 50 million and committing to ever increasing again, among many other things. I think this is a good proposal and that's what we should do going forward. Thank you. Thank you, Emma. Appreciate your testimony. Who are the next three? Carla, you may still be muted.
 I thank you. I show Connie Wong, James Calkins, and Annette Johnson. Thank you. Connie, are you on the phone? You will need to unmute yourself.
 I'm here. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Great. Thank you. Thank you so much for your time this afternoon, Council. I'm Connie Wan, resident of Arbor Lodge in Multnomah County. I'm here to speak to the agenda item 452 regarding the adoption and implementation of the 2021 budget. First and foremost, some of the suggested ideas the city can address is
 $75 million deficit and the $4.4 million proposed budget. It is clear from the 12 days of protests and outpouring of emails that at least one in every 20 Oregonians want this reform. Some actionable items to focus on. Demilitarizing the police. Defunding transit police.
 defunding the gun violence reduction team, defunding special emergency reaction team, divesting cannabis tax funds. Thank you from OCA and other cannabis leaders that we've heard from today from the PPB budget and reinvesting that in reparations for those affected by the war on drugs, reducing Multnomah County and DOC budgets,
 divesting from electronic monitoring programs, divesting from juvenile gang enforcement team, and finally disarming the PSU campus police. The cops are doing too much. When the police are filling the gap for the work of social service, domestic violence counselors, substance abuse support, and community-based organizations, they are doing too much that they aren't trained properly for.
 These problems are heightened and highlighted and escalated by the arrival of aggressive police who are untrained for these specific issues. Not to mention the police are typically ableist and not able to have the right skills to handle any situation, including many forms of communication. For example, ASL, nonviolent communication, or even being multilingual.
 We can support the mental health infrastructure and the criminalization of houselessness, support many who have been marginalized, and truly train police to manage actual criminal activity. The goal would be a community-led restorative justice process for healing from the traumas and long-standing oppression of a policy state and police state, and a policy rooted in white privilege and supremacy. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you, Connie. Appreciate you taking the time to be here. I believe we have Jamie next. James Calkins. My apologies. James, are you on the line? Yes. Hello, Commissioner Hardesty. Hi, James. I'd like to forego my testimony to give more time to my BIPOC neighbors and community members. I appreciate that. Thank you, James. Thank you. Who's next, Carla? Annette Johnson.
 Annette, please unmute yourself. Yes, I'm unmuted now. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Welcome. I'm a vendor for Street Roots, and I would just like to speak on the program where they're going to have the police show up and arrive, you know, the Portland pilot program.
 The Portland Street response, that one? The Portland Street response. And I'm speaking from experience myself. I have almost 17 years in recovery. I've been to prison five times, et cetera, et cetera, drug addict, all that. And I've filmed lately every time I see the cops pulling over a mental health person. And I live on a busy street.
 And they're just screaming. It's like 10 cops. And I had videos of it to show. And I would just like to see more help out there for the people that are homeless and that need help instead of the police coming and not knowing exactly what to do.
 I do have a lot of concern when I hear people say defund the police department. So I was just kind of looking it up on the web to get a better understanding of that, because most black people here are
 with any type of record are not able to carry a weapon. So when you consider this racist problem that's going on right now, I would hate to be sitting in a situation where a bunch of white people came jacking me up with a whole bunch of guns.
 and I didn't have nobody really to protect me. So there's two sides of every, you know, story. But my main concern is my protection and the protection of my nephews, my great nephews, that, you know, I'm happy with the protests. I'm happy with all that other stuff. It's during the coronavirus, more blacks are dying. It's just a lot going on right now. But my main concern,
 a concern is to see people that are on the streets get the kind of help that they're going to do with the Portland Street response. That was on the board. That's what we were talking about. COVID stopped that. And I see it every day. I have tons of videos on my phone seeing what is happening.
 Thank you, Annette. Appreciate your testimony. And you have a strong champion. You have the whole board champions Portland Street Response, and we're going to invest more dollars in that. Okay, thank you. From one van to six is my proposal. I'm hoping that that will pass tomorrow. Thank you. Okay, shout out to Street Roots. Hey, hey.
 Thank you very much. Carla, next three, please. Next three are Yoko Stiltz, Jenna, and Brendan Buell. Welcome, Yoko.
 Hi there, can you hear me? Yes ma'am, I can hear. Awesome. I am a City of Portland employee and so I'm presenting my testimony on behalf of 25 other City of Portland employees. This is an open letter from a diverse group of concerned employees. We're not acting in our official capacity. We do not claim to represent the positions of our bureaus but we are exercising our right to free speech in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement. This letter was written off the clock, no city resources were used.
 We felt that it was important to speak out specifically because we are City of Portland employees. We stand in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement.
 and for all those calling for racial justice and institutional change. As employees, we are uniquely positioned to see the disparities in the city budget. As such, we call on city council to allocate money directly into programs serving marginalized community members and youth rather than a larger militarized police force. The institution of policing has to drastically change and be recreated from the ground up. It's well past time to create a truly community-oriented public safety program that focuses on support rather than incarceration.
 As a step in the right direction, we ask that the council take the following actions. Defund the gun violence reduction team, thank you, and ban the use of militarized crowd control tactics, thank you. Increase ongoing funding to mental health response programs like street response, also thank you for recognizing that. Demilitarizing the police force and redirect money to programs that offer direct assistance to the most vulnerable community members.
 Demand accountability of Portland Police Force by supporting the Independent Police Review Board. Ensure that the people who sit on that review board are from the communities most impacted by policing. Demand transparency and discipline accountability from the Portland Police Association. No qualified immunity. Prioritize and mandate increased de-escalation and racial bias training and demand that the officer recruitment strategy reflect those values.
 For example, rather than a question that asks about the willingness to use deadly force, we could use a question on the supplemental question sheet about willingness to use nonviolent de-escalation. Shift certain responsibilities and associated funding away from the police bureau and to agencies and community groups more equipped to deal with issues like homelessness, mental health crises, drug abuse, and school safety.
 Elevate and support staff, those within the Police Bureau who are actively working to dismantle the institution of racism that exists within policing. Ban no-knock warrants and implement a zero-tolerance policy for police brutality and misconduct. Thank you. The following City of Portland staff, which are employed by PPNR, BES, BDS, and BPS.
 Yoko Silk, Rachel Burlington. I don't have to read all the names if my time is out. There's 25 of us. I will send in the letter. Please do. I was just going to suggest that. Thank you so much. Really appreciate you taking the time to be here. Thank you.
 I believe is next. Hi, my name is Jenna and I wanted to be another voice in support of the proposal by the Portland African American Leadership Forum in United Oregon to reduce police funding by 50 million, reinvest that funding in black teachers and commit to not increasing police funding again. I don't think we have to be killing people. I don't think we have to be hurting people. I don't think we have to be about that. I don't think Portland has to be about that.
 Um, that's how I yield the ring. Thank you very much. I was sweetened to the point. Appreciate that. Brandon, you're next. You may be muted. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Yeah. I just want to echo what a lot of other community members are saying and advocate for $50 million to be taken away from the PPB. And briefly, I'd like to say that these last 11 nights have been a sort of a litmus test about whether or not police are able to be expert.
 delayed situations and they generally have failed and used tear gas on mostly peaceful crowds and I want to see the remainder of my time. Thank you very much Brandon. I want to check in with my colleagues. Would you like to take a five minute break or would you like to just keep going? Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Udeli. I'm fine, up to you.
 All right. We'll just keep going. I will plan to take a break then in about 15 minutes, just so that I can get the blood circulating in my legs again. Let's see. Carla, if you will be kind enough to call the next three names. The next three are Amira Tripp Folsom, Will Freworth, and Angela Foster. Thank you. Amira, you're next. Welcome. Hi, can you hear me?
 Yes, I can. Just fine. Okay. My name is Amir Chitfulsum. I'm an 18-year-old Black woman, and I'm tired of living in fear of the police. Throughout my life, I've learned that the police have never existed to protect and serve me.
 The Portland police protect white supremacists like the Proud Boys and throw tear gas at people like me when only one of us is demanding to be treated like a human being. The police are a reaction to crime, but instead of always being reactive, we must be proactive. We must ask why are crimes being committed in the first place? What are the unmet needs of that person or that community to feel that their only option is crime? Seven million dollars is not enough.
 I'm asking City Council to do the right thing and cut $50 million from the police budget and eventually disband the PPB and give that money to BIPOC communities that can actually put that money to good use. The policing system that we have now is not only ineffective, but it is discriminatory, classist, and racist as proven by the previous testimonies.
 It is time that we divest from the police and invest in community initiatives that will lower crime and actually keep our community safe. I want to conclude with the fact that there was a time when people in this country could not imagine a life where slavery did not exist. There was a time when people in this country could not imagine a life where segregation did not exist. And one day in the future, people will say there was a time when people in this country could not imagine a life where policing did not exist.
 Remember that this is not only for George Floyd, but for all the innocent black people who have been murdered by the police, including the Portland Police Bureau. For Patrick Kimmons, Terrell Johnson, Keaton Otis, Andre Gladden, Quanice Hayes, Kendra James, Jason Washington, James Perez, Byron Hammock, Aaron Campbell, Coben Henderson, Janelle Fritz, James Chase, Lane Martin, Christopher Kalonji, and many more. Remember them.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Will, you're next. Welcome. Hi, thank you for your time. My name is Will Freworth. I'm a white resident of Southeast Portland. And I just wanted to use my time to thank Commissioner Hardesty for your decades of work on dismantling white supremacy in our institutional systems in the city of Portland and in our community. And to thank Commissioner Udigli for your leadership in recent days and to urge the
 Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Wheeler to join the two of you in taking bold action to defund the police in the Portland Police Bureau. And also to amplify the voices of the Portland African American Leadership Forum and Unite Oregon in their calls to defund the police, starting with the gun violence reduction team, transit police, CERT,
 school resource officer program and to commit to not increasing the budget for Portland Police Bureau in the future and that's all I've got. Thank you. Thank you Will. We're gonna move to Angela. Welcome. Hi, thank you. Can you hear me? Yes I can.
 Okay, great. First, I want to say that I speak in favor of PELP and Unite Oregon for defunding of the police. Second, I want to speak on the main budget cut, which was the body-worn camera program by Ted Wheeler. Nancy Pelosi just announced a new reform to require body cams, but that's actually not enough.
 So I wanted to talk about a little bit about a budget for citizen oversight and correspondence for law changes.
 Basically, I want to base that off of the objective reasonability that is a standard set by the Supreme Court for officers. I think that's a one-sided and it can sway the outcome and we don't get the same liberties as they do, as the police officers do in the court system. Also, many cities have weak rules in place allowing the department to refuse to share footage with civilians who want to file complaints.
 So what I'd like is for our city to protect its citizens. In partnership with the body-worn camera program, we need to adequately establish and fund citizen oversight and require police body cam data to be collected and to be reported. Citizen oversight is also needed to protect the citizens from qualified immunity.
 In correspondence to the body-worn camera program, if we create laws that require the footage to be collected properly, we can essentially stop the police from alleging malice and using the history of a perpetrator to suggest such malice, basically protecting our constitutional rights, innocent until proven guilty.
 Lastly, I'd like us to stop sequencing if we can. It causes unnecessary cuts, costs. It does not expand constitutional rights. And here as a state, we can do that by basically making a clear law. The clearer the law, the more likely a reasonable official would know the law and hesitate before acting. We need to create clear laws to define the hazy border between excessive and acceptable force here in Portland.
 And that's all I have. Thank you very much, Angela. Carla, please, the next three. The next three are Yesenia Pasqual-Bendia, Chris Hooper, and Marissa Essex. I don't see, oh, Yesenia. Hi. Welcome.
 So yeah, my name is Yesenia Pascual Buendia, and this is actually my first time stating a testimony. I am a first-generation Mexican-American, and I live in southeast Portland. So on page 29 of the annual budget, it lists that Portland Police Bureau received about $2.3 million from recreational marijuana tax dollars. And I'm sure we all know, but I'll just give a brief explanation for, like, why I think this is unethical. Okay.
 In from 2001 to 2010, about 8.2 million drug-related arrests were made and 88% of them were just for having marijuana. People of color and specifically black people are about four times more likely to be arrested for marijuana charges.
 And historically, police have been charging people of color for drug charges and creating more disparities in those communities for years. We need to remove these unhelpful policing practices and reinvest in disadvantaged communities that have been affected by policing and constant surveillance.
 I'm specifically requesting that you move the 2.3 million from the budget and reinvest in people of color that are leaving our prisons. 90% of people that are in prison will be getting out and there's not enough resources for them that will set them up for success, which in hand just makes many of them go right back in. And I just want to speak from like personal experience because I do feel like that's a little bit more powerful. And although I'm not black, I am a first-generation Mexican who has been affected by over policing and unfair justice system that affects people of color.
 Like, my father was deported when I was a child without a fair trial for the charges that he was given. And separate from that, my uncle, who is also Mexican, has been in prison for drug charges for about five years. He was recently released about last year, and then less than six months later, he was arrested for violating his parole for marijuana possession. And the reason why I'm sharing this is just because I want to say that the majority of people that are in prison are not inherently bad people.
 many people have been placed in a system that was like designed to be against them and for them, waiting for them to fail. So I'm just requesting that the city reallocates the 2.3 million that we are receiving for marijuana, like recreational marijuana, and provide more resources for people that are going to be released from prison to help set them up for that success, like increasing social workers and investing in community organizations, and just to stop over policing people that are transitioning and searching for any mistakes that they'll be making.
 Thank you so much for your testimony. Appreciate it. Chris, you're next.
 Yes, hello. And I just wanted to say thank you to you, Commissioner, for your leadership, along with Commissioner Udaly. Obviously, Mayor Wheeler seems to be a huge failure in this. And basically, my comment today is just to Commissioner Fritz. You've been, your silence has been deafening. And I hope all four of you take this opportunity to...
 be actual decent human beings and not politicians, and defund the police by $50 million. Thank you. Thank you, Chris. Marissa, you're next. Marissa, you're on mute. Marissa, can you get off mute? If not, we'll call the next three names. We'll go back to Marissa. Carla, please. The next three are Brittany Tinkler, Jaclyn Diaz, and Abigail Rose.
 Thank you. Brittany, you're next. Welcome. Brittany, you're on mute. Brittany, are you able to get off mute? If you're on the phone, it's star six to get off mute. If you're on the computer, you should see on the left-hand side a button that allows you, if you just touch the screen, to allow you to unmute.
 Oh, hi there. I'm just, um, I'm just listening in so you can move on to the next one. Okay. Thank you very much. I wanted to give you an opportunity. Appreciate it. Jacqueline, uh, you're next.
 Hi, my name is Jacqueline Diaz. I am a resident of northeast Portland. I apologize for messing up your name. No worries, so many people get it wrong. I'm not the first one to do so. I'm here like every, so many people asking you all to please not approve the budgets at Fort.
 which is allotting over 200 million dollars for the Portland Police Bureau. 200 million. That is absurd compared to other sectors and other offices that don't get enough funding. Like others have called for, I'm asking for
 at least a $50 million reduction in the Portland Police Bureau budget. That is the bare minimum that we were asking for. And, yeah,
 Yeah, this is my first time making a comment like this. So I'm kind of nervous. But let's see. We need to redirect funding, as others have stated. Immediate funds for their specialty units within the police bureau. The money is there.
 Guys, there's no reason why the police can be receiving all of these funds while others are struggling. Commissioners, you have the opportunity to think creatively and work alongside with the community to find solutions for us. Please do not let us down. Thank you so much. Appreciate your testimony. Next, we'll hear from Abigail. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, I can. Hi.
 My name is Abigail Rose. I live in inner southeast Portland. As a taxpaying citizen, I demand a complete divestment and a commitment to disbanding the Portland police. I demand that money be reinvested in building Black futures and community care that is not reliant on the logic or practices of policing, surveillance, or incarceration. There is strong evidence that these methods create safer communities, like when in Camden, New Jersey, disbanded their police system in 2012, where violent crimes dropped 42%.
 Oregon has historically been one of the most systematically and socially racist states in the country. For example, Black folks were not constitutionally allowed to own land in Oregon until 1973. Dismantling our police structure is a vital start to creating a community where Black folks can thrive. I have personally been physically, emotionally, and mentally traumatized by the Portland Police Bureau for the last 13 days.
 I have watched the police target black folks in peaceful protests and brutalize them mercilessly. I have seen the police use toxic tear gas on children and open fire into a crowd of people utilizing their First Amendment rights.
 I have seen the police instigate violence and bloodshed over and over. I demand a future where myself and my loved ones feel safe from the cruel, racist, systemic brutality that the Portland police offered to this community. A future without police. I demand that these funds be used to support the healing and growth of the Black community and are redistributed into mental health services, business loans, affordable housing, and education. Thank you.
 Thank you, Abigail. I appreciate your testimony today. Caller, I'd like to call for a five-minute recess. Okay. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. Be back in five minutes. It is now 3.46 by my phone. See you in a minute. Okay. Calling the meeting back to order. Caller, who are the next three individuals? Yes.
 Let's see, we're going to go with Marissa Essex, Sharon White, and Tabitha McMillican. Hi, this is Marissa. Are you able to hear me? Yes, I can. Awesome. Thank you. My microphone's working. Thank you so much, commissioners, for holding this space. I'm going to be brief and submit the rest of my testimony in email form. However, I do want to speak on one thing from personal experience. I'm the mother of an autistic child.
 She's white and I want to know what you guys are doing to support accessibility for Portlanders who are black and differently abled It was pointed out by a recent video posted by ASL interpreter Andrew Tolman that the police are in direct violation of ADA Accessibility laws and I would like you guys to do a better job of supporting that I voted for you believing that you would do So thank you. Thank you Sharon you're next Sharon. You're on mute. Can you get off mute shine? Oh
 I'll go to Tabitha and then come back. Tabitha, you're next. Hi, Commissioner. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Thank you. I'm a resident of St. John's, Portland, and a proud volunteer of Portland People's Outreach Project. As we've been going through this pandemic, it's been very obvious that the Joint Office of Homeless Services is either inept or underfunded in a way that's able to properly care for the people who live outside Portland.
 Over 50% of the people who were arrested last year were homeless. And I don't understand why our only response to public health and public safety is police. I would like to see the rest of my time to BIPOC. Thank you. Thank you, Tabitha. Sean, we're going to try you again. Can you get off mute? If you touch your screen at the bottom, you should see a button up that allows you to unmute yourself.
 We will come back to you later, Sharon, if you're able to make that happen. Carla, who's the next three? I'm sorry, here, let's see. I believe it is, we might have Andrew McAllister, and we should have Quentin Blanton and Nicole Dobro. Andrew, welcome. I'm not seeing him. He may have gotten disconnected. So we should go Quentin Blanton.
 I'm not seeing Quentin either. Who's the next person? They may have just been on to listen. So we'll just keep going. Who's next? I see Matthew. Matthew Salentano. Nope, wrong one. I see Matthew. Matthew, please unmute yourself. It's your turn.
 Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty and council members. My name is Matthew Salentano. I'm a white man and I live in Northeast Portland. I just want to quickly register my support for the demands released by Unite Oregon and PALF. And additionally, I would love to hear from Commissioner Fritz. I haven't heard from her in several days, nor on this call, and I'd love to hear from her. Thank you. Thank you, Matthew. And who's next caller?
 I see Sharon White is still there. Sharon, are you able to? Sharon, you could also communicate in the chat if you're just here to listen and we'll be able to move on. Madam President? Yes.
 Commissioner? If I might just respond to the previous testimony. I did post a statement on my website last week, which I encourage people to read. And I have always wanted to listen first to community voices before coming to decisions. And that's why I have not yet announced what I'm going to do tomorrow. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 I see Nicole DeBrow, or DeBrow. Is there Nicole DeBrow, Kyle Ashby? Hi, can you guys hear me? Welcome. Yes, I can. Thank you so much. First, I want to thank Commissioners Hardesty and Utilay for your moral leadership. The people of Portland, we thank you.
 I'm here today to ask City Council to defund PPD and reimagine community safety from a holistic perspective. To that end, I request City Council reallocate funding to strengthen our city's housing, substance use disorder, and behavioral health services and systems.
 Something we can all agree on, including the majority of rank and file of BPD, is that police officers should not be tasked with addressing our community's housing and mental health crises. They don't have the tools to do so sustainably, safely, or adequately.
 Meanwhile, as a social worker, I can attest that there is a huge unmet need for behavioral health and related services in our city. For example, I serve people who want to get into substance abuse treatment and they're ready to get sober, but they can't because all of the beds are full.
 I serve people who are experiencing an acute mental health crisis, but face a three-month wait time to see a mental health prescriber to get on stabilizing meds.
 So I propose we take the money allocated for PPB that is used to criminalize people for the crime of merely existing and apply it towards adding to our community's woefully inadequately funded safety net. This includes funding more beds in support of housing services, funding more detox and inpatient substance abuse treatment services, more drug and alcohol counselors, more peer mentors.
 I also propose money be reallocated from PPB towards reparation. Let's directly invest in Black communities by providing grants to Black businesses, more down payment assistance to Black families, narrowing the educational achievement gap through targeting funding through the Portland public schools to recruit and retain Black educators and social workers. Portland has...
 I miss that. Thank you, Nicole. Please submit the rest of your testimony and writing if you would like. I will. Thank you. Thank you. Kyle, you're next. Hello. Thank you for providing this opportunity for public testimony. I echo. You just muted yourself, Kyle. I'm sorry. You did it again. How about now? Now you're good. Okay.
 I echo all calls to defund and disband the Portland police and invest in black community health and wealth. In addition, as a pragmatist, I ask that city council audit the white collar crime unit of PPB and determine its efficacy in saving taxpayer dollars as white collar crime costs taxpayers orders of magnitude more every year than street crime. Yet the majority of personnel for PPB are directed towards street crime and unfairly targeting disenfranchised communities. Thank you.
 The majority of white-collar crime is committed by white men, while Black communities are continually devastated by minor charges and long prison sentences. Lastly, I ask for oversight in the use of overtime funds for priority projects in the PPB budget, that the City Council pursue a hiring freeze for PPB, even with the staffing issues identified, and that officer discipline includes reductions in pay and pension instead of the more common paid administrative leave. Thank you. Thank you, Kyle. Carla, who are the next three? Who?
 I believe it's Quentin Blanton. They jump around here. And if she can get on. And I think James Calkins is now on. Excellent. Quentin, you are on. Quentin, you're not on mute, but we can't hear you. Okay.
 I think we will go on to James. Hopefully Quentin will come back or communicate via chat to let us know. Quentin, are you there? Yes, I can hear you. Okay. Hi, this is Quentin Blanton. I'm a 29 year old black male born and raised in Portland representing Multnomah County Democrats today.
 And one of the things that I wanted to clarify first and foremost is that I hear the word reparations being thrown around a lot. However, I don't think people realize that different communities have different justice claims. American descendants of slavery, ADOS, have a unique experience that other community colors don't.
 Reparations should also be allocated for ADOS at the federal level, not the local. As an ADOS male, I believe reparations should be done right. According to renowned and leading economists, ADOS reparations are somewhere between $17 to $20 trillion, just for clarity's sakes, but I do agree that now is the time to address deep economic inequality and make real structural change.
 Towards the end of his life, Dr. King made it clear that civil rights was easy. Achieving the civil rights games was easy. What's going to be difficult is redistribution of wealth because it requires white people to give up something, give up whiteness and their privilege.
 So police violence and brutality against ADOS is a symptom of a much bigger problem. The bigger problem is the wealthlessness and bottom caste status of ADOS. It is a commonly held notion that America functions as a meritocracy, not a caste system. However, given recent events like the 2019 college admissions bribery scandal, it should be clear to American people that there is no such thing as a meritocracy. Wealth begets wealth.
 The wealthlessness and bottom-cast status of ADOS is the result of multi-generational plunder and oppression by the U.S. government and white America. Chattel slavery, Jim Crow, a failed Reconstruction era, convict leasing, sharecropping, lynching, white mob violence, exclusion from New Deal and Fair Deal legislation and programs, redlining, mass incarceration, and gentrification have been effective at large.
 at locking ADOS out of opportunity and wealth while simultaneously infusing the government and white America with untold amounts of wealth. According to the Road to Zero Wealth Report,
 by Prosperity Now and the Institute for Policy Studies, the median wealth of black Americans will fall to zero by 2053 if current trends continue. However, the COVID-19 pandemic may have expedited that prediction, especially given the fact that ADOS were largely excluded from the Corona Aid Relief and Economic Security Act and PPP program. Fundamentally changing policing is admirable, but it is only the tip of the iceberg.
 ADOS communities in Oregon and across this nation must be infused with wealth and resources they've mastered.
 until they are no longer a bottom cast and there's a sameness about all of us. Thank you Quentin. Quentin. I agree with her and I believe that- Hello Quentin. Quentin. Thank you. Quentin, if you would like to submit your comments and writing. Your connection was not clear, but I heard every word you said and if you have additional information, we are happy to receive it via e-mail.
 I submitted it via email to all of you guys. Okay, excellent. Thank you. Next, we have James. I don't see James any longer. I see Sharon White is still on the line. Can we try her again? Yes, we can. Sharon White, can you unmute? Going once, Sharon. Going twice, Sharon.
 Sharon, please comment in the chat. Let us know that you don't want to provide testimony. You're just listening. That would be very helpful for us. The next three, Carla. Are Tellison, Salmon, Jay Peresco, and Susan Angela Bartley.
 Taliesin, welcome. Thank you so much. I wanted to say my name is Taliesin Solomon. I'm a United States Air Force veteran. I was there for five years. I worked law enforcement there, and I also worked for the Vancouver Police Department. As anybody who has any sense of morality left in them, I could no longer support that structure and have left law enforcement. I haven't worked there for many years. That said, from my time inside of it,
 I can tell you that any cries for additional funding are completely irrelevant and misplaced and a total drain on resources. Of all the government offices I've ever seen, they are flush with money and flush with personnel.
 absolutely criminal how the PPD has handled these protests. I spent time deployed in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, and I can say that the way that we treated the people that we dealt with there was done with care and civility, that we have not seen the PPD treat us, the citizens, trying to...
 trying to express our first human rights with. It's been horrifying and terrible. And I think that any public official who can still support this won't have a future here in Portland. So if not from a place of concern and love for the people you're supposed to represent, perhaps from some sort of twisted self-preservation, I would, I support...
 I suggest that you guys support the comments that have been expressed by the testimonies today. That's my time. Thank you. Thank you so much. Appreciate you being here. Jay, you're next. I just want to say that I fully support the PALF recommendations as well as fully funding Portland Street Response and yield the rest of my time to a BIPOC community member. Thank you. Thank you, Jay. Appreciate that. Susan, you're next.
 Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty and Udailey. My name is Susan Anglada Bartley. I'm here as a veteran Portland educator, a parent, and as a member of Portland Parent Union, a supporter of Don't Shoot Portland United Mutual Aid Network, which operates in the 82nd Corridor as well as the recovery community. I'm here to demand that the city of Portland divest and disband the Portland police.
 The city of Portland's investment in police and public schools demonstrates Portland's historic investment in racism. If Portland has spent about $6 million per year on police in Portland public schools for the past 15 or more years, that equates to about $100 million invested in hyper-policing black children in Portland public schools.
 As a teacher, I want to say full stop. If we can invest $100 million over a 15-year period, we can vow now to invest more than $100 million into community-run programs designed by and in support of Black youth who've been even more disproportionately impacted by this racist decision-making. Listen, as a teacher, I have seen Black youth dragged out of the school and thrown into a cop car like a criminal. I wrote a book.
 a book, look it up. It's called What the F is That? As a family member of three addicts, may they fly in power, who also struggled with clinical depression. I also note the rising rates of addiction in Portland, including in Black and Indigenous communities. Direct funds toward non-police operated social work street teams to provide outreach and deep trauma-informed social work. These are examples of unpolicing strategies to support deeper transformations that will heal this society
 not drive us into further violence and bloodshed. As a 20-year member of the activist community, I can also tell you that the youth are on fire. I am not their leader, and there is no solitary leader, but I can tell you that this generation is not taking shorts anymore. The youth clearly see the sick patterns of racism and capitalist greed. They are doubly supported by a lot more parents than you might expect.
 Quite a few mothers in my community helped to take I-84 the other day. So if you think you are going to give us anything less than what we put on the table, then think again because we as a community are not giving up on a future for our children that rectifies the racist wrongs of this state's history.
 are not giving up on a Portland and invest more into schools than it does into police. You're not giving up. Last sentence, we're not giving up on a Portland that repairs its harm to black individuals and families through both needed reparations and divestment and disbanding reinvestment of those funds in beloved community. Thank you. Thank you, Susan. I appreciate your testimony. Thank you. Thank you. Who are the next three?
 I show Amy Wexler, Lauren Skoniski, and Ethan Harrison. Amy, welcome. Hi, thank you. My name is Amy Wexler. I live in Northeast Portland, and I am a lawyer. And I am here to testify about the police budget because we are standing on the precipice of a time of great change.
 Voters overwhelmingly elected Mike Schmidt to be District Attorney for Multnomah County on a platform of reforming our justice system. The people of Portland have spent two weeks in the streets, day and night, demanding that we reprioritize our city's values, reimagining what justice and peace looks like. I support the reforms proposed by Commissioners Hardesty and New Daily, but I believe we can go further and truly rethink what life in Portland is like, particularly for Black people. The proposals in place will begin that process.
 School resource officers, the gun violence prevention team, formerly the gang enforcement team, and transit police all disproportionately target Black people. They make our city less safe, not more safe. I support cutting funding for them now. Black Portlanders experience public spaces and public safety differently, as was identified in the Walking While Black focus groups. Thank you, Amy. I'm sorry, your time is up. We've got to keep moving. Appreciate you being here. Yeah.
 Next, we'll go to Lauren. Hi, thank you.
 You're welcome. I first want to thank the work done by Commissioners Hardesty and Udailey and state that I fully support the amendments proposed today, including the elimination of the gun violence reduction team, CERT, SROs, transit police, and the reallocation of cannabis revenue away from the police force. I also support the recommendations laid out by PAWF and Unite Oregon to immediately reduce the PPB budget by $50 million. And I also encourage the Council, as stated, to make funding in launching the Portland Street Response a priority.
 The timing of both this budget and the renegotiation of the contract with the Portland Union puts our city in a unique position to lead the nation with meaningful and drastic changes that are being demanded in our streets. Knowing how much these issues mean to you all, especially you, Commissioner Hardesty, I really hope that you take advantage of the opportunity and take the steps towards defunding the Portland Police Bureau. And I fully support all the work that you've been doing and thank you for it.
 Our system clearly doesn't work for anyone. It demands too much of our police, asking individuals that we've trained to be soldiers to be social workers and mental health workers. And it's heart-wrenchingly clear from the endless lists of Black people that have been murdered by the police that it is destructive to our communities and our humanity. Let's imagine a new vision for community safety and build a Portland that my kids can be proud of. Thank you so much. I'll yield the rest of my time. Thank you, Lauren. Appreciate you. Ethan, you're next. Hi, can you hear me? Yes, I can.
 My name is Ethan Harrison. I'm a resident of zip code 97211. I'm a white person and I'm a genderqueer person using they and them pronouns. I want to first and foremost say that we live on occupied indigenous lands and this settler colonial government is illegitimate.
 I want to also note that these comments at this moment are not directed towards Commissioner Hardesty, but rather the all white other city council members. I grew up in the deep south with parents who taught me to fear black neighbors. And through the help of friends and teachers, I now understand my place in white supremacy and support abolitionist calls to demand the defunding of the police and the disbanding of the police. Like Angela Davis and Miriam Kabatich. So fuck tear gas Ted and his...
 intentional bratty unwillingness to unlearn his own white supremacy. I also want to note that this is really fucking convenient.
 that at the time he chooses to take one single day of bereavement just happens to be this auspicious budget occasion. This also reminds me of in 2017, when Ted Wheeler had just heard the words of the mother of Quanis Hayes, a.k.a. Moose, a 17-year-old Portlander, murdered in the streets by Portland police. He called for five minutes of recess, and he was the only one to leave chambers. Commissioner Udaly, you remember this. We were there disrupting. You sat there and counseled chambers and cried. And then you know what you did? You voted to increase the police budget.
 In 2017, in 2018, and then in 2019, you voted to steal money from the Portland Parks Department and give it to who? The murderous cops. So what the fuck is that? We don't need any of these crocodile tears. We need actual change. I suggest you to turn around behind you and look at that wall of black people like Audre Lorde and read some of her fucking words instead of just trying to get clout points by putting her pictures up. So either you'll respond to these riots in the streets or we'll be here again next year doing the same old shit. I yield my time.
 Thank you, Ethan. Please watch your language. I think we have. No. Can you still hear me, Commissioner Hardesty? This is a free country. I will not watch my language. Fuck Ted Brewer and fuck the Portland police. Your time is up, Ethan. Thank you very much. Fuck the police. Can you still hear me? Fuck the police. Please mute Ethan. His time has elapsed.
 I want to be really clear. It is inappropriate to use that kind of language for public testimony. I believe in free speech, but I also believe in respectful disagreements. And let me just say for the record, I think it's just outrageous for you to say anything about the fact that Mayor Ted Wheeler is not here. His mother died last night.
 I would have been appalled had he showed up today without addressing the issues that his family needs to address. So you can disagree with policy, but I will not allow you to use that language or will I allow you to disrespect people who are grieving? And so I just want to be very clear. Carla, who are the next three? I'm sorry, I believe we have Andrew McAllister. Andrew McAllister.
 Glynnis McBride, and Adele Pickle. Andrew, you are next. Welcome. Hi. Hi, Andrew. Hi. I'm sorry. I'm trying to pull up my speech. Is it possible to go to the next person and come back? I would be happy to do that, Andrew, and I'll come right back to you, okay? So much. You're welcome. I'll go to Glynnis.
 Yeah, I don't know if I have it. Glennis, you're up. Can you unmute yourself? Going once, twice. Hello. Hi, Glennis. Welcome. Sorry about that. I thought I did. No worries. Hi. Hi. I think I would just like to echo the sentiments of pretty much everybody I've heard so far.
 and ask that our elected officials listen to the people of Portland and defund the police department, the Portland Police Department. Specifically, I'd like to echo Commissioner Hardesty in saying that we need to defund the gun violence reduction team, the emergency reaction team, defund the school resource officers, and stop using cannabis tax funds to fill funding gaps for the traffic division.
 This is a very small beginning step to doing something that actually looks like something that the community can be proud of and value. I would like that all of the funds that defund the police go to community driven organizations like the Portland Street Response.
 I think that it's time that we imagine and envision a better future for everybody where the police don't get to murder and brutalize people in the street because of the color of their skin or for any other reason. I received an email from Ted Wheeler in my response to my email about these matters. And he said that our values are reflected everywhere.
 by the budget because he's planning on doing an across the board, 6% decrease to all city bureaus. And I'd like to say that that doesn't reflect my values. I want the police department, the police bureau to specifically be defunded. And I want those funds reappropriated to community supported organizations like Portland street response. And yeah,
 I yield my time. Thank you. Thank you very much, Glynnis. Andrew, are you ready for us? I am. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Andy McAllister and I live in the South Tabor neighborhood and I'm a teacher in the North Clackamas School District. In my district, and I know in all Portland area schools, it's the norm for teachers to be hungry to learn about and to fight the inequities in our school systems. Right.
 We look at data and experts and to our students and families of color to teach us what kind of work we need to do to end racial disparities in our field. And I know that everyone in public schools, myself included, has a lot of work to do. But, you know, teachers don't see the opportunity gap as a threat. We see it as an invitation to work harder and to change our systems. And that's not coming from the top, it's coming from the hearts of individual teachers.
 staff, schools, and unions. But police unions and individual officers are not critically engaging with their work in the same way.
 We've watched nearly every police officer in America the last two weeks stand by and be complicit with deranged authoritarian violence leveled at their neighbors. If they were really interested in serving the public, the police would already be actively engaged in anti-racist discourse and work. But careers are self-selecting, and policing attracts people who want to use the tools of surveillance, force, and asset forfeiture to harass their communities into compliance.
 This mindset is further cemented in police academies, where instead of researching best practices for guaranteeing public safety and equality, cadets are taught that their neighbors are their enemy. Having that limited level of critical discourse with such an important job is unacceptable. We cannot give that much authority and money to a group of people so resistant to understanding the root causes of the violence their departments are causing.
 not when there's so much need for anti-racist social workers, counselors, teachers, and others in our communities. I demand that we divert funds, and a lot more than is currently on the table, from this group of people, and use it instead to invest in people who are already educating themselves on how they can help end systemic racism. We have to take away these people's power,
 and give it to people who are already committed to approaching public safety through a lens of racial justice and peace. I want to thank you for your work. Thank you, Andrew. Appreciate the testimony. Glad you found your testimony. Adele, you're next.
 Hi, can you hear me? Yes, I can. Hi, my name is Adele Rice. I'm a white non-binary resident of the Concordia neighborhood in Portland. I'm here to advocate for the complete divestment from and dismantlement of the Portland Police Bureau. The only way to stop police violence is to defund and dismantle the police. We know that police have never and will never keep oppressed and colonized people, specifically black people, safe.
 U.S. policing is rooted in slave patrols and has maintained social control. We have seen that reforms and trainings have failed to make police less violent and less racist. Take action now to invest in long-term and life-sustaining resources such as safe and supportive shelter, medical support, and community-based mental health care. In solidarity with the Minneapolis uprisings and in coordination with the nationwide calls for divestment from and abolition of policing.
 We demand that the city of Portland divest entirely from and disband the Portland Police Bureau. And a final note, I call on Ted Wheeler to resign as he has continued to fail our community. I yield my time. Thank you, Adele. Carla, could you read the next three names, please? I show Vijay Pai, Joel Midden, and Katja Reyna. Okay. DJ, you are first. Thank you.
 Oh, Vijay. Sorry, Vijay. You're next. No worries. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Okay. My name is Vijay. I'm an Indian American male living in Northeast. I admire your years of devotion to this topic, but urge the council to go further. I support the $50 million reduction in the budget that others are calling for, but more so for a more sweeping change and feel the current reductions don't go far enough.
 The residents marching in the street are demanding sweeping reforms and systematic change in how we are approaching public safety, and therefore we must act on a sweeping shift in our budgetary allocations. I think it's time for us to lead on this issue and not react.
 Let's look to our neighbors to the north whose council has gotten behind a 50% budget cut and reallocation of police funding. Let's look to Minneapolis who has taken the step to further commit to a full dismantling and rebuilding of a system that works for the people instead of weaponizing against them. Thank you, I yield my time. Thank you, Vijay. And next we have Joel. Can you hear me? Yes, I can.
 Hi, just real quick, I'd like to encourage you to defund and abolish the Portland police, and I cede the rest of my time to BIPOC community members. Thank you, Joel. Katia, you're next. Hi there, can you hear me? I can. Hi, my name is Katia Reyna. I'm Latinx Chicana, the daughter of an immigrant, and I live in Northeast Portland. I'd like to start off by saying that this movement is being led by the amazing and resilient Black community of Portland, who have endured a great deal of pain and gaslighting from the city's leaders and police.
 I stand in solidarity with them today. I also wholeheartedly support the demands made by PALF and Unite Oregon.
 I have watched cops my entire life abuse their power. I have been personally pulled over and harassed by police without having done anything wrong and grew up watching my brother, cousins, and close friends be persecuted alongside their white counterparts who received a mere slap on the wrist. In the past 12 nights alone, I have stood beside thousands of peaceful protesters and journalists exercising our right to assemble to demand justice for George Floyd,
 Breonna Taylor and the dozens of other lives taken by cops, including PPB officers. I have watched PPB officers charge unarmed protesters with tear gas, rubber bullets, and nightsticks while simultaneously doing nothing about the armed white supremacist Proud Boys circling around and running protesters over in their trucks. Yesterday, Mayor Wheeler called for a series of reforms. While these sound nice on paper, we all know they are not enough.
 Although the transit division has been cut, it is many of our understanding that the PPV will still continue to police transit riders under the supervision of the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office instead of PPV. If this is the case, this is not a solution, it is a distraction.
 It was also announced that $7 million from the PPP budget and other $5 million from other city funds will be reallocated to communities of color. I am concerned about what these other city funds are that are being skimmed to make up this $5 million, while we are only cutting the PPP budget by a mere 3%. This is not enough.
 Mayor Wheeler and City Council, we demand that you cut the PPP budget by at least $50 million for the 2020-2021 fiscal year, and that each year going forward, you continue to decrease PPP budget by at least $50 million. These funds should be allocated to community groups such as Don't Shoot Portland, Health, and Unite Oregon as a means of investing in Black people and supporting their work in protecting and uplifting Black communities.
 Police reform alone does not work. We have tried and the reforms have been ignored, resisted, and overturned. We ask you today to not act from a place of fear, but a place of empathy and hope for the future. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate your testimony. I want to check in with the city attorney, Robert.
 We had a four o'clock time certain that we will not get to today. What is your advice for us to move that item, uh, to tomorrow or to next week? Thank you, commissioner. Um, if, if we're not going to get to that item, my advice would be to, uh, carry it over till next week. If that would be acceptable to the commissioner whose item it is. And I believe that's commissioning you daily site. Yes, actually. Uh,
 We've we had already communicated a withdrawal just in the interest of saving time today. So pulling that back and we will reschedule. Thank you very much, Commissioner. I just didn't want the time certain to go unless we had people waiting to testify on that item. I appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you. And caller please the next three names.
 Pedro Anglades Cordero, Maria Hernandez Segoviano, and Jeanine Rodriguez. Thank you very much, Pedro. You are first. Can you unmute yourself? Yes, thank you. You hear me? Yes, I can. Thank you. My name is Pedro Anglades Cordero. I am a social worker. I'm not representing any organizations. I come from indigenous communities.
 heritage from the Caribbean, including the people of the Yoruba. I am here to testify in support of the defunding of the Portland Police Bureau. I'm in support of all the demands made by United Oregon. I ask the city commissioners and the city mayor to listen to the demands of the people and defund the Portland Police Bureau. The police cannot reform itself.
 I want to remind the mayor that the killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Omar Aubrey, there is a fear of the possibility that in any given day, someone like myself may be killed by...
 for no particular reason. Building relationships and trust are vital and essential components to bring healing to a community ruptured by gentrification, employment, housing, and food insecurity, lack of access to health and mental health services, and racism. I have to break down how the impact of these dynamics of oppression exacerbate on Black, Brown, and Indigenous children and families.
 I've heard the mayor and high-ranking police officers in their press conferences throwing their talking points about racial disparities in the city, their investment in training for the police force. It is not enough to show that these suicidal problems are understood. Action is needed. Enacting and implementing anti-racist policies and practices are the only way forward.
 Putting resources where they are needed in the community, that is on access to housing, food, health, mental health, additional recovery, would result in enacting anti-racist policies. Reinventing the way in which these services are provided by removing the stigma of racism and making them more accessible to those who need them will result in anti-racist practices.
 Having a small portion of the Portland Police Bureau to implement insufficient resources will result in enacting policies and practices. To give you an example of how communities continue. Pedro, please submit your written testimony if you had more to share. We thank you for being here today. Thank you, I will. Thank you. Maria, Maria disappeared off my screen. Are you still there, Maria?
 Uh, hopefully Maria will call back if she still wants to testify. Uh, Janine is next. Oh, Maria, I see you now. Are you ready?
 Hi, can you all hear me okay? I can hear you just fine. Welcome. Perfect. One second. Hi, everyone. For the record, my name is Maria Hernandez Segoviano. Share her pronouns. I am here as an organizer and as an activist asking for you to listen to the black community and the demands they have put forward. I wholeheartedly support Pulse and Unite Oregon's demand and ask for you to act today.
 Enough is enough. No human being deserves to lose their life in the hands of police like George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and the many more beautiful souls we have lost. It's time now for our institutions and recognize that white supremacy and racist policies that they continue to uphold by continuing to not listen to the black communities who for decades in time and memorial have been asking what you are today even starting to consider.
 Enough is enough. People are asking for a real change. Your budget proposal cannot be a one-time thing, but really demonstrate real bold steps for the future to come.
 Enough is enough. It is important that you look into providing, as you look into providing amendments to remove the transit police, look into school decriminalizations. Let's remember that Portland alone, as a city, will not remove the entire criminalization of our transit system. It is worth to note here that TriMet alone gives about 11,700 citations per
 per year or even more for not paying $2.50, which a vast majority goes to black community. This number is still after the work from transit justice organizations who have fought to tear that use, what used to be $175 citation for not paying those $2.50, now is at a first pay $50. So in short, what I'm really asking is, as you consider to remove the police
 transit system, that you also welcome your partners and stakeholders in other cities who have millions of dollars invested in contracts with the police, transit police, to also invite them to do the same that you are considering to do today. Again, no life deserves to be taken in the hands of police for being innocent. And also, just in general, no life deserves the treatment that we continuously get by the police
 tear gas, rubber bullets, and any of those issues for them.
 Thank you so much for your time, and I have submitted my testimony with those data points from TriMet. I welcome you on June 24th to also join the TriMet board meeting and ask for them to not just remove it in the city of Portland, but as a regional as a whole. Thank you again, and I look forward to hearing your decisions tomorrow. Thank you, Maria. I appreciate your testimony. Janine, you're next.
 Hello, can you hear me? Yes, I can. My name is Jeanie Rodriguez, and I'm third generation Mexican-American residing in Portland. And I'm here today to ask that that proposed budget of $246.2 million currently allocated to the Portland police
 be redistributed to other programs and services that actually benefit the community. My request stems from my own personal life experience, but I can assure you that there are hundreds of stories just like mine here in Portland. My testimony is on behalf of my brother. I'm going to keep it concise because it's a story that began over 20 years ago. My brother and I were raised by a single mom who worked 14 hour days at a minimum wage job. We were poverty level poor.
 My brother was first arrested at the age of 12, and from that point essentially raised by the criminal justice system. And by the time he was 17, he was released from juvie, and I can only imagine how difficult his transition must have been growing up in a juvenile correctional facility to fully supporting himself while attending community college.
 That transition was too much for my brother. He began acting erratic and started making bad decisions. He quickly dropped out of community college, and from that point on, he was in and out of jail and eventually ended up in prison as a felon. During one of the rare moments he was out, he came to me with a secret he'd been keeping for years. He told me he'd been hearing voices in his head since he was 12 years old.
 For weeks, my mother and I tried to find help, but we didn't know where to go. And my brother didn't have insurance, and we felt powerless. And we eventually found a doctor who was able to diagnose him as bipolar schizophrenic. And we had no idea what that meant or how to even begin to manage his illness. And by the age of 28, he felt completely helpless. And with his mental illness and a felony, he felt there was nowhere to turn but to deal drugs. And so he used drugs to self-medicate, and he was at rock bottom and
 Me and my mom were extremely worried about him and we knew we had to do something or he was gonna die. We also knew that at that time he had a warrant for a parole violation and so I ended up turning my brother into the police not knowing that he would end up serving years in prison.
 Until this day, I live with the guilt of that decision. I love him dearly. He's stronger than anyone I know. Imagine sitting in solitary confinement for 30 days with 12 different voices talking to you nonstop in your head. My brother has experienced that more times than I can count on both hands. I constantly compare my brother's life path with mine and ask how we turned out so different. I graduated with a college degree. I have a good paying job and I've traveled the world to places my brother will never see.
 The Black Lives movement has shed a light and it clearly helps me see the differences. I'm a Hispanic female and any run-in I've ever had with the law has been non, it's been a non-event. Police have treated me kindly for the most part. My brother is Hispanic male. His run-ins have been the exact opposite. He's the only person I know who's been arrested for smoking a cigarette underage.
 My brother is mentally ill. My mother didn't know where to find resources that could have helped him. He was labeled with behavior issues since kindergarten. I went to school. I found mentors and teachers who supported me where my mom couldn't. The criminal justice, the criminal justice system took my brother and kept him and he's never had a fair chance.
 It doesn't have to be this way, so I'm asking that budget is redirected to low-income mental health services that actually are accessible, addiction services, health care for all, early intervention, community centers, food programs, disability services. Thank you for hearing me.
 Thank you so, so much. I really appreciate you centering the experiences of people who find themselves circling in and out of our criminal justice system. I'm really sorry that story is repeated over and over again in our community, as you can imagine. But thank you for your courage to share it with us today. Thank you. The next three caller. Who we got? Okay.
 I showed Nels Voulin, Asukulu Songolo, Naima Wilson. The first name you called was? Nels Voulin. I'm not seeing Nels. Nels, are you on Zoom? If you are, please unmute yourself. Maybe we've lost them. I'm missing. Let's go to Asukulu. Is that correct? Okay.
 awesome cool awesome cool yes welcome you're up um sorry do you have an alarm going off yeah i do um sorry can i restart why don't i just uh come back to you i'll go to the next okay thank you is that okay yeah all right i'll come right back don't worry um we'll go to uh nema
 Deama? Hi, Naima Wilson. I'm a Black cis woman living in Southeast Portland. And first I want to say, Commissioner Hardesty, I understand how it feels to be the only Black woman in a mostly white space. And I just have so much respect for you, auntie. Please keep fighting for us. Thank you so much.
 So I agree with all of that's been stated, the request from Unite Oregon and some of the organizations to defund the police. And I'm a poet. And so. Let me nevermind. You can go ahead. I was just going to ask the other gentleman to put his phone on mute. He just did that. Thank you. Sure. I, I like so many call for re-imagining the future and rather than
 repeat what everyone said I'm gonna bring it a little bit more into metaphor so if all we have is a hammer then everything looks like a nail and we have given these people who are neighbors training that makes us perceive us as
 weapons that makes them only have violence as their only tool and so the the request that I echo is to move the money to organizations that actually know how to treat houselessness and mental disability and what so many people are actually facing and not just in escalate and cause more violence and since this is a budget meeting
 I would add, like, if we're going to look at it just physically, like, it's so much more than that, but if we're just going to look at the money, it costs the city more money to disable people, which is what tear gas and rubber bullets and so many of those so-called non-lethal ways of intervening do. It costs money, the city money, to make it so that people can't get jobs, to create and perpetuate violence,
 trauma, emotional and psychological disability, as well as physical disability. So in the long run, it will actually be better for everyone, including financially, as well as socially, for the money and the resources to move towards social development.
 initiatives that actually give people homes, mental health care, and responders that can actually help people rather than just attacking them. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. I'll go back to Asukalu. Asukalu?
 I apologize for just butchering your name. Would you please tell me your name one more time? I promise I'll get it right. Asakulu Sangala. Akasula. Oh, that is such a beautiful sounding name. Thank you. I will never say it wrong again. Promise.
 Yeah. 110 Black youth who live, work, and slash or go to school in the Portland metro area have signed an open letter to each of you to make the conscious decision to divest $50 million in police funding and spend it instead on strengthening Black communities in support of the PAALF and Unite Oregon's Ask.
 We particularly request the defunding of the gun violence reduction team, eliminating the members of the special emergency reaction team, and the TriMet transit police. While only 6% of the city population identifies as Black, we know that our lives are heavily over-policed and disproportionately impacted at every level of law enforcement.
 In light of the recent deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George Floyd, many non-Black people across the country and across the world are realizing the horrors of police brutality and violence. We, however, have borne the glory and pain of being Black in America and in Portland. Our city aims to veil itself in a liberal light, but we are not untouched by the stain of racism, the pain of gentrification, and the horrors of police brutality. Thank you.
 If you truly believe in a Portland that works for all of its people, then we urge you to act. Mayor Wheeler and City Council Commissioners, we demand you take action now. If you believe that our lives matter, then you must do better for us, our brothers, our sisters, and future generations of Black Portlanders.
 Aaron Campbell, Keaton Otis, Kevin Moffett, Quanice Hayes, Patrick Kimmins, Andre Gladden. These are the names of Black Portlanders that were killed by the Portland Police Bureau within recent history. Their lives may be lost, but we must use their memory to guide us toward a more equitable future.
 To the mayor and the commissioners, our families, our teachers and our friends voted for you. Our demands are not unreasonable and they're warranted now more than ever to protect our basic rights to life and prosperity in this city. If you refuse to act, we will remember. To that point, we have two questions.
 Are you going to take action now, or will you allow more Black Portlanders to fall victim to police violence? Will you stand up for that? And I'd also like to say that I've tagged the open letter to each of you with the subject line, Urgent Listen to Black Youth, and with that, I yield my time. Thank you so much. Appreciate you being here. Glad we made it work. Our caller, please, the next three names are Gloria Cruz, Deborah Calodney, and Leah Peace.
 Welcome, Gloria. You're next. Hi. Thank you for having me. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Thank you for being here. Yes. Thanks again. So I really just want to speak to a point that Commissioner Eudaly made in her statement, and that was to the effect that we're looking right now to what Minneapolis has done and really the groundwork that they had put forth.
 to be able to dis-disfund the police. And looking at the first steps that we right now have in front of us with the 12 million dollars, it's just not enough. If this is the first step, then we need to make sure that we're keeping pace. And I'm wanting to just make sure that we are in line with PALF, my support,
 care not cops and all the demands of don't shoot PDX. And really, I just wanted to say that I stand in solidarity with our black community. And we're really expecting the commissioners and the mayor to be leaders. And we're calling for action. I yield my 10th.
 Thank you very much, Gloria. Rabbi Kalonji, welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Deborah Kalonji. Thank you for the opportunity to speak on behalf of Portland United Against Hate.
 Poo's steering committee wholeheartedly supports PALF and Unites Call to immediately remove $50 million from the PPB budget and reinvest that money in communities who have experienced horrific harm at the hands of the police, namely the Black, Indigenous, and People of Color communities. We are also here to say that police violence is hate violence.
 PUA called for reports on police violence 24 hours ago. We received 15 reports that represent the experience of tens of thousands of protesters since May 31st. Many were clear that police were attacking because they could not abide our political position. We are sharing several of those reports in our written testimony.
 Four PUA steering committee members, including myself, witnessed the unprovoked, instantaneous, violent escalation of police against protesters who were simply chanting, shaking a fence, and throwing a few water bottles where no humans were located. Two of them were seriously injured by tear gas and projectiles. Police violence is hate violence. $50 million in budget reductions is not just a good idea, it's a necessity for the safety of this city.
 Police violence during both protests and their daily work has put blood on your hands, you the collective electeds, and it must stop. The qualified immunity doctrine must be eliminated, not reformed. Military equipment must be banned, not subject to council authorization. And nothing except non-weaponized de-escalation strategies must be used during protests. Studies have unequivocally proven that only de-escalation works to manage crowds.
 In addition, when police services are cut, domestic violence and sexual assault survivor-led and centered organizations must be engaged regarding how those services are dismantled and reimagined. Those who have transitioned from incarceration and those in recovery, along with those who work in those fields, must be engaged regarding how resources are redistributed.
 Finally, we urge you to keep and support officers from historically underrepresented communities, especially Black and Indigenous communities, as long as police officers exist. Thank you for hearing our testimony today. Thank you. Leah, you're next. My nickname today is Karen, as in C-A-R-E apostrophe N apostrophe N, and I am in support of defunding the police.
 I'm a resident of Everett Station Lofts and Galleries, the historic landmark for 35 years, a wellspring of creativity and emerging arts in Old Town Chinatown, bordering the Black Historic District on Cowlitz and Clackamas land. Ten years ago, there was a 20-foot acupuncture needle in the parking lot outside Sisters of the Road. It was part of a traveling art installation carefully placed in strategic locations throughout the city.
 My neighborhood is the caring heart of Portland. It is the locus of compassion and social services. And like most feminine labor, it is undervalued and suffers from compassion fatigue. Every day we see refugees from the economy based on wage slavery. Right now there are 220 tents outside the COVID response camp. And come July 8th,
 What's going to happen? Are we going to have SWAT teams coming in to violently evict people and shove them into the streets?
 We have overvalued toxic masculinity and it's time to transform, to use this fire for transformation. It's time to value active, dynamic nurturing and caring. It's time to fortify the pericardium, the heart protector meridian, to find the Wu Wei, the deeper pulse. And to make, I'm asking you for a formal acknowledgement of the Black Historic District.
 I'm asking for funds for complementary and culturally relevant alternatives to self-medication for PTSD and complex post-traumatic slave disorder. My neighborhood is rich in culture and history and arts. And what I would like to see are structures, actual buildings, and funding for reparations for arts, history, and cultural center for African Americans and for indigenous people.
 My neighborhood is a starving heart of care and compassion from which pulses and flows the creative life force. So I'm asking you to please activate your Karen superpowers. I put links to these ideas fleshed out in an email, and I just sent it to you. And I thank you all for your service. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony, Leah. Thanks. Carla, who's the next three? The next three are Renee Perry-
 Kevin Thomas, and John Wexler. Thank you, Renee, you're next. Welcome. Thank you. Masa siyati, guna shish, atren. Hello, my name is Renee Perry, citizen of Tlingit Haida Nation of Southeast Alaska, and visitor resident of these lands occupied by the City of Portland, resting on the ancestral and contemporary homelands and communities of the Columbia River Nations and Tribes,
 and other native nation peoples that were forcibly relocated here. I'm here to present a statement to the City of Portland on behalf of the Community Gathering for Community Initiative. The Community Gathering for Community Initiative is both a direct response to COVID-19 and a means to access plants for food and medicines and care of community health in a culturally responsive way.
 This initiative was born from a grassroots effort amongst cis and fluid LGBT, two-spirit and queer, Indigenous, Afro-Indigenous, and Black peoples in the Portland metro region whose work is engaged in increasing access to traditionally important gathering places. We want to send gratitude to the City's Tribal Relations Director, Laura John, for providing support to our group since the COVID-19 pandemic began.
 These communities have lived with murder, genocide, racism, forced removal from homelands, colonization, white systemic oppression, and the resulting trauma for generations. With the inherent strength of our ancestors which can never be extinguished, Black and Indigenous and Afro-Indigenous communities are still here recovering, resisting, organizing, and still healing within a system not born from them.
 To this very day, parallels in violence and oppression are witnessed into Black, Indigenous, and Afro-Indigenous communities and these lands that provide for all of our lives.
 We are at a critical turning point in our relationship with the City of Portland as a whole. Transformation is happening in front of us and there is no turning back. We are not going away and we are holding you to your commitment in the recent May 6 Murdered and Missing Indigenous Women Proclamation and the November 2019 Tribal Nations Summit.
 Defunding the police and relinquishing funds to the community increases capacity to directly meet needs not appropriate for police response. Community Gathering for Community Initiative is an emblematic example of the innovative, culturally informed, intimate, and speedy response our communities continually provide to meet our relatives' needs, particularly our elders, and to do so from within our own community.
 Unrestricted funding must be given to communities to respond and develop culturally specific solutions within their own timeframes, while leveraging their own ways of knowing, organizing, and responding. While we acknowledge the urgency of addressing the issues stated here and those presented by other communities of color regarding policing behaviors, an exhaustive list of resolutions cannot be established overnight.
 but these changes must be deep and ongoing. There are however some immediate items that can can be addressed today and that we demand.
 Reallocated funding to communities to address needs from within the community should be released immediately and without political oversight. Organizations from within Indigenous, Afro-Indigenous, and Black communities will continue to submit a comprehensive list of demands today and in the following days. This statement will be submitted via email. Thank you. Thank you. Kevin, you're next.
 Hi, thanks for having me on. I just want to say thank you to Renee for those thoughtful words and In the interest of time, I'm just gonna make a really short statement in that I'm hoping that the City Council will make meaningful changes To the way this city is policed for all communities of color at all people. Thank you. Thank you John you're next
 Hello, my name is John Wexler. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Okay, thanks. Hello, my name is John Wexler, and I'm here to testify about the police budget. I am calling for a serious realignment of city priorities and funding so that we begin the process of defunding the police and funding social services that will make our community stronger and more resilient.
 I support the calls by Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Udaly to defund the transit police, school resource officers, and the gun violence reduction team. These are great first steps. I also support Commissioner Udaly's proposal to cut ongoing cannabis tax dollars from the Portland Police Bureau. This should be invested in addiction recovery and communities most impacted by the war on drugs.
 In Portland, half of the arrests are from the houseless community. We are criminalizing poverty and criminalizing addiction and mental health problems. When you have police answering calls about someone in a mental health crisis and they show up with guns and flak jackets, they exacerbate the problem. We need to have greater funding to the street response team so that social services will show up to these calls and not police officers. We remember Terrell Johnson and James Chassie, both killed by Portland police during a mental health crisis.
 It is time to invest in community and divest from police. We have an opportunity to reimagine what justice looks like. We have a new district attorney about to take office who was overwhelmingly elected to enact reforms and the people in the streets that are demanding changes. We cannot let this opportunity pass us by. Thank you. Thank you, John. Carla, the next three, please. Aaron Ennis, Casey Jama, and Jamie Oler. Aaron, welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, thank you. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Okay, thank you so much. My name is Erin Anis, A-N-N-I-S. I live off Foster and 82nd. I am a public school teacher in the metro area, and so I wanted to give a shout out to Andy for his wonderful comments earlier about the way that teachers work to improve equity outcomes in schools.
 In education, we define equity work as reducing the predictability of who fails and who succeeds and interrupting those repeated practices that negatively impact people. I think that the same definition of equity needs to apply to city programs and especially city programs that have an outsized impact on individual citizens like policing. I voted for Commissioner Hardesty because of her advocacy on policing and I am so, so happy and proud to see
 those issues finally getting traction today, even though it's under very sad circumstances.
 We know through both personal testimony and quantitative data that certain repetitive policing practices create harms in our community and perpetuate racist violence and structures. We've seen the evidence, so we should eliminate those programs and divert the money to programs that work similar to how we try to do in the education sphere. It's because of this definition of equity
 this data and this personal testimony that I've been hearing for decades in the United States that I urge the City Council to vote in affirmation of Hardesty's proposals this week. Thank you so much. My time is done. Casey Jamas next. Can you hear me? Yes.
 Good afternoon everyone and good afternoon commissioners and Madam President. My name is Casey Chama. I am the executive director of United Oregon. United Oregon stands by the demand that we submitted with Portland African American Leadership Forum requesting $50 million investment from the Portland Police Department.
 I want to speak a few things before I yield my time. First of all, let me speak to the commissioners who are here today. I have been an organizer for 20 years. I have demanded, we have demanded many, many years for changing how the program police works and how they interact with the public. I have seen the demands that the community made. What you have proposed today, it's absolutely not enough.
 What we need is actually systematic change in Portland Police Department. I don't think so what we are suggesting cutting less than three percent of their budget. It's actually meaningful change that we need. We need to die and first first and then remove some of the barriers and challenges to pro policy that needs to be reflected the values of boundaries.
 Let me also speak to the young organizers who are on the streets of Portland and the community members. Those organizers have inspired us. There is a movement right now out there. Please do not stop until your demands are made. This is historic moment for us and we need to absolutely support those youth who are demanding meaningful change. Secondly, let me say this finally. We spend seven times as much on police as we spend on housing.
 More than one-third of the Portland general fund goes to Portland Police Department. This is not acceptable. If you want to ask somebody to show their values, you look how they spend their money.
 when we are spending more money on housing and bureau of fire and rescue, when we're spending more money on homelessness, it shows true values of how we are spending our values. Portland's majority of us demanded that we have to align our values and it's time for Portland to suggest
 to change the way we operate in Portland and we have to meet the demands of Portlanders. We will not stop until those demands are made. Thank you very much. You're muted, Commissioner. Thank you. I had to do that at least one time today. Thank you, KC. Jamie, you're next. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, I can.
 Hi, thank you for your time today. My name is Jamie Ahler and I'm a white queer community member in the Cully neighborhood. I am calling in support of the defunding of police, disbandment of the police union, and a reallocation of all those funds into community-led initiatives. And I'm doing so on behalf of my brother Cody Ahler, who was murdered in Fernhill Park in January.
 8th of 2018, as a survivor of homicide, I can say that my family has been victimized twice. Once by the unknown assailant who murdered my brother and again by the police in charge of finding his murderer. In our attempt to find justice for my brother, we have been harassed and brushed off by the police.
 And after over a year of no answers from the local police, we hired our own investigators and found some deep and egregious negligence in the, in the investigation of his murder, only to then also find out that there's no possible way to hold the police accountable for their gross misconduct. I do not understand why we would allow more money to be funded in to an absolutely useless, uh,
 and quite honestly authoritarian and terrorizing organization in our community. I know personally that the police do not keep myself or my family safe. My brother was out for a jog in the park the day after his 21st birthday when he was murdered.
 I stand with all others who have lost their loved ones to murder and demand accountability for the ways the Portland police continue to cause violence and death in our community. And I concede the rest of my time to my BIPOC community. Thank you, Jamie. Appreciate your testimony today. Carla, who are the next three? I'm going to try Brian Robbins again and Alaina Floor and Kevin Cherry. Brian, you're up. Welcome.
 Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Thank you. Thank you so much. I just want to stand in support with my neighbors and call for the divestment of the Portland Police Bureau. I ask that you please, please immediately withdraw $50 million from the Portland Police Bureau.
 I also just want to call out to Commissioner Udailey, who in her opening statement said that she wanted us to remember that a city like Minneapolis has been building up to this point. I would like to ask all of you.
 to remember that this budget is a symbol of our morals. It is our morality as a city. And Portland cannot claim to be a progressive sanctuary city without committing to disband the Portland Police Bureau. Thank you so much for your time. And I yield my time to my BIPOC neighbors. Thank you, Brian. Appreciate it. Alana, you're next.
 Hello Commissioner Hardesty. I would just like to say that I stand with the demands of PELF, Unite Oregon, and Don't Shoot PDX in their demands to defund the police department. And I yield my time to the BIPOC community. Thank you. Very much. Appreciate you being here. Is Jamie on the line? I think Kevin Cherry was. Kevin Cherry, you're next.
 Can you hear me okay? Yes, I can, Kevin. Great. Good afternoon. My name is Kevin Cherry. I am a white male resident in Northwest Portland. I speak in support of the demands put forth by groups like PALF, Care Not Cops, Unite Oregon, and the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing.
 The City of Portland needs to immediately divest from the Portland Police Bureau and instead directly invest in communities. The Mayor's proposed diversion of $7 million from the PPB budget is simply not enough. City Council should immediately reduce at least $50 million from the PPB budget and commit to never increasing their budget again.
 Furthermore, I want to express my disgust and embarrassment at the way PPB has brutalized protesters over the last two weeks. Perhaps the silver lining here is that PPB's actions have proven the protesters' point over and over again that policing brings violence and chaos and not safety and well-being.
 Recently, the Minneapolis City Council President stated that our efforts at incremental police reform have failed, period. I believe this sentiment is representative not just in Minneapolis, but of policing as a whole in the United States, including Portland. City Council has an opportunity in this budget to demonstrate bold leadership and enact radical change, not incremental reform.
 Finally, I believe City Council owes an apology to the entire city, and especially activist groups who have been making these demands for years. City Council had an opportunity to enact some budgetary changes merely weeks ago and failed to do so. I believe it's deeply unfortunate that it took a national uprising to force your hand on these matters.
 In conclusion, disband the Portland Police Bureau and invest in communities. Thank you. Thank you, Kevin. Carla, the next three please. Carla, you may be on mute. The next three are Joanna Cowan, Nikolai Black, and Tierney McBride. Thank you very much, Joanna. You're first.
 Welcome. Hi, can you hear me? I can. Great. Thanks for taking my call. Um, I just want to echo what everybody said. Um, I, what I personally want to say is just that, you know, we've seen some amazing progress in places like Minneapolis and Portland is just the type of place that is poised for this type of leadership, uh,
 role to stand up and do something different. We have a really horrible past that, you know, maybe not all people would see us as the people to make this move, but we have a really progressive path.
 present in our communities and a really potential for a really progressive future. So I think we should take the opportunity to be on the right side of history now, like we're seeing in just a few places. I think we should continue with that direction and any extra time I have, I want to pass on to any BIPOC people. Thank you so much. Thank you so much, Joanna. Nikolai, you're next.
 Hi, can you hear me all right? We can hear you perfect. Okay, great. My name is Nikolai Black. I'm a Black Indigenous person of color living in North Portland, and I'm here to speak in favor of defunding and disbanding the police. An exorbitant amount is currently being allocated to a police department that has repeatedly failed its citizens and shows no willingness to reform. This money would be better spent on improving the quality of life for Portland citizens, especially the historically underserved Black community.
 Investing in the police department will have the opposite effect. Even the Minneapolis City Council president has said that efforts at incremental reform have failed, period. This is also true of the Portland Police Department. Cutting the funding by $50 million is a great start, but we need to move towards the complete disbandment of the police.
 The purpose of the police is supposed to be to protect and serve the community, and the Portland Police Bureau has spectacularly and grievously failed to do either of these things. There are staggering amounts of visiting
 video evidence that Portland police has instigated violence and misused non-lethal weapons. In my own personal experience with the Portland police, I witnessed a disturbing amount of favoritism toward white nationalist groups and a complete failure to respond or investigate to hate crimes. When I was attacked by a white supremacist on March 28th of 2020,
 I was met with blatant disregard for my safety and favor being shown towards my attacker. Evidence was disregarded and thrown out and my attacker still walks the streets freely presenting an immediate danger toward not only myself but all members of the black community.
 My voice and my safety, both as a Black Indigenous person of color and a survivor of racially motivated violence, have been entirely disregarded and this city is no longer a safe place for me or other BIPOC residents of Portland. We are neither being protected nor served and we live in constant fear of becoming a statistic. The Portland Police Department is a woefully inadequate failure that has overall made the city of Oregon an unsafe place.
 City Commissioners, Mayor Ted Wheeler, the trauma, violence, and excessive use of force on unarmed Black civilians is on your hands. The perversion of justice resulting from Portland Police Bureau's various failures are on your hands. The future of myself and other members of the Black community of Portland rests with you. I am asking that you do the right thing. Defund, disband, and replace the Portland Police Bureau with a more efficient program that will preserve...
 for the safety of myself and other underserved citizens of the city who have yet to see justice for the crimes committed against them. And in conclusion, fuck the police. Thank you. I think your time has expired. Greatly appreciate your testimony. Thank you so much for being here. Our next speaker, McBride. You are, can you unmute yourself? I
 I just wanted to say that I support the calls of black organizers to defund the PPB by at least $50 million this year and every year going forward in going towards the complete disbandment.
 Policing in the United States is an inherently racist force whose primary purpose is to create a continuous supply of legal slave labor to the American economy by targeting POC, particularly Black and Indigenous people, for harassment and arrest. That we allow this violent force to work in our name is shameful, and that we give them hundreds of millions of dollars of our tax dollars to do it is repulsive.
 As a white person who benefits from the system, I demand that my tax dollars not be used to overpay people to destroy communities of color and kill Black Portlanders at will with little to no recompense. We don't need better cops. We need no cops. Please defund and disband PPV. I yield the rest of my time. Thank you very much. Appreciate your testimony. Carla, the next three, please. So let's see. Garrett Brown.
 B. West and Jen Barth. Thank you. I'm Garrett. Your name? Hi. Can you hear me? I can hear you perfectly. Thank you. Good afternoon, City Council. My name is Garrett Brown. He, him, or they, them pronouns. I live in Northeast Portland, and I'm a white, queer, masculine presenting person.
 I'm giving testimony today to ask the council to defund the Portland Police Bureau, reducing their budget by at least $50 million and continuing to decrease the PBB budget for every year by at least another $50 million, in line with what other local activist groups would like. I want to share a personal story involving the PBB. One of the most frightening moments of my life took place December of 2019. I was working for a local dog walking service and went to a client's house in southeast Portland to walk their dog. The client forgot they had scheduled a walk and instead called police on me.
 the members of the ppb arrived detained me and searched me without consent i was only let go after i showed the officers my dog walking app proving i was supposed to be there that was one of the most terrifying moments of my life and while i may have experienced emotional trauma i was at least able to physically leave physically unharmed that is a privilege that many communities and bipoc individuals are not afforded when interacting with ppb
 What I went through was traumatizing but does not hold a candle to the pain and suffering black families in Portland have been put through. The city owes a massive debt to black activist groups like Don't Shoot PDX for making us quote unquote liberal white Americans face how we benefit from white supremacy. It is our responsibility to help dismantle systemic racism. If any other profession operated in the capacity police do, we could fire everyone and build it from scratch. Police exist to subjugate minority communities and protect white property owners.
 The client who called the police on me never apologized. They gave me their house key and let me take their dogs out on walks, but as soon as they felt vaguely uncomfortable, they had no issue calling armed officers to come and protect their stuff. White Portlanders need to be comfortable with being uncomfortable and recognize that the safety you believe you experience comes at the expense of BIPOC communities. Defund the Portland Police Bureau. Thank you. I yield the rest of my time. Thank you, Garrett. Jen, you're next. Can you unmute Jen?
 Going one more time, Jen. Are you ready to testify? Would you like to testify? Caller, please give me the next three names. Okay, sorry. It's okay. Let's see. I show Jepay Denny, Vaughn McConnell, and Dristel Riley. Excellent. Jepay, you're up. Welcome. Can you hear me? Yes.
 I barely. Can you adjust your volume, please? Is that better? Much better. Thank you. I just wanted to say I appreciate the email sent out by the assistant. So I'm going to go ahead and yield it so more BIPOC voices are able to be heard today. I electronically sent my testimony. Thank you very much. Appreciate you being here. Thank you. So Ford, I believe, was next, but I don't see Ford. Ford?
 Let's see, let's go with, sorry, here, I lost him. Oops. Travis Gale, Grail Bingham, and that looks like Barack Goodman and Taylor Weekly. Excellent. I see Barack, so I will start with Barack. Barack, welcome. Hi there. My name, do you hear me? I can. Okay.
 My name is Barak Goodman. I am an Arab American and a third generation Portlander on my father's side. I would like to talk about my first experience with the Portland police when I was nine years old in 1999 when my father had a seizure and our neighbors called 911. Instead of an ambulance, the police came. When they found him incapacitated, they asked him, what drugs are you on? Not are you okay? They proceeded to search our house illegally.
 tear out all of the drawers, including my mother's underwear drawer, break her dresser, and absolutely brutalized my father and detained him in handcuffs. When my mother got home, our house was destroyed. The police uncuffed my father, filed no parole report, and left without apologizing. This wasn't the first time. This wasn't the last time that I would witness Portland police using their brutality.
 Just last week, I was walking down the street alone after a protest when a cop pointed a gun at me unarmed. I put my hands in the air and asked, why? Please don't shoot. He continued to point the gun at me without responding. I was terrified. I've seen police officers throw tear gas canisters into a homeless camp without provocation.
 I'm horrified by what I've seen. I'm demanding the immediate defunding and disbanding of the Portland police. I'm demanding that those funds be reallocated into indigenous and black community organizations, into early childhood care, into public housing, and into people of color and their communities.
 I'm demanding that TriMet police be disbanded immediately. And I'm demanding that Ted Wheeler resign immediately. I yield my time. Fuck you, Ted Wheeler. You're a bitch. Fuck the police. Thank you. Let's cut this mic again. Nobody's going to listen to people who are disrespectful like that. Taylor, you're next. Hi, can you hear me?
 I can hear you perfectly. Perfect. I just wanted to start out saying thank you for allowing myself and the community to speak. I stand for the defunding of Portland Public Police by at least 50 million to be used to make our city a safer and more inclusive place for all. This includes an agreement by elected officials to not increase the funding for Portland Police at a later date.
 I stand with Commissioner Hardesty on all projected policy changes, especially to eradicate the gun violence reduction team and would like to see that funding to be used to help the BIPOC community in Portland grow.
 helping with housing costs and making addiction counseling and mental health services more accessible. The displacement, oppression, and duress that BIPOC communities have faced throughout our city's history is horrifying, and it is now our city's responsibility to help heal these wounds. We are in the midst of a revolution, and we need our elected officials to listen to the people now more than ever. During the past two weeks, I have seen my fellow peaceful protesters be subject to heinous war crimes.
 peaceful unarmed protesters being shot in the face with rubber bullets, children being sprayed with tear gas. This is proof that our Portland Police Bureau is failing their duty to de-escalate situations in a peaceful way and much more often than not result in violence.
 This is proof of a lack of training and a deliberate misuse of power. We are not safe if the very people meant to make us safe are the ones that cause the most danger in society, especially to our BIPOC community.
 We cannot continue to raise the Portland Police Bureau budget and reward them with more chemical weapons to use against their own community and people. We need to disband the Portland Police Bureau and redirect funds to set up direct response teams, smaller sects that have the appropriate training to respond to the particular situation, not officers looking for who to arrest. More funding towards mental health care instead of the prison system.
 I yield the rest of my time to the BIPOC community as they've been silenced and these problems ignored for too long. Thank you. Thank you, Taylor. Travis, you're next. All right. Can you hear me?
 All right, I'll try to keep this brief. My name is Travis Carroll Bingham, and I support cutting the budget for the Portland Police Bureau by $50 million and working towards the abolition of the Portland Police Bureau altogether. The stated goal of the police is to produce public safety, but it has not been adequately shown that their existence is beneficial to public safety, certainly not to the extent that we can afford to spend upwards of $240 million a year on them.
 That money would be much better spent on creating access to housing for people living on the streets, creating drug treatment resources for people dealing with addiction, creating and strengthening crisis response teams made up of unarmed mental health professionals, and creating some form of reparation program for Black and Indigenous people.
 indigenous people here in Portland. If you actually want public safety, you will defund the police, demilitarize community communities, safe housing for all Portland residents and repeal all laws, the criminalized survival and put an immediate moratorium on building new jails and new prisons.
 I want to see an immediate budget cut of the Portland Police Bureau by $50 million and not a shifting of costs. It's great that we're getting rid of SROs. It's great that we're getting rid of the transit police and the gun violence task force, but I want to see that money cut from the PPB's budget entirely, not shifted into other programs.
 I also want every officer that has been filmed harassing and attacking members of the press to be fired immediately. In theory, the police are here to preserve our constitutional rights, and if they've been seen violating those rights, they should be fired on the spot.
 I can see no justification for spending public money on the salaries of people who are actively suppressing American constitutional rights. In short, please defund the Police Bureau entirely and reallocate that money into programs that actually produce public safety. I don't expect this to be accomplished overnight, but I would like to see a plan that ends in the disbanding of the Police Bureau, allocating those $240 million or spending them to useful programs, beginning with an immediate $50 million cut. Thank you. I yield my time.
 Thank you, Travis. Carla, the next three names, please. Megan Horst, and then we'll go with Colleen Llewellyn and Garrick Imatani. Thank you. Megan, you're next. Welcome. Hi, do you hear me? I can hear you fine.
 Hi, hello Commissioner Hardesty and all the fellow commissioners. I'm a professor at Portland State University and a supporter of the call by Palafan Unite Oregon and many others on the phone tonight to defund the police. Using some of my research skills, I've been digging into it and hearing lots of people kind of echoing the call that this is actually a doable ask.
 Just defunding the special teams, especially the ones with cert and et cetera, adds up to about 21 million. And there's a big problem with overtime, but if well addressed, could add to more. So I think the data shows it's possible. And we also know from data, and lots of people on the call have acknowledged that the police have,
 There's lots of data to show that they have racially disproportionate impacts and that they're not the best way to help our community. Other data shows that more than 50% of police arrests are people experiencing houselessness, and that's an issue better resolved with housing and mental health and other services, as people have called. So I really just stand with my community tonight, and I really appreciate you, Commissioner Hardesty, pushing this forward, and we look forward to it.
 to hearing this is the time for dramatic action. So thanks so much for your time, and I see the rest of it. Thank you, Megan. Appreciate you. Colleen, you're next. Okay. I'd like to address the issue of the urgent need of funding housing for a homeless population. These citizens are being traumatized by current events, and they need shelter now.
 I'm serving them in food pantries, feeding programs, and I do live in the downtown Portland area. I'm in contact with this segment and find them very downtrodden and withdrawn. One sweet lady I spoke with recently shared people just don't care. My response was, I feel this more they fear falling into a similar situation. She had been on the street for three years. Can you imagine camping on pavement with no ability to cook or access to fresh water?
 Mentally ill people are particularly vulnerable, and we all know that our streets are their mental institutions, but without the care. They need skills, not more pills. They had mental illness. I had mental illness creep into my family, as many have. It's scary. And we look away. One young man on the street this week was crying in anguish. I want to be clean. I want to see my sister. Why can't I see my sister? It was heart-wrenching.
 It is said some want to be out there to do their drugs. Indeed, drugs play a part. One man explained, it's the only way I can cope with being on the mean streets. Possibly, if living lives of less desperation, there might be less need to anesthetize oneself. Many do not choose street life, but through high risk, they are blocked out. And there will be more coming in this new economy.
 We will find shelter for stray animals. How can't we find the same thing for people? Are we less important? I'm not on a tirade, but I make a plea that we stop looking away and look hard at these people. They need long-term housing that meets their needs, allows their autonomy, and restores their dignity. America is the most generous of countries. We can accomplish this, but we have to care. Thank you.
 Thank you, Colleen. Garrett, you're next. Yes. Hi, my name is Garrett Kimatani. I'm an educator, parent and person of color who lives in northeast Portland. And I'm asking for a motion for this year's budget to specifically exclude the line item for the PPB.
 I want to acknowledge the steps taken to reappropriate $7 million as a step in the right direction, but it's a really small step, and the council needs to make a larger commitment. There's still hundreds of millions of dollars going toward the PPP at a time when a city like Minneapolis is radically reimagining their policing by defunding and restructuring it, and we need to ask why. Thank you.
 Why are they doing this in Minneapolis? The police can't be the place where we ask unprepared and untrained officers to address all the failures of our society and the severely underfunded basic needs of the citizenry. That includes housing, education, health care, etc.
 mental health, and if nearly a third of the budget didn't go to policing but was redistributed toward basic services and invested in community self-governance, neighborhood trauma centers, drug and alcohol treatment, and non-carceral violence prevention, just to name a few,
 We wouldn't just see a reduction in crime, but the vast amount of research shows these alternative models policing are both more effective and cost efficient. We're just being dumb. We can't afford to keep spending money inefficiently in the face of the greatest economic depression in history. The pension fund alone of past and present officers is unsustainable and will continue to cripple our city budget for decades. How many more decades? Two.
 You know, we're going to continue paying for this inequitable distribution of city resources is pretty much up to you. And again, why are the leaders of Minneapolis doing this for? It's because the city has spoken and has sworn representatives of their constituency. They're just doing their jobs. I mean, commissioners and mayor, with all due respect, your city is simply asking you to do your job and represent our voice.
 You do not represent the nation. You do not represent the state. You were sworn in to represent the city of Portland, and your city's voice is loud and clear. It's the same voice taking to the streets in the thousands every single night saying, "'No more.'"
 There are other and better alternatives. Please represent us and make larger and louder actions that starts with defunding and ends with dismantling our broken system of policing in the city of Portland. Thank you, Garrett. I think your time's up. Appreciate you being here today. Thank you. Carla, who are the next three? The next three are Crystal Riley, Alison Coplin, and John Marvin.
 Hi, Crystal. Welcome. You're next. Hi. Can you hear me? I can hear you perfectly. Excellent. Hello. My legal name is Crystal Riley, but I just go by Riley. I am a teacher and I live in Northwest Portland. Over the years, I've heard from Black children as young as five years old that they've been harassed by the PPB.
 The Portland police have a long history of antagonizing the communities they claim to keep safe with no accountability. I support the call with others to defund the police and reallocate funds to better services. In the 2020 to 21 budget cycle, I support the reduction of the PPV budget by at least 50 million.
 In addition, immediately eliminate funds for school resources offices, special emergency reaction team, transit police, neighborhood response, service coordination team, behavioral health unit, and the gun violence reduction team. Redirect these funds towards anti-violence programs unaffiliated with law enforcement and other community-driven organizations like Portland's True Response. Immediately reduce the total number of officers and, of course, immediately stop policing protests. Many have mentioned the unacceptable tear-gassing and violence inflicted against demonstrators in the recent weeks. Thank you.
 This experience will change me forever, but I also know it does not even come close to the trauma and state-sanctioned violence that BIPOC people experience and have experienced throughout the entire history of policing. The aggression and racism of the police is nothing new, and all that the PPP have done in the past weeks is further illuminate institutionalized racism and the destructive power held by the Portland police and the prison industrial complex as a whole. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Allison, you're next.
 Hi, can you hear me? I can. Okay, thank you. I'm Allison Copeland. I live in Northeast Portland. The state of Oregon requires that someone complete 2,300 hours in order to obtain a cosmetology license, while less than 1,000 hours are required to become a police officer in this state. That means you need twice the training hours to do facials and waxing than you do to make life and death decisions while wielding deadly weapons.
 My point is we have completely overfunded the police with the expectation that they respond to every imaginable situation Most of which they are woefully under qualified to handle While we armed police with military weapons of war to use against Portlanders while we send them to terrorize our BIPOC communities While we pay them to criminalize poverty mental health crises and non whiteness We've ruthlessly got the budgets for services that actually address root causes while I consider your correct
 Current commitment's a good start. I demand that Portland City Council commit to the steps put forth by PALF and Unite Oregon. Police do not equal public safety. They are a danger to the public. To say the system is broken and just needs reform is false and disingenuous. The truth is that the system of policing is working exactly as it was intended, rooted in slave patrols and white supremacy. George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and too many more are proof positive that the system is doing exactly the job it was designed to do.
 Defunding is a start, but dismantling and abolition must come next. Do not disappoint us in this moment. Thank you.
 Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. John, you're next. Welcome. Hello, and thank you, commissioners, for the opportunity to testify today. A special thank you to you, Commissioner Hardesty, for your decades of work in policing reform. My name is John Marvin, and I go by Jack. I live in Northeast Portland, and I work in a community-based mental health and houseless services and public schools in the Portland metro area. I'm originally from Chicago, a city that is a grotesque model of white supremacist policing. In my
 In my time in Portland, I have seen many parallels as evidenced by the long list of Black lives taken by the police and the numerous people I have seen violently impacted by the disproportionate policing and criminalization of BIPOC, queer, trans, and houseless individuals. Commissioner Udaily, you spoke to incrementalism in your oak winning statement of this public hearing. I believe the proposed budget amendments that have been put forth thus far are just that.
 incremental. With due respect, Commissioner Udalli and Mayor Wheeler, your proposed amendments are incremental corridor measures that fall embarrassingly short, and there is no valid excuse for that. Additionally, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Udalli and Fritz, in light of the last 500 years of state-sanctioned looting of Black bodies in sovereign lands, $12 million is a paltry and pathetic commitment to reparations.
 Along with many on this call, Unite Oregon, PELF, and many other Black-led grassroots organizations, I'm demanding a rejection of incrementalism as you promised, Commissioner Udaly. We call for at least $50 million to be immediately removed from the PPB and Sheriff's budgets, and $50 million more divested every year until the entire Bureau is permanently disbanded.
 In addition to immediately eliminating school resource officers, policing on and in metro transit systems, the gun violence reduction team, and all vacant positions within PBB, we call for the elimination of the apraxia emergency reaction team, neighborhood response and behavioral health units, and any policing and protests in Portland. We demand that these funds be divested in policing and reinvested in building Black futures and community care and services that reject the logic of
 or practice of policing, surveillance, or incarceration. The system of policing in this city and across the country validates its own existence by perpetuating the kind of violence against black communities and individuals that we have seen both in the last two weeks in this city and since the origins of this country. These demands, I believe at the very least that you, as the political leaders of this city, can do to reject incrementalism and commit to real change and healing.
 Portland. Thank you. And I see the balance of my time. Thank you, John. Appreciate your testimony. Carla, the next three names, please. Next three are Amy Miss Watson and Scarlett Stack. Welcome, Amy. You're next. Amy, can you unmute yourself? Amy, going once, twice. I will go back to Amy at some point. I actually don't see the other people who were in line. They disappeared. Watson.
 Yes, I am here. Oh, excellent. Hello, Watt. Zell, you're next. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. My name is Ezell Watson. I am a citizen that lives here in Northeast Portland, and I want to support all of the statements that have been made by Paul from Unite Oregon. I'd also like to humanize this a little bit by sharing a personal experience that I've had with Portland Police Bureau. I have been accused by Portland Police Bureau of stealing... Ezell, can I have you hold on for just a sec?
 There's a lot of background noise. If people who aren't talking would please put their phone on mute, I would be very appreciative. If you have your TV or something on, give the feedback. I really apologize. I was actually walking and I'm outside. Is this better? Oh, this is 100 times better. Thank you, Zell.
 Excellent. I just want to share my personal testimony about why we need to defund police. As a black man who has attempted to be an asset to every community that he has been in here in Portland, I've been continually harassed by Portland police crews.
 I attempted to put together a skate party out in the city of Gresham, and I was detained for an hour on the night of my event by police from Portland Police Bureau. They told me that because of the type of car that I was driving, that they needed to make sure that it was registered to me. Well, if you ran my license plate,
 You knew that the car was registered to me. That's one. I was also accused of stealing a watermelon by a police officer at Fred Meyer in Hollywood.
 Hollywood. I had to, he had his hand on his gun. I feared for my life and I couldn't even reach in my bag to produce my receipt because I was terrified of what he might do. This is why it is very important that we defund police right now and reinvest in other areas. I yield the balance of my time. Thank you. Your testimony is important to this conversation. I appreciate you being here.
 As Scarlett, you're next. Hi, can you hear me? I can. Okay. My name is Scarlett Staff. I'm a queer resident of Old Town Chinatown, a parishioner at St. Andre Peset Catholic Church and a former Old Town Chinatown Association board member. I'm advocating for the complete divestment from and disbanding of the Portland Police Bureau. It's time to abolish the police entirely and allocate resources to the health and well-being of our marginalized communities who have been harmed by the brutality.
 Even before COVID-19, Portland's housing crisis was catastrophic, and a large portion of the houseless population lives in my section of downtown. I'm surrounded by shelters, the sidewalks are lined with tents, and instead of addressing the issue in a constructive way, the city has only worsened the crisis with cops.
 Though always a target for the police, those without a house who have congregated to my neighborhood have become latent victims of the police's latest acts of terrorism. Protesters and journalists didn't deserve the tear gas, but those sleeping in the streets definitely didn't deserve the chemical weapons in their lungs and irritating their eyes. Not to mention my pets! This is just the latest addition to the long list of infractions cops have committed against the community it pretends to protect.
 The police too frequently use higher level of force necessary on individuals suffering from actual perceived mental illness. They have a pattern of shooting mentally ill homeless people. And in 2017, 52% of the arrests made in Portland were of people experiencing homelessness, despite representing approximately 3% of the population. City council members need to take action because no amount of reforming or retraining will make officers less violent, less racist, or suddenly empathetic.
 The systems of policing and incarceration have no role in public health and safety. Now is the time to reimagine how we can allocate resources towards housing, food security, transit, education, and so much more to transform Portland into the progressive city it pretends to be. Also, my condolences to Mayor Wheeler. Few things compared to the loss of a parent.
 My dad died to an opioid crisis seven years ago, a fate that might have been averted if the mental health and addiction services had been funding that deserved instead of police. Thank you, I yield my time. Thank you Scarlett, appreciate you being here today. Carla, the next three please. Yes, the next three are Ashanti Hall, Carla Mallory and Kramer Kellum. Thank you, Ashanti, you're next, welcome.
 Thank you. Where do I start? I'll try and just make this funny quickly here. I'm a Portlander. I went to Harriet Tubman. I went to Jefferson High School. I have definitely seen a lot of different forms of police brutality and different ways the police treat people of color since I was a child. I 
 I just uh I definitely want to call I just well I just want to put on record that I'd like to like to um advocate for these for divesting as much money as we can from the police department and putting more money into housing and I and into um and commit to mental health services and um and into treatment programs I think what we're doing isn't working um I'd also like to see um
 I know this is about the budget meeting. I'd also like to see, um, uh, some kind of thing where, where police officers actually have to carry their own personal insurance and therefore, and then if they have more use of, use of force against them, their insurance program premiums go up. If they're uninsurable and they're on unhireable, that'd be, I'd like to see something along that line. I know how hard it is to get something like that through the, um, through the contracting process for that. Um,
 for the important public for the police bureau but yeah um long story short yeah let's i'd like i'd like to put a record that i'd like to take as much money away from the police officers as possible and put it back into the community specifically housing first i think we're going to lose a lot of the issues that we have um that surrounding homelessness surrounding crime and surrounding the perception of crime if we can just get people housed thank you i yield the rest of my time
 Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Carla, you're next. Hi. Yes, I can. Welcome. Hi. Hi, my name is Carla Mallory and I'm a resident in Lads Edition. As a Filipina immigrant, I've always had the mentality that America is a country where if you work hard enough, you can make it. The American dream. But that's not true. It's not true because of our economic inequality. Right.
 or economic inequality a direct result of systemic racism, which is what the police is fundamentally built on and perpetuates. Reigning terror every day to marginalized communities, the history of the police, of his...
 The history of violence against Black, Brown, immigrants, LGBTQ+, disabled, sex workers, poor people, the list goes on. We need to follow suit with Minneapolis. We need justice and dignity for all, and we can start right now. I myself and my family have been racially profiled walking home from work,
 driving, going to school, getting back from work by the police and was held against my will for long periods of time to confirm my identity as well as my immigrant status. Multiple times not just in Portland, Oregon but in Los Angeles and Arizona and many other states.
 defund the ppb allocate funds to community-based models of safety support and prevention fund that 50 mil to immigration social work crisis staff that focus on de-escalation social workers women's shelters homeless shelters affordable health care planned parenthood rehab and reparations community outreach and many other more
 that we can fund besides the police. We're calling for our city officials like yourself for your intellect to do what's right. Thank you for listening and I yield my time.
 Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Kramer, you're next. Hi, my name is Kramer Callum. I'm a mental health professional and a doctoral candidate studying clinical psychology. My brother works as a police officer for the city of Gresham Police Department, and my mother works as a budget analyst for the same department. I say all that because I
 Among law enforcement, a common kind of defensive statement is that the public just doesn't understand what happens behind the scenes. But I do. I also know that myself and my colleagues are better prepared to respond to so many crises that are impacting people. I've personally provided treatment to multiple people of color. I have.
 who were traumatized by the police, and that stuck with them for decades. And also, I'd like to echo calls to fund housing to... Sorry. I'd like to echo defunding $50 million from the police department immediately and just summarize that I've heard about 200 people say the same and to invest that in...
 uplifting people of color and righting some of the wrongs. Also to Commissioners Eudaly Fritz and Mayor Wheeler, I also identify as someone that's a white person that's late to show up to the fight for racial justice. And I just wanna say that this is just a start. We have so much work to do.
 that please don't get complacent and pat yourselves on the back for these steps. This is just the start. More generally, I want to urge the members of the council, the mayor, and other local government leaders to follow the recommendations of Commissioner Hardesty. She is uniquely qualified to lead the city and the concerns at hand, and in this particular time in history.
 She's respected by the Black Lives Matter movement and following her recommendations, I believe, will lead to the healing of this city. And I'd just like to conclude that as a mental health professional, we should be sending healers to heal. Yeah, I'll yield the rest of my time to BIPOC.
 Thank you, Kramer. I really appreciate your testimony. Carla, can I get a status report? How many more speakers do we have lined up? We'll get a count after this. I can call the next three. Well, I'm trying to decide whether I should go to the, whether we should have a five minute break. Maybe that will give you the opportunity to do that. That would probably be a good idea.
 Okay, let's take a five minute break and we'll be back. My clock says it's 548. Is that what it says? Yep, it says 548. Back in five minutes. Thank you. Okay, Carla, can you give me a count of how many speakers we have left? We're showing 99. 99. Okay, well, we got another hour. We're at our last hour. Please give me the next three. Okay.
 The next three are Robert Wilcox, Mike Mooney, and Lauren Armony. Thank you very much. Robert, you're up next. Welcome. Yeah, hi. Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity today. Joanne Hardesty, I really appreciate everything that you have done for the City of Portland, as well as you, Commissioner Udaly, the other city commissioners. And thank you for the small steps that you've taken so far to
 help to try and fix the the dire situation that we're in with our police bureau. A couple of the things that I've noticed while looking over the
 City budget that is proposed for the next year in regards to the Portland Police Bureau is we have 105 million dollars allotted to the Portland Precinct Patrol 2.9 million dollars allotted to a program known as chief and staff which I imagine goes to the payroll for the chief and staff officers we're also looking at a $40,000 increase for the Portland Police Chief
 $8.75 million for the Narcotics and Organized Crime, which is formerly known as the Drug and Vice program. $6 million to gun violence reduction, which I know we're looking at getting rid of. $4.5 million to the neighborhood response team. All kinds of things that are going towards broken windows policing that I think need to be avoided and eradicated immediately. We have around...
 Let's see, 11% of cleared cases out of 9,795 crime against property. I'm sorry, 47,000 cases of crime against property offenses compared to 9,795 crime against person offenses and 2,500 crime against society offenses. We're focusing way too much on crime against property offenses, and it's easy to think
 to find the $50 million here within the budget to allocate these towards towards the mental health services, the community organizations, and the community organizations that are going to support the BIPOC community in the ways that we need. So what I'm hoping you'll see is that the $50 million that we need to reallocate within the Portland Police Bureau
 can be found here. I hope that you will look to find the specific programs where we're spending millions of dollars on personnel that we don't need to be to properly solve this situation. And again, I want to thank you for everything you've done for the City of Portland. Thank you, Robert. Appreciate your testimony. Mike, you're next.
 Thank you. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. All right. My name is Mike Mooney. I'm a resident of Southeast Portland. There are no simple solutions to complex problems, so I'm not in a position to offer solutions today, but rather to share some of what I've experienced in my interactions with law enforcement in my five years of living in Portland. But a $50 million cut does seem like a good start.
 The police take an oath to protect and serve. I pay $3,561.17 in taxes annually for my 750-square-foot condo in southeast Portland.
 In that time, I've had limited interactions with the police, but by and large, my experience with them has been underwhelming. The police were called when my dog got loose when my partner and I were out on a Saturday afternoon. When I arrived home, I found that I had left the window open and someone had cut the screen to break in. When I informed the officer of this, he asked me if I wanted to make it a part of the report. When I informed him I'd like for that to be the primary aspect of the report, he seemed disinterested.
 I offered to send him pictures of my broken screen and another window that had clearly been tampered with. He said I could email him the pictures, so I did. The only person that ever followed up with me was an animal control official who came out to do an investigation into my dog. The message that I got from the city was that they were more concerned about my dog getting out than my home being broken into.
 My vehicles have been broken into twice and stolen vehicles have been abandoned in my neighborhood. My neighbor's car was stolen from right outside my window in the middle of the day. The police have been called each and every time and I have yet to receive a follow-up on anything from anyone at PPD. Not only are police harming BIPOC people in our city, they're not even doing their job satisfactorily. So I ask,
 What are we as a city getting for the $246 million we're collectively paying annually, and can those funds be better used elsewhere? Before we greenlight another year of $246 million to the police, we need them to justify how they plan to serve all of Multnomah County with this budget, especially our BIPOC neighbors, friends, and family.
 In reviewing the budget, it appears that the one thing they are willing to cut is the body cam program that has been in a pilot phase without a clear path forward for implementing body cameras on every officer. I ask that that be reviewed. Thank you, Dr.
 Thank you, Mike. But let me just tell you, I was the one that's been trying to cut that body cam program for ever since Mayor Charlie Hales proposed it because it is a fake accountability measure. The law requires the police own the video. They decide when it becomes public.
 and the general public has no access to it. And I was unwilling to invest millions of dollars into a program that only served the police, just so you know. I was unaware of that. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you for your testimony. Lauren, you're next.
 Hello, can you hear me? I can. Great. Thank you so much for your time, and I'll keep it brief. I want to feed most of my time to our BIPOC community. I grew up in occupied Chinook territory, now called Portland, Oregon, and I went through the Portland public school systems and
 saw how much, and as I aged, saw how much the funding was cut and was especially cut from schools located in historically Black neighborhoods and watched my, my peers drop out of school and become a part of the prison, school to prison pipeline. Let me see.
 I'm here to echo and amplify the call by our Black community to defund the Portland police and instead invest in our education system, social services, healthcare services, and reparations.
 Over the last two weeks, we have seen how the Portland Police Bureau has exemplified its incompetence in keeping citizens safe and, in fact, has incited the violence they claim to reduce and deter. Using chemical weapons, the illegal practice of kettling and targeting legal observers and journalists, especially during a pandemic, is unconscionable and inhumane. We must commit...
 today and tomorrow and to the future to defund, disarm, and disband the police. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you, Lauren. Appreciate you being here. Carla, can I get the first, the next three names, please? Yes, the next three are Karen DeVera, Celeste Nochi, and Diana Monskath. Thank you very much. Karen, you're next.
 Hi, can you hear me? I can. Hi, my name is Karen Rivera. I'm a person of color. I live in northeast Portland. Hello, elected officials. Thank you for listening to us today. I will get to the budget, but I just wanted to touch on a few things. Last night, there was an order issued by federal Judge Hernandez that police are still able to use tear gas during a two-week restraining order. They just have to follow city rules. This restraining order is weak.
 because it literally says the police can still use tear gas. Oh, and also even prior to the restraining order, the police haven't been following city rules. The police are acting as if they are above the law. So why is that? Because they're well protected by their union. The PPA contract ends this month, and I know the terms of the contract have been negotiated well in advance, but I urge you to void the contract and to not renew. Okay.
 Why does the police need so much protection anyway? If they were actually good at their jobs, which is protecting the public, then why the need for legal shield? They're doing such a bad job that they need legal protection. There's no reprimand for cops doing a bad job. The city has to keep settling disputes. I think today I calculated it was like 240,000 in settlements just from today.
 The cops are literally costing us money. Is that built into their budget? So moving on to the budget, Mayotte Edwiller is not here today. Elected officials, his proposal is a reduction of the port
 Portland police budget by $7 million, which is not enough to fix the racial injustice. I stand with the Portland African American Leadership Forum and ask you to decrease the Portland police budget by $50 million, to reallocate that to community programs, and to promise never to increase the Portland police budget in the future. $50 million is the least you can do for the racial injustice that has been going on in the city, in Oregon's long history of deeply rooted white supremacy. Commissioner Hardesty, I support your proposal of street responders,
 Commissioner Udaily, I thank you and your office for emailing me back. It shows you are listening. I support your statements. To all elected officials, I urge you to not renew the PPA contract, reduce the budget by $50 million, and to reallocate them to community programs. I really hope you're listening to the people of the City of Portland. Thank you. Thank you, Karen. Celeste, you're next.
 Hi, can you hear me? I can. Thanks. My name is Celeste Noche. I live in Northeast and I'm the founder of Portland in Color. I ask that the proposed budget increase be rejected and stand with PALF, Unite Oregon, and all Portlanders calling for a minimum of $50 million to be divested from the police. But more strongly, I advocate for the immediate disbandment and defunding of the PPB altogether.
 I condemn the city and most particularly tear gas teds enabling and protecting of police violence. The policing of Black Lives Matter protests needs to end immediately. It is reprehensible that you have allowed the PPB to use tear gas and pepper spray on civilians peacefully rallying for Black lives while not only allowing white supremacists to gather peacefully, but with police protection. It's despicable.
 Commissioner Hardesty, I appreciate your efforts to get us here, but I was disappointed by your opening comments today attempting to defend Wheeler by saying it's not his fault he's white. I also condemn the tone policing of citizens calling in. We all have a right to use language as we choose, and the city and the police have not earned our respect. Do you not see the hypocrisy in policing the language of the people in this moment?
 It is clear that this system is not broken, but functioning just as it was designed. Wheeler's proposal, as is, is not enough. His performative actions continue to prove he does not care about us. I call for his resignation. I call for defunding the PPB immediately. All cops are bastards, and if the city continues to enable them, we know where you are too. We will not forget how you choose to act in this moment. I yield my time. Thank you, Celeste. Diana, you're next.
 Hi, can you hear me? I can. Great. Good afternoon and thank you for the opportunity to speak today. I'm Diana Monska and I live in the Boise neighborhood of Portland. I'm here to echo the eloquent voices of those before me and I urge you to reduce the police budget by 50 million minimum and 50 million in every year following until PPD is disbanded. Reform is not the solution as we know it has never proven effective.
 In addition, police should end their presence at protests going on effective immediately. Regardless of any call for them to use less lethal weapons, they will simply turn to other ways of enacting violence. Their actions specifically in the last two weeks have been disgusting and inhumane. Hearing the many stories today and knowing what they have been doing when cameras are not on them sickens me.
 It is also insulting and hypocritical for Ted Wheeler to propose June 2020 as Portland Pride Month, considering Pride itself started in response to a police raid that triggered numerous demonstrations by the LGBTQ community, specifically Black LGBTQ folks standing against police brutality. How can you stand for Pride yet allow police brutality to continue day after day in Portland? This speaks to the emptiness behind Ted Wheeler's statements and promises.
 I also urge you to not resign the contract with the Portland Police Association that expires June 30th. Simply let it expire. I'm about to leave my house today to continue to protest, as I have been for the past two weeks. If you do not vote for the voices of Portland and the things people have asked of you, we will continue to fight and we will not stop. Thank you. Thank you, Diana. Carla, can I get the next three names, please? Yes, the next three are Miranda McCafferty.
 And then we'll go with Alistair Crawford and Samuel Hughes. Thank you. Miranda, you're next. Welcome. Hi, thank you for hearing me. I am a healthcare worker at OHSU and I live in the Southwest downtown waterfront. And I am calling for disbanding of the Portland Police Bureau, effective as planned.
 as soon as we can that would be great.
 I would like to redirect funds allocated for gang policing towards anti-violence programs unaffiliated with law enforcement, reparations for Black Portlanders targeted by gang policing and other investment in Black people to be determined by community groups such as Don't Shoot Portland. Eliminate these positions entirely by reducing the total number of officers, not just by folding them back into general sworn officer positions. Immediately stop policing protests.
 Cops are bringing the riot, not the demonstrators. I've seen this firsthand. It's very disturbing and sickening. Even if they stop using less lethal weapons, they'll just shift the way they enact violence. This has truly been disturbing to see, and I'm just hoping you hear, and I yield my time. Thank you so much. Thank you, Miranda. How do you say...
 Alistair? Alistair? Oh, thank you. I do... My apologies for butchering it. No worries, I'm pretty used to it. Hello, I'm Alistair Crawford. I live in downtown Portland. And over the last two weeks, the Portland police have rioted downtown and terrorised our community with tear gas, pepper spray, and even beating down journalists. Via their incompetence, they've made our community less safe.
 They are frivolously spending taxpayer money on military-grade equipment, again, to brutalize our community instead of making it safer. Their one job is to keep the peace, and they have failed miserably at that. They obviously have more money than they know how to spend, and hence I think we should defund the police by $50 million. Thank you. I yield the rest of my time. Thank you. Sam Wallace next.
 Hello, I am a Northeast resident and dysfunctional activist. And as a mentally ill queer white person from a police state in Arkansas, I have experienced and witnessed abuse from the police, but I have also experienced and benefited from white privilege. And with that said, I would like to go on to the budget. I think at least $50 million should be cut from our budget.
 And honestly, I think maybe 50% of the budget should be cut because to me, if 50% of their job is harassing homeless people, then 50% should be given to housing the homeless and mental health services. Sorry.
 I think it's absurd that we would expect police to deal with mentally ill. We do not expect them to do EMT work if somebody is having a physical health crisis. So I think it's important to realize what mental health
 actually means and that for decades it has been pushed aside since the Reagan era of ending our mental health hospitals and I want to yield the rest of my time to BIPOC people. Thank you very much for being here. Caller, who are the next three?
 I show Eric Fesco, Sarah Valesky, and Kimberly Diamond. Thank you. Eric, you're up next. Welcome. Thank you. I am a white data scientist working at OHSU, living in Southeast Oregon, and my opinions here are my own. The journey of 1,000 paces begins with a single step. I applaud the commissioners in taking a small first step with the current...
 in Portland's community. The events over the past two weeks cannot make it any clearer that the PPB no longer serves the needs of the community. We need to rethink its role and therefore budget. I support PALF and Unite Oregon and other organizers' proposal, including immediately reducing the PPB budget by $50 million. In preparation for this meeting, I've looked over the Portland annual budget and I wanna echo what Robert Wilcox had already stated.
 That over $100 million currently within the proposed budget are going to programs that have been empirically shown to contribute to systemic racism and effectively fail. So cutting to the police budget effectively impacts nothing. In addition, the PPB budget of $244 million already excludes health, disability, and pension plans for PPB employees. So cutting $50 million will impact nobody's future as well.
 And then finally, this budget provides $200,000 per staff support. A way of comparison, if you look at the Portland school system, with a budget of $665 million, mostly funded by state, only $86,000 per staff support exists. This is about approximately what the average police officer makes as much as the entire support for a single educational staff member. Decades from now, succeeding generations are going to ask who we were. Well, who are we, really?
 We mark George off a police officer who publicly threatened even greater deadly force against largely peaceful protesters in a no time Facebook post. Why are we human? Do we embrace love and work together to dismantle the systemic and individual racism that targets black, indigenous and PSC communities? And at this point, I'll give my time to any byproduct. Thank you very much, Eric. Sarah, you're next.
 Hi, can you hear me? I can. Awesome. I just want to do really quick so that I can see to my BIPOC community members as well. But I just wanted to add my voice.
 My name is Sarah Volstek. I'm a white resident who has lived in southeast Portland for most of my 33 years. I joined my voice with Defund Oregon, POP, and others in demanding the defunding, dismantling, and abolishing of the Portland police to reallocate those funds to our city's most crucial needs for health, wellness, and safety of our vulnerable BIPOC communities.
 non-white members. As a white educator working in schools with a high percentage of BIPOC students, I know that in the white community we have long suppressed and silenced racial violence history and needs of our communities in favor of upholding capitalist and white supremacist systems and values, which includes the Portland Police Bureau. We must remove this branch to focus instead on starting to rebuild our communities for our Black, Brown, Native, and BIPOC residents
 who not only have been violently targeted by police, but by the entire history of the Portland and Oregon communities steeped in white supremacy. We must focus on these long underserved citizens by placing great value on social, mental health, and community services. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate you being here. Kimberly, you're next.
 My name is Kimberly Diamond. I am a white person here to support the complete abolishment of the Portland Police Bureau. Firstly, I would like to acknowledge the land that we are on. These are the stolen lands of the Multnomah, Kaplanet, Clackamas, Cowlitz bands of Chinook, Tualatin, Kalapuya, Malala, and many other tribes who made their homes along the Columbia River. This settler colonial government is illegitimate.
 On Sunday, June 7th, the president of the Minneapolis City Council stated that their efforts at incremental police reform have failed, period. They committed to fully disbanding the Minneapolis Police Department. The Portland Police Bureau has failed the Black people of this city time and time again. They have failed Keaton Otis, Aaron Campbell, James J. Perez, Kendra James, Deontay Keller, Lloyd Tony Stevenson, and countless others.
 The police do not protect and serve this community, they protect and serve each other, which in and of itself upholds the racist structures and systems of this society. We are calling for no more. The only way to stop police violence is to defund, dismantle, and abolish the police. We know that policing never and will never keep oppressed and colonized people safe.
 No amount of reform or training will ever make police less violent or less racist. The U.S. policing system is rooted in slave patrols and has maintained social control through the state-sanctioned violence at its core.
 The city can address its $75 million deficit in the $4.4 billion proposed budget by divesting entirely from the violence of policing and incarceration. A 6% decrease from the PPP budget is not enough. That will change absolutely nothing. From the originally proposed $236 million budget allocated to the PPP, a 6% decrease would lower the budget by only $7 million. That would leave the PPP with a budget of $229 million.
 For perspective, in the proposed budget, the Office of Equity and Human Rights is proposed to receive $2 million. $2 million for human rights compared to the $229 million the PPB is going to get along with their long history of racial profiling and murder of Black folks.
 We are demanding at least this. Reduce the PPP budget by $50 million until they have been stripped of all funding. Thank you, Kimberly. Your time is up. I greatly appreciate you being here, though. Thank you. Thank you. Please. Who's next? Next three, please. Next three are Tara Hershberger, Sarah McPike, and Harper Brokaw Falbo. Thank you. Tara, you're next. Welcome.
 Tara, you're on mute. Hello, can you hear me? I can. Hello, I am Tara Hershberger. I reiterate the demands that have been expressed. I would specifically like to encourage that some of that money that is going to be reinvested into the Black community be going to artists and cultural makers.
 Commissioner Hardesty, you mentioned the importance of reimagining public safety. And for that, I request that we fund Black artists and Black culture makers. And I relinquish the remainder of my time to Black and Indigenous people. Thank you. Thank you so much. Hi, my name is Quactamook.
 Eeskweetly? I am the person whose name whose time is being yielded to by Tara. Oh okay all right uh thank you go ahead. Yeah so I would just like to say that I want to see the Portland Police Bureau budget be halved every single year until it is disbanded and completely over and that
 that money be immediately invested and directed to programs that are dedicated to communities of color, specifically Black and Indigenous, that are run by Black and Indigenous folks and are funded for Black and Indigenous folks. And I personally knew the person who was killed by tear gas, Sarah Grossman. Yeah, that's right. And fuck tear gas, Ted, because we...
 Yes, I'm really sorry about what happened and like his mother but She this police are not showing respect to us and we're not about the risk You know be respectful to a system that is killing us and that is tear gassing us when obviously people are dying So fuck the police and disband Sarah. You're next welcome. Oh
 Hi, can you hear me? I can. Okay, thanks. Hi, my name is Sarah McPike. I'm a white resident in Portland. I was born and raised in the St. Louis metro, which has greatly shaped my views of racial injustice. I may be from an economically disadvantaged background, but let me be clear, I have been a benefactor of white privilege my entire life.
 I'm here to ask for a minimum of a $50 million reduction of the PPP budget. I think some people think police save and protect, but I disagree. And I have many personal stories to support that belief. I want to share two stories that illustrate white privilege as it relates to policing. When I was a teenager, I was in a car with five people, three white girls, two black boys. To be clear, the driver was a black teenager. The short story is we were pulled over. We were let go. No official warning. Just let go. This girl started to celebrate because why not? We got a pass.
 The teenage men in the car were confused and in shock. When we almost annoyingly asked them why they weren't celebrating with us, they said this was the first time in their life that they had ever been pulled over and not pulled out of a car and searched. This wasn't a moment of celebration for them, but an affirmation that they were not afforded the benefit of the doubt that we were. Second story is about my father. He was an extreme alcoholic who ultimately succumbed to his addiction. During his lifetime, he had 11 DUIs. He did not spend a day in prison.
 On May 17th, my father went missing. The police reacted with days of searches, including search dogs and sonar equipment scanning many miles of the Mississippi River. While my father was a lifetime alcoholic, those police saw recognized his humanity and not his addiction. I understand that if my father had brown skin, that reaction would have been very different.
 If that's not privilege, then I can't understand what is. So let's recap. My friends had never been treated with kindness or the benefit of the doubt. However, my father's life, during his entire life, he was never held accountable. Frankly, this treatment didn't help either of them. This is not a system of justice. This is a system of favoritism and hate. Let's defund the police and protect our citizens. Let's fund mental health resources. Let's fund our futures. Black lives matter, and it is a time for us to stand up. Please defend the police, and I yield my time. Thank you.
 Thank you, Sarah. Harper, you are up next. Welcome. I can hear me? Yes, I can. Hi, I'm speaking for Harper. They gave me their time to convey what I've been wanting to talk about. So good afternoon, everyone. And my name is Switchblade Alvarez.
 And I've lived here in the Buckman neighborhood in Portland, Oregon. I've had my share of experiences with the police in my life. And as a Black and Latinx person, I've been profiled, I've been abused, shamed, dismissed, and I've been traumatized all because of my skin. Yeah.
 for the way that I look. I know a huge part of my community has as well. We've internalized it. We deserve to be able to survive and have resources to thrive, to be able to nurture not only ourselves, but our peers. This country has a long history that currently still systematically oppresses us. We've built this country. We've nurtured it.
 We are the very soul of what makes this country great. So why would you want to alienate and abuse a big part of what makes this country? I'm calling for you as leaders to be there for when we call you to aid us without the need of incarceration and the police. I support PALF and the Unite Oregon's platform to defund the police.
 We need you to invest in community service that can uplift and nurture the Black and Brown community. By defunding the PPB and other programs that rely on abuse and neglect of the Black and Brown families that live here, we have the resources to nurture those communities.
 Trauma creates trauma and you have the power to break that cycle and be better for your people, for yourselves. It's what we deserve, it's what we need, and we want to be given that same opportunity that white people have taken from us so we may be able to stand on equal ground. We need accountability with the wounds that the police and the city have done and be able to see the accountability unfold swiftly. Thank you. I'll resume my time.
 Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Carla, who are the next three? The next three are Adam Aplanop, Cara Keenan, and Eric Houck. Thank you. Adam, you are next.
 Hi there, good afternoon commissioners. My name is Adam Applenalp. I'm a lifelong Oregonian. I've lived and worked in Portland for the last 15 years. I'm here today to say that I believe it's time for white people who enjoy so much privilege in our community to stand up to acknowledge the systemic racism that's permeated our society and to call for change. Change that starts with the lifeblood of our city government, its budget.
 I join in the demands advanced by numerous community organizations, namely the immediate drastic reduction of the police budget by $50 million, committing to disband the Portland Police Bureau and investing instead in the health and well-being of communities of color.
 We need to completely reimagine how our public safety infrastructure works and to step away from our long-held views that policing works. As we've all witnessed over the last two weeks, it doesn't work. And more importantly, it doesn't work for Portlanders of color. The Portland Police Bureau is not built for the Portland we want to be. As Commissioner Hardesty said, despite decades of community activism, its culture hasn't changed one iota.
 Despite comprising more than a third of the general fund budget, the police bureau does not serve Portlanders. The city of Minneapolis and its city council have seen that reality. Now it's time for each of you to open your eyes to that same reality. You were elected to be the voice of the people of Portland. 60,000 emails in a week should be good evidence that this is the time when we need you to stand up for us. Commissioners, I ask you each to ask yourselves, how can we lead our country in radically rethinking community safety and in centering BIPOC voices?
 I think if you search inside yourselves, you'll see that we can't move forward through incremental change. Now is the time to invest in long-term, sustainable solutions that take care of our most marginalized community members.
 Now is the time to invest in solutions for all Portlanders. And now is the time for bold steps that can serve as an example for the rest of our country. I ask you today to stand up, to champion these bold changes and to harness your courage to do what's right for all Portlanders. Let's radically reinvent Portland as the example that it can be. Thank you. And thank you, Commissioner Harpesty for your leadership and your poise and stamina today as president of the council. You're truly an inspiration and I'm very honored to call you a commissioner of our city.
 Thank you. Thank you very much, Adam. Appreciate you being here. Kara, you are next. Hi, can you guys hear me? I can. Excellent. My name is Kara Kingan, and I work for the City of Portland, and today I'm here to address the proposed 2021 fiscal year budget, which at present allocates over $246 million to the Portland Police Bureau.
 This money will fund a militarized police force which has recently been used to violently suppress largely peaceful protests organized to decry against police brutality. Despite nationwide criticism of the Portland Police Bureau regarding the treatment of protesters, Mayor and Police Commissioner Ted Wheeler would like to give the Bureau a $6 million raise.
 The replacement of Chief Resch with Chief Lovell is little more than cheap optics, which insult the intelligence and the memory of the people of Portland. We have not forgotten that in 2006, while serving as a school resource officer, Chief Lovell was involved in a lawsuit for placing a crying teenage girl in a chokehold.
 Chief LaVelle now inherits a bureau plagued by inappropriate use of force, yet was unable to appropriately cope with a single teenage girl. How then can we expect him to react to angry protesters?
 Since his appointment, Chief Lovell has made it clear that his loyalties lie with the Portland Police Bureau and not with the people of Portland. So I ask you, what is the sense in funding a police department that protects only itself and not the people it is meant to serve? Therefore, today I call for three essential items of action. First and foremost, I call for the city of Portland to stand in solidarity with Minneapolis by defunding and disbanding the Portland Police Bureau.
 Second, I call for a minimum of $50 million to be reallocated towards the reestablishment of historically overpoliced communities by aiding against food and housing insecurity. And finally, I call for the immediate resignation of Ted Wheeler as police commissioner and mayor. His absence of leadership during these times has demonstrated his lack of ability and lack of compassion for our city and for our BIPOC community. In conclusion, all cops are bastards. I yield my time.
 Thank you, Carla. Eric, you're next. Hello, can you hear me? I can. Okay. My name is Eric Hawk. I'm here on behalf of Portugal the Man and the PTM Foundation. We're a band from Alaska that's been based out of Portland for the last 15 years. I wanted to thank you for this platform and thank you for your tireless efforts, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you for the platform. Thanks for a bit of your time. And I want to acknowledge Mr. Wheeler for his pledges of action for the last couple of days.
 particularly for recognizing Portland's Black, Indigenous, and the whole BIPOC community and their calls for sweeping changes, which he himself acknowledged were a long time coming. These are some great first steps to major structural change. The disproportionate arrests and stops on people of color should disturb the entire community and must not continue. This
 This moment in time is an incredible opportunity to think of the future of our city, to look at the needs that we have right in front of us and down the road, to reprioritize, to recognize that as we come out of quarantine and reincorporate into society, a lot of us have kids that just want to be part of sports programs, kids that miss the community.
 and who are desperate to interact in our parks and public places. Looking at the future, our resources are better served on our kids than they are on the intimidation and unwarranted shows of force from those who are meant to protect and serve the community. Therefore, we are asking for a complete defunding of the PPD.
 We have faith in our city and we look forward to coming together and becoming stronger and more united in the future. Thank you for allowing us to be heard and allowing us to listen and learn. Thank you so much. Thank you, Eric. Appreciate your testimony. Carla, can I have the next three names, please? Our Vivian Lyon, Hillary Nichols, and Drew Price.
 Thank you. Vivian, you are up next. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. My name is Vivian Lyon. I have lived in Portland since 1999. In my time here, the Portland police have never been able to behave themselves at peaceful protests.
 time and again rioting and provoking and enacting violence. This behavior has never met with adequate discipline or sufficient accountability. I believe that defunding is a first step, disarming is critically important, and the real goal should be disbanding the police and completely reforming how we address community safety. While we build up to that goal, I am recommending the following measures and will also be providing written recommendations. I am an attorney and former activist and union organizer. I do not take union busting lightly.
 The city should refuse to enter any contract that contains the arbitration clause. If that means taking the Camden, New Jersey route and terminating all members of the union, so be it. Real accountability is mandatory, and the arbitration clause utterly prevents that.
 In the near term, this budget process can address accountability by doubling the budget for the Independent Police Review to hire more investigators. There is a flood of complaints that have been received by IPR in the wake of the ongoing protests and the violent response of the police to extremely minor so-called criminal activity. And they need to be processed in a timely, meaningful manner so that officers who are found to be out of policy with respect to the crowd control directives can be disciplined,
 appropriately. Funds should also be allocated for a full citizen review of all the directives and the discipline policy with the power to make policy changes to drastically increase meaningful accountability for police violence. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate you being here. Hillary, you're next.
 Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Can you hear me? I can. Thank you. Excellent. Good afternoon, City Council. My name is Hillary Nichols, and I'm a multiracial Black woman living on stolen Indigenous land here in Portland. I've spent the last six years working in city government, and I've dedicated my career to teaching communities of color how they can change the flow of power in government.
 I am constantly learning about how communities can shift power by spreading progressive ideas, changing social norms, advocating in government, and showing up in numbers. The Black Lives Matter movement has done just that over the last three weeks of protests and the last eight years before that. We have showed up and we will continue to show up.
 There are sources of power in this movement that we do not have access to, namely wealth. City Council, you more than anyone should understand the power of wealth and money in city government. The proposed 2020-21 budget continues to give an astronomical amount of power to the Portland Police Bureau, who have demonstrated that they cannot and will not yield that power responsibly.
 If given that power, they will continue to murder Black and Indigenous people. They will continue creating major racial disparities in our so-called justice system, and they will continue to criminalize poverty and mental illness to deadly impacts. We need to move power away from PBB and reinvest that power in community-led, nonviolent solutions.
 We cannot shift the flow of money without your help. We demand that $50 million be immediately removed from the PPB and $50 million more divested every year until the entire Bureau is completely and permanently dismantled. We demand that you immediately eliminate school resource officers, the Special Emergency Reaction Team, transit police, neighborhood response, the behavioral health unit, the gun violence reduction team, all vacant positions, and any policing of protests in Portland.
 We demand money be reinvested in black futures. I'm giving my public comment today for all of the black girls, boys, and in-betweens who need their futures. I want to yield the rest of my time, and I thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for your work. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Drew, you're next. Thank you. Good evening. Modern day Portland is widely known as a white space.
 Policing physically enforces this through the continued criminalization and destruction of Black life. Policing fiscally enforces this white space by absorbing funds that could otherwise be used for the reparation of our racist history and the liberation of Black life. As a white man and the son of a former police officer, I contest that we cannot remove white supremacy from policing through reform. Policing exists to protect and serve white supremacy and privilege.
 I echo Palf and others demanding that we defund policing in Portland and invest in Black futures under the direction of the BIPOC communities in Portland. Thank you. Thank you Drew. Carla, can I have the next three names please? Yes, I show the next three as Bradley Anderson, Damon Montstory, and Hannah Burns. Thank you Bradley. Your turn. Welcome.
 Bradley, can you take your thing off mute? You still there, Bradley?
 Okay, I'll go to Damien and I'll come back and check on you, Bradley. Damien, you are up. Welcome. Thank you. Good evening, commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to testify for the record. My name is Damien Mott-Story. I'm speaking for Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. We want to be brief. We had five people signed up, including pediatric nurse practitioner Maxine Fuchson, surgeon Dr. Pat O'Heron, epidemiologist Dr. Theodora Songas, and executive director Kelly Campbell. Thank you.
 and we want to make space for voices of Black, Indigenous, and people of color. We support Commissioners Hardesty and Udaly's amendments as step one, and want you to go farther than that. We support emphatically the Black community leaders, especially the Portland African American Leadership Forum and Unite Oregon, and everyone who has supported their demands to defund the police and invest in communities, and hope that all commissioners will support these demands as well.
 Racism and police violence are public health crises and must be addressed as such. We need to take a public health approach to community safety using an equity lens.
 to do no harm and build on community resilience and strength. There is good evidence that real allocating money into addressing the social determinants of health, equitable health and mental health care, housing, employment, education, not only decreases crime but also improves community health. Budgets are moral documents and we must reverse the past where we chronically defund vital programs such as Parks and Rec.
 health, mental health, housing, and elsewhere while funding a more and more militarized police force. We must reallocate to invest in BIPOC community. A weaponized, militarized police force is hurting people and not keeping us safe. It does not advance the community health goals we need.
 We condemn the use of tear gas, flashbang or pressure grenades, rubber bullets, and other riot control munitions. These things unfairly punish protesters exercising their First Amendment rights, as well as people living nearby who are caught in the crossfire. This is unjust, unhealthy, and traumatizing, and especially heinous to be using during a respiratory pandemic.
 Thank you very much for the opportunity to testify, and we urge you to support Palafan Unite Oregon's demands. Thank you, Damon. I appreciate your testimony. Bradley, are you able to unmute now? Yeah, I believe I am. Excellent. Yes, I can hear you fine. Welcome. Your testimony, please. Thank you, commissioners. My name is Bradley Anderson. I'm a homeowner and taxpayer in Portland, California.
 And I want to go on the record to strongly voice my support to defund the police, spending our taxpayer money on a violent organization that has perpetrated violence against our community members cannot be tolerated. And as somebody that pays a significant amount of taxes in the city every year, I want to demand, not request, that we reduce their budget to the greatest extent possible. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Carla, the next three people, please.
 Let's see. It looks like we have Alan Kessler. Then we'll go with Lori Palmer and Paul Frazier. Thank you, Alan. You're up. Welcome. I'm on mute.
 Can you hear me? I can. All right, I want to be really quick. I tried to get video of the protest last night. PPB says they deleted it right afterwards. I tried to get various public records about disciplinary files. That's going to take forever. We need access for this conversation. We need to know what our cops have done to our community. They have those files.
 The city attorney could waive the public interest exemptions. I think it's a huge public interest in seeing all of the disciplinary files right now. And I think we need to have that as part of this conversation. So my demand is to fund the police as quickly as possible. And please direct the city attorney to open up the disciplinary files, at least for the brass, so we can know what they're doing to us.
 I don't know if you have gone to the IPR office. They do reports annually on all the investigations that they have taken. But I can assure you that it's not the totality of activities that are happening with the police, but that is at least a window.
 into a discipline into the Portland Police Bureau. I want to steal the files that were swept under the rug but didn't make it that far. They hide a lot more than they show. Well, yeah, I know that. I'm sorry, I don't need to tell you. Thank you, thank you. I yield my time. Thank you, Alan. Appreciate it. Laura, you're next? Laura Palmer, you're next?
 Can you hear me? I can. Oh, okay. Welcome. Yes. Good evening, City Council. I am Lori Palmer, and I'm here as a Black community activist and a CEO and founder of Go Get Your Child, Community Violence Prevention Coalition, and a community member.
 57 years ago, I was born and raised in Portland, Oregon. I have two black sons that have been racially profiled by the police. I also have experienced racially profiling and disrespect by the police. I support you, Commissioner Joanne Hardy in defunding the gang enforcement team. I trust your destiny because you live in this community and have witnessed the abuse and violence at the hands of the police. We have also been on the front lines together when it comes to violence with the police.
 My family are community members as well. We have six generations in Portland, Oregon. My mother was from the third generation. I'm the fourth generation. And is them done? Is that a bell?
 No, ma'am. Keep going. I'm the fourth generation, and from a young age, I lived in Portland, Oregon. I watched the police come into our communities from other communities and states and have no lived experience with struggles or our culture of the African Americans that live in the community. They have no respect for African Americans when it comes to them speaking their mind.
 when they show up. I have worked in social service field for 27 years and I've sat at many tables and I have noticed that the programs and the agencies that receive the money are designed for change, are created by people that don't even look like us and don't even know our culture. Your budget has given money to all of these great change agents
 without our input. We need to invest in the African American families by training leaders out of each family so that they can go back to their family with the tools and can help their families address this functional generational curses that have been passed down generation after generation. I am asking you to fund three very important things. Grassroot organizations that are created by African American leaders that live in our community, affordable housing, funding programs to educate our youth about the drugs and alcohol
 they will experience when they grow up or be in the community. Thank you for allowing me to speak my truth. Thank you so much. Appreciate you and all the work you do in the community, Laura. You are next. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Hello, I'm a white cisgendered male living in North Portland 97217. I am sorry for taking so long to call through the defunding of the police. We tried reform, it didn't work. We tried consent decrees, they haven't worked. I echo Alan Kessler, don't remove the livestream. A couple nights ago a bicyclist was ripped off of their bike by the police. The Portland police then deleted that video from YouTube. Flagrant violation of public records laws.
 We've heard over 350 people today. Thank you for your patience, all of the commissioners. I haven't heard one person opposed. Many are asking to do more, to go above and beyond. We heard from a military and police veteran. Change looks impossible until it's done. Let's make the impossible happen. Commissioner DeHardesty, thank you for attending the protests. Your energy has been inspiring. I've marched with over 250 families at the Portland Children's March.
 The parents, the kids are literally out in the street demanding change. Mayor Willer yesterday said this is hard. If it was easy, we would have done it years ago. Well, most of what is worth doing in life is hard, very hard. Lean into that. What side of history do we want to be on?
 As a father, I'm in shock with all this. How could I imagine having to explain to my two-year-old daughter to fear the police? That's my privilege, and my heart pours out for all the BIPOC families who have to deal with this. Ted Willer should be out as police chief, handed over to Commissioner Hardesty. My heart mourns for Kendra James, Kings Hayes, Aaron Campbell, Dante Keller. Get rid of the Arbitration Clause. Commissioner Hardesty, happy about the six units, but let's double it, triple it.
 Can we blanket the city with the response team? How many would we need for the whole city? Let's get another amendment that does that. Let's go bold. Over 50% of crime calls are not crime related. Let's defund the police 50%. The gun violence reduction team, what a euphemism in Band-Aid. We don't need Band-Aids anymore. The police have been attacking the media. The footage has been shocking.
 that that is happening in our city. As I was at the protest last Sunday and they dispersed it, I could not believe it. I went to film police as they were on a van. Protesters were running away and they were throwing flashbangs at them. Please defund the police. Thank you for the time. Thank you, Paul. Appreciate you being here today. Carla, can I have the next three names, please? Next is Hannah Burns, Cyan W., and Brittany Andrus.
 Hannah, welcome. You're next. Hi. Can you hear me? I can. Hello, thank you. My name is Hannah Burns and I'm a member of the arts community who has lived in Portland for 11 years. I'd like to open by saying Black Lives Matter and we need to drastically defund and work to disband the PPB according to Unite Oregon and PALF's demands. Obviously, I'm abjectly horrified by the PPB's ongoing use of unnecessary force and disregard for constitutional, civil, and human rights.
 But others can speak to that more directly. As for me, I know that Portland Police Union President Daryl Turner is concerned that survivors of gun violence were not consulted about the dissolution of the GVRT and other proposed cuts. And so I just want to speak up on the record as a survivor of gun violence in Portland,
 A little over two years ago when I was shot on Northeast Alberta Street and in the aftermath, it was local residents, medics, hospital staff, and therapists who helped me, not the PPB. I had direct contact with the GVRT, who at the time referred to themselves as the gang unit to me, and so I feel I can confidently demand the unit be immediately disbanded.
 dissolved. By the way, the gangs I'm concerned about are the violent white supremacist gangs that the PPB has been shown to communicate and collaborate with regularly. So there you have it, Daryl. You don't keep us safe, we keep us safe. I demand that the city dissolve the GVRT and other specialty units and
 eliminate these positions entirely, and redirect funds allocated for gang policing towards anti-violence programs unaffiliated with law enforcement, reparations for black Portlanders targeted by gang policing, and other investment in black people to be determined by community groups, such as Don't Shoot Portland. I also support an immediate and total freeze of hiring and budget increases, as well as at least a $50 million reduction to the PPB budget in fiscal year 2020, 2021 to start. Also, the mayor should resign. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty for your hard work.
 And that's all. Thank you, Hannah. Appreciate you being here. Cyanne, you're up next. Hi. I live in Northeast Portland. I just want to reiterate what everyone's saying to reallocate the funds rather than going to the PPB to go to mental health and also to addiction, detox, recovery, and recovery.
 everything to help people really overcome their issues rather than using police force. And eventually, I would love for the police to be ultimately disbanded. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Brittany, you're next. Can you unmute Brittany? Okay. Did that work? It did. All right. I just want to thank you.
 you guys for your patience and your endurance today. And this is maybe scattered, but I'm a middle-aged white woman, live in Northeast Portland, been here 25 years. My daughters are Asian American. And 10 years ago when Aaron Campbell or more than 10 years ago, when Aaron Campbell was killed, that was my first experience.
 I don't know, visceral reaction to police violence in Portland. And so we went, we went to Marinetta church. We, I took my girls, they were 10 and 11. They're grown now. And, and then we just, it seemed like we just watched and things kept going in the same vein. And then later officer Freshour was fired and then he was re had to be rehired. So that speaks to the system itself, which I,
 when you have a system where immediately following a officer involved shooting, a lot of police are down in Pioneer Square standing shoulder to shoulder before even the facts are out, something's broken badly. So,
 So there's some sort of group thing, some sort of mindset. And I know this is weird, but I've been reading the Michael Pollan book, how to change your mind. And they talk about the default mode network. The acts as the cerebral executive coordinating and organizing competing signals from other systems. And it's, it's the autobiographical brain. He calls it the site of your ego and you get in these emotional grooves and it's really hard to get out of them. And I, I think that's,
 What we have here is almost like the police department is like a brain that's been sort of in this groove. There's no way that you can keep that structure and just trim away at the edges and cut a couple of teams. So let's see. And I also want to have a plea for clarity from the officials in the city that a lot of people are reacting to that word, the word defund, and just, you know,
 Well, I want to see as a ground up reimagination of how to ensure public safety and listen to the young people, listen to PELF, listen to Unite Oregon. And just be clear that it's not that we're going to repeal all the laws. It's that this organic system that we have is brutal and failed. And thanks for your time. Thank you, Brittany. Appreciate your testimony. Carla, could you give me the next three names, please?
 For Julia Geyer, Wes Abdee, and Laurel Swerdlow. Thank you. Julia, you're up next. Welcome. I'm not seeing Julia. It's Wes. Hello. Hi, Wes. Welcome. You're on. Hello. My name is Wesley, and I am a professional glamorous drag queen here in Portland. And we all know why I'm here to talk today.
 The police have been murdering Black people and harassing minority groups for years, and the last couple weeks has been a tiny representation of what happens in the shadows every day. Millennials and Zoomers are at the forefront of the protests. We all have smartphones, we are all filming the Portland Police Department inciting riots, shooting rubber, pepper, and glass bullets at peaceful protesters, and disproportionately targeting Black and brown protesters to beat down with sticks, or with their nightsticks.
 The police are not doing their job of protecting and serving as, but let's not act like that's what their original job was. If you are Black, calling the police is dangerous. If you are Brown, the police are dangerous. If you are Indigenous, the police are dangerous. If you are Islamic, the police are dangerous. If you are trans, the police are dangerous. If you are visibly queer, the police are dangerous. If you are deaf, the police are dangerous. If you are blind, the police are dangerous. If you have a mental illness, especially a heavily impacting one like autism,
 The police are dangerous. You have all these communities that cannot call on the police because there is a risk of harm or murder if they come. And the fact that Ted Wheeler wants to raise the budget by $246 million in the middle of a pandemic is insulting and disgusting.
 We are calling for the immediate abolition and disbandment of the Portland Police Department, as well as the step down of Ted Wheeler as mayor, and that those funds be reallocated to departments and programs that actually benefit the public, like education, health care, and housing.
 My final bit of advice to you is that you listen to the thousands of people protesting every single day. Listen to the 700 plus people that signed on to this Zoom call to talk to you. Be on the right side of history and get rid of the police. Because if you don't do it, we are going to do it for you. Thank you. Thank you, Wes. Appreciate your testimony. Christy, you're next. Christy? Yeah.
 if you could unmute yourself. Next. Laurel Swerdlow. Yeah, Laurel Swerdlow. Hi. Welcome. Hi, my name is Laurel Swerdlow. I've been a resident of North Portland for over four years. To
 To honor black Portlanders killed by police, including Quinice Hayes, Patrick Simmons, Keaton Otis, Kendra James, Terrell Johnson, and Andre Gladden, I am asking you to immediately and substantially reduce the budget of the Portland Police Bureau, commit to never voting for police budget increases again, and immediately reduce PPP's budget by $50 million for fiscal year 2021. I am calling for the immediate reduction of the size of the police force and a reinvestment in black futures."
 We are in the midst of a health, social, and economic crisis that is having its most devastating impacts on Black, Indigenous, and Brown communities. We must protect and expand community-led health and safety strategies. We must keep folks housed and get housing for those in need. We must resource the basic needs of Black and African immigrant and refugee community members.
 For survivors of domestic violence, in moments of crisis, calling the police often feels like the least safe course of action. The brutality that Portlanders exercising their First Amendment rights have endured in the past weeks is of course of note as well. I urge you to do everything in your power to compel police to stop their violence against our communities now, while we work to abolish police entirely. Thank you. Thank you, Laura.
 Carla, who else do we have? Let me do a time check. We have six minutes left. How many more people are on our list? Sorry, it looks to be, gosh, it's going to be about 45 or so. Sorry, it's just, that's a rough estimate. It's hard to count them on this list. I understand. So, Carla.
 What I would like to do is to see if my colleagues have any closing remarks for today and then let folks know what the next step of the process is so that we are all on the same page for tomorrow. Does Commissioner Udalli or Commissioner Fritz have any closing comments that they want to make today? Okay.
 I'll just quickly thank everyone who watched today and especially those of you who gave testimony. This is a pretty amazing moment, and we have a lot of work to do in the next 18 hours. Commissioner Fitts? I'm sorry, Commissioner. Thank you, Madam. Commissioner Fitts?
 Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to everybody who's participated. Thank you to Carla Moore Love for keeping track of everything. President Hardesty, you've done an amazing job of keeping everybody focused and keeping it moving. I appreciate everybody, especially those who deferred to others to be able to speak their truth. Look forward to the meeting tomorrow.
 Thank you very much. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you to all the community members who showed up and testified. I even appreciate the ones that use words that make me blush.
 But the reality is, is that we are partners in this effort. We're trying to reimagine what our community looks like when it's safe and it's protected and everyone feels like that the police is here to protect and serve us all. I want to make one comment.
 It's fabulous to see so many white people stepping up to say Black Lives Matters and we should defund the police. But I want to remind white people, we have the police department we have because of you. You were the ones demanding more police. You were the ones demanding justice.
 that we have more officers on the street. You are the ones that call 911 because people, you are uncomfortable with what people look like. And so I wanna center our conversation tomorrow.
 Black people and brown people did not create the policing organizations that we have. White people did that. You own what we have, right? And we're going to undo it together. But please don't blame us because I certainly as a Black person never wanted more police. And I know that our communities have never demanded more police. So I hope that when we come tomorrow,
 What will happen is we will have two hours set aside. We will try to get through as many of the people that we were not able to hear from today.
 But I also want to say that I hope you will keep an open mind because not only are we doing cuts, we're all mining on investments. So for example, my proposals would reduce 122 positions within Portland Police Bureau. 55 of those are vacant right now.
 and the investments are in black youth development and the Portland Street response, and in making sure that houseless people have a participatory budget process to help them have the resources to help them be stable until we have housing that everyone can afford to live in. I thank you all, this is absolutely,
 It's been just a beautiful thing to listen to all the passion and all the desires to do something different.
 I know that my colleagues and I are all committed to doing something different. So have a great evening, and we will see all of you tomorrow, and we will continue this conversation. And let me just say, the budget process is only the beginning. We have a lot of work to do that has absolutely nothing to do with the budget. We'll continue this tomorrow.
 And on that note, we are adjourned for this evening. Thank you all. Commissioner, I'm sorry to jump in. I just want to be sure, because we did have one item that Carla read, the tax levy item. Oh, yes, yes. We have to make a motion to continue that item as well. Maybe Robert Taylor can help us on that. Yes, please. Robert, if you would give me instructions, I would want to do it legally. You just muted yourself. I did. I did just mute myself. Okay.
 Yes. Would you just ask if there's any objection from your fellow council members to continuing that item until tomorrow? Excellent. And what was that item number again? It was item 453. Thank you, colleagues. Do you have any objections to us continuing 453 until tomorrow? I see Commissioner Udeli shaking no. Commissioner Fritz, are you okay? Okay.
 Yeah, I have no objection, Madam President. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Commissioner Hardesty, can I just do a quick check-in with Carla on item 454, the time certain? Do you need to read that so we can formally move it? That would probably be a good idea because I do have a reschedule to date. Is that what you have, Commissioner Udaly? Okay.
 Yes. I'll read it. Item 454, amend street access code and transportation administrative rules with changes to the residential infill project. Thank you, Carla. We are pulling or rescheduling this in light of our packed schedule and that's it. On that note, are there any other outstanding issues?
 Seeing none, we are adjourned. Have a good evening. Thank you all.