Babel items. So Carla, I'm not asking for the role yet. This is a pre-Gavel proclamation in honor of one of our most esteemed local artists. And that's Mr. Isaka Sham Sudeen. Sir, could you just sort of wave in the back so people can see you? Thank you for doing that. And this is a proclamation that was brought to me by Commissioner Hugh Daly. And a proclamation, sir, is something that we read on behalf of the entire city council. And if you wouldn't mind just coming up here, sir, and sitting here at the rostrum, I'd like to have the honor of reading this proclamation on behalf of the Portland City Council. And before I begin, I just want to acknowledge that the office of the mayor has long had one of your works prominently displayed in the office. and it's one that has provoked a lot of thought. It's brought a lot of joy and a lot of color to our office, and we're appreciative for that. And we also have one of your works hanging in the Rose Room, which is our primary ceremonial space in City Hall. And we're so grateful to you and for your artistic talent and everything you do for the city of Portland. So on behalf of the Portland City Council, whereas... Issaka Shamsuddin, the sixth of fourteen, whose parents worked as tenant farmers, moved to Vanport near Portland, Oregon in 1947 after a racist lynch mob attempted to kill his father in Texas. He was declared a child prodigy at an early age and won a scholarship to the Portland Art Museum. This was the beginning of decades of amazing educational experience in using art to build a global consciousness towards social change. And whereas, black families that located to Vanport and became displaced by the flood continued to experience racism in Portland and have historically experienced intergenerational discrimination and displacement. has always been a bridge towards influencing systematic racism for policy change. Civic engagement during the civil rights era attracted the younger artist Issaka Shamsuddin as he left Portland for for the South to become a member of the SNCC Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, organizing in Arkansas for years before heading west to San Francisco, where he later supported movements using his artistic platforms with the Black Artist Repertory Theater and as a Black Panther. But even before the floods and the 60s civil rights work, black arts in Portland was a thriving force for civil rights and social change. and whereas the stories told by Osaka using art, theater, and music enhanced and created a signature value representing the life, families, work, and culture shared by original descendants of black Portland. And this is an important element that is not always acknowledged when telling the stories of Portland's black history except for the medium of art. And whereas today on this and every thereafter June 19th, known as Juneteenth, is promoted in black communities across this country as acknowledgement and to celebrate the emancipation of all black Americans. It is emancipation and freedom of expression that we receive these gifts in the artistic genius of Issaka Sham Sudeen, accompanied by his notes and liberated archives. His perspectives on the courage of Juneteenth is cemented in Oregon, on walls throughout the city, on our streets, and even in our parks and transit ways. It is because of the contributions of Issaka Shamsuddin that we have the intentional access of his experiences in direct education. Issaka has now shared his gift with us, a collection of his work, including a piece made at the former Albina Art Center, which has inspired the limited edition Juneteenth Calendar, a legacy project presented and supported by the Arlene Schnitzer Foundation and many friends. And whereas today all Portlanders are encouraged to tell stories of social change using literature, photos, and art, You are encouraged to reflect on the spirit and motivation of all black people in the fight for human rights and dignity. Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of Roses, do hereby proclaim June 19th, 2019 to be Isaka Shamsuddin Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to say that this acknowledgement is a long time coming and very well deserved. Your work is part of Portland and part of all of our lives, as the Mayor mentioned. It not only documents the lives of the region's black families, it's also grounded in the history of our region, which is both inspiring and abhorrent. Thank you for all that you do, Osaka. We're honored to proclaim June 19th, or Juneteenth, as Osaka Shamsudin Day. And I want to give special thanks to Teresa Rayford, Tia Carpenter, and Tiffany Burnett from Artists for Black Lives for partnering with my office on this special celebration. I also wanted to mention Osaka's new Juneteenth calendars. which features some of his most famous pieces coupled with regional black history. They are for sale online. I regrettably don't know the website, but they're also available at this evening's event. So everyone, please join us in the atrium at 530 for our evening celebration and exhibit. And congratulations. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. And if we could take a photo real quick. Right, maybe just come up here. Thank you. May I? I'm sorry. Yeah. Sorry. Would you like to say something, sir? I'd like to share. Oh, the photos can go to Carla. Very good. Thank you. Something with you. And thank you. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Amanda Fritz. Chloe, especially your office that reached out to me. And Nick Fish, who was representing my sister at one time. You probably don't know that was my sister, but Mariah Taylor. Sure. This is an opportunity that I'll tell you, I almost pride myself. I say almost because I have the humility to know that you can get sucker punched sometimes on my self defense. But this time I didn't have anything to defend because they hit me with, what do you call it, a cold cock. And it was sweet. It was in the form of Bird, and some of you know her. And Teresa Rayford and the wonderful people who worked with her. Fendi Germany. Many others that have... coalesce within the community, that see the values, that see the young talent and work with the young talent that we have here to send them on a trajectory that will allow them to explore art, to explore art. I'd like to make just one little, I tend to be lengthy, so I'll keep that in mind and keep it short. Some of you may have known that Hitler was an artist, a frustrated artist. How many of you knew that George Washington Carver was also an artist? An artist who had to change directions because the art school that he had enlisted in, that he got a scholarship to, didn't realize he was black. I believe it was the University of Iowa. And then he matriculated to Tuskegee after that. But what I'm, I brought that up to say that many times in the challenges that art presents, I didn't know what an artist was, even, when I was eight years old and people started making a fuss about my drawings and so forth. But there's so many challenges that an artist. Once you get into it, I didn't know how to draw good, so I attempted new ways. I attempted to draw horses because I was scared I couldn't draw horses. I put off drawing people because I was scared and then you challenge and you challenge and you challenge and you find these small accomplishments, large at that time, add up. They add confidence They add a form of independence. They develop a self-critique and a critique of the surroundings, of our environment. Not only representational art, but also art that explores any medium, any idea. These are therapeutic and very functional ideas. ways of getting a child into a track where other things don't really, I mean, things like hanging out, doing nothing. They don't appeal to them anymore. Look forward to each day. I'm alive today, probably. All my brothers are gone. There were 14 children, all my sisters except two. Many others that I know and have known that have quit in the quest of becoming an artist because they didn't have a route, they didn't have patronage, they didn't have mentorship. We need an art center here. We need a, if you could take a peep at this, this is a scholarship program that I started when I was teaching at Portland State, we need opportunities for our youth, many of have and do have the kinds of the material within them to do amazing things. You can't predict that they won't, but we can predict that they will grow out of feelings of not knowing what to do with themselves, feelings of displacement, feelings of not belonging. And those are the things that have propelled my concentration on African American history. I knew only about white people all the way through school. I had one black instructor all the way through to the 12th grade. And I only learned about European peoples. That's all I learned about. Just a little hit on slavery. And I think all of you have been here long enough to know that we had a real fight just to have two streets named after black folks. Harriet Tubman on the $20 bill now, we have that situation in front of us. We need reparations. And if I present a challenge to you all with all respect and also an appeal to help us establish an arts center here. that will be ongoing, not one of these things where we have to fight every year so hard. What I propose is a, we need a task force to resurrect the Albina Arts Center and make it better than it ever was. But if we had something like a WPA project where we can, where artists can build the research, working with chroniclers, working with writers, working with photographers, to start a whole series, at least five years in the initial stage, making art in all forms that have to do with historical research, our own. There's a project that I did at Dawson Park right now, and it has about 80 portraits of African Americans, local, that have lived in this area, that have done things that really have made our lives, all of our lives, so much better. but that's just the tip of the iceberg. How can we enrich this city? We can enrich this city by investing in those people. Did you know Jacob Lawrence was artist in residence at the art museum here in 1966? If we had the art museum, if the art museum was really hooked up and that was one of the problems, I was an instructor at that art museum, a volunteer instructor, was that, The funding was so, it was so much of a problem. It finally caved in, I think it was 1977, and nothing since. And so I just appeal to you for that, and I hope I haven't spoken too long. Did you know that Diego Ribeiro's daughter was here also? And then she came here in support of the African American Visual Arts Scholarship. We did benefits at Kennedy School, at the old church, and so forth. Anyway, I hope we'll be able to meet later and really get into this because the Albina Mural Project of, and I'll shut up after this, but the Albina Mural Project in 77-78 attracted people from as far away as Germany. It's in a book called Community Murals now, and Walls of Heritage, Walls of Pride. But that wasn't in my head. I had no idea that that would happen. I guarantee you that you will be paid many fold. You will please throw in all the way. Thank you, Chloe. Thank you, Pollyann Virge. Thank you, Teresa Rayford and all the other wonderful people who have made this happen. Thank you. Oh, really? Oh, okay. Should we move this way? Okay. Thank you very much. Oh, thank you. Thank you. We want the kiddos to be here. Yeah, so y'all go follow. Is it time to? No. It's time to. . Thank you, Tom. . Thank you. Just close here. . All right, everyone look here. Halloween, I'll smile. . Cheers. . . Hey, who stole my gavel?
 Okay. I see what's going on here. I did not touch the gavel. I don't know how it got there. All right. Good morning, everyone. This is the Wednesday, June 19th, 2019, Juneteenth morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, could you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Hardesty? Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. And now we'll hear from legal counsel. Good morning. Good morning, and welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping keep your fellow Portlanders welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. Carla, first communications. Item 578, request of Roberta Palmer to address council regarding a new revenue source to help fund affordable housing, education, and other pressing needs. Good morning. Name for the record, three minutes. Good morning. A few years ago, Portland declared that our homelessness constituted an emergency. Since then, Portland has acted- I'm sorry, you have to state your name for the record. It's a legal thing. No, I apologize. I'm a concerned citizen of Portland. Awesome, thank you. And anyway, Portland declared a homelessness emergency in 2015. Since then, Portland has acted. Metro has acted. So has the state. Thank you. 100,000 Portlanders pay more than 50% of their income for housing and may find themselves on the street during the next economic downturn. Therefore, it seems likely that despite these efforts, the affordable housing problem will only grow. As long as revenue is left on the table, we are not doing all we can. To me, the obvious one is a tax on prepared food and drink. As a food destination that attracts many visitors and tourists, Portland is uniquely situated to benefit from such a tax. It is a fair tax in that those who spend more for food and drink will pay more tax. Unlike the regressive property tax, it does not raise the cost of housing. Some restaurant costs have risen 18% recently, while a 15% tip is commonplace plus. Therefore, a 1% to 3% tax on prepared food and drink is minuscule in comparison. Yet the revenue stream is huge. If, quote, regressive taxes, such as those on sales, hurt the poor, why is it that Portland is one of the poorest states in the union? Why do the other advanced economies, which employ a huge sales tax in the form of the value-added tax, have far lower poverty rates than the United States and public services that we can only dream of? Ashland and Yachats employ a 5% tax on prepared food and drink, yet their restaurant industries have not folded and tourists continue to visit. I hear that a 1% tax has been advocated, but it will be difficult enough to pass that. Why not go for 2% to 3% and get more revenue? Also, if a public referral can be avoided, please do. Think of Brexit and the Oregon Constitution. What a mess. We can barely elect our representatives. Policy decisions should be left to our representatives. So let me close with the words of Jesus. The foxes have their holes, the birds have their nests, but man has nowhere to lay his head. In the best city in the richest nation on earth, how can this be? Thank you. Appreciate your being here. Thank you. Next individual, 579. Do 579, Chris Wallace, and Crystal E. Crane, do they want to come up together? Is she here now? Okay. 580 isn't here, but 579 is ready. Very good. Thank you. Okay. 579, request of Chris Wallace-Caldwell to address counsel regarding Human Rights Commission update and review of human rights concerns. Good morning. Good morning. Hi, good morning. Chris Wallace-Caldwell. I'm a commissioner on the Human Rights Commission. I was to be joined today by Dr. Crystal Lee Crane, who just sent me a note. She unfortunately can't join. But she and I prepared a statement on behalf of the Human Rights Commission. Basically, we are honored to both represent the Portland Human Rights Commission and all those in our city, as we've heard today, this morning already, who care about human dignity. And what we would like to do is come on a more regular basis and have a dialogue with the City Council. So this is really the start of that relationship and I am going to read a few words that Dr. Crane put together and also just kind of give you a sense of what we see this time for. Over the past year we have strategically designed a process where the Human Rights Commission can fully actualize the city charter for its purpose and the commitment of each commissioner to be responsive and accountable to the public. That being said, we intend for this time to be heard monthly, represented by different commissioners each time. We hope in that process to share with you our individual and collective experiences for our service to the City of Portland. but also how our individual positionality serves us in our site and ability to take the things we witness, to also take the things that are presented to us by members of the public who come and give testimony during our monthly meetings and turn those into action for those who can't be present on a day like today. The Human Rights Commission recognizes that we have the responsibility to do more than just symbolic gesture of words to sit in an archive, but we are here to serve and to push or bend the line of justice in the city to its right place. That place is people-centered. We believe in partnership and collaborative action. And we know this doesn't come only in meetings and public testimonies, but also in structurally placed processes to enable the most just results. So the last time that I was here before you was in reading the Declaration of Human Rights where we were highlighting the 70th anniversary of the UN Declaration of Human Rights and that was in December. And my colleague, Dr. Crane, she made a point in contributing to that statement to name white supremacy as a larger social context that we need to consider. And what I wanted to represent for you is that even since that time in December, in that intervening time, we could identify incidences where someone has been the victim of hate speech, hate violence, hate rhetoric. And in fact, Dr. Crane was going to present her personal experience in that regard today and unfortunately could not be here. Researchers from the University of Maryland and national security officials identify far-right violence as one of the deadliest and most violent threats in our country. And so what we want to do is find a means to name that and to recognize that our role is to help us understand that our processes, our policies and our practices, how we name those, how we identify those are absolutely critical. So we have been working with you, we'll continue to do so on naming those items And we did most recently in presenting non-belief, working with you to present non-belief as not a basis for discrimination. And so those are the kinds of things we will look at continuing to do with you. And we just put that charge to you to continue to look at where policies and practices may unknowingly put the most vulnerable at risk or where we might not be highlighting something that's happening on a day daily basis in Portland that we need to call out. Thank you and I let you go over a little bit because number one your testimony is is very provocative and it suggests a partnership and and I want you to know I'm very eager to have that partnership and number two the because I want to acknowledge you're not getting paid for your hard work on the commission, and the commission does tremendous work. You have lots of meetings. You have lots of discussions. You pull in different perspectives across the city, and I want to tell you how much I appreciate that. So we look forward to the continued conversations. Good. Thank you so much. Thank you for being here today. Thank you. You bet. Carla, next individual, please. Let's see. 580 is not here, so 581 and 582, I think, want to come up together. Very good. 581, request of Cole Haver to address council regarding council support of the arts and the creative community. And 582, request of Gen 40 to address council regarding council support of the arts and the creative community. Welcome. Thanks for being here. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. I'm Cole Haver. I'm a lawyer, and I work with a lot of creative people in every city. And I've invited two- Cole, would you mind pulling the mic just a little bit closer? I will. Should I start over? Thank you. Yeah, if you wouldn't mind. Thank you. Hi, I'm Cole Hever. I'm a lawyer and I have the privilege of working with a lot of creative people and their businesses. I invited two of them to join me here today. The first is the Portland Winter Light Festival. And they'll introduce themselves. And after the following us will be Bella Graham, Gen 40. I'm Jeff Schnabel. I'm the new director for the Portland State University School of Architecture and one of the co-founders for the Portland Winter Light Festival. Thank you. I'm Alicia Sullivan. I'm the executive director of the Willamette Light Brigade, which is the organization that presents the Portland Winter Light Festival annually. I'm Chris Herring, the other co-founder for the Light Festival and artistic director. Thank you. So I want to tell you guys a little bit about the Portland Winter Light Festival. If you have yet to experience it, we hope you'll come out February 6th through 8th, 2020. Seems like a long way off, but really it's just around the corner for us. The festival takes place along the banks of Willamette on both the east and west side of the river and at affiliate locations throughout Portland. Light festivals have a proven track record of creating significant economic opportunity for cities and invigorating Portland in the winter time as part of our festival's mission. This year our festival facilitated an estimated $2.1 million in economic impact during the slow season of February with a winter storm watch to contend with and snow warnings. So that's pretty good. We saw attendance of 154,000 people over the three-day event, a five-fold increase since the inaugural year in 2016. So there's incredible potential for growth here. By comparison, Baltimore's Light City generated $33.5 million in 2018 with $470,000 over a week. So there's a huge amount of potential. Economic impact is not the only thing that this festival provides. And we provided you with a packet with some more detailed information. But the second part of our mission is to build community by bringing art and technology to inclusive audiences. And we present this event for free, completely free to the public. And we're really committed to removing the economic barriers to art and design that are within traditional cultural institutions. So now heading into our fifth year, we really know the impact that this event has and the potential it has for Portland. For 2020, we're planning on upwards of 200,000 people over the three-day event. People will come out, rain or snow, to interact with the art and be together. We'd love for this festival to go into something that Portland is on the map for, for art and technology, and someday host a million people in February on our own. We'd like to become a sustainable anchor in Portland's winter landscape and keep providing this festival for free to Portland residents kind of as an amenity. So we're hoping you all will consider truly getting involved and starting a dialogue with us to expand and grow this festival. The event is not a done deal. It takes expertise and resources to put together. So we'd like to follow up with you and that's all. Thank you for your time. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. We have one more testimony coming. What's that? One more. One more testimony. This one? Oh, yeah. I'm a belligram, telegram, the new old paradigm. I've been sent by someone who thinks you're the bomb with a message in the form of a song. You've got voicemail. On behalf of me and the rest of the working artists and musicians in Portland and those representing us, we want to literally sing you praises... And thank you for being a friend Supporting artists and funding them For what we do for the arts again and again I'm singing here to say I hope it always will stay this way My hat is off Won't you stand up and take a bow Linda's a city That supports the arts and culture too. Yeah, this is true and it's good business too. And it all comes back to you. Thank you for being on Film Festivals in RAC. Here we go. Do it again. Film Festivals in RAC. Winter Lights Festival's Thursday Art Musician loading zones For our gear to get in and get out Let me do that one more time Film Festival's around Winter Lights Thursday Art First and last There we go Musician loading zones For our gear to get in and get out Celebrations, parades Bring tens of thousands to Portland each day We all need good art It's a big fun and a smart way to play Artists are working musicians That pay their bills just like Oh my gosh, here we go again Artists are working people That pay their bills just like you But we've got our back You keep us in the black And that's why we're here to say Thank you for being Thank you for being our friend. I want to thank you. Thank you for being our friend. I want to thank you. Thank you for being our friend. I want to thank you. Thank you for being our friend. I want to thank you. Everybody, if you want to thank me for being our friend. We want to thank you. Thank you for being our friend. We want to thank you. Thanks for being our friend. We want to thank you. Thanks for supporting our heart. Perfect timing. I hope I was a viable disruption to your day. And again, my name is Jen Forty, just to give you my name with Bellergram Telegrams. Thank you for giving me this opportunity to thank you for supporting the arts. Thanks, Jen. Cheerio. Awesome. Thank you. Follow that. All right, so that completes communications. Carla, have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? Yes, we have 587 and 595. 587, 87 and 95?
 Correct. Very good, please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Fish? Yes, aye. Udalli? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Consent agenda is adopted. Colleagues, just a quick point. Item 588, which we just passed, this is a grant for $40,000 intended for land use planning and pre-development materials in support of what's called Finley Commons. That's a redevelopment of parking lot spaces at St. Mark's Lutheran Church on Southeast Powell and Southeast 54 Avenue. This is to create 38 units of supportive housing. And this is housing that will ultimately be focused on underserved veterans, including veterans of color, women, and extremely low income veterans. And so I'm very pleased to see the city of Portland partnering with the folks at St. Mark's on Findlay Commons. We'll now go to the first time certain issue and colleagues just a little bit of housekeeping. We're going to read 583 and 584 together. And since the budget staff is here, we'll also move 603 after those two items. So Carla, if you could read 583 and 584 together first, please. 583, adopt the supplemental budget for the fiscal year 2018. 19, over-expenditure process and make budget adjustments in various funds. And 584, authorize temporary operating loans between various funds to fund interim funding to cover lags in federal, state, and other grant reimbursements and other negative cash and fund balances. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, before us we have what's called the over-expenditure ordinance, also known as the OEO. The OEO is very narrowly – At any rate, that's as fun as we're going to have here. It's very narrowly focused. I was like, who's going to follow that act? And of course it's me. And of course I'm talking about the budget. It's very narrowly focused on preventing over-expenditure at the Bureau fund or appropriation level. As usual, there is also companion resolution authorizing a temporary operating loan to prevent temporary negative cash balances at the end of the fiscal year. I don't even think I could improve this if I sing it. There are. A few other adjustments that Interim Director Kennard will walk us through, as well as relating to truing up the general fund carryover costs between our fiscal years. The proposed over expenditure ordinance allocates funding in the general fund policy set aside for the city attorney's office to request next fiscal year for settling claims related to last March's water main break. This morning, Interim Budget Director Kennard will walk us through the current ordinance and the resolution. We'll then hear and second any amendments to both of those items. After that, we'll provide opportunity for public testimony on the OEO before taking a vote. And I'll turn this over to Interim Director Kennard to review the Overt Expenditure Ordinance, the OEO. Thank you, Mayor, and good morning, Mayor, members of council. You can turn the OEO into a bit of a song, but I won't do that in front of you today. Oh, come on. Maybe next time. My name is Jessica Kennard, the interim city budget director. I'm here with Jane Marie Ford, our budget monitoring process coordinator. Today, as the mayor mentioned, there are two items that are part of the final budget monitoring process of the year. The over expenditure ordinance, which includes a number of primarily technical adjustments and also a loan resolution that prevents us from ending with a negative ending balance in our grants funds. I'll briefly walk you through some of the highlights in the over expenditure ordinance. And I know you have a packed agenda, so I'll be brief, but please feel free to interrupt with any questions if you have them. So in total, the OEO reduces the city's current appropriation by 19.8 million. This is primarily based on technical adjustments related to debt service reserves for urban renewal areas. So they're moving debt service reserves into ending fund balance, which is a technical adjustment. The key general fund changes is, as the mayor mentioned, there's one request for new general fund resources from contingency. This request allocates $250,000 to a policy set-aside account for the city's attorney's office to request resources for settling claims related to the March 2019 Water Main break. Approving this request would leave $750,000 in the current year unrestricted general fund contingency. There are also two program carryover requests and special appropriations for grant funding that have been awarded, but they will not be spent or encumbered before the end of the fiscal year. This includes a $150,000 carryover for East Portland Action Plan grants and just under $240,000 in special appropriations competitive grant pools. So again, these are funds we're awarded. They just won't be spent, and so we're carrying them over to the next fiscal year. There are two requests to reappropriate general fund resources back to this fiscal year that were initially carried over through the spring bump. The bureaus have now realized the resources are actually needed this fiscal year. We talked about these last week as part of some of the amendments to the adopted budget. And this includes $55,000 for the Office of Community Technology based on updated projections from mid-year transfer and reorganizations of things related to sort of their organizational transfer. They've realized they need that money this year instead of next year. And then $50,000 in the Portland Housing Bureau for a rental services contract. Again, the contractors realize they will be able to spend that money this year, so we're just moving it back into this year. Finally, there are two requested transfers from the Portland Parks and Recreation General Fund budget to other parks funds. This includes a transfer of $60,000 to the Parks Memorial Fund to set aside resources for the scholarship program and a transfer of $258,000 to the Parks Capital Improvement Fund to set aside resources that were appropriated for the East Bank Esplanade Capital Project. There are a couple of non-general fund items that I want to highlight. So the Office of Management and Finance is appropriating $17.3 million in contingency in the Facility Services Operating Fund, based upon faster-than-anticipated capital expenditures in the Portland building. So that's because we're moving more quickly than anticipated with the Portland building reconstruction project. And then Parks is making adjustments in its enterprise funds, which is to increase the revenue projections in the golf fund by $200,000. And also make some adjustments to reflect lower than anticipated revenues in the international raceway fund. Those are the highlights of the OEO. The second item in front of you is a loan resolution. Again, this is a technical resolution that we bring forward every year just to make sure when we send our – in our grants fund, we actually expend before we receive the reimbursement from the federal or the state governments. So if we don't do this loan, we end the year with a negative balance. And so this is to sort of take care of that. And it's a one-day loan that we process every year. Thank you. So I'm happy to take any questions and we will now move, the Mayor may move to amendments if there are any. So I have a question either to you Jessica or to Commissioner Fritz. I fully support the use of funds to settle the water main break claims. But I guess my question is, why isn't the Water Bureau taking that out of its own resources? Why are we taking it out of the general fund contingency? So in my understanding, I spoke with CFO Cooperman yesterday about this. And I believe that the general fund was determined as the most appropriate source because we're not actually accepting liability for these claims. Otherwise, it could be confiscated. is conceived as a risk management type of expenditure, but it's an action that the council is taking as a choice to essentially alleviate some of the burden from these property owners, but we are not accepting any liability associated with the property damage. And so the general fund contingency is what has been perceived to be the appropriate source. I guess I'm still confused. Why is, I mean, we make judgments about liability all the time and overrule risk management. So why does a definitive ruling on liability dictate whether it's general fund or Water Bureau funds? It wouldn't happen without there being a water main break. It then resulted in flooding. So it's all within, it's all related to the Water Bureau. Why not just use Water Bureau funds rather than general funds? So if I might, on the advice of the city attorney, in relation to a previous lawsuit on appropriate use of water funds, it was just felt that this would get the money to the people who need it as quickly as possible. And I'm certainly open, Commissioner. We're going to have that discussion later today. The ordinance is on the council's agenda, and so we can have that discussion later if you'd like. Well, if the city attorney has a strong view and the budget office has a strong view, I suppose that's good enough for me. I hope we don't start taking just the most conservative approach because of the lawsuit. and sort of default to the general fund. Having been intimately involved with that lawsuit, I could make a very convincing argument that this is an appropriate expenditure of the Water Bureau because but for the water main break, this damage wouldn't have occurred. So I'm pleased that we're settling up the claims. I'm just still not persuaded that it has to be general fund resources. Sure. It looks like Robert Taylor is here to shed some light on this issue. Yes, Robert Taylor, Chief Deputy City Attorney. Can you restate the question so I understand what's being asked? Well, the budget director has walked us through the changes. One of them is that we'll be settling some claims of property owners who are impacted by water main break. I support that. The question is why are we taking it out of general fund contingency rather than out of the utilities resources? That's a very good question, Commissioner. And there's another ordinance coming up later today on the process for settling those claims. It's item 599. So there was some discussion about what is the appropriate source of funds for these settlements. And for the utilities, there's obviously limits under the charter for what the funds can be used for. And so in an abundance of caution, we believe that we should not use the Water Bureau's rate payer funds for that. And instead, it's better at this point because there are general fund resources available to use those. And so your view would be different if there had been a clear finding from risk management of liability? If there had been a clear finding by risk management on liability, then perhaps the risk fund would have been an appropriate place. But because... RISC had made the finding that they did, the risk management fund was a difficult fund to tap, and because of the ratepayer limitations, the water fund was difficult to tap. There was, given the timing, this general fund issue, balance that was available. And so in an abundance of caution in order to find a resolution so that these claims could get paid in a timely way, the general fund was identified as a reasonable source. Okay. Well, again, I support the decision to settle these claims. I have some I have some ongoing concerns about the decision to use general fund rather than Water Bureau resources, but given the timing of this, I'm satisfied with your explanation for now. So thank you. Very good. Colleagues, are there any amendments anybody would like to put on the table to the OEO? Public testimony on this item? Carla? Yes. We have two people signed up for 583. Okay. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson and Maggie. And folks, today we'll go to two minutes for testimony because we have the longest agenda I've ever seen. So keep your remarks. Two minutes please. We are talking about the ordinance 583, the resolution 584. That is correct. I've got a separate sign up sheet for 584. Well, we've read them together, so anybody who'd like to testify on 583 or 584, this is their opportunity to do so. Good morning. Good morning. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and it's not every day that I get to come here and testify. Oh, we, oh, we, oh. But here we are. So, liability. Okay. Given, you know, we have not talked about the tragic situation for certain parks and recreation employees. And I hope that regardless of how much of a long shot it may be, that if September comes and we have laid off employees, I hope they will have the moral vision to sue this city for money from the Water Bureau or the general fund, either one. I think Commissioner Fish's thinking is very clear and rational that when a water main breaks, it's unlikely that anybody is going to challenge in court that the Water Bureau's funds should be used to compensate people who have suffered damages from a water main break. It's not a very... long stretch of logic to say that the Water Bureau has a duty to be informed about the status of its at-risk pipes. It was unable to properly find the risk there and mitigate it, and so the burden for these damages does lie solely with the Water Bureau, and it's sad to see money go out of the general fund for a city that can't even maintain all of its community centers open coming this fall and i know that you've had to do some hard work and make some trade-offs but i really don't think that this city council can take pride in the outcomes from this budget thank you very much good morning hi uh maggie portland so uh the water main breaks and you know someone has to be responsible uh Flint, Michigan, you know, they did their damage to the lower income communities and they have to be responsible for that, but they made the communities take them all the way to the Supreme Court because they didn't want to pay for the damage they did. Okay, so we've got these contractors who violate their contracts like we We've got bathrooms down again at the Salvation Army. We know it's closing. But, you know, you can sue those contractors or, you know, some lawyer out there can sue you guys because you didn't monitor your contractors when they were violating their contracts. Thank you. Morning. Good morning. Jan Canette. Jan Canette. Okay. I'm trying to remember when I left Salem. It was a while ago. But before I left, it seems to me that they had said, some of the homeowners up here in St. John's said, that their tax, I mean, their water rates went up three times in one year. I haven't asked anybody about this lately, but it seems to me that I agree. If it's a Maine... It shouldn't come from Slush Fund. It should come from the water people. That's all I'm going to say. I don't, I just don't know how you guys do the money. Maybe I do need charts, man. Very good. Thank you. Does that complete? I have two more. Lightning and Onisha Cochran. I was on 584. That's my English. She didn't read my name. I was on 584. Yeah, that's fine. Come on. Okay. Morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. Good morning. Basically, on that water main again, Commissioner Fish made it very clear it should have come out of the Water Bureau or the Risk Management Fund. And again, the attorney said something about the charter. We need to look at that and we don't really have the time. So I kind of question that at the end of this. And I think what we're seeing here is that we're following the Oregon State local budget law. I guess you can maneuver the funds around the way you feel appropriate, but I don't feel this is appropriate. Now, again, the overall amount we're transferring is again from the Transportation Operating Fund of $11,500,000. So the small amount on the water main is only $250,000. Now, where I have a problem with the transferring the funds when we're using the term on grant funds and using those type of terms is that I'd like to have more of a study from the federal and the state level on, are we getting the appropriate funds from the federal level in the last couple years? And is that due to the relationship that Mayor Wheeler has with our good friend President Trump? And so I'm pointing the finger at the mayor and I'm asking, do you know how much money we've gotten in the last two years compared to in the last four years? And as I number down, is that why we're having to come up with money now to cover, which I would consider almost losses here, of not getting the appropriate federal funds? And so I'd like to have a study done on that in the last two years, and I'll point the finger at Mayor Wheeler if we're not getting adequate federal funding anymore. It's because of your relationship with President Trump and not understanding your job is also to make sure that we have that flow of federal funding coming to the city. from the federal government in the state and that is all your jobs up here. That's why you're sitting up here as elected officials. Thank you for your time, sir. Good morning. So, one term there. Good morning. My name is Onisha Cochran and as a woman of the African American community, I beseech you to take a very close look at the budgeting as it pertains to the African American community. I realize 584 is geared toward Wilsonville. However, people in Portland are suffering from lack of budgeting as it pertains to the health and well-being of your African American citizens. Are you aware that a prominent African American leader and executive director of Miracles Club is dying in his house with days to live because his organization does not offer insurance? Most nonprofit organizations do not offer insurance. He served this community well almost 30 years and he never was able to go to the hospital like the rest of us. I think that is implorable. Many things are affecting the African American women in this community for lack of appropriate services, namely the Diane Wade House. Mayor is one of the highest elected officials. I would like to discuss this with you. My last item on my agenda is for Coffee Creek inmates. 85% of the inmates in Coffee Creek are there because of drug-related issues. However, drug treatment is not offered on a macro level to inmates who have done time in Coffee Creek. And that is a huge problem. They get out with nowhere to go and with no beginning to understand how to deal with their drug treatment. And I think these are issues that need attention as well. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any further discussion on the ordinance 583? That is an emergency ordinance. I'm going to hold off on that for a moment because we need Commissioner Udaly to come into the room. Any further discussion on the resolution 584? Oh, you have more to add? Oh, no. I was just going to take our additional questions. Well, okay. I don't believe we have any. So at this point, we'll just call the roll on 584, the resolution, please. Fish. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. I was like, this is not Pirate's Day, is it? I vote aye. The resolution is adopted 584, and we need Commissioner Udaly for 583. I don't even know what I was thinking of saying there. I don't know if I want to know. It's not even 1030. Greetings. My apologies. No worries. Carla, could you please call the roll on item number 583, the ordinance? Yes. Fish. Well, this is a pretty straightforward ordinance. And, again, I want to be clear. I support the council decision to reimburse property owners affected by the water main break. I believe I have a respectful disagreement about where the options that we have available to us in terms of where the funds come from. However, based on the position that the city attorney's taken and explained to us, I'm satisfied for now and I'll want to revisit this question in the future. And so I'll vote aye. Udali? Aye. Commissioner Fisher, I sincerely appreciate you raising these questions, all of which I also discussed with staff. Let's have a fuller discussion under the Water Bureau item later on today. Thank you very much to staff, thank you Director Kinard for all of your work on the budget and also Jane Marie Ford. Weiner? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We'll now move to item 603 please. 603, adopt the annual budget of the City and establish appropriations for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2020. Colleagues, this is a second reading of the adopted budget ordinance. As you'll recall, I set out this budget process to initiate several changes to make our budgeting process more transparent and accessible to the public. The Budget Office CBO has developed an online dashboard that not only includes information to help members of the public understand and navigate the budget process, but it also empowers members of the public to engage with the many layers of our total citywide budget. This new dashboard offers a one-stop shop for people to find the information that they need and that they want on the city's budget. Instead of thumbing through over 1,000 pages of the adopted budget document or searching the many pages on the city's website for information on the city budget process, you can now visit this dashboard and self-navigate to the information that you want to find. I encourage everyone to visit the site. It is portlandoregon.gov slash budget and select the adopted budget visualization. There you will find information on and helpful links for key components of the city's budget process, interactive data on the city's programs, revenues and expenses, and detailed information on budget decisions from this year's budget process. I'm proud to say that this is a new cutting-edge model for communicating budget information. And in fact, the company Tableau has requested that the City Budget Office lead a national webinar to demonstrate and instruct other cities on our construction and the use of this tool. Again, you can find this new information, the budget visualization tool, at PortlandOregon.gov backslash budget. So, Carla, this is the second reading of a non-emergency ordinance. We've had lots and lots and lots of testimony on this item. Colleagues, are there any other questions before I call the roll on the budget? Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Well, Mayor and colleagues, on May 23rd, the Council voted to approve our annual budget. Since then, the Tax Supervising and Conservation Commission has given their blessing. Therefore, today's vote is a formality and I don't intend to repeat all of my remarks from the last vote. I do however want to highlight a few things. First, this is Mayor Wheeler's third budget and the third time that he has achieved broad council support for his budget. So Mayor, thank you to you and to your team for leading us through this process. Thank you. Second, this year we tried a new budget process. essentially modified zero-based budgeting. It was an improvement and helped uncover a significant structural gap at parks. So I want to give a big shout out to the city budget office for their work in helping us get to this day. I believe our public outreach for the budget is still a work in progress, and I believe we can and must do better. Next, I'd like to acknowledge a number of important items that were included in the budget but that didn't grab the headlines. They include additional resources for supportive housing, a combined utility rate increase below 5%. And on the Bureau of Environmental Services side, which is two-thirds of your bill, the increase is below 3%, which is below the rate of inflation. Small investments in the Portland Rose Festival and the Portland Film Office that generate big returns for our local economy. Funding for the next phase of our work to clean up the Willamette River. Support for important environmental priorities like brownfield cleanups and a dark skies initiative. An age friendly coordinator position in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And almost $700,000 to cover ongoing operations and maintenance of new parks facilities. Many, if not most of which are in East Portland. Let me close with a word about parks. Director Long and I are working closely with human resources to identify openings at parks, and at the city for employees facing layoffs. We are very encouraged by our progress to date. This summer, we will take a deep dive to identify new models for funding parks going forward. My goal over the next two to three years is to put parks on a solid and sustainable foundation. We are open to all creative ideas for how to achieve that goal. Finally, I want to thank my colleagues. Developing a budget is one of our most collaborative undertakings. It has been a pleasure to work with each of you and your offices to craft this budget. I vote aye. Yee Daley. This budget, I think, largely reflects our values and priorities as a council. It also reflects some compromises that were hard to swallow. Not everyone got, no one got everything they wanted, but we did fund many vital and urgent programs and initiatives. The ones that I am most thankful for is the ongoing funding for the Joint Office for Homeless Services. for the office that serves landlords and tenants. As we increase regulation, we need to support landlords and tenants in understanding our policies and their rights, as well as the complete count for the upcoming census. There's many, many more, but I'm grateful that we found funding for those, and I vote aye. Fritz? Thank you to everybody who's been involved. And obviously this in many ways is a status quo and compromised budget, as my colleagues have said, with the exception of Portland Parks and Recreation. The cuts we're taking to parks are painful and no one on council is happy with these cuts, however they are necessary. Under the leadership of Commissioner Fish and Parks Director Adina Long, a plan will be developed that will provide for the long-term viability of a vibrant park system. In the short term, there is disappointment and sadness, and I will commit to being part of the conversation to look for that ongoing sustainable funding. The Council continues to invest in housing and houseless services. We continue to need the federal government to address those issues at the national level. I'm encouraged to see the regional level and state level has finally come to the realization this is not just a Portland problem. Los Angeles has made significant investments in housing, passing a $1.2 billion bond for housing, and yet their homeless population jumped 16% from 18 to 19. So there does need to be a massive national investment in housing, and unfortunately that doesn't look like it's going to happen. In the meantime, the council, under Mayor Wheeler's leadership, is funding the Joint Office of Homeless Services at the requested level. So thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for working with your colleagues to adopt this compromise budget. Commissioner Fish, thank you for bringing forward a responsible, even if painful, budget for parks that does put parks on a more sustainable path. Commissioner Daly, I particularly appreciate your anti-displacement funding and your steadfast... commitment to making sure that we do have measures in place before we enact further measures which may cause more demolitions and displacements. So thank you especially for that. Commissioner Hardesty made her comments last week. It's clear that she shares the rest of the council's commitment to our city employees and to our vulnerable community members. And as Commissioner Eudaly said, this budget is a moral document that reflects our values and principles, which are all shared by everybody on the council. I acknowledge the excellent work done by the City Budget Office in a challenging year with new budget software and an interim budget director Jessica Kinnard and her team did an excellent job thank you so much thank you to all the community members who took time to attend the forums it's wonderful to see so many different folks attending especially when we hold them in the evenings when people can come in thank you for all of the written comments um it was overwhelmed by the amount of emails that came in and was not able to keep up with all of them. So please know that they were read and I was appreciative of the urging. We can never do everything that everybody wants us to do. And so that's the challenge of being on the council is that we have to consider all of the values and not only the ones that come bubble up to the top of public attention. Thank you. The council, however, could not pass a responsible budget without hearing from each community member on what's important to you. Thank you to my staff for all your work on the budget, Claire Adamczyk, Christina Nieves, Mi-San Kwan, Cynthia Castro and Yesenia Cariel. I could not do this job without you and in particular thank you to my chief of staff Tim Crail who's been with me since day one and hopefully will be until the end of next year. Well, first of all, let me just thank my colleagues. I'm very pleased with the collaborative effort that has led to this budget. As Commissioner Udaly said, nobody got everything they wanted. The reality is it doesn't work that way. There is always compromise, give and take to be had. But on the whole, I'm very proud of the work that we've collectively done for this budget for the fiscal year 2019-2020. The budget reflects a collective commitment to housing and addressing the homelessness crisis. Supporting equitable outcomes and fostering equitable prosperity so that as our economy continues to grow, Portlanders benefit regardless of who they are. Fiscal sustainability and intergenerational equity, clean and safe communities, and importantly in my opinion, improving and streamlining both city processes as well as constituent response. We invested in housing and homelessness. While we were certainly required to make some challenging budget decisions this year, I'm very pleased that we were able to preserve and continue progress on critical and urgent housing and homeless needs. This budget includes almost $10 million to continue critical services that otherwise would have been cut. And it adds new services in the Portland Housing Bureau's budget. I'm particularly pleased about our continued investments in homelessness services and the fact that this budget provides nearly $7 million in funding to continuing the current service levels through the Joint Office of Homeless Services. That's everything from prevention to shelter services, transitioning people out the street into housing, and providing services to help people be successful in that housing. This budget also invests in innovative new services, including $500,000 for drug and alcohol treatment services for those who are the most chronically homeless. It includes anti-displacement approaches. It provides funding for a partnership in a new navigation center to make sure that chronically homeless people are connected to whatever services they need to get off and stay off the streets. I'm particularly excited about the inclusion of the new Hygiene Street Response Program. This pilot provides mobile bathrooms and showers to ensure access to basic hygiene needs for those who are homeless, and the provision of low-barrier job training for individuals who want to work as station attendants. We invested in supporting equitable outcomes and fostering equitable prosperity. And some of the highlights there, just quickly running through the list. We continued our current support for Portlanders United Against Hate. We supported the Portland Means Progress Initiative to ensure that prosperity is shared across all Portlanders. $100,000 for the Hillblock Project, $50,000 for the Cully Project, $75,000 to help foster the Albina Vision over by the Rose Quarter, staffing for the Portland Commission on Disability, creation of new citywide accommodations and inclusions through the establishment of a fund for employees with disabilities, and a new person in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to focus on ensuring that Portland is planning for an age-friendly future, as Commissioner Fish indicated. We're supporting the 2020 Census Outreach, the Neighborhood Prosperity Business Network, and the Mercatus My People's Market will all continue to receive funding. We invested in financial stability and intergenerational equity. And we prioritized costs that I believe will lower our out-year costs and increase revenue collection. Some of this stuff wasn't exciting, but it was important. We did a lot of work collectively on it. That includes the integrated tax system. That includes making sure that operation and maintenance dollars followed new projects in parks that we had collectively supported. And we also provided resources to help provide a runway for the Parks Bureau to plan for its future. We invested in clean and safe communities. That includes the new hygiene program I just mentioned, the funding for the rapid street response program, which is a great opportunity for this city moving forward. And funding for a second year of the Keep It Pretty Rose City initiative to engage people in the public who want to help pick up litter on our streets. We supported the Clean Air Construction Standard and we provided funding for the Cease Fire Program in the Office of Youth Violence Prevention. And finally, we invested in improving city services. And that includes a significant commitment to the new 311 system. and a budget note to solidify the development of that system. We preserved the rapid response vehicle that was at risk of being cut in the fire barrel, and we increased funding to ensure that public records requests are facilitated more quickly. I'd like to just make a couple of thank yous here in closing. First of all, Director Kennard for what I believe has been outstanding leadership over the course of the last year. And to all members of your budget team, they provided great insight, great support to the city council. It goes without saying that we thank our community budget advisors, including Frida Christopher, Shota Zono, Pam Knowles, Donichka, Otero Serrano, Andrea Peluso, all of whom spent many many hours Without staffing going through the budget, learning the budget, and giving us really good advice and counsel. I'd also like to thank the bureau advisory committee members for all of the bureaus across the city. Public engagement has been a very important process. We experimented with some new community engagement opportunities. I agree with Commissioner Fish that over the course of the next year, we're going to get feedback on those various types of community engagement. And hopefully settle on some strategies that we think are the best overall. Lastly, I'd like to thank Kristen Dennis, Andrea Bondarama, and many other people on my staff who worked for the last year on this budget. Thanks everyone. I vote aye, the budget's adopted. Time to start working on the next one. Item 5, thank you, 585. Approve the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission Fiscal Year 2019-20 budget. Colleagues, we're here to approve the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission Fiscal Year 2019-20 fund budget. Who thought we were done with budgets? The city's allocation to the MHCRC operating budget is nearly $315,000. And the amount is included in the city's approved fiscal year 2019-2020 appropriations. Speaking today is our panel, Leif Hansen, who's the Commissioner Chair, Sue Disciple. And both of these individuals, of course, are appointees to the commission. Julie Omolchuk, Program Manager to the MHCRC, is also here to answer any questions that anybody may have. Good morning. Good morning. I didn't bring a musical instrument, but I am here to highlight a couple of the M-8CNC activities from the past year and to seek your approval for our 19-20 fund budget. I believe you've got the proposed budget in your meeting packet. We've handed out a copy of our annual report as well. As a reminder, the MHCRC is an intergovernmental partnership among Gresham, Fairview, Portland, Troutdale, Wood Village, and Multnomah County. Each of these jurisdictions appoints citizen representatives to the commission. I am one of those appointees from the City of Portland. The MHCRC has oversight, enforcement, and public benefit responsibilities for the cable services franchises with the cities and the county. Portland has two cable service franchises with Comcast and CenturyLink. There's four total within the Commission's purview. As highlighted in the annual report, the MHCRC deals with ever-changing technology to support community needs for local authority over public rights of way and compensation. We act as a consumer watchdog platform for community voices, affordable broadband networks for schools, libraries, and local governments, and also local solutions for addressing digital equity issues. Over this past year, MHCRC has provided many services to the communities and its residents, We continue to work with public schools and districts under our TechSmart initiative for student success. Portland Public Schools, David Douglas, Centennial and Reynolds have active grants serving Portland students. Thus far the commission is over 11 million dollars into the longer term investment goal of 17 million dollars. 220 classroom teachers in five school districts are currently supported by those resources provided under the TechSmart initiative. The Community Technology Grant annual competitive round funded six new grants with community organizations. These grants leveraged over 2.1 million in matching resources. The grants are responsible to needs identified by the community and support organizations to use technology in addressing their issues. For example, an MHCRC grant from this past year in supporting APANO's mission to reduce disparities in economic and education for Asian and Pacific Islander communities. The grant will equip APANO's community space in a new affordable housing development with technology for digital literacy training and broadband internet access for low-income residents. Affordable broadband has become more and more critical to our local public institutions. The MHCRC is leading a network planning effort in partnership with 18 public agencies within Multnomah County. This partnership for the current institutional network, otherwise known as the INET, provides high-speed affordable broadband connectivity to 308 schools, libraries, public agencies throughout the county. The MHCRC provides capital funding and franchise enforcement, support to open signal, The City's operational support grant agreement with Open Signals on your agenda later today. City's funding leverages the MHCRC capital funding so that Open Signal can effectively use the equipment and facilities to provide services to the community. Over the past year, Open Signal produced over 2,500 hours of original local programming. They also trained over 600 residents in digital and media literacy skills. The MHCRC addressed consumer protection issues both broadly and with individual subscribers. For example, the MHCRC worked with the cable companies on issues related to clear information on subscriber bills, on-time appointments, phone answering timeframes, and service fees. We had 181 complaints that reached resolution from the local cable TV subscribers over the past year. Coming up in fiscal year 19-20, the Emerge CRC is engaged in a future-focused planning, considering rapidly evolving technology and public policy. Our community's increasing reliance on availability of broadband internet, very important for our agenda. We intend to work with you, your city staff, communities to identify needs and opportunities for our broadband future. We've got a technology needs ascertainment underway in preparation for our franchise renewal negotiations with Comcast and CenturyLink. Happy to report once again that in speaking of the money side of the equation, that we once again received a clean audit for fiscal year 18-19. That full document is available on the MHCRC's website. Wanted to note the downward trend that we're seeing in the cable franchise revenues. Page 9 of the annual report, you'll see a graph showing this trend, and it's a continuation of the trend that we reported on last year. But for the first time in franchise history, the actual revenue for 2017-18 decreased 7% over the previous fiscal year. Based on the first three quarters of 1819's revenue, we're projecting another 6% decrease for the current fiscal year. MHCRC has been closely monitoring the trend, anticipating implications for franchise fee revenue for local governments and for revenues that support the Commission's community grants and other programs. 19-20, our budget reflects a projected decrease in franchise fee and PEG INET fee revenue. Surprisingly, the total number of cable TV subscribers actually increased in 2018, as reported by the cable franchise companies. We're conducting a franchise audit to better understand the data and why the revenue dropped while overall subscribers actually increased. The MHCRC proposed 19-20 fund budget is in your meeting packet as an attachment to the ordinance. Annual budget allocation for all jurisdictions collectively fund about half the MHCRC total operating budget. This coming year's allocation is $314,826, representing about 6% of the franchise fees collected. by the city. Remaining portion of our budget is funded by other resources, mostly to administer the dedicated capital fee revenue and related programs. And before closing, I want to thank the Mayor and Council for supporting the county-wide partnership. 25 years is our anniversary this year. Also, I want to thank you for the new bureau architecture. I appreciate that. And your recent appointment of Elizabeth Perez as interim director and also our staff director. Looking forward to working with her more over the coming year. Great. Thank you, sir. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you very much for your report. Thank you for serving. I think this is one of the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission is one of the most powerful volunteer jobs in Portland, given the authority that you have and the ability to collaborate with people from other parts of the region. So thank you for your work. I'm curious as to why if cable subscribers are up, why is the revenue down? Yeah, it's an interesting question. We actually don't have the answer yet. The subscriber data comes in late and we just received it in the last 30 days. So we've asked those same questions of the companies to better understand whether the data is accurate. or whether there is an underlying reason. So we will discover what that is, and we can certainly report back. I know in the past we've sometimes had very nice settlements after audits of those kinds of things. It could be that more people are subscribing, but they're buying cheaper services. That certainly could be one explanation. Thank you very much. Please let us know when you find out. Thank you. Very good. Does that complete your presentation? It does, yeah. Thank you both. Great. I don't see any further questions. Is there public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have three people signed up. Very good. Thank you. Charles Bridgecrane, Maggie and Jianne. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson and I wish that we'd heard a little bit more about the regulatory aspects of the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission because I'd really like to be able to balance in my mind what we're saying about Comcast, and what the Honorable Timothy A. Bradshaw finds about Comcast. Case number 16-2-18224-1. Up in Seattle, not an Oregon case. But my guess is that if the headlines in the media say that Comcast broke the law 445,000 times to take advantage of consumers, that probably almost every complaint that a local person made to the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission may be substantiated. So... You know, Portland and Vancouver, Oregon and Washington, we're pretty much the same people, pretty much the same things happen. So it would be pretty much miraculous if Comcast was a spotless, honest actor in this market, but in the state of Washington, the headlines say they broke the law 445,000 times, make it off with just a $9.1 million settlement, probably under appeal because... At the rates we're paying for Comcast, God knows they can afford some lawyers and a whole British television network called Sky. So... I hope that everybody on the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission will add that context to the way they process subscriber complaints and make sure that in our service area, the areas that you have constituents in, we make sure that Comcast, with its highly profitable business, is conducting itself honestly. Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission would actually, it's probably in their report, hopefully you will find it online, list the exact number of customer complaints and outcomes. Thank you very much. Morning. Hi. So, I want to talk about something related to this, which is AT&T, which the government sued AT&T for doing the same thing and yet you reward them with a contract. So, I would like to say to you, again, about contractors, is sometimes your own contractors that you're paying are ripping off the very people that you paid them to help. That's what I want to say. Very good. Morning. Good morning. Jan Canette. Hi. Last time I had anything to do with Comcast or anything, I don't even know how to repeat, was when they weren't paying their taxes. Do they ever pay their Oregon taxes? Does anybody care whether they pay the 333 thing? I don't know, but fact is that being the mayor of Portland, if you have a company like Comcast in our state, And you see that within your jurisdiction, they're not paying their taxes at the end of the year. Shouldn't there be something you do besides reward them? You know, I'm just curious because that really bothers me. It bothers me when I read, now this is like a year and a half ago before I came up here. How many companies there were in Portland, Oregon that actually were not being followed through to pay their taxes? As far as I know, they had no extra fees if they did pay it for paying it way, way late and having to be forced to do it. And can't we come up with better companies in the state of Oregon and Portland to where they are more set on helping the community instead of taking away from the budget of our city and town? Thank you very much for your time. Fair taxes, stable budgets would be a beautiful world. Does that complete public testimony, Carla? Yes, that's all. This is an emergency item. We'll wait until Commissioner Fish returns. Yes. Very good. So, Carla, can you please call the roll on item 585, approving the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission Fiscal Year 2019-2020 budget? Fish. Thank you for your presentation and all your good work. Aye. Hedalee. Aye.
 Fritz.
 Aye. I am a huge fan of the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. Thank you for your annual report. Huge fan of the Office for Community Technology. Julia Melchuk, thank you for all of your work over many years. Mayor, thank you for appointing Elizabeth Perez, the Deputy Director, and also restructuring it, as was mentioned in the presentation. This is a small but mighty bureau that brings in millions of dollars of revenue, and then the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission is authorized to give some of that revenue to community purposes which are detailed in this report. So it's really important that we do close the loop with this report every year. Thank you so much. Aye. Wheeler. Well, as you heard, the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission is a long-standing and important governmental relationship. It includes Gresham, Fairview, Troutdale, Wood Village in Multnomah County, and of course the City of Portland. Portland's particular appropriation goes to administer about $6 million annually in community technology-related benefits throughout the city and the county. So these grants help the city meet the goals of the Digital Equity Action Plan to better serve our residents. And I want to thank Leif and Sue for their service on this commission. They're citizen volunteers, so they do not get paid for the hard work that they do. And I believe that they've represented the city and its residents extremely well in administering public benefits through the jointly negotiated cable franchise agreements. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks for the presentation. Next up, item 586 please. Direct Portland Parks and Recreation to amend the 2012 Washington Park Transportation and Parking Management Agreement with Metro and Washington Park Cultural Institutions to provide increased levels of service. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, in 2012 Portland Parks and Recreation entered into a Washington Park Transportation and Parking Management Agreement with other cultural institutions in Washington Park. The agreement is due for an update. Today we will receive a presentation from Victor Sanders, Portland Parks and Recreation Program Coordinator, and Heather McCary, Executive Director for Explore Washington Park. Welcome to both of you. Thank you. I'll turn it over. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioners and Mayor. As Commissioner Fish had mentioned, my name is Victor Sanders, Program Coordinator for Washington Park, and I'm joined today by Heather McCary, Executive Director of Expo Washington Park, one of our great partners up in Washington Park. As Commissioner Fish had mentioned, today's resolution directs Portland Parks and Recreation to amend the agreement we have with our cultural institution partners to reflect the latest trends in park attendance and the needs of the park. We expect the completed amendment... to include three major changes. The first is additional funding for park shuttle services, additional funding for road and pathway maintenance, and additional funding for transportation planning based on the recommendations from the Washington Park Master Plan which was approved by Council or rather adopted by Council in 2017. So I'm very pleased to be here to share this presentation by our partners for Washington Park on how Portland Parks and Recreation's have kept our promise on that 2012 agreement to the public, to our partners, and to the neighborhood adjacent to Washington Park. So I'll hand it over to Heather McCary. She'll give an overview of those programs and discuss a little bit about the changes to the amendment, or rather changes to that agreement that will occur very shortly. Good morning, commissioners and Mayor Wheeler. And thank you so much for the chance to be here. Special thanks to Commissioner Fritz, who's been so supportive these past couple years. And to Commissioner Fish, who was there at the beginning when we got started. I'm Heather McCary, the executive director of Explore Washington Park. We're the 501c3 that was created to help improve access to Washington Park and make sure people have a great experience once they're there. So as you all know, Washington Park is home to Portland's most iconic attractions, including the International Rose Test Garden, the Oregon Zoo, World Forestry Center, the Portland Japanese Garden, Hoyt Arboretum, and the Portland Children's Museum. And access to Washington Park has always been an issue. Washington Park used to be called City Park. And in 1903, when the Olmstead brothers came through Portland to do a plan for the parks of Portland, they said this of City Park. Already, the capacity of City Park is taxed to its utmost upon holidays and pleasant Sundays in summer. And that was in 1903. So we fast forward 100 years, and that's to 2012, and that's when the directors of the park, as well as city council and metro council, made the agreement that Victor spoke of to improve access to the park. And it really promised two things, that we would create a non-profit to do traffic management for the park, as well as to create a pay-to-park system so those funds could be reinvested. So it took a couple of years but in 2014 the pay to park system went live and that is when we made promises to the public and through the agreement that Victor spoke of. Some of those promises included a new master plan for the park, a new non-profit, a free shuttle, and better park maintenance and security. So now that we have an update to that amendment before you, I wanted to provide a report card on how we're doing with those promises. One of our most visible programs is our free inner park shuttle. The shuttle links the Washington Park MAX station to the rest of the venues in Washington Park. It comes every 15 minutes. You can track it in real time at ewpshuttle.org. They're fully ADA accessible. and we provide about 130,000 rides on that annually. The new agreement has stated that this should be an annual service rather than just a seasonal service. So it'll now run daily through October and then weekends only November through April. We also run shuttles to overflow parking lots with buses that we bring to the lots closest to the zoo. The agreement also states that we should expand this service. We were running it just on weekends and we now run it Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays in the peak season as well as large events like Zoo Lights. And we bring about 70,000 visitors to the park each year through this service. We put customer service staff down at the International Rose Test Garden as well as at the TriMet station. These folks are there June, July, and August, seven days a week, and they help 30,000 visitors annually. We wanted people to understand the park in a more holistic fashion so that they went to the Oregon Zoo. They knew that they were also in the same park as the International Rose Test Garden and how to get there. And so we developed a park map with all of our partners. We hired a local artist to do the map cover this year. We printed 80,000 of these maps and distribute them throughout the city of Portland. And then we've also done a lot with work around diversity, equity, and inclusion. We've developed a DEI committee to coordinate all the efforts of the park venues around this work. This committee is developing a work plan and we've set aside funds through the new agreement as well as through a Metro RTO grant to actually implement that work plan. So certainly been busy over the past couple years as is Portland Parks in delivering some of these promises. One of the really exciting aspects of the pay to park program that's provided to this agreement is that we now have a dedicated funding source to address some of the deferred maintenance issues in Washington Park. So, for example, this photograph showing just a simple paving project in front of the Oregon Zoo in Washington Park. And so, again, this funding is allowing us to rebuild. rebuild the infrastructure within the park that we don't have general fund ability to do. And then we also have dedicated park rangers as well that are provided through this agreement, three full-time park rangers as well as seasonals that provide security throughout the park and on the trails and the pathways and the roads within the park. And then, of course, we also have the Washington Park Master Plan, which, as I had mentioned, was adopted previously in 2017. That's an update to the 1981 Master Plan. It We just completed. And so one of the outcomes of that master plan was a transportation management plan, which we've committed to come back to council in 2022 to complete. And so this new agreement provides funding to complete that plan as well. And all of our work up there is definitely having an impact. We do annual intercept surveys of over a thousand people in the park each August. We started in 2014. And through those surveys, we've been able to see a 23% decrease in the percent of people getting to the park using their personal vehicle use, a 59% increase in transit use, a over 250% increase in the percent of people using our free shuttle, and then an over 1,000% increase in Uber and Lyft use. But of course, in 2014, not a lot of people were getting in the car with a stranger. So we started at a low number. Right now, about park-wide, 9% of guests get to the park with Uber and Lyft. And then that increases when you look at the garden to about 16%. So these are all great numbers that we're excited to share, and we're even more excited to share that in light of the 11% increase in park-wide attendance that we've seen in peak season since 2014. Just to interrupt you there. Yeah. I really... The rideshare really is people driving. It's just they're not parking. Yes, that's correct. Yes, and so we definitely, it brings its own challenges. I think it does increase access to the park in that they're not needing to find a parking space. So there's some benefits, but it certainly brings its challenges with it. Yeah, it's congestion and pollution. Yeah. I really detest the term rideshare because it, suggest that two people are getting somewhere, they need to go together. It's, you're hiring a driver in a car. Yeah, I just wanted to note, and I know you have been paying attention to this, because we want to increase the number of transit and shuttle. That's definitely. I'd like to see that as a thousand percent increase. Yeah, I'm glad that you guys are highlighting that because it's one of our top issues that we want to address. Great, thank you. Yeah. Very excited about the other mode, mode share. me too a 59 increase in transit is really exciting if only we could do that citywide yes it would be transformative yes it would be free transit that's how you do it oh i agree commissioner thank you So we definitely have things on the horizon. Victor mentioned the transportation management plan that was outlined in the master plan. We'll be doing a scope for that work this summer and fall. We hope to go to bid this winter. We also really want to be an incubator for new transportation initiatives for the whole city. With that in mind, we're working really aggressively to turn our inner park shuttle fleet into a fully electric fleet, potentially and hopefully by next summer. And then, of course, we're always looking at ways to use data to better inform our policies. So I've been at the park for five years and in those five years it's become clear that Washington Park is really becoming a destination park. And it's very heartfelt that I tell you that I am honored to be a part of Washington Park's story. I take it really seriously, the work that we're doing up there. And Exploration Park is committed to ensuring that as we open our backyard to the world, we maintain access to this amazing place for our entire Portland community. So that concludes the presentation. Just as a representative from Portland Parks, we've just been incredibly pleased with the success of Exploration Park and with the success of the program, and I think it's something that the city should absolutely be proud of. I know that the partnerships with our cultural institutions up there are the strongest they've ever been, so the Oregon Zoo, Hoyt Arboretum. Portland Children's Museum, Portland Japanese Garden, World Forestry Center, all of those folks meet monthly at the leadership level to discuss these issues. And so it's really exciting that we've been able to build this infrastructure with excellent results. And so this amendment to that agreement really builds on that to create a legacy project for Washington Park that will continue on for many, many years. I'm happy to take any questions. Questions or comments from my colleagues before we go to public testimony? Thank you. Thank you for the presentation. Yeah, thank you. Thanks for your great work. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? Two people signed up. Very good. Maggie and Gianne. Go ahead, Maggie. Maggie, go ahead. Okay. Thank you. Maggie, Portland Homeless Town Hall. Okay. I would like to reference Ernest Hemingway. and a story called The Short and Happy Life of Francis McWamber. If you've ever heard of it, I highly recommend you read it. Although I don't like zoos because I don't like the idea of animals being in a zoo, I recognize... The horrible situation we're in with global climate change and how we're losing habitat for wild animals, and I see the exceptional educational opportunity that this brings for children. and adults. And I'm wondering how the zoo can bring into their educational programs about climate change and loss of habitat and You know, how we can live our lives reducing, you know, dependence on bottles of water and bags and all sorts of things that end up in marine, in the oceans. And, you know, I mean, 200 dolphins were just killed. And you know, by the way we live. And war causes all sorts of pollution. So I want you to go read this story because we need nature preserves but not nature preserves that have to rely on hunting and driving up and killing, you know, these partially domesticated wild animals to fund themselves. And we want kids to grow up and realize that saving these animals' habitat is saving ourselves. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I was looking at that map she had of Washington Park and I really want to ask, did Washington Park lose a couple acres somewhere in the last 20 years? But I do want to say this, I love Washington Park more than anything in the world. And when I was younger, I went to New York because I knew my dad would look for Cali. So, he made months to find me and Frank's not sure was right because if you can make it in New York, you make it anywhere. And while I was there, I said the most beautiful place that I've ever seen is the Rose Gardens in Portland, Oregon. I have bragged throughout all the states of the United States about certain things having to do with Portland area and the beauty that they try to reveal. I agree with what you said 100%. I would rather it be a, you know, you go in your car and animals actually get a... in pages or anything. I watched Paki. And when I watched Paki, man, I watched that guy try to get out of that little water thing. And I tried to scrape his knees until he bled. It affected me seriously. Of course, Paki is what? A year after me?
 So... But yeah, I think it's great you guys are doing all this work with Washington Park. I wish that you would do that in other parks. For instance, Holiday Park Some black gentleman walked up, hit my brother, and knocked him to the ground. My brother's 60 years old, people. Then I'm walking to the voyage center over to the NASA, the 70th, which is by my home. Some black guy comes up to me and tells me he's been a... Could I ask you to keep your testimony, Jermaine, please, to this particular item? I wish that I would take care of all the parks and not just some of them. Thank you. You're welcome. Very good. Thank you both. Carl, is this a resolution? Colleagues, any further questions? Please call the roll. Fish. Well, first of all, I want to acknowledge that we began having this conversation in 2011, 2012. And it was not initially viewed as the most popular idea that we've ever put on the table. But the idea was that, We were forecasting over time too many people driving to Washington Park, too much congestion. And we weren't collecting any revenue from many of our guests to offset the impact on our roadway. And the theory was if you're going to drive to the park and you're going to bring your car, you ought to help offset the cost of dedicated parking and the impact on our infrastructure. It was not the world's most popular idea when we first raised it. And change is hard. We came up with a winning model, and I think we can see from today's results, five years later, we have a lot of positive news to celebrate. I want to thank Heather McCary for her five years of service, and I want to thank all the people that serve on Explore Washington Park. It has had another therapeutic benefit, which is it has helped to bring together all of our partners in Washington Park. And each of them has a different set of issues and concerns and agenda. But this process has galvanized our partners in a very positive way. I want to thank Victor Sanders and the parks team for bringing this home. This is the product of what we call six-party negotiations that went on for a while, and there were lots of different views. But I'm very pleased that we've landed where we did. As we heard a few minutes ago, Washington Park is one of the jewels of our system. And this program helps us. pay for the cost of maintaining some of the infrastructure. It is not a readily adaptable plan to other parks throughout the city because it's based uniquely on the fact that so many people drive to Washington Park and we can generate the revenue. But the point is well taken. I think it's a terrific report and PowerPoint. I always love to be reminded of what the Olmstead brothers said in 1803 and what I particularly liked about the section that you – you called because I have the original report in my office, is that in those days when they made a mistake, they just typed over it. They didn't retype the whole document like we do now. So the Olmstead report is actually filled with typos that had been corrected on the original draft. Some of you are old enough to remember when we used to do that, but now you just redo the whole document. Nice piece of work, very proud to sponsor it today and to vote aye. You daily? Well, thanks for the presentation. I am particularly impressed by the fact that although we've seen visitors increase by 11%, we've seen trips in single occupant vehicles or in cars decrease by 23%, transit increase by 59%, and shuttle increase by 279%. That's really extraordinary. I love taking the MAX. to the top of the park, I guess we would call it, and encourage everyone to explore that option. I vote aye. Fritz? I'm not usually a tunnel person, but I don't mind the max one. They make it interesting the way that the artwork and the geological features in the elevator are. As long as I'm distracted, I'm not quite so aware that I'm in the middle of a mountain. So thank you very much Commissioner Fish. You started this and this was really a heavy lift in your first term as Parks Commissioner and it's really good to see the results of your efforts there coming back and bearing fruit now that you're back in charge of Portland Parks again. Thank you very much to the Coalition and the Transportation Management Team for all your work on this. Wheeler. I was going to note the same things that Commissioner Udaly noted. I think this is very impressive. The transit and shuttle usage in particular is impressive. And if you back into the numbers here, it says in 2018, 61.5% of the visitors drove in a personal vehicle to the park. That means nearly 40% of the people who came to the park did not. That's a lot. That's actually a very high percentage of people not driving to the park, but instead using transit or shuttle or rideshare or other means of getting there. So this appears to be a success, and the hard work that people put into this in 2012, 2013, 2014 is being validated. Glad to see it. I vote aye. Resolution is adopted. Thank you. Great presentation. Next item, please. We are now finally, believe it or not, on a regular agenda, item 598. Okay. Appoint Sabrina Purifoy to the Open and Accountable Elections Commission and establish terms for all commission members. This is a report, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Colleagues, this is to appoint the final member of the Open and Accountable Elections Commission. As you know, the Commission is responsible for providing community oversight to the Open and Accountable Elections Program. Most of the Commission was seated in January, and they've had a very ambitious timeline, have worked incredibly hard, had wonderful output. Sabra Purifoy is currently a policy analyst for the Oregon Department of Consumer Business Services. She has years of experience in politics, law and a passion for social equity and justice. We're very excited to have her join the Commission. She was unable to be here today because she's traveling, but we wanted to do this appointment today because she's going to be able to join the commission at their meeting tonight. Here is Susan Mote, the program director, to give any additional information. Sure. I have very little to add other than the fact that one of the things that was very appealing on her application was that in Los Angeles County, she was the department lead for the Government Alliance on Race and Equity and wrote and implemented the... racial equity action plan for her department. So we really appreciate that perspective and value that in joining our commission. Great. Thank you. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly to accept the report. Commissioner Fish seconds. Any further discussion or questions, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Aye. I'm excited to appoint you. I know the superstars of this amazing commission. Thank you, Anna Paisio, the deputy director of the program, who is the lead staff person to the commission. Susan Mote has been here just six months and has pushed amazing levels of implementation to this program. I'm very excited about it. The commission meets once a month, the third Wednesday of every month, which is tonight. If you are interested in attending, it's held in the Pettigrew room here in City Hall from 6.30 to 8.30, and everyone in the public is welcome to come and observe. Wheeler. I continue to be amazed by the quality of the volunteers we have serving on our boards and commissions, and this is certainly no exception. I really appreciate this. I vote aye. Appointments approved. Thank you. Next item, 599. established process to resolve claims related to the water main break on March 16, 2019 and authorize payment of claims. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you for your partnership on this. Obviously, I think most people in Portland know about this water million break on March 16th. Here we are now on June 19th, which in city terms is really lickety-split. On the other hand, if you're a property owner or a resident or an employee at one of the businesses that was affected, it's been a long road to getting to resolution. I've learned so much since I've been put in charge of the Water Bureau. The pipe was over a hundred years old and so of course I and everybody else said well that's a really old pipe of course it broke. It turns out that that pipe was supposed to last at least 200 years so it was not a pipe that was we build our water system your water system to last for centuries and so this is not something that should have been anticipated, which is one of the reasons that the risk management folks determined that it was not an act of negligence on the city's On the other hand, reasonable people would say whoever's fault it was, it certainly was not the fault of the people who got flooded. And so when I talked with the mayor about it, that was a kind of basic agreement that we should make sure that people who were impacted by this failure of city infrastructure were compensated. La Playa, a market in Delhi, for example, had to shut down their entire business. And so very much appreciate Chief Deputy City Attorney Robert Taylor, who once the risk had made their determination and there was a process, because obviously we don't want after something happens for cash being handed out on street corners without a due process. And so Robert Taylor volunteered to figure out a process that could then very as quickly as possible, make the payments to those who have legitimate damages, including economic losses. And so now I'll just have Robert Taylor say things that I probably should not have said just then, or the right framing of how to say what we're doing here. Thank you. Thank you Commissioner. Robert Taylor, Chief Deputy City Attorney. I think what you said was perfect and described the situation perfectly. This was an exceedingly rare event. that did have a large scope of impact. And the folks in risk management do an excellent job every day on behalf of the city, handling the more usual regular types of claims. But this was really exceedingly rare and large in scope, and that's why I believe we were asked to come up with a process to handle these claims as quickly as possible. And so just to walk you through... There's a deadline to submit the claims and that's July 15th. If folks have already submitted a tort claim notice to risk, those will be forwarded to the city attorney's office. Folks will not have to reapply. We will treat those as the application, but our office can ask for more information if necessary. So that is the deadline for anybody watching July 15th to submit claims under this ordinance. To you, right? To the city attorney's office and our address is in the ordinance for folks to find. And we're in City Hall, room 430. The types of costs that the city will pay are outlined in the ordinance. That includes economic losses, property damage caused by the water main break. including cost of repair and replace damaged property, temporary relocation, expenses, lost wages or income. The ordinance also explicitly says the types of claims that the city won't pay. And that includes property upgrades, asbestos abatement, pollution remediation, other damages including any caused by power outages. And then it goes on to require the city attorney's office to get sufficient documentation to support these claims before they will be paid. There's an authorization for the city attorney to pay the claims that's required by the charter. There is the ordinance establishes the source of funds, and that was part of a discussion earlier today in council as well. And then there will be a release and assignment of claims. So if property owners get paid, they will release their claims and then assign to the city any claims they might have against their insurance carriers. And then finally, the deadline to resolve claims for our office is October 14th. So. This will give people some assurance that if they use this process to try to resolve their claims, we will do that by October 14th. If we're unable to resolve it or if people decide they don't want to use this process, they are absolutely free to go through the regular risk management process and pursue litigation if that's what they desire to do. Great. Thanks. Any questions? What if the claim submitted, exceed the amount of money we've set aside to resolve the claims? We do not believe that will happen, first, based on the claims that have been submitted so far. Second, the plan is to collect all of the claims information by the deadline so we know the universe we're working with. and then try to settle all of the claims within the limit of that fund. And having the limit of that fund and the deadlines associated with it should give us the ability to successfully resolve these claims. Is there a scenario, though, where you may have to discount the claims because of the limited funds available? That is, that's a possibility. And I, but I, we do not foresee that, but that's a possibility. And if we're forced to do that, we would try to do that in a, in a rational way so that everybody's affected evenly. Thank you. Very good. Thanks, Robert. Any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have two people, Lightning and Maggie. Thanks, Robert. Appreciate it. Good morning. Lightning, can you turn that mic on? Someone turn it off. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Yes, my name is Lightning. Thank you. I find it outrageous in the manner that you're dealing with the public on this issue. The water main broke. It flooded into their properties. Guilty as charged. It's non-negotiable. Now, what you want to do is come back and counter back and say, Hey, we've got this unanticipated. It's not our negligence. We're going to throw this out at you. Well, you know, here's my problem with the way you negotiate like this. It's one thing to negotiate with me like that, and I'm going to get right back in your face, but when you're negotiating with senior citizens, people that might not have the full mental capacity to deal with this type of situation, and it's causing them severe trauma, you say to them plain and simple... It's our water main. It's our water that went into your property. We're going to take good care of you. We're going to make sure you're taken care of. Don't worry about this. Don't stress out about this. We've got everything in line. But instead, you come back like a Gordon Gekko, a George Soros, and you say, well, we're going to put a cap of $250,000. And maybe you'll get paid if you get that in real fast. Are you serious? Is this the way we want the city of Portland dealing with the people out in our communities? Guilty as charged. You flooded into their properties, you're gonna pay the cost. And let me tell you something. If I heard correct, some of these businesses are closed right now. $250,000 is going to go through in a second into people's basements, into certain damage. In today's world, that is nothing to cover that. Nothing if it went down into their basements and mold started happening and then you say you won't clean out the environmental issues. City of Portland, you're going to pay everything. That's why you're insured. That's why you have a general fund. Don't play games with the people out there that you harmed. Period. Non-negotiable. And you accept all liability, City of Portland. Guilty as charged. Per lightning. Heya! All right. Non-negotiable. There we have it. Carla, please call the... Wait. We need Commissioner Eudaly here for this. I've never seen a water main break in a city and not take responsibility. We need Commissioner Fritz. I'll take your response. can't recall a time I've had testimony which is completely opposite to what we're doing here. We are saying that we're going to take responsibility as Robert Taylor said. 250,000 should more than cover the amount of claims that we both know of and anticipate. As was mentioned earlier we need to have a number to carry over because we're going from one fiscal year to another. That's why we have estimated high so that we can pay all of the claims. And I further need to say that I'm really grateful to all of the people who contacted me. I called several of those affected personally. really understanding, gracious, encouraging, collaborative, and merely seeking to make sure that they are made whole. And so I really appreciate those who have been affected for their patients, and I appreciate the council for getting this done as quickly as bureaucratically possible. Very good. And I'm waiting for Commissioner Udeli. This is an emergency ordinance. There she is. Very good. Carla, please call the roll. Yes. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. So this is the right thing to do. I appreciate my colleagues for doing this. And again, thank you to Robert Taylor and the city attorney's office for stepping in to make things right. Aye. Wheeler. No good deed goes unpunished. Punishable, Fritz. Aye. Vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Item 600. Aye. amend acquisition of public art code to expand eligible uses of the 2% funds, explicitly prioritize underserved communities, and clarify city accountability. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. I'm very pleased to make a few introductory remarks on this matter, which Commissioner Udaly and I are bringing forward. In February of 2018, Portland City Council adopted our Arts Affordability Plan. This document includes 24 recommendations on how the city of Portland can help artists afford to live and work here. We've made some great progress and later this summer, my team will be coming back to council with an update on our work. But today we're here to discuss the 10th recommendation in the plan, changes to the rules around our 2% for art program on page 18 of the plan. We've worked with city bureaus, the Regional Arts and Culture Council, and key stakeholders on this update. These proposed changes, if adopted by the council, will make this tool more flexible, more equitable, and we hope more effective in bringing public art to all communities in Portland. This morning, we're joined by Jamie Dunphy, Senior Policy Director from my office and the main author of the report, Tracy Schreiber, my Arts Affordability Fellow, who will be completing her fellowship with my office tomorrow, at the end of the summer and Jamie will also introduce our special guest. Jamie? Thank you Commissioner. Also with us is Polly Ann Faith-Burge with the Office of Commissioner Udaly and I'm going to turn it over to Tracy, our special guest. Good morning. My name is Tracy Schreiber and I'm the Arts Affordability Fellow for Commissioner Nick Fish. We also have David Huff here, our City Arts Manager with the Office of Management and Finance. We're here today to propose amendments to the Percent for Art Code. A plan for preserving and expanding affordable art space in Portland recommended changes to the 2% for Art program, and the 2018 RAC audit recommended better monitoring and oversight of RAC's work. Along with the grants and the arts tax, Percent for Art is one of the main programs RAC implements for the city. The proposed changes address both the plan and the audit and will, one, clarify the code so that council, bureaus, and RAC understand who is accountable for what parts of the program and who has decision-making authority at certain junctures. Two, expand eligible uses of the 2% to include creative space and more clearly allow for activities like artists and residents. Three, more explicitly allow 2% funds to be decoupled from the triggering project site. And four, add language to encourage prioritization of underserved communities' access to art. The community mapping funding in the 2019-2020 budget will inform this priority in future art siting and activity. The offices of Commissioners Fish and E. Daly worked with David Hoffman, OMF, and alongside RAC and the city bureaus on the proposed amendments to ensure efficiency, flexibility, and clarity in the code. We're excited to bring you this proposal. We believe it represents council's commitment to supporting underserved areas by offering expanded options for arts and cultural activities and access and clarifies the intention and the support system for a successful public art program. We welcome your questions and thank you for your time. Thank you. That concludes our formal presentation. That's the most succinct presentation I think we've witnessed in council. Short and to the point, I just had one. I'm sorry, Commissioner Udeli, did you have a question? Do you want to add anything? No, no. I mean, I think it's been really a terrific partnership with your office and RAC as well. And I'm just excited, I think, to be able to use these funds in a different way or at least codify that for residencies and things like that. I'm really excited about that specific portion of it. Okay. I just had a quick question related to the preserving art space or potentially artist-in-residence space. Could you elaborate on that just a little bit in terms of how the 2% would be specifically used with regard to art space? Is it rent subsidy? How does it work? It absolutely could be. The opportunities for space are going to be relatively limited, but they are there. A great example is the Broadway Corridor project. The amount of percent for art... funds could be the equivalent of adding an extra room onto a building or putting up a couple extra walls. If you're already building it, it's not the hardest thing to add an extra room on. But it could also be rent subsidies. It could be paying artists a stipend in order to use the space that already exists. We want to really give the flexibility because we know, we've heard that this is an opportunity for regular injections of art into the community. While the uses historically in a lot of the public art we have have been great, they haven't been shared wide. And we continue to hear from artists that space is the top priority, that space is quickly going away. So any opportunity where we could add an additional room for activities in an affordable housing project or add... a room onto a new fire station. Something like that where we could permanently dedicate space towards creative use. The opportunities will not be very often. They doesn't happen that we have a project of that scale, but when that is an option, The Bureau, working with RAC, should be able to consider that as one option. So, Jamie, will there be some rules established or guidelines? And I'll put two concerns that I have on the table. Number one, let me just say I support the value. I think it's an important value, and I appreciate your expanding in this arena. But it comes with some logistical questions. Absolutely. And the first is... As you get into the question of space affordability, all of a sudden what's a large budget for RAC for the purposes that it currently is, for the actions it's currently engaged in, could see a lot of pressure, particularly given the cost of art space today in the city of Portland. So I'm wondering, number one, how you put guidelines or limits around that so you don't see a significant portion of the RAC budget suddenly being shifted to real estate efforts. The second area is around conflict of interest, because I assume it is the RAC board. that would make decisions about who does or who does not get access to these funds. And I just want to underscore the usual issue we have with all boards and commissions, which is they must adhere to state ethics laws. And that means that there cannot be a conflict of interest and they also have to guard against perceived conflict of interest. It raises questions of do insiders get favorable treatment over say merging artists or people who might be more on the fringes of the current art scene. And so I guess I'm not asking you a specific question today except saying as you go into this new area, you're going to need to be mindful that there are these other budgetary administrative and potential ethics issues that you're going to have to wrestle with. Absolutely. percent for art program or project or eligible project, it triggers a meeting between RAC and the bureaus and there's been some historic confusion about who is supposed to start that process. A lot of times if it's a PBOT project, for example, the engineers are more concerned with getting the road paved and getting it paved right than having a conversation about the public art. Often the dollars will be put into a pool. Those conversations, basically what this changes is that conversation at the front end. Historically, what we do is RAC will convene a panel. It is not the RAC board, but it is led by RAC staff with representative artists. They will begin to form an idea around what the Bureau envisions. If the Bureau doesn't have guidance, then what this panel envisions. We've had some situations where what the Bureau envisions and what the panel envisions are different, and we've clarified what that looks like. But the opportunities now for that front-end conversation, for example, Prosper Portland has told us they would rather do one big project than ten little projects. And they can pool those dollars and have that conversation as a collective. This wouldn't be in a private development. Percent-per-art programs are only triggered through public funding. facilities. We aren't building new libraries, we aren't building new Portland, you know, redoing the Portland building every day. So most of these tend to be relatively small and more discreet amounts of money and in those cases the way the process works now will work well then too. We'll still be able to continue to develop art. If it moves towards the space side of things, it wouldn't impend, it wouldn't infringe on RAC's budget because this is determined by a percentage of the total project. Right, it's really the allocation of the budget once it's gone to route. Once it's there, we- It's just very, very hard as you know to say no to friends. So there have to be very, very specific guidelines about who does qualify versus who does not qualify. And then it has to be uniformly implemented. Absolutely. Your comments certainly in the implementation phase take into consideration your comments. What I'd like you to think about in terms of what we're proposing here is that we've just expanded the menu of options a little bit. And for some time, there has been a concern that the 2% for art program, because of where public buildings are generally located, tended to focus public dollars on areas that were already arts rich. You think about where our major investments are in terms of public facilities, they tend to be in the inner core, triggering the 2%. So this conversation really began around a notion that why did we have to link the art with the actual building? That the building itself triggered the obligation to set aside the money. But could we decouple the art from the building in order to provide more equitable distribution of art citywide? That was an original vision. Because of the current focus on the need for affordable art space and other kinds of city investments along that line, The menu options have been expanded a little further to provide for that conversation as well. But it is uniquely a conversation that RAC, our partner in administering the funds, and a bureau will have at the front end in terms of going through the menu and deciding on what's the vision and how to move forward. But we'll be mindful of your concerns as we do regulations. I appreciate that very much Commissioner Fish. The conversation around areas like 122nd Division being perfectly bereft of any public art. However, that may not be the right place for public art. But there are still artists there and they have needs and community wants. So yeah, absolutely. It sounds like we're all in agreement on this. I hope so. I appreciate that very much. Very good. Any further questions? Public testimony on this item, Carla? Maggie signed up. All right. Thank you all very much. She's not speaking. Very good. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, please. Item number 601. Okay. appoint Stephanie Condor, Fernando Velez, and Jesse Ledesma to the Portland Housing Advisory Commission for terms to expire June 19, 2021. Colleagues, the Portland Housing Advisory Commission, PHAC, is the primary forum for the discussion of housing policy, strategy, and resources for the City of Portland. PHAC members rise above their individual interests and affiliations to take a comprehensive approach to housing policy and strategy to support the unmet housing needs of all Portlanders. The appointments today fill vacancies on the commission with individuals that are concerned. committed to addressing the pressing housing issues in Portland and the needs of residents across the city. Stephanie Condor is the Vice President of Development for Related Northwest. She's responsible for leading and managing all aspects of development and financing for Related's affordable developments. Ms. Condor's previous experience includes portfolio management of multi-family housing, including senior housing, assisted living, low income housing, and HUD communities. She's experienced working on complex transactions with multi-layered funding along with new market tax credits. Jesse Ledesma is the Director of Development at Beam Construction, overseeing ground up and adaptive reuse projects for Beam. Including commercial office developments and hospitality from sourcing all the way to completion. Ms. Ledesma served as development manager for affordable housing projects utilizing low income housing tax credits. as well as mixed-use urban developments for both for-profit and non-profit ownership. She has experience working with new construction, major renovations, acquisitions, and USDA rural developments. And then, of course, Fernando Velez has nearly 30 years of experience working in banking, mortgage lending, and consumer protections. He's a first-generation Latino immigrant and helped organize the first culturally specific financial home ownership fair in the city of Cornelius. Mr. Velez has participated on several non-profit boards, including CASA of Oregon, Habitat for Humanity, the African American Alliance for Home Ownership, Hacienda CDC, Bienestar, and Portland Community Land Trust. I want to thank you, Stephanie, Jesse, and Fernando, for your willingness to serve on the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. I believe each of you brings very important perspectives to this housing conversation, and I look forward to your guidance as commissioners. And with that, I will turn this over to our housing director. Welcome, Shannon Callahan. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioner Shannon Callahan. I'm just here to express my thanks to all of our new appointees to the Portland Housing Commission and thank them in advance for all of the guidance they will give us on both strategy, policy, and budget going forward. I'd also like to thank and acknowledge our two co-chairs, Shannon Singleton and Nate McCoy, for their work on the selection committee to help select these new members of our commission. So with that, I would turn it over to the committee members if they would like to speak a little bit on their own behalf. Thanks. Thanks. Mayor, Commissioners, Jesse Ledesma, I really appreciate the opportunity to serve on the PHAC, and I look forward to working through all the critical housing issues that our city faces. Thank you. And thank you very much for this opportunity as a community member in Portland and having worked on some of the homeless issues with Central City Concern and now representing Related Northwest. I'm very excited to be a part of this and look forward to working with you all. Thanks, Stephanie. Mayor Wheeler, distinguished commissioners, my name is Fernando Velez. I'm an almost 30-year resident of the city of Portland. I am a long-time advocate for minority homeownership, homebuyer education, and consumer protection. I have witnessed the pitfalls of unsustainable homeownership during the recent housing crisis. I believe this could have been ameliorated through effective and risk-related home purchasing and home retention education programs. I look forward in participating in discussions on new ways to improve the quality of life that homeownership can be increased, sustained, as well as exploring and strengthening current and new affordable home buying options. If I may insist, the positive results of meaningful home buying and rental education programs supporting sustainable housing is undeniable and effective. Thank you. Thank you very much, appreciate it. Colleagues, any questions? I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fish. So I have a just a brief comment and then a kind of a charge. Monday morning I had breakfast in Los Angeles with someone who is arguably the architect of the city's response to the homeless crisis and we talked a little bit about The differences between Portland and Los Angeles, we talked a little bit about what was working and what wasn't working in terms of strategies. Commissioner Fritz earlier today noted that in the most recent street count, Los Angeles saw a 16% increase in homelessness. Yet, among other things, they passed a $1.2 billion ballot measure to fund supportive housing and They are housing people at the rate of 1,700 a month. Director Callahan would kill to have the kinds of resources to be able to find 1,700 homes every month for people in distress. The number of people living in RVs and their cars has exploded and is a number that is so shocking that it doesn't seem real. And then wherever you go in the city, because it's a city of elevated highways, freeways, there are overpasses. And so there are campgrounds everywhere. And it is... An enormous challenge, like our city, the mayor by charter is a weak mayor. Mayor Garcetti is by charter a weak mayor and therefore has limits to what he can do. Our mayor by charter is a weak mayor. This commission-style form of government is the last of its kind. And then, of course, there's the challenge that the dollars... that are needed to provide the essential services to make the system successful are allocated by the county, not by the city. So the most important relationship the mayor has is with his or her counterpart at the county. It was an eye opening conversation, particularly because LA has been in the news lately as making big investments and yet the problem is getting worse. And it is reaching a boil. And the kinds of conflicts that we're experiencing here are very similar to what they are experiencing, but on a much bigger scale. The mayor had recently been in Venice Beach talking about opening up a shelter and spent four hours at a meeting taking abuse from people who didn't want the problem to be solved in their neighborhood. Well, if you go to Venice Beach and In California, what you notice is there's a lot of camping actually on the beach and everywhere around. So the point of my story is that every city up and down the West Coast is experiencing a crisis. I believe that because of our size, because of the nature of the partnerships, And because of the plan, which particularly the Joint Office is charged with implementing on homelessness, I believe we're going to see progress over time. But it's going to take time. And the mayor has said it could get worse before it gets better. Los Angeles is experiencing that. It is getting worse before it's getting better. So you are coming into service at a particularly sensitive time. Your charge will be more focused, frankly, on... affordable housing than homelessness because of the way we've defined up responsibilities. But it is really important that we get as much of the bond money and other resources out the door as quickly as possible. And in projects which address the crisis. So we are counting on you to help us get it right. And it seems like, I don't remember the last time we had nominees to PHAC. that had the breadth of experience that the three of you have. I mean, you're an all-star panel, so thank you for serving. Here's the charge. I created the Portland Housing Bureau and created the PHAC. And my one disappointment with the PHAC, the Portland Housing Advisory Commission, is that we intended it to be an independent body that would from time to time come to council and say, the city's not going down the right path or we disagree with an expenditure or at budget time we have a different view or whatever. And it is vitally important that you maintain your independence. And from time to time you're going to disagree with the distinguished director or with the council's direction. And what I want to charge you with is, it is in those moments that you are doing your best service in making sure we're aware of your concerns. And the only way we become aware of those concerns is if you send us a letter or some communication that says, respectfully, PHAC disagrees with a budget proposal or a policy decision or whatever. So that's a role that PHAC has not played as robustly as I would have liked. And I just want to charge you with the responsibility of not only being a good steward of the policies and resources of the Bureau, but please take advantage of the opportunity to let counsel know when you respectfully dissent from something that's being proposed. Because otherwise we won't know, and we won't have the benefit of your wisdom on something. And so please take that charge seriously. I'm – very pleased to accept your nominations. You're a terrific panel. Hi. You daily. Thank you for your willingness to serve. I'm really excited reading your bios about the expertise you're going to bring. And, Fernando, I'm particularly interested in a your ability to help in the conversation around inclusionary zoning and affordable housing and helping developers figure out how to make it pencil out. Because I hear that a lot and having never bought a home or developed a property, I can't really aid them in that endeavor. So it's essential that we have people serving the city who understand that part of the puzzle. So thank you very much. I vote aye. Fritz. You are going to be in the center of the storm of all of the challenges that we face as a community in providing affordable housing and housing in general. So thank you very much for your willingness to serve. Wheeler. First of all, obviously I strongly support the work of PHAC and I support these nominees. None of them are what I would describe as people who would shy away from conflict, who would shy away from speaking truth to power or coming up with ideas that they believe we as a council should support. Slight footnote, I want to also just note that this week the auditor's office issued what I believe to be a very positive audit on the Portland housing bond and I was glad to see that. Of course, part of your charge will be working with us on that and making sure that those resources are deployed to full effect to create as much workforce and lower income housing as we possibly can with the resources that we have available. But I also just want to read into the record the mission of PHAC because it's worth it to mention this every opportunity we get because it is a broad mission. The mission of PHAC is to advise the director of the Portland Housing Bureau, the housing commissioner, and the Portland City Council on housing and homelessness policy, strategy and resource issues, promote improvements within the Portland Housing Bureau and the larger housing system, highlight opportunities for influence between the city housing system and other systems, As well as provide a forum for public input on housing and homelessness issues. So I agree with Commissioner Fish that to some degree while there are amazing people serving on PHAC, it has felt a little bit like a Ferrari parked in the garage and occasionally trotted out to run to the grocery store. We have a really solid group of people on this commission and The issue that you will be working on, the issues that are all interrelated that you will be working on, are right now the most important issues in the city of Portland. And I know this because I hear about these issues 100 times more than I hear about any other issue impacting the city of Portland. So in closing, I want to say this. I thank you. All of you are super busy. All of you could be doing a million other things. There is nothing about this charge which is easy. Some of it is even downright controversial. And I appreciate again that we have people in this community who are willing to volunteer their time, their energy, and their talents for this kind of purpose. I'm really gratified by it and as a fellow Portlander, my hat's off to you and I appreciate your service. I vote aye. Report's accepted and your appointments are confirmed. Thanks a lot. And thank you for being here today. Thank you, Director Callahan. Next item, 602, please. Authorize a competitive solicitation for a law enforcement records management system for the police bureau. Okay. Colleagues, the city owns and operates the regional justice information network called Region. It is a records management system for police reports and related law enforcement records, which are essential to the Portland Police Bureau's operations. Region established a governing body of more than 40 partner agencies in the two-state, five-county metropolitan region that are signatories to an intergovernmental agreement. The agreement covers cost-sharing and recovery. The number of participating agencies has dropped from 43 to only seven in recent years. Due to three waves of exit from region, placing a disproportionate share of the fixed cost of the operating system onto the Portland Police Bureau in the city of Portland. The vendor contract for the current RMS expires in July of 2021. The Bureau is contracted with a consultant to assist in the development of a procurement solicitation seeking a replacement system that can be implemented and made operational prior to the end of the current contract. The city will no longer rely on other agencies' participation to determine the cost or financial liabilities of the new records management system to the city. The new records management system will be more efficient and cost less than region. The project timeline to select, implement, and transition the bureau to use of a replacement RMS by the expiration of the current contract. Has very little slack and requires timely action on the part of the council. Failure to complete the project by July 2021 may require the city to extend the contract with the current vendor for a full year at substantial additional expense. And I appreciate that we have Senior Program Manager Tammy Mayer here today. Okay. And we also have Ryan Lee here as well, I suppose, in backup support or to answer any questions. Good morning. Good morning. I don't know if you want to add anything else or just answer questions. I can add a little bit, sir. My name is Tandy Mer. I am the program manager for the current region program along with some other technology programs the Bureau uses. Region was a grand idea and it had some good minds behind it. Unfortunately, there were a lot of things that did not go the way the original planners had thought. from the governance of the system to some late adds to the system, Clark and Clark and Clark and Clark and Miss counties as well as system complexities. We selected the system in 2012 and it went live in 2015. There have been a lot of technological advances in these systems since, and I am positive we can find a better functioning system and a more user-friendly system and work the governance where it does not put a burden on the city of Portland to support the other partner agencies. Commissioner Fish. First of all, I know that you did the circuit and briefed each office on this, so thank you for taking the time. And I had a chance to have all of my questions answered. Without belaboring the point, and you alluded to it in your comments, I think one of the things we're going to need to ask the city attorney's office to do on a regular basis, where we partner with other jurisdictions to offset the cost of anything, which is generally a good government idea, is to highlight for us any contract where the withdrawal of other partners sticks us with the cost. I think this is... kind of an eye-opening experience because the goal of sharing the expense and thinking region wide and etc. was very noble and we tend to, that's our default. We try to think about how do we engage partners, share the load, think regionally, have an integrated system. Those are all good things, but I think it's terribly important in the future that the city attorney's office or procurement highlight for us in any contract a circumstance where other people, by opting out, can in fact shift their cost to us because this obviously can't happen again, and we've learned, I think, a valuable lesson. So thank you for the work that you've done in addressing my concerns. Yeah, Commissioner Fish, to that point, poor AC Lee has heard me go on and on and on about this. I don't know how that contract even got signed, to be honest. And it's a legacy contract. It's been with us for some time. But I don't believe there should ever be a circumstance where we enter a cost-sharing agreement where only we absorb the liability if others make an independent decision to withdraw. So that is my first and fundamental question. problem with the contract as it currently exists. And so I'm very happy for us to move along. The second piece of this relates to a larger issue, and I know Commissioner Fish, you've had a particular interest in this enterprise-wide, which is who's looking over everybody's shoulder as decisions are made about new technology platforms. And I've made it very clear that at every step we're going to stage gate this and make sure that we have independent eyes looking at what we are doing and how we are deploying the new platform. Because I most certainly, while I wasn't here for... the genesis of the previous contract. This one will most certainly have my name at the bottom of it and I want to make sure that we do not repeat the highly negative experience of the existing region contract. And so I'm making that commitment to Council and Here and now as I've made it behind closed doors in front of the police barrel brass for many months now. I mean honestly, I was amazed. I'm not an attorney obviously, but I'm amazed that it's even legal for us to enter into a contract that we cannot back out of under any circumstances. To me that's just crazy. So we are now at the end of this contract period and I'm very eager for us to move on to a better product. Any further? about this particular item? Public testimony on this item? Yes, we have four people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Maggie, Diana, and Jeanne. Jeanne, why don't you go ahead and start for us, please? Carla, who's the fourth? Maggie's not here. Steve's. Maggie's here. No. I'm sorry, what'd you say? Jeanne, would you please start? Okay. Yes, my name is Diana. Diana, I'm sorry I misheard. I apologize. It's okay. Um, and just listening to what was currently discussed, I think that it's absolutely great that we are going to be moving on from this contract. It is, um, something that is pulling resources in an unnecessary way at this point that could be allocated to other, um, other other aspects you know that are needed in our city. It was astonishing to hear that out of 43 we are now down to seven and that is a really really big drop in a number and I really like to highlight what Commissioner Fish pointed out in regards to making sure that as we move forward from this that we're highlighted and that any partners who are withdrawn that it's notified immediately. My question is that who is going to be appointed to be that person to look over the shoulder and keep accountability and maintain due diligence. Aside from that, that is all I have to say. I'm in full support of this. Thank you. This is hard for me because I I tell you a lot of cops all the time and basically, I don't know if the new system is going to work better. But I do know that I keep hearing this on the street from cops. We can't do our job. We're not allowed to do our job. Either Danielle Outlaw is stopping us from doing our job or Mayor Ted Wheeler is stopping us from doing our job. Okay, that's separate from this. So I'm hoping. Bring it back. So I'm hoping. That if you guys change this policy and get out of where you've been, hopefully there will be a better reflection on the street. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. I'll just second that motion of everything that was just said. Thank you for your testimony. Very good. And there was a fourth person who's not here or is here? Steve Sewell. Very good. Coming up, sir. Thank you. Good day, commissioners. I'm Steve Sewell. I'm here on behalf of the Society of Professional Journalists, local chapter. Amanda Waldrup, our president, I believe submitted written testimony. I work as the editor for the Oregonians watchdog and data driven enterprise team. And my team works with public records databases to perform analyses of important problems of public policy and to hold agencies accountable and to in many cases identify solutions. In our work with the police bureau's current database, we've encountered many barriers to access. It's been difficult. Apparently, the system is very difficult for the bureau to work with to export data in bulk. And as a consequence, we've been quoted extremely exorbitant fee estimates for producing data. One was in excess of $1 million we did not pay. In an effort to get a better understanding of how the data is structured and make more informed and precise requests of the bureau, we've attempted to access their data dictionary, which is a document that describes the contents of a database, the tables and fields that it contains. And we were told in response to our request that this was a trade secret as stipulated by the vendor. This new contract is a real opportunity to make sure that that doesn't happen again. We have requested that two requirements be included in the RFP. That the data be capable of being exported in bulk or in part without any special coding, that any ordinary Bureau employee be able to perform that function. And second, that a data dictionary should be made deliverable under the contract and a public record that can be accessed by the public upon request. Thank you. Could you answer one quick, because I didn't quite follow you with regard to the data dictionary. Could you describe that again, what that is? It's kind of a menu of what's available in the database. It describes the contents. It's a standard element of documentation that's created when a database is designed. Okay. So it's an index or a catalog that would enable us to be able to see, what records are in the database and what elements. And for my own benefit, I'm sorry to go on a little bit of a tangent here, is that readily available for other platforms? You mean from other agencies or another kind of? I've never heard this term, so I'm a little over my skis here, but is this something that would typically be readily available with a different software platform or data management system? Certainly big enterprise systems like this, it's something that it won't be built without the creation of such a document. Okay. it's just a question of whether it gets shielded from public access. Okay, very good. As a trade secret in this particular case. Yes. Okay, thank you. That's helpful. That gives me two new points that I didn't have previously, so I appreciate your testimony. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion on this item? This is an emergency ordinance. Carla, please call the roll. I'm sorry, was there more? Yeah, was there more public? That was it. Okay, no worries. Please call the roll. Fish.
 Aye.
 Udaly.
 Aye.
 Fritz.
 Wheeler. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, we've already done 603. We'll skip to 604, please. authorize a contract for integrated tax system software and implementation for an initial term of five years and an initial not to exceed value of $21 million. All right, so if you thought that was exciting, colleagues, the integrated tax system project is a large scale effort to replace the city's multiple aging tax administration platforms with a single modern tax system. This report would authorize the Chief Procurement Officer to execute a contract resulting from the previously authorized request for proposals for ITS software and implementation. Included with the report documents are initial estimated funding and cost recovery plans for the ITS project in Exhibits A and B. Interim Procurement Manager Scott Schneider is here to present this item. And Mayor, if I may just jump in, Thomas Lanham with the Revenue Division. Can we read both items? Yeah, sure. 605 as well. I didn't realize they were going to be read together. Yes. Carla, would you mind also reading 605, please? Yes. 605 declared temporary moratorium on new program requests and significant changes to existing programs in the Revenue Division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services to ensure successful implementation of the integrated tax system. Very good. Thank you. Director Lanham. Scott, please. Good morning. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Scotch and Ida Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending the award of a contract for a not to exceed amount of $21 million. This contract will have an initial term of five years. On November 6th, 2018, the Chief Procurement Officer advertised RFP number 1061. And on December 27th, four proposals were received. All proposals were deemed responsive to the requirements of the solicitation and were reviewed by the evaluation committee. The City issued a Notice of Intent to award the contract to FAST Enterprises LLC on March 19, 2019. No protests to that Notice of Intent were received. Based on the expected spend over the next five years, the confidence level for this procurement is medium. FAST Enterprises LLC is not a COVID-certified, minority-owned, women-owned, service-disabled, veteran-owned, or emerging small business. There are no subcontractors on this contract. If council has any questions about the solicitation process, I can answer those. And Thomas Lanham is here from the Revenue Division to take any project-specific questions. Colleagues, any questions? I also have some remarks if you'd like to hear them. Yes, please. Okay. And this is related to the resolution, is that correct, 605? I'll address both the contract and the resolution. All right. Thanks, Director Lanham. To kind of back up a minute, this is something that we've been working toward for many, many years in the revenue division. We recognize that our databases are long in the tooth, are coming up on expiration in terms of their useful life. And so the systems that we're talking about replacing include the business license information system, which is 21 years old and a critical accounting platform for this year. It looks like $150 or more million in business license tax revenue. Over $400 million all in, including the arts tax, hotel motel taxes, and other taxes. This new platform will enable us to have a single hosted solution, so we're replacing many platforms with a single platform with off-site backup, enhanced security, and disaster recovery. There will be tangible improvements for customer service, including secure online portal and electronic filing expected for tax year 2021. So we'll finally be in the place where instead of a taxpayer using TurboTax to print out and mail in our return, they would actually be part of the electronic filing network that many people use for the state and the federal government. We're also expecting some improvements in collections and compliance. The all-in cost for the project itself is $22.9 million. $9.68 million is included in the FY19-20 budget as an upfront cash contribution to make sure that we maximize the dollars that we spend. And the remainder of the one-time costs are debt financed with an annual debt service of $1.1 million per year. As directed by a budget note in the FY19-20 budget, and this is very much on target with what you just discussed regarding Regis, revenue will seek full-cost recovery from all the funds administered on the ITS platform. This is Exhibit A to the financial impact statement. If you want to take a look at the dollar amounts, the funds would include the arts tax, the clean energy surcharge, Multnomah County notably, and others. And the budget note directs the revenue division and CBO to finalize the financing model by September in time for the fall bump, so that we've got all these pieces in place. The project is expected to kick off in August, and cutover to the new platform is expected in August of 2020. So this is an all-in, big bang approach. One year, the vendor is the top vendor in the space. We have high confidence that we can hit these timelines and stay within the budget. And then that would be followed by a 12-month stabilization period. So this is a 24-month project with a cutover at about the 13th month. Switching gears to the resolution, just briefly, this would freeze current revenue programs and prohibits any new ones during the implementation period expected to last again one year until August of 2020. This is absolutely necessary to improve project success. Again, just moments ago we heard about Regis and a lot of things being added at the last minute, which really does jeopardize project success. And we may come forward with additional code changes to our tax code. So, for example, if the vendor is contemplating some kind of a customization as opposed to a configuration of their product, nearly because we've got some arcane or unneeded penalty or interest calculation or other sorts of treatments, that are immaterial to how we go about collecting taxes, but are somehow going to be difficult to implement in the new project, on the new product, we would come forward to city council and try to smooth out any of those bumps so that we can make this product work well for us. We're not interested in trying to force the product to execute everything the way that we currently do. In fact, we're looking to the vendor to help us nail down some best practices and implement them. Thank you. So I will stop there, and if there are any questions, I'm happy to answer them. We also have other folks in the room from CBO, Jennifer Cooperman, project manager Rochelle Gorsegner, who's my hero back there next to Jennifer. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Udaly. Well, I would just like to commend you for getting out ahead of this issue and not allowing your software to go into unsupported status. No bureau that's performing a vital function for the city or for the public should allow that to happen. It's really a nightmare, I know, through experience. That's really all I wanted to say. Very good. I have a couple questions. Commissioner Fish. So you described a 12-month period followed by another 12-month period or a 24-month period all in. But the moratorium only covers the first 12-month period, is that correct? That's correct, with a six-month extension. So with this resolution, you would be granting me the authority to extend it for six more months if needed. I see. Is it a blanket moratorium or are there carve outs? There are carve outs. There are three, the clean energy surcharge, which we're still implementing recently passed by voters. The rental registration system, which we're still working with housing bureau to implement. And any desired changes to the arts tax within bounds. We would need to be careful about what exactly that was. But if there were desired changes, we want to keep that possibility open as well. Thank you. Very good. Do we have public testimony on the resolution? Maggie had signed up. Very good, gentlemen. Thank you. And I know your five-minute presentation follows years of work, so thank you for that. I move the report. Second. We have a motion and a second for the report, and Maggie is no longer here, so please call the roll on the report. Fish. Aye. Udaly. So this is just item 604? 604, correct. Okay. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for all of your work. Aye. Thank you. Wheeler?
 Aye. The report's adopted. Item 605, the resolution, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udailey? I'm sorry, this just went by so fast that I didn't get some questions answered on the resolution, so I can either- Without objection, would you mind, colleagues, if we let Commissioner Udailey ask her questions of Director Land? Yeah. Because I didn't hear anything about the resolution. I didn't think to ask my questions. No worries. So I want to support this resolution. I have a couple concerns. One is how long will the temporary moratorium be? Twelve months. Twelve months. And, Mr. Lanham, we had had conversations about a variety of potential problems. new taxes and whether or not any of them could be incorporated into this first year. We didn't have a follow-up conversation, so I don't actually know if you determined with the vendor whether that would be possible or whether that would impede the implementation of the new software. Could you speak to that? It entirely depends on what we choose to do. So, for example, the personal income tax, which was one thing that you and I discussed at length earlier, We have got an estimate from the vendor about what that would cost. We have a timeline. So that's, it's not included in the scope of what we're buying here today with this report. We'd have to come back and amend the budget. But we do have the ability to begin work on that even as we're working on these other pieces. I'm not prepared to sit here today and say what tax year that would be turned on, but suffice to say that is one of the taxes that are carved out in this moratorium. Any other taxes would likely be a second rollout. So we're cutting over in August of 2020. So think of any other taxes or fees more like a 2021 timeline. Okay. And I would just like to add, it pains me greatly to have to tell this body or any other that, you know, we can't implement something, but this is absolutely critical to make sure that we have got success. I understand and I really respect and appreciate the work that you do for the city, and I trust your assessment and your judgment. I just was concerned that this would impact something that we've already had conversations about. So I feel... New programs and significant changes. Okay, I'm satisfied. Thank you. Just as a point of clarification, though, it's actually effective through August, the end of August of 2020, so longer than 12 months, and then with you being given authority to extend for an additional six months. So we had testimony at the very beginning of this long session about a restaurant tax, for example. Right, yes, I saw that. We've also had discussion about needing a new funding source for Portland Parks and Recreation. So although it wouldn't – so does this resolution mean that we can't even scope out those kinds of things or just that we can't implement them? We can scope them out. So if your office asks us to do some research, we absolutely can do that. And you're right, it's not 12 months. I was speaking from August to August, but really this is effective immediately, so it's more like 14 months. Thank you for catching that. With the six-month extension possible as well. And if we were to do either of the things I just mentioned or something that Commissioner Udalli has been scoping out, we'd probably need a fair amount of lead time to do that anyway. That's correct. It doesn't preclude us from discussing new revenue sources, just they wouldn't go into effect until those dates. Right. Colleagues, thank you for allowing me to ask those questions. And I'm ready to vote. Very good. Yeah. You daily? Yes. Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Well, this is a significant and an important project between the ordinance and the resolution that will allow the city to collect revenue. And as was made clear, if we don't replace the system, all of our revenues are at risk. And so I thank you for the great work that you're doing. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Next item, please. 606. adopt and authorize the submission of the Action Plan Fiscal Year 2019-2020 for the Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partnership, Emergency Solutions Grant, and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Thank you. We have Kim McCarty and Matt Charbold from the Housing Bureau here and... Oh, I'm sorry. We do not have Kim McCarty. We are blessed with the director, Shannon Callahan. Thank you for being here. Brevity counts. Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon again, Commissioners. HUD requires the City of Portland to submit an annual action plan. This is the fourth year. into a five-year consolidated plan. All allocations accord to the Housing Bureau's budget, as well as our partner's budget, the Joint Office, as was submitted and approved during the budget process that Council has recently undertaken and approved. We are required to get your formal approval based on the adopted budget plan. before we submit to the Housing and Urban Development. And Matthew and I are here to answer any specific questions you may have. Madam Director, just to maybe simplify this, we have to submit an action plan, but is it fair to say that the various programs listed on our agenda, from CDBG to HOME to HOPWA, that what we're doing is seeking our share based on a formula? Yes, and also letting HUD know how we intend to spend those funds in accordance with the already adopted plan and consolidated plan and budget. So we're required to submit a plan in order to get essentially our share of a formula-based funds that then support our work. Thank you. Any further questions? Very good. Please call the roll on item 606. It's an emergency. I'm sorry, was there testimony? We have Jan. I'm really thrilled that you guys are focusing a lot today on housing. Mayor, please, please let me state that. Save our vets. And 38 houses for veterans is like a spit in their face. I'm sorry. I don't go for your guys' volunteer stuff. I do a lot with the places that I really, my heart is, okay? And vets is one of them. I would also like to say I'm paying 60% for housing where I live. And... The minute I brought in some new furniture, my neighbors got really jealous to the point where they followed me down to where I was unloading it. And once it got in my house and I left, I came back and there were marks all over my stuff, deep cuts in the wood and stuff. So I'm glad that you guys are focusing on housing. But some of the, like my brother said, the locks on my door were made in like 1960, and it takes about three seconds to break in. so why is us who are low income having to have more theft from our neighbors and the community because our locks are insufficient I mean I just have a real lot of questions about y'all are trying to do the best you can I understand that but On the same hand, when people try to bring up things that are really, really out of hand, I've seen them pushed to the wayside. So I'm going to hope that this is going to help at all. And I am proud of you guys for addressing the issue. Please, Mayor, more than 38, okay? Because there's a lot of vets out there. They're homeless. And they feel like they are being like forced. Fourth, what is that? Fourth country, you know, when they really, I can't remember how they say it, underprivileged communities and countries. And the vets feel that. And I can say that because I see them every day, guys. Very good. Thank you. Thank you for letting me finish. Sure. Please call the roll. Fish. Uday Lee. Aye.
 Fritz. Thank you to the Mayor and the Housing Bureau for your ongoing work to address these issues. Aye. Wheeler. Colleagues, I have some brief closing remarks. As the representative member of the Portland Consortium, the City of Portland has the overall responsibility to carry out all of the related tasks which are required by us. The action plan, this is actually our fourth annual plan for the five-year consolidated plan. It details the consortium's strategies for addressing the community's needs for affordable housing and economic development with federal funding. The action plan shows where the city has invested. our federal funds in accordance with community input. And it demonstrates how our investments affirmatively further fairer housing by making housing both accessible as well as affordable. And the city of Portland is also the lead agent for the Portland Consortium. That it's noteworthy that this also includes both the city of Gresham as well as Multnomah County. And we are, as indicated, we're required to submit this annual action plan as a condition of receiving four federal formula grants. The community development block grants, the home investment partnership grants, the emergency solution grant, and the housing opportunities for persons with AIDS. The action plan contains a snapshot of communities housing and community development needs. It identifies our local priorities and the strategies that we are pursuing to address those needs. And it makes clear which strategies and projects received federal funding and how those investments affirmatively further fairer housing. And so I want to respect and thank you both for the hard work that you put into this. It's a little bit. pro forma, but it is also absolutely critical that we do this in order to continue to receive the federal grants. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you very much for your hard work. Next item, and this is our last non-second reading, this is item 607. Authorize 14 subrecipient contracts for $4,448,250 for services in support of providing affordable housing. Welcome back. Thank you, Mayor. Shannon Callahan once again, and I am here joined by Emma Deppa of our neighborhood housing program team. The contracts you have before you today are roughly nearly $4.5 million for housing services to low and moderate income community members. These services include emergency home repair, fair housing advocacy and education, housing home ownership, counseling and education, relocation assistance, legal aid services, risk mitigation funds for permanent supportive housing providers, and resources for renter education and advocacy. There are a total of 14 contracts contained in this ordinance. All of these contracts are being brought to you following your approval of the council's adopted budget. And with that, Emma and I are here to answer any specific questions that you might have. I have two questions. Commissioner Fish. There are 14 subrecipients, and some organizations are receiving as little as $110,000, others two or three times that. How do we ensure, Director Callahan, that we're getting good value for these investments? Well, Commissioner, we do require regular reporting from each and every one of our contractors and making sure that they're meeting the goals that we have set out in the contracts. So that is one way that we check on whether or not we're getting good value for the money that we're putting out. We also, each of these contracts is a little different for the types of services that are being provided. Some are more easy to quantify exactly the number of homeowners they have helped, etc., But we do receive regular reports from all of our providers. At this point, I think all of our contractors are on monthly reporting to the Housing Bureau. I guess my second question is, how do you make the judgment between lots of small bets for different kinds of services and bigger bets in moving the needle on one or two or three? In other words, you're covering a lot of terrain here when you read the activity descriptions. It runs the gamut, but you're making small bets on lots of things. So how do you decide what's the thinking behind whether you support 14 different contracts with trusted nonprofits or you go deep with a handful and really move the needle? You know, I thank you Commissioner for the question. I think that what you had before you represents a little of both philosophies. So you'll see that there are some contracts as you've noted that are larger than others and it really depends on the nature of work that they're performing. the number of different RFPs they may have responded to and won. So a lot of these have gone through recent competitive rounds based on new funding, especially as it relates to work around landlord-tenant education. I'll note, for instance, the Urban League was a contract, I think this council just approved a few months ago, related to, specifically to fair housing enforcement. And then some are actually collaborative partnerships. where the partner agencies work with each other and ourselves on the allocation of funding based on what their different organizations have the capacity to do within the community. And then many of these partners are actually working in partnership with other partners as well. So we're combining both of the premises that you've brought to us, but it is something that... We as a bureau are beginning to also have a dialogue about is preparing to, over the course of the next couple years, because it is a, you know, it's always a change when you move funding from one organization to another. But we are starting to have discussions about re-RFPAing funds out to different partners so that we can make sure that we are serving the community in the best way possible and getting the most bang for the buck. Thank you. I have a question. Emma, could you tell us about, there was a public engagement process. Could you tell us a little bit about that? How did that shape what the council is seeing today? Yeah, so as you can see, a lot of the funding sources include CDBG dollars, and so you previously heard the annual action plan. The annual action plan includes a robust public involvement process as well as a consolidated plan, so a lot of the goals that are part of these programs are coming from those other public engagement programs, as well as all of these have been approved by PHAC as well, I believe, which is a, as you know, community-run organization. Yeah. Very good. And Director Callahan, you mentioned risk mitigation funds to permanent supportive housing providers. What does that mean exactly? Can you explain what that service is? The Bureau has maintained a risk mitigation pool for some time to offset any cost associated related to the delivery and provision of supportive housing. There are sometimes unintended, unexpected costs, especially repairs to buildings, things that may not have been foreseen. And based on the nature of the individuals and families that were housing with supportive housing, They are very, very low-income households, and there is a very, very small portion of their income, if any, contributed to the ongoing operations of the building. So if there is, for instance, an unexpected fire, plumbing issue that goes outside of the normal wear and tear, we maintain a risk mitigation pool that we can step in and help cover those costs. This year, we have maintained the pool in generally the same amount. But I think as we, thank you for previewing this actually, Mayor, because I think this is something that you'll see us come back to you in future budget years. Asking, as you look at our budget, we will be talking more about this risk mitigation pool as we continue to do more work and increase the supply of supportive housing in our community. Yeah, it seems like it's going to have to grow. All right, good. Thank you. That's very helpful. Any further questions? Is there public testimony on this item, Carla? Charles and Maggie had signed up. I do not see either here. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for your work. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 6-0-8 is the second reading. Replace park exclusion code to clarify ejection and exclusion processes from city parks to improve parks management and safety at park facilities. Colleagues, this is the second reading. We've already heard a presentation and taken public testimony. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. I have a couple people I want to thank. I want to thank Vicente. who is Parks Security and Emergency Manager, who is here today but not in uniform. And I want to thank Linda Law from the City Attorney's Office, who provided excellent legal advice. I want to thank my colleagues for a very robust discussion last week with very thoughtful questions. This is a narrow update which allows us to have some additional tools to deal with folks in our facilities. I appreciate the confidence of the council in giving us this authority and we will not abuse it. Aye. E. Daly. Well, I would just like to thank Commissioner Fish and his office for addressing. All of the concerns that I raised, I'm thoroughly satisfied with the answers. I believe this is going to make our facility safer for everyone. And I just appreciate the work that went into this. I vote aye. Fritz. Mayor, I screwed up. Commissioner Fritz. If I could for a second. Sure. I needed to offer an amendment to declare that an emergency exists. Very good. Is there any objection? Seeing none, we have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Call the roll on the emergency. The reason being that it's in the public interest to get these rules into effect as quickly as possible. That's correct. Sounds good. Call the roll on the amendment, please. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz?
 Aye.
 Wheeler?
 Aye. And why don't we redo the vote please on the ordinance now that it's amended please. Fish. Thank you for your forbearance Mayor. No worries. I can't even read my own notations. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. People get to see the public's business being done in a very open and transparent manner. Thank you very much for that. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. To the consent agenda 587, who pulled it? Lightning. Go ahead and read it. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro for transit-oriented development planning for northwest Portland and inner east Portland streetcar corridors in the amount of $630,202. Is there any further discussion on this? Is there anybody who wants to testify? Seeing none, call the roll. Aye.
 Udailey?
 Aye.
 Fritz?
 Aye.
 Wheeler?
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 595 was also pulled. 595, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the city of Gresham for $1,012,825 for the Home Investment Partnership Program. Who pulled it? Lightning. Anybody want to testify? Call the roll. Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned until 2 p.m. Good afternoon, everyone. This is the Wednesday, June 19th. 2019, Juneteenth afternoon meeting of the Portland City Council. Carla, good afternoon. Could you please call the roll? Good afternoon. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. And before we begin, we'll have legal counsel read the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. I have a question for legal counsel. Do I need... 4 to move item 618 or will simple majority do? Majority. Very good. Before we get started on the agenda, I'd like to make a motion to move item 618. This is the assessment property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation on the supplementary four-fifths agenda to be taken up immediately after time certain item 609 on this afternoon's agenda. Can I get a second? Second. So we have a motion and a second. Carla? We do nothing here without Carla. It's like the Enterprise without the captain and the captain's chair. I thought you were the captain. The mere steward of the public. We've got... Very good. Commissioner Fritz, what we are doing is we have a motion on the floor and a second to move item 618, which is the four-fifths agenda item, to move it immediately after 609, which is the first item. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Sorry to keep you waiting. I forgot we did this and I didn't have time to do everything I needed to do at lunchtime. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The motion passes. Carla, please read item 609. Adopt the 13th amendment to the South Park Blocks Urban Renewal Plan. Colleagues, the original South Park Blocks... Urban renewal plan emphasized strengthening this part of our city as an arts and cultural center for Portland and the entire region. The Multnomah County Central Library and the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall are just two of the iconic destinations within the district that serve patrons from not only across the city, but all across the Pacific Northwest. I'm keenly aware of the financial impact that tax increment financing has on our jurisdictional partners. And I know that in recent years, staff at Prosper Portland has explored a number of options to mitigate these potential impacts. I'm pleased to offer a means to identify financial resources that are not otherwise available to the city and the county to invest in the maintenance and preservation of these cultural gems. And with that, I'll call up staff. I believe, Trolls? is giving the presentation this afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. Hi, Lisa. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and council members, and thank you for the opportunity to come present this item before you today. I'm Lisa Obloff. I'm the Director of Development and Investment with Prosper Portland, and I'm joined by Tony Barnes, our Finance Manager with the agency. Thank you. And the action as the mayor referenced that is before you today, if you go to the next slide, is that we're seeking approval to amend the South Park Block's Urban Renewal Plan in order to support investments in two key public assets within the district. City Council first adopted the South Park Block's Urban Renewal Plan in 1985, and that plan has been amended 10 times since that approval. Some of the primary goals of the original plan were to increase and improve housing, which you see along the South Park blocks today, to expand public facilities and to upgrade the South Park blocks. And as the mayor mentioned, this has been accomplished through various improvements in investment that have supported downtown as a significant entertainment and cultural center, and more particularly, this particular area as an arts and cultural destination and center for the city as well as the region. In addition, we wanted to highlight that the plan also supported historic preservation and identifying, preserving, and protecting the multiple historic structures, landmarks, and locations within downtown of which both of those these facilities that we're here to talk about today represent similar landmarks. We are here today because state statute ORS 457085 requires that if an urban renewal plan contains a project that includes a public building It should also have an explanation of how that public building will serve or benefit the community and the area. Furthermore, the South Park Blocks has its own plan that further provides that amendments for projects that include a public building are considered council-approved amendments and require approval by both the Board of Prosper Portland as well as City Council. The South Park Blocks District is actually an expired district, so its last bonds were issued in 2008. and we have been making an investment since then pursuant to the plan and those priorities that I previously described. And today we're here seeking your support in order to further amend the plan and include two additional projects that we believe are in direct alignment with the plan's original goals. The Multnomah County Central Public Library and the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall are both located within the South Park Box Urban Renewal Area and in need of capital investment. And we believe we have resources that can support that. And with Council's authorization, we would be able to direct approximately $3 million of tax increment resources to support these improvements. We would then enter into intergovernmental agreements with the public entities who either own or operate those assets, ensuring adherence to our investment guidelines, including TIF eligibility, our construction workforce equity policies, et cetera. So the specific projects that we're bringing before you today, what you see on the map, are the locations of the two public properties as well as visual images of them. Both projects offer opportunities to financially support two significant cultural assets, both of which have been long-standing community serving partners. And we've actually invited partners who can speak in much greater detail regarding the projects from the county, the library, the city, and metro who does operate the concert hall on behalf of the city, should you have questions regarding the projects. A little bit of background on these assets. The Central Library opened its doors in 1913. and has since been providing a historic public space for all to gather, learn, create, and access the community's collective knowledge and resources. The library receives approximately 670,000 visitors per year for a variety of purposes. And the building was renovated in 1997 and more recently county staff have identified additional infrastructure improvements necessary to continue to provide quality services, access and a quality experience for the community. The investments that we've been discussing with the county would enable the library to replace an inefficient and aged transformer with two new ones. And make some heating improvements that then balance kind of both their energy systems and improve the building's efficiency. And then they would also like to make improvements tied to the US bank room, which is the public room. that provides the ability for the community to host meetings, etc. at the library, sometimes with over a hundred people attending each of those events at a time. To do this, the library will install a more accessible landing and path from the exit as well as address long-standing landscaping issues that have created barriers for access. And it's estimated that those improvements collectively will be about one and a half million dollars. The Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall is a hallmark of Portland's performing arts venue, and it has served the community since 1928. In 1972, it was voted to have landmark status, so it is a designated landmark and was placed on the National Register of Historic Places. And today, the Schnitzer Concert Hall marquee requires critical electrical, cosmetic, and seismic upgrades, including updating structural elements to meet current seismic code. The estimated project cost for these improvements is approximately $1.8 million and work is expected to be completed by late 2020. In this instance, the city partners with Metro to program, operate, and maintain the Portland Five venues, of which Schnitzer Hall is one of them. And our IDA would be entered into pursuant to that operating agreement. And with that, Tony is going to share a little bit of the financial background of both where we are with South Park Blocks and the resources that would be spent on these projects. Thanks Lisa. So the proceeds, $2 million of the proceeds to fund the projects are coming from Council's recent action to refund prior bonds that were issued in South Park blocks. Ordinance 189428 approved on March 20th authorized refunding of the outstanding 2008B tax exempt bonds in the district. The Office of Management and Finance refunded the bonds in April 2019 providing a net savings to debt service. released the existing bond debt service reserve for those bonds. $1.3 million of that reserve was contributed to the refunding, leaving approximately $2 million in remaining reserves to be available for projects within the South Park blocks TIF district. As requested by City's Bond Council and to fulfill IRS requirements, these proceeds need to be spent on within the next, 85% within the next three years, but that would be managed through these intergovernmental agreements. A little bit more on the budget in summary. Some of these points I believe were shared during the budget, proposed budget discussion in May. Recent accomplishments in the district include primarily small business development in the West End, the district's West End, and Adding $2 million from these proceeds will add proceeds. The total budget over the next five years is approximately $6.5 million. In addition to the infrastructure projects, the $3 million, the balance right now is programmed towards affordable commercial development, primarily related to the Joyce Hotel, but also about a half million dollars for small business grants that we have programmed. And then lastly, we just wanted to share prior to bringing the proposed amendments before council, we did reach out into the community and we met with the Downtown Portland Neighborhood Association's Land Use and Transportation Committee, as well as the Portland Business Alliance Central City Committee to share our thoughts about the two project opportunities and the potential for investments. And both groups were very supportive, both of the projects as well as the scale of investment that we're before you today with. In particular, as they improve the overall performance of the buildings and the important role that these buildings play to our central city and to the region. And we will continue to keep them apprised as the projects progress with updates regarding the various projects as they move into construction. So with that, we will take questions if there are any. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Fritz. How did the management of the Schnitzer decide that the marquee was the most important way to spend $1.5 million? So that's a great question, and I will defer to their testimony and also share something. They also just shared with us outside that they realized that it's actually one of the most iconic features of the Schnitzer, and it's something that routinely is showing up at the park. Portland farmers market in many kind of elements that are marketed tied to the Portland brand. But beyond that, I'll ask them relative. Yeah, they are going to be here. They are here and they can speak to other projects. Very good. Then let's get to public testimony. Carla? When do I get back? So is there somebody who's going to testify on this? Yeah, I think we've had people registered to speak. Yeah. Okay, good. Public testimony is Bailey Delke and Julie Bunker. Very good. Three minutes each please, name for the record. It's good to see you. Good to see you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm Vali Alki, Director of the Multnomah County Library. I'm here today to testify in support of the two infrastructure proposals to improve service and conditions at Central Library in downtown Portland. As you heard, the library has existed since 1913, is an iconic and historic building in downtown Portland, and receives on average about 660,000 people through its doors every year. Though it was renovated in 1997, Central Library has several critical infrastructure needs to ensure that it continues to serve this community well. I'll go into just a tiny bit more detail in terms of what you heard earlier. The two projects, one of which is the failing electrical transformer and also to remedy some associated HVAC problems. problems. This would replace the transformer at a new HVAC unit to eliminate overheating in the transformer room and fix related overheating of elevator controls, which causes recurring elevator malfunctions in the public elevators at that building. The other project would create a safe emergency exit path for patrons on the north side of the building from the U.S. Bank community room, increasing safety and addressing long-standing landscaping issues. Central Libraries US Bankroom hosts daily public meetings, library programs and library meetings. The emergency exit opens on currently onto a dirt slope that is overcrowded with plantings and a concrete barrier and is not code compliant or ADA accessible. In addition, Central Library's over-matured landscaping is not inviting, provides harbor for rodents and creates visual barriers that encourage illicit behavior. This project would create a more accessible landing and path from exit to sidewalk and address landscaping in ways that preserve historic design elements and reduce water consumption. I want to just take a quick moment to thank Prosper Portland, especially Kimberly Branham and Amy Nagy for serving as the library's partners in presenting this proposal. If it's approved, we will obviously undertake these projects with a steadfast commitment to work with Prosper Portland to ensure that the improvements will align with the permitted uses of tax increment funding and adhere to the policies and timelines of both the City of Portland and Multnomah County. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Julie Bunker. I'm Director of Operations for Portland Five Centers for the Arts. And I'm here to talk about the Schnitz Marquis. Portland Five Center for the Arts manages the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall, the Keller Auditorium, and the Antoinette Hatfield Hall through an intergovernmental agreement with Metro through the Metropolitan Exposition and Recreational Commission. That's a mouthful, I can tell you. Of P5's $20 million operating budget, the City of Portland contributes approximately 5% and local government shared revenues such as the TLT covers an additional 5%. 88% of the operating budget must come from our earned income. The majority of that earned income comes from commercial events. And while we are very pleased to host or present commercial shows, because who doesn't want to see Broadway or Hamilton or Wicked, or their favorite singers for that matter, That isn't really the goal and really what we're most excited about in terms of an organization. What we are most proud of is what our mission statement, which states that we are changing the world through the arts. And how we change the world is through community engagement. And I'd like to do a shout out to our community engagement and education department members who are sitting behind me. They do a remarkable job. We do in-house programming that provides opportunities to diversify performances to ensure that we're serving the entire Portland community and just not a small percentage. Our education program focuses exclusively on serving teachers and students in Title I schools. And in the three years since the department was developed, the P5 education program has introduced a broad spectrum of culturally diverse programming for students, teachers, and their families. P5 also provides a variety of performances that are open and free to the public. I highly encourage you if you haven't been to the Wednesday Music on Main events to try those out because they're fantastic fun. And P5 also, we lobby, in our lobbies we showcase local artists. We have a very far reach in regards to who we serve. Our P5 hosts presents more than, or P5 presents more than 1,000 performances annually and serves almost a million people a year. And finally, one of the key things that we do is we support local arts organizations with more than 2.3 million of reduced rent and lower fees. These are organizations, large organizations like the Symphony and small organizations like Stumptown. It enables them, it ensures that they remain healthy and can continue operating. So the question was, why the marquee? Well, I've only been with Port P5 for the past two years. I started almost exactly two years ago. And I have to admit, when I was looking at the capital plan, it wasn't towards the top of my list. But what has changed over the past two years is that the realization that this is one of the most prized assets that the city has, it is a touchstone. I'm not exaggerating when I say one of the things that I've noticed is the number of people who take pictures of this sign. I see it at least once a day, usually more in the summer of four or five times a day. I think the stag sign would be good, but the Portland sign is easier to get a good picture of. So it's probably the most photographed icon of the city. A couple of weeks ago, I was at the Saturday Market, and I counted six local artists who used that sign for T-shirts and for signage. So it's obviously a very important touchstone for them. But I think the most important of all is one of the reasons why our groups, types of groups exist, our public buildings exist, the library exists, is to foster a sense of community, which I think is really important right now, particularly with some of the other devices that's going on in the world. And one of the things that this sign can do is help foster, is help bring in that sense of community. One of the things we're looking at doing is an electronic marquee. And we'd like an electronic marquee for two reasons. One, it takes us about three hours to change the marquee the old-fashioned way. And we change it almost every single day. It puts our... event custodians at risk and the reason why is because of the traffic. There's a few more cars than there were in 1928 when this was first designed. The design is actually still from 1928. But most importantly is just, like I said, the sense of community. We frequently bring in, as I said, our educational programs, bring in schools from, who just have not had an opportunity to come into our buildings and view our performances. And having the marquee, an electronic marquee, allows opportunity to more easily welcome these folks. So you can imagine your Roosevelt student for example and you've never been into the schnitz and you've never particularly felt welcome in that environment and you show up on the buses and there's the marquee saying welcome Roosevelt students. That's something that's very important to us is that outreach. And I'm really thrilled to see that the city and Prosper Portland are Looking at assisting us with the strategic capital project, it can be a little bit tough to come up with those funds, but we really feel that this particular project is well worth doing. Thank you very much. Thank you. We appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. So follow-up question. That was a good explanation of why I spend a lot of money on a marquee. How will you do the design since it fits in with the historic building? Sure. It's actually the, and we've been to the review on the state level, it actually will look exactly the same. In fact, we're reverting back to the original design. So even though it's an electronic marquee, we can replicate exactly the way it looks now without the broken letters. And I think we'll skip that part. And the marquee originally was solid black with white letters. Right now it's white with black letters. We're actually going to go back to the black with the white letters. That'll look good. So the look will be as the original. What it'll just offer us is more flexibility. So it won't be changing, revolving? No, it will be a static sign. Yes, no, it will not. We will not be showing the Super Bowl or whatever on it, no. And I... For special occasions. For special occasions, yeah. I can personally attest to how hard those things are to change. I worked at Cinema 21 as a teenager, and one night trying to put up the announcement for Woman on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown in the Rain with the flu, I considered throwing myself off the ladder... Possibly being preferable to having to continue installing that sign. Someone took mercy on me. I did not throw myself off the ladder. But it is hard, and there are dangers involved. Plus, that was a long title. It really was. It was an apt title as well. We generally change it at 6 a.m. to try and avoid the traffic and to get done before it's too bad. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it. It's good seeing you again. Yeah, good to see you again. Thank you. Is there other public testimony? Does this complete invited testimony? That's all signed up as well. And nobody else wants to testify? Very good. This is a resolution, and if there's no further discussion, we'll call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Thank you. Fritz. I serve on the Visitor Development Fund Board and so as such we're always looking for the things that the tourists are interested in as well as people who live in Portland. So when I heard that there was some additional revenue that was available to put two civic buildings in Portland, I said, have you thought about the schnitz? And so I'm really happy to hear that it's going to be put to this use. We know that there's still a lot of work to be done and a lot of, as you say, a big capital maintenance list. But it's better to do something on a list than nothing on the list. So thank you very much to Portland staff for taking my suggestion. Aye. Wheeler. Well, you learn something new every day, and today was no exception. Great report. I vote aye. The resolution's adopted. Thank you. Next item is the four-fifths agenda per earlier vote. Item number 618, please, Carla. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. This is a proposed assessment hearing for charges to property owners for repair or construction of sidewalks, curbs, and or driveways completed by the Portland Bureau of Transportation on the listed properties. Cherie Mathias from the Revenue Division is here to present this item. Thank you. Along with others. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. This ordinance is for sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city, and any remonstrances have been pulled and are not in this assessment ordinance. That's about as clean as you can get. I know. Is that the full presentation? That is it. Very good. Are there any further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have one person signed up. Let's hear him. Kyle Bell. Which do I use to go through? Forward. Okay. Sir, can I just ask you a procedural question? Is it possible to get these handed out? So I just want to make sure I understand something. If there are no remonstrances, and we normally don't have people testify in favor of the assessment, are you here to testify against an assessment for some future hearing? I'm here to explain how mine isn't finished and isn't actually holding up. That's not relevant to this item. It's purely about my sidewalk. It's not about anybody else's sidewalk. Well, I just want to make sure, Mayor, that we have relevant testimony to this. If all the remonstrances have been removed, And then the only testimony that I could imagine that's relevant to this matter is someone supporting the list because the remonstrances have been removed. There is actually no controversy before us. I believe from a procedural perspective that's correct unless legal counsel has different interpretation. No, I agree with that. Okay. The situation I'm in is I have a letter from the city, though, dated less than a month ago that I can come to city council. Okay. I can explain that, and I have more slides to show in this explanation. Do you have an objection to file today? Yes. So you're filing a remonstrance? Yes. So isn't the proper procedure here to simply remove your property from the list since we've cleaned all the other remonstrances? Have you deal directly with the lead agency on this rather than engage the council? Could you come back up for a second? It strikes me as we may not actually be the correct place to begin this conversation. So if this gentleman has a remonstrance, why is he here today? He did not file a remonstrance. He did send in a letter stating he would come to council to talk about his sidewalk. However, he has... appealed before and his property has been removed a couple times already. Is his property in this list? It is, yes. There's a copy of it in the packet that you have. What is your, what are, with all the other remonstrances that have been filed, what is the What is your protocol in dealing with the individual remonstrances? So any charges that we remove from the assessment is sent back to the sidewalk department, and then they review everything and get in contact with the property owner, which Mr. Kyle Bell has received from the sidewalk department. And his property, I believe, has been reduced twice by the sidewalk department. But my sidewalk's not complete, and it's already cracking. Okay. Okay, I just want to make sure. It doesn't sound like this is the right forum. On page 22, his assessment is in there. So let's just hear the testimony. It hasn't been removed as a remonstrance, and I did everything correctly. I received a letter. You'll see on the second page that I. Why don't we do this? You have three minutes to testify. Let's hear your three minutes of testimony, and then we'll take this item up at the end. My suspicion is Commissioner Fish is right though that this is is not the right form. It's the only avenue that I have. You're here and we'll hear you out. I appreciate that. First off, as you've already heard, I've been here in the past. This particular thing that I'm showing has nothing to do with anybody here in this room except myself. I received this letter that's before you that you can see on the screen also. I delivered it in hand. I hand delivered it to the address on there. This is the letter that I got stamped while I was there on May 28th. following the orders of that letter. This is what the chart and code and policies of the city are listed as and you can see letter C, I'm not going to read the whole thing, but upon receipt of a timely filed remonstrance, the revenue division shall remove the property from the filing of the proposed assessment before the council hearing date and shall refer the remonstrance to the responsible bureau for a follow-up and response. I thought I had done everything correctly in turning in that letter. This wasn't necessarily something that I know a lot about. I'm not particularly experienced in this, but then I went to the agenda of the city hall yesterday and found it at the very bottom, number 618, what we're talking about right now. I clicked on it. About 40 pages of addresses comes up. Mine was in that, was one of those. addresses that did not get removed. I have since been told by writing to the head of PBOT, Chris Warner, who responded right within a couple hours, which was nice that he called it an oversight. Which is obviously another word for mistake. I've been dealing with a lot of mistakes through this whole process. What's the address of your property, sir? 2370 Southeast 60th. It's on your form. You have it right in front of you. It's on that page 22, it's called. The form that's in front of me has the address whited out. I'm sorry, on the actual piece of paper that didn't get, did that get handed out? Yeah, it's on page 22 of what was in the docket. So your testimony is that the PBOT director said it was an oversight that you were not treated as a remonstrance? He told me the day before I was supposed to come here. They've had this for a month that I had this opportunity to come back. Sir, just listen to my question. Did he tell you that they made a mistake in not treating your objection as a remonstrance? It wasn't that specific. It was just, we called it an oversight. What was an oversight? That I received the letter to be able to come here and talk to you. Okay. This has been seen before. It's my sidewalks. This is where after the work was done. This is today. The reason I'm here is because it's not finished and it's cracking. And I understand that there's a three-year warranty. Everybody talks about a three-year warranty. I don't know where that warranty begins. I have not received any sort of paperwork on it. Nobody really expresses how that works. The company sidewalk solutions that does the work, courtesy and integrity are more than just words. They define our personnel and company, and at the very bottom, customers receive quality work with urgency and are treated with utmost respect. This was put on a Facebook page by KGW by a person named Christopher Collins. It was basically a copy of what a PBOT letter looks like. and next to it you see that little dot up to the left says hello I am accountable. You go to that and I am accountable is the owner of sidewalk solutions and as innocuous as this might seem it's frustrating to have somebody. It's not clear about receiving your notice. I don't know about him coming back and finishing my sidewalks. The questions I have are I want to know what the three-year warranty, when it starts, I haven't been billed yet. I haven't received anything. How do I get my new sidewalks cracks fixed by somebody other than this company would be great because they're already kind of harassing me on social media. And five months ago, Commissioner Hardesty requested that PBOT manager Tara Wazniak look at my property, send somebody out specifically to inspect my property. I'd like to know when that happens and who's doing that. Okay, thank you. Good. So I'd like, and thank you for your testimony. I appreciate it. I'd like to hear from staff and from legal counsel what our options are with regard to this individual's request. Sir, go ahead and take your seat. Thank you. We could have staff come back. So let me ask the first question if I could. This gentleman has presented us with a written objection. Okay. which apparently was received by PBOT that he is calling a remonstrance. Do you acknowledge receipt of that letter, and does it qualify as a remonstrance? Yes, and it was forwarded to PBOT. So was it a timely filed remonstrance? It was, yes. So just help us understand, because you began the presentation by telling us that all the remonstrances had been removed. Why has this remonstrance not been removed? This one was not removed because Mr. Bell did remonstrate two other times prior. His property was put back into this assessment because PBOT did come to a conclusion of what the reductions would be for his property, and it was put back in this assessment. Okay. With respect to the questions, so if he's not eligible to file a remonstrance to the final assessment, what is his recourse with respect to the quality of the workmanship and the questions that he's posed about a warranty and whether the work can be redone and whether he can hire someone else to do the work? Where does he go for those questions? Well, we do warranty the work. Could you get close to the mic so we can hear yourself? I'm Mike Zeller. I work with the contractors that do the work and Sidewalk Solutions. Yeah, we'll warranty the work. I'm looking at that crack, and it just looks like a crack. My experience with concrete, it looks like a crack that would concrete just cracks. So that will happen. And that's what that is. Is it just one crack? So far. So far. So, yeah, if you want, I can have sidewalk solutions go back and make the repair on that. But he said that he doesn't want that contractor to come back because of his dissatisfaction. We have another contractor I can assign that if that would please him. It's up to you guys. Well, I think that resolves the issue. If you assign another contractor to go make the repair, I think that addresses the concern that he's raised. It's not technically a remonstrance, but I think that it gives us a path to move forward, Mayor. Okay, good. So do we need to make any formal notification on that, legal counsel? No, you know my understanding looking back at some of the records here is that there's an ordinance where the city engineers findings were adopted regarding the initial remonstrance that Mr. Bell filed on the repairs. And so my understanding is the ability to do another remonstrance was just an error in that letter. So I think that's where there's a little bit of confusion here. The... procedural mechanism for Mr. Bell after that ordinance would have been a writ of review, which he had 60 days to file. My understanding that was due in May and that that was not filed. Okay. So just be clear, we're not dealing with that issue right now. We're simply dealing with a request that a citizen has made about repairing some work that was done. PBOT has said they'll send another contractor out. This is an ordinance. Can we treat that as a friendly amendment? Yes. Thank you. Well I don't even see it as an amendment. It's I don't know. I think we did two things here simultaneously. We're completing a first reading on an ordinance that's somewhat unrelated except for the fact that the letter was sent to Mr. Bell which I agree implies that you should be here to testify. He's testified and Commissioner Fish's problem solved his constituent services issue. So a different contractor will be going back to fix the work is what we heard. Yeah, and in the meantime, the bill still needs to be paid. Okay, I think we're done. Very good. So is there any further discussion on this item? That completes public testimony, Carla. Yes, that's all. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Next item, please, is, let's see, hang on for a minute.
 Okay. So these, I think, Commissioner Udaly's asked to move back. Yeah, Commissioner Udaly, why don't we do that? Why don't we go ahead and read 615, 16, and 17, because Commissioner Udaly's going to move those, and then that will get us to 245 for a time certain. Item 615, extend contract with Motivate International, Inc., for the continued operation of the bike share system not to exceed $14,780,000. And this has been moved, Commissioner Udeli, is that correct? Yes, Mayor, we've moved this and 616 and 617 back to my office just in the interest of lightening up our agenda, which was very lengthy today. Indeed. All right, and item 616, could you please read that, Carla? Okay. For clarification, I show these are rescheduled to next week. Has that changed? No. Okay. That was scheduled to next week at 2 p.m. because it's an emergency. Okay. So 6-15 is rescheduled to next week, next Wednesday, time certain, 2 p.m. Just regular agenda. Regular agenda. Thank you. At 2 p.m. Thank you. 6-16. 6-16. I'm in contract with TriMet for $6,571,781 to provide for enhanced upkeep and security of the Portland Transit Mall and the original light rail transit loop segment of First Avenue, Morrison, and Yamhill Street. Very good. And, Commissioner Daly, this one's also been scheduled? Is that rescheduled? Correct, yes. Okay, that will also be the afternoon schedule. Carla, next. Sorry, this will be in the 930th. In the morning session. It's a non-mergency. Very good. And 617, please. Can I just ask a question of the sponsor? If 617 is a second reading, is there any reason we don't take it up now? Just to keep it moving along. Yeah, we just decided to move all of them back. We could just vote on it. We could vote on it now and just pass it. I had multiple communications with my office. They just want to move it to next week. Not a problem. Thank you. Very good. So could you read 617, please? Authorized competitive solicitation and contract for the photographic traffic enforcement system and related services. And when has this been rescheduled, Carla? This is to the 930 a.m. session next week. All right. That is done. And we now have stalled long enough. We can go back to item number 610. Okay. 610 establish privacy and information protection principles to serve as guidance for how the city collects, uses, manages and disposes of data and information. Thank you Carla. We are here today to discuss the role of the City of Portland in ensuring that we are good data stewards on behalf of the public. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's Smart City PDX program has partnered with my office and the Office of Equity and Human Rights to develop a set of privacy and information protection principles to guide the collection and use of data by the city. Director of Planning and Sustainability Andrea Durbin and Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights Dr. Markeisha Smith and Bureau staff are here to present the Privacy and Information Protection Principles Resolution. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Reston City Council. I'm Kevin Martin. I lead the Smart City PDX program out of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'll be acting as the MC for today's short presentation. The resolution is really a result of a wonderful partnership between the Mayor's Office, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I'd like to kick things off by inviting Director Durbin and Director Smith to say a few words about the resolution. Thank you. For the record, I'm Andrea Durbin, the Director of Bureau Planning and Sustainability. Thank you Mayor and City Council and thank you all for your support for this initiative. As we plan for the future of Portland, we must consider that cities are increasingly digital. To have a digital data-driven city that is democratic, safe and accountable, we must protect the basic right to privacy. The Smart City PDX program at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has partnered with the Office of Equity and Human Rights to draft the Privacy and Information Protection Principles resolution in front of you today. The resolution is the product of more than six months of internal and external conversations with feedback and support from community members, over 30 agencies, multiple outside partners, and other cities. These initial principles are just a first step. They solidify city council support to develop policies and processes to make the city of Portland a better and more trusted steward of the public's data and direct BPS and the Office of Equity and Human Rights to lead that citywide policy effort. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has a history of working across multiple city agencies and with our community to address some of Portland's biggest problems. We look forward to offering our expertise to inform one of the most significant challenges facing the cities of the digital future, how to maximize the benefits of more data and technology-driven society while minimizing the negative impacts, being especially mindful of those Portlanders who are directly the most marginalized. The successful City of the Digital Future will not happen by accident. We must be diligent in leveraging the opportunities data and technology bring on behalf of all Portlanders in a way that addresses our collective goals for a better Portland. And with that, I'll turn to my colleague, Director Smith. Good afternoon everybody. Mayor Willard, Commissioners, I want to first thank you for your collective sponsorship of this resolution. From the government surveillance of black civil rights leaders in the 1960s to the surveillance of Black Lives Matters protesters on social media today. There are many examples of communities of color enduring a disproportionate level of scrutiny when compared with white Americans engaged in the same kinds of social activist activities. Undocumented immigrants, day laborers, the houseless community, and those with criminal convictions suffer from data extreme. Living beyond the reach of the data collection systems needed to thrive in society, they gain so much privacy that they become increasingly invisible. Living in this what is now known as surveillance gap can be as damaging as living under constant surveillance and is often a reaction to it. Residents of the surveillance gap may not have a permanent address, a social security number, or immigration papers. This means they can't access resources that could help them. They often can't access legal employment or vote and are invisible to policymakers. The proactive application of an equity lens to how the city collects, reports, and interacts with data and technology readily highlights the vulnerability of historically marginalized communities. Adoption of these principles is a strong first step in being intentional about equity, questioning how policy, procedure, or program may impact the multiple communities we serve in different ways and result in different outcomes. The Office of Equity and Human Rights collaborated with BPS and the Smart Cities Initiative in the development of the Smart Cities Equity Framework, and this important work proactively addresses privacy issues. We look forward to our continued participation as we all move forward into the quickly evolving digital age. Thank you. Thank you both. With that, I'd like to bring up staff from my Smart City PX team, Hector Dominguez and Christine Kendrick to dive into the details of the resolution. We do have a presentation. Carla has left the building. Carla has left the building. We can move with our presentation. I think so. Yeah. I have it in my pocket if we can just put it here. Is she here? She's coming right back. Okay. Carla, could we get a little help with the, they have a presentation. Thank you. Actually, while Carl is working on that, I did want to thank some other folks who aren't at the table, especially recognize the contributions of Hector and Christine, who have really led this work, Judith Mowry from the Office of Equity and Human Rights, Elizabeth Perez from the Mayor's Office and now the Office for Community Technology, and as well as many community participants and to our local partners from the Digital Inclusion Network. Okay. technology, huh? Well done. All right. Great. Hector, you want to kick things off? Good afternoon. Mayor Ted Wheeler, commissioners, audience present and online. My name is Hector Dominguez. I am the citywide open data coordinator with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. These privacy principles and information protection principles Aim to support our city efforts to become a better steward of information through the use and promotion of best practices and technology in an equitable way. The city collects, processes, exchanges, and publishes data in a multitude of ways. Such actions may put communities or individuals at risk. when that data exposes personal or sensitive information about their lives and could misuse or exploit people's vulnerabilities. The city has a responsibility for protecting all information entrusted by all individuals who interact with it and needs to build responsible connections with those who have become invisible in the digital world, as mentioned by Director Smith. This commitment to protect private and sensitive information must extend to all those partners that work with or on behalf of the city and include the right due diligence to comply with the trusted relationship required for data sharing and city services. It is important to mention that these principles include measures that look into emerging technologies that may be used for automatic decision systems like big data and artificial intelligence. By promoting equity, fairness, transparency and accountability on them, we also are encouraging the minimal collection of personal information to fulfill a well-defined purpose that brings value to our city services. It took a full year of patient work, one-to-one conversations and group meetings to highlight the importance of data stewardship in the city, as well as responsibilities that we all share to be trustees of information and resources to the public. 30-plus agencies and 150-plus staff members have been briefed around these principles and the next steps that this work is asking from all of us. By starting on responsible use of technology, promoting proper due diligence and inclusive and open processing data management, our city is building a solid cornerstone for new generation of services that promote community engagement, accountability, and effective action. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Christine Kendrick. I'm the Smart City PDX Coordinator with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. As both Director Durbin and Director Smith mentioned in their opening remarks, this resolution is only a first step to prioritizing privacy and information protection. Staff through planning and sustainability in smart city PDX and office of equity and human rights will convene a privacy work group that will be focused on the implementation of the principles. This work group is going to include staff from archives, auditor's office, Bureau of Technology Services, city attorney's office, community and civic life, office for community technology, office of management and finance, Portland Bureau of Transportation, Portland Police Bureau, and Portland Water Bureau. The privacy workgroup kicks off next week on June 25th, and will serve in an advisory role to the overall city's data governance efforts. Over the next year, we'll work with this group to identify both short-term and long-term policies and procedures to uphold the privacy principles. Some specific objectives that the workgroup will focus on. are identifying long-term policies and procedures that are needed for implementation, assessing the city staff needs and resource budget needs for implementation. This group will also work on creating some initial privacy risk assessment tools. These types of tools will be able to guide staff in how to apply the principles to their work in the near term as we're working on more long-term policies and procedures. This privacy workgroup will also need to efficiently develop responses to some critical and short-term privacy issues that could develop quite rapidly over the next year. An example of a type of issue like this is facial recognition and the use of video analytics. So this is one of the first topics that we would like to focus on with the privacy workgroup with the goal of creating a council work session on facial recognition and video analytics in the coming months. The last objective I'll talk about for the privacy workgroup is to recommend a privacy governance structure. This structure needs to include levels of decision-making and accountability, and also needs to link back to the city's overall data governance strategy. As part of this structure, we also need to identify pathways for community involvement. During implementation of these principles, there are going to be a lot of different types of decisions that are going to need to be made. So we really want to make sure that we're expanding our efforts during this implementation to make sure we're creating avenues for community involvement in that decision making. Technology advancements and data collection efforts are occurring at a rapid pace and they're growing quite quickly as well. This also means that then the risk and benefits and burdens that affect communities are going to evolve quickly and also affect communities differently. So identifying these needs and these concerns collaboratively with communities will be a key aspect to effective implementation of the principles we're presenting today. Thank you. Thank you both. Next I'd like to bring up one of our... Could I just ask a question before you dismiss the panel? Yes. In the privacy work group, I missed the entire list. Is the police bureau part of that? Yes. Thank you. I'd like to bring up one of our favorite community partners, Nandini from MakeThink Code. Hello everybody. Thank you for including me. Am I talking into something that... I'm Nandini Ranganathan. I'm the Executive Director of Make Think Code. I mean it's an art technology data society lab at the Pacific Northwest College of Art. Hold one sec ma'am. Carla, we've got the PowerPoint on our screen. No. Let's see if we can pick up our guest. There it is. Okay. Thank you. And we're also community members of the Digital Inclusion Network. I'm here because the issues of digital privacy are of utmost relevance to our work at Make Think Code and to the broader Make Think Code community. First, I'd like to express strong support for City Council adoption of the Privacy and Information Protection Resolution and I'd really like to condemn, commend the efforts of the Office of Equity and Human Rights and Smart City PDX to develop a set of privacy principles that ensure that the use of data by the City of Portland and its partners serve and empower the community. This resolution and the attached privacy principles are an essential and important first step in the city's commitment to becoming a trusted data and information steward. As the gathering of data becomes more and more ubiquitous and constant in this ultra-connected world, the city needs to juggle a complex set of responsibilities. It's essential to understand the potential and implications of a data project and to ensure that the use of data should empower every community member to have voice, agency, and a sense of belonging in the city. We need strong safeguards, tools, strategies, and policies to ensure privacy and to mitigate the impacts of previous bias and exclusion, especially as we move to include automated decision systems. in civic processes. And these policies and strategies need to be sort of operationalized in a way that they can evolve as technology and data evolves so that they don't become obsolete. And we must ensure the safety and non-harming of vulnerable and previously marginalized populations. We also need transparency in our processes to know how the data will be used, who has access, and who and what tools are involved. To use data equitably and impactfully, we need to understand the data, the stakeholders, the technology and tools throughout the life cycle. And we need to ensure that a diverse set of stakeholders have access to some version of this data to support research advocacy and civic innovation. Civic data is a community resource. In partnership with Smart City PDX, we held a Civic Data and Digital Privacy Unconference and Forum in January with significant participation from Portland's communities. The diversity of stakeholders that attended this event and the variety of concerns and recommendations that arose demonstrates the urgency of this issue to the community. There will be several issues that arise in operationalizing the set of principles and in creating and implementing policies. Data is not neutral objective, and the people and tools involved in every step of the lifecycle influence the narrative. It's essential to include all the stakeholders in this conversation as we move towards operationalizing the data. The commitment of Smart City PDX and the Office of Equity and Human Rights to include a diversity of community voices and stakeholders in developing these principles and to emphasize community-focused outcomes has been exemplary so far. And there's strong interest from the community in continuing these conversations and many have offered their expertise, suggestions, feedback and energy towards creating a more comprehensive and inclusive data privacy policy and I urge the city to take advantage of this community engagement. In conclusion, we're excited to support and engage with this process. It's been transparent, equitable and inclusive And I strongly recommend that the city approve this resolution. Thank you. Mayor, I have a question. Commissioner Fish. You know, so far we've had this discussion at a very high level and a policy level. But let's bring it down to concrete examples. On the private side, I think we all have our own anecdotes about how the surveillance economy impacts us. We know from personal experience that when you Google something, it normally leads to a torrent of unsolicited advertising. If you Google something that's a highly sensitive subject, the advertising will follow around sensitive subjects. We know that we get phone calls almost daily from scammers that have some but not all of our information and are trying to fill out the chart by getting a missing piece, a social security number, something they don't have that they haven't stolen or received from some other source. We're inundated at the city and at home with emails, seeing if we'll click onto something which then brings a virus into our system or has some bad outcome. So we are in a constant struggle on the private side with this surveillance economy where our personal information, where people are trying to collect our personal information and monetize it. What are the examples of government, what are examples in the public side around government and privacy that are of a comparable nature that you would point to in your work and say these are the kinds of things we should be remedying? I think especially as we're moving towards more AI and machine learning in these systems, one thing I worry about that could... And one thing that has existed is we've often used data to profile and exclude and maybe sort of make decisions based on past behavior or past. But done the right way, we could use data to sort of support more of the community. I think the idea is more... data often has been used in allocating resources, but when it's not collected properly or when it hasn't been sort of effectively studied and all the stakeholders are involved in sort of designing the collection, designing how it's used, when we don't empower enough of our community to be able to use the data to advocate data, we use data in resource allocation and that often if we exclude people, if they're missing data sets if they're people who aren't counted, ends up sort of impacting them negatively because they don't get the resources and we privilege people with. Ensuring that civic data is sort of rigorous as collected with, in an inclusive way and often that just means and what we can do and I think what I've seen sort of an intention to do is to be inclusive, to to design sort of data collection, to design analysis, policies, tools, with all of the community stakeholders involved so that they can be also – they can have ownership of the data and use it for advocacy, for resources, for other things. So I think there's potential here to set an example that we all have, both in private and public sectors, have constantly have data gathered about us – I think in the past the emphasis has often been on gathering as much data as possible. I think we should also think about how this data serves the community and use it really effectively to make decisions in things like it could be transportation safety to see environmental impacts of sort of development on communities. So I think we now have technology and tools that that done the right way and designed correctly can be really powerful in supporting communities. That's very helpful. Thank you very much. With that, I'm going to bring Christine and Hector back up so that we could answer any additional questions. And Christine will also be reading a prepared statement from Commissioner Hardesty, who could not be here today. Okay. Thank you all. And we wanted to thank Commissioner Hardesty and her staff for preparing these remarks on the privacy principles ahead of time. So I'm going to read them now. Thank you. The need to make a coherent data management policy within the city is apparent to me. And while I applaud the work that has gone into crafting these goals and principles around how the city manages data, moving forward, I wanted to highlight some concerns I have with this new approach. There is a natural tension between privacy and transparency, and I am concerned that those who stand to profit from access to city data will fight for a sacrifice of privacy to gain more access to city data. Furthermore, centralizing large amounts of sensitive data makes for an appealing target to those that wish to profit from the theft of personal information. Additionally, I'm concerned that approving this shift in policy without having a more fleshed-out plan could result in investments in new data management systems that ultimately fail to properly integrate with another or do not manage to adhere to the values of this council. I realize that this item is merely the first step in creating a new data management system in the city, and that many questions will be addressed as bureaus work to craft more specific policies around these principles. But it is important that we begin recognizing and discussing the challenges The plan we are approving today creates. It is my hope that everyone on this council and the Bureau staff working on these principles will appreciate the challenges and risks inherent with this type of overhaul and that we are cautious and deliberative with every change we make during this process. And Hector had a follow-up to those remarks. Yeah, definitely the tension between privacy and transparency is very real, and we appreciate Commissioner Hardesty's remarks and concerns on how data and information can be misused and create harm and put people at risk, something that just Commissioner Fish has also mentioned. This is an issue with clear tensions, and we will require ongoing exploration as we move forward with our privacy workgroup. These concerns have been a clear motivation from the very beginning of this work. We looked at information management through the lens of equity and human rights, which is one of the values of Smart City PDX as demonstrated in our priorities framework. We also recognize that technological solutions are not silver bullets by themselves, but their implementation needs to be centered in real people's needs. All staff in the city involved in any stage of data workflow becomes a trustee of information. Furthermore, those impacted by technology need to engage on how it is implemented and become recipients of their benefits as well. These values are included in these principles that we are bringing today. These new challenges are not trivial. And this is the main reason of putting together a citywide team of experts and stakeholders to explore and decide on the best way in which these privacy principles can be implemented. The goal for the initial privacy workgroup that Christine just mentioned in her final comments is to provide with a clear strategy and recommendation on the way we can become better data stewards for all Portlanders and people who interact with the city, especially for those who have been left behind. With that, we will open it up to questions and testimony. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carlo? Yes, we have three people signed up. Actually, I have one question if I could, and we're a little ahead of schedule. So we start by articulating principles, and that's all we're doing today. We've set forth some principles. We're not etching them in stone so that we can come back and we can tweak them. It seems to me you have to start somewhere, and this is as good a place as any to articulate principles. Okay. And there's now going to be a series of steps taken, work group, policies, other kinds of things that come back to council. I'm going to go back to this tension between privacy and transparency because we're going to have to be candid throughout this process about the limitations on the protections that we can put on data. And I'll give you just the most obvious example. We get public records requests all the time that seek information that our attorneys determine is not disclosable for any number of reasons, including privacy issues. But we don't get the final say as to whether that information is disclosable. It typically rests with the district attorney's office in deciding whether it has to be turned over. So what ultimately is our backstop? if let's say the public records process can be used to challenge almost any privacy protection we put into place and we don't get the final say? That's definitely one of the priorities that we have for the workgroup and we have heard that from our attorneys from public records, exactly how you described. And the history behind that is is really towards transparency, promoting more transparency in the city, rather than protecting or enclosing data that government has access. So that creates a number of challenges, mostly because right now third parties outside the domain of the city can actually aggregate data and do a lot more than we can actually control. It's out of our control, basically. Finding the right strategies, that's going to be one of the priorities for this workgroup. Finding the right strategies for how to protect the data in the city. And it's an ongoing exploration and conversation. And I might add to that as well. I think going forward as we become a more data-driven organization, really a data-driven city, I think the city is going to have to be more strategic about what data we do collect. and making sure that that's information that we need because it is subject to public record. So more disaggregated data, less... Specific to a person. Yeah. Yeah, more aggregated data rather than, yeah. I think there's also an element that we are not talking just about policies but the procedures too. Are we training our city staff across bureaus about this? Are there things that we can put into more methodologies about what to collect before building a survey or working on a project? So there's a lot of different avenues that we can look at. If you allow me to include something around equity. So one of the discussions that also we have on equity, particularly capturing the specific demographics, as the city wants to provide better services to those who have been also behind, so very, very specific demographics. The question is open whether or not are we putting at risk those communities that we are disaggregating and separating for specific services in the city. How we can actually protect them better, and that's going to be an ongoing exploration conversation, and that's where we are. Very excited about this group of people that we are putting together. Who's the city attorney that's assisting you in the work group? We have several city attorneys working with us. Because it strikes me that the legal issues here are very, very complicated. Yes, exactly. There could be different perspectives on the same problem and issue, yeah. And also recognizing that the legal landscape has not necessarily kept up with the technology landscape, and so we really need that legal representation as we go forward with this work. Thank you very much. Very good. Is there any other public testimony on this, Carla? Yes, we have three people signed up. Very good. Please come on up. Brian King, Chris Bushek, and Alan Hippolito. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here. My name is Brian King. I'm the chair of the Information Technology Working Group of the Portland Democratic Socialists of America, so I'm speaking for that group today. Privacy is a human right. Information privacy protects us from theft, harassment, and abuses of private and government power. We welcome Portland City Council's approval of the Privacy and Information Protection Principles Resolution. Implementing these principles will require follow-on ordinances and new policy to ensure transparency, accountability, and public control of data collection. In 2015, Portland Police Captain Mark Kruger acknowledged that Portland Police have access to a stingray, a device that mimics a cell phone tower so they can gather location data on phone users in a wide area. In 2017, the DC Court of Appeals ruled that warrantless use of a stingray violates Fourth Amendment privacy rights. In 2017, Willamette Week reported that Portland Police failed to delete photos of protesters' IDs despite having committed to do so pursuant to PPB policy. However, an independent police review found that PPP had no such policy for digital images. No disciplinary actions were reported over the privacy violations. Vigilant Solutions runs a national database of automated license plate reader data collected by law enforcement agencies. Vigilant Solutions has a data sharing agreement with ICE, Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The ACLU obtained ICE search records and found that the ICE agents use license plate data to track the daily movements of suspects. and that they also conduct searches on the families of suspects, on US citizens, and conduct searches which the ACLU called vague and arbitrary. PPB has license plate readers on some patrol cars. If PPB is sharing its license plate data with Vigilant Solutions or other databases that supply ICE, this would contribute to ICE's violations of privacy and could violate Oregon's anti-profiling laws. President Trump has issued orders which condition federal funding on cooperation with investigations by DHS and ICE. Local governments are asked to share information about undocumented immigrants so that they can be targeted for deportation. Our federally funded data fusion center in Salem violated anti-profiling laws by tracking Black Lives Matter protests. Our local law enforcement database region shares data through a network of regional and national law enforcement databases that ICE has access to. The executive order may put Portland in a dilemma. Do we accept federal money and share data that may violate anti-profiling laws, or do we protect our residents by refusing funding and disengaging from abusive federal agencies? These examples show how much there is to be done. Two endorsers of this resolution, the Sunlight Foundation and Oakland's Privacy Advisory Commission, show the way forward. Oakland Privacy Advisory Commission is responsible for oversight for Oakland's new surveillance and community safety ordinance. That ordinance provides visible protections, accountability measures for privacy violations, and covers technologies like stingrays, facial recognition, and social media surveillance. We believe it should be a model for Portland's privacy ordinances. The rest of my testimony is written. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello Mayor Wheeler and members of City Council. My name is Chris Bushek and I'm a member of PDX Privacy, which is a local group, a group of local residents that advocates for privacy, transparency, and digital rights in the Portland metro area. As such, we deeply care about issues that are related to the collection use and potential misuse of personal information. I'm here today to offer our support of this privacy and information protection resolution. Data collected from residents may potentially yield valuable information to the city. Perhaps it can tell us about the most popular transit routes or ways that the city can improve services, but without thorough planning, the information can be misused or stolen, harming the city's residents and the city's future as an open, transparent, and equitable place to live. Current technology offers considerable opportunities to accumulate a wide variety of personal data. When combined, this information can provide a detailed picture of a person's life, gender, health, sexual preferences, religious affiliations, travel habits, and a whole host of other aspects. Misuse could lead to a person being manipulated or surveilled or otherwise mistreated. and marginalized communities are especially at risk because they have many less choices than affluent persons. Having guidelines and policies in place related to the collection of data will help the city to be a good steward of both resident and visitor data. PDX Privacy commends the city for being proactive in trying to protect privacy and data. We would like to see actual rights, as this gentleman mentioned, like that Oakland Privacy has. But we feel that this resolution is a good start, a good step towards that protection. Therefore, we endorse it. And thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. My name is Alan Ippolito. I work for a northeast Portland-based nonprofit named Verde. In the words of your friend and mine, Ray Espana, it's a blessing to be here with you today. The privacy principles before you today are an opportunity to highlight fundamental connections between technology, racism and inequality and the need to build new connections between technology and justice. Per its mission statement, Verde serves communities by building environmental wealth through social enterprise outreach and advocacy. By and of frontline communities, Verde was founded for two reasons. Sustainability, despite foundational commitments to equity, had not engaged and was not directly benefiting low-income people of color. And secondly, these frontline communities lacked capacity, including public and philanthropic investments, to plan their own environmental futures. Since then, you know about the good work we've done together to reinterpret sustainability as an anti-poverty strategy. Green jobs, contracts for diverse businesses, Cully Park, Sugar Shack, Las Adelitas, Portland Clean Energy Fund. We did this by building capacity in community, and by that capacity drove environmental investments into low-income people, colored communities in response to community priorities. Today, in parallel with this resolution, we find ourselves with a new but not too different divide between the priorities of our technology stakeholders and the daily lives of Portland's low-income people and people of color. Our frontline communities are technologically marginalized, left out of a larger data rich society, not just by poverty, not just because they can't afford it, but by technology stakeholders who often either exploit our communities or treat them as afterthoughts, a box to be checked after early adopters, business models and other policy priorities have been realized, and by public and private funders who too often fail to incent or resource our frontline community-facing organizations to create just technology futures for and with the communities they serve. And so as a result, our frontline communities suffer from low technology capacity, a lag that's heightened by real privacy concerns about exposing personal information, personal data to service providers, including providers of just transition services like renewable energy and clean mobility. And meanwhile, these providers increasingly demand such information as a cost of accessing their vital services. We shouldn't be surprised. Tech folks often talk about early adopters, those who are the first to see opportunity in new technology. Well, racism and inequality are the original early adopters. They take the first seats at the table anytime we create something new, turning technology into a tool that increases systemic disparities. We believe instead that data is a community resource, a dispersed, disorganized resource, but an important resource nonetheless, important enough that powerful institutions build business and political models based on extracting it at minimum cost. I'm going to go over. I apologize. This is nothing new, just like a gentrifying real estate developer who uses the process of an easy cash payment to buy property for less than it's worth. An extractive digital economy exploits an unequal relationship. to get something from community for less than its true value. But it doesn't have to be this way. Moving forward, we'll need new tools and new resources. And we have a choice about how to invest to clothe this divide. You can invest in the gentrifier, in the same tech stakeholders who have ignored and exploited our communities, but now are beginning to seek public subsidy to close the equity gap. Or you can invest resources in our frontline communities who not only have unique digital privacy and security concerns, but also disproportionately high demand to learn about tools and strategies to address their concerns. We know the answer, that you can't build community by investing outside of community. You can only build community by investing in community so they can imagine their own inclusive, just technology future. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. Appreciate it. Carla, was there more public testimony on this item? That's all who signed up. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions or discussion? Is this a, are we going to vote? Yeah, it's a resolution. Oh, great. Okay. Very good. With that, Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Well, this has been a very thoughtful hearing. I appreciate everyone who took the time to share a perspective. And I'm pleased that the entire council is supporting this resolution. We appreciate it. We don't do that very often, but it is obviously a clear sign that it is a issue of sufficient concern that we're all sort of joined together to try to get this right. I am on a daily basis shocked by how little privacy I have on the commercial side of the ledger. And as someone who is living with a serious illness, who sometimes uses the internet to seek information and gather information, I'm shocked at how even that process results in people harvesting information and then trying to market to me or communicate with me based on my browsing history. We have precious little privacy in our private lives, and the surveillance economy... is only going to get worse. One of my concerns with the whole smart planning efforts at the city around technology is that some of the same people on the private side that have been so unscrupulous in breaking down the wall of privacy that we used to enjoy are now seeking to partner with government and offer the lure of technology that is brokered for access to data and information and other kinds of things. And I think we have to be very, very careful about protecting people's privacy, about how we use data, how we collect it. So this is a first step. This is sort of a baby step. We've set some principles, and we're going to do some hard work at the committee level. We're up against powerful forces that are, in some instances, more powerful than we are. And certainly the tension between transparency and the public records process and Whatever our countervailing goals are at the city in terms of protecting people's privacy are going to play out regularly, probably in the courts. But I'm proud to be in a council that is identifying this as an issue of concern and is trying to do something about it. I look forward to the next piece of work product that comes back that we can debate. And I thank everyone who has brought us to this point. Hi. Udailey? Well, first I want to thank the invited testimony and public testimony. If only all the testimony we got to hear was so informed and useful. I'm looking forward to following up with each of you and I really appreciate the input. I'll also, I also share Commissioner Fish's concern with the intrusion. On our lives, through the internet and social media, Facebook recently suggested that I should, that I, through advertising, that it was time for me to get my body bikini ready, and I also perhaps needed adult diapers. Neither of which is true, so I guess I should take comfort in the fact that Facebook has no idea who I am or what I care about. appreciate either of those suggestions. And now for my official closing remarks. I want to thank BPS staff for tackling this important issue. I take this issue really seriously and I'm pleased to say that PBOT has been proactively working to address privacy and information protection issues as well. The increasingly sophisticated data that we have access to allows us to work more efficiently, make smart investments, and implement regulations that serve the public interest. But this new data comes with real responsibilities to be good stewards and protect privacy. PBOT's e-scooter pilot is an example of how we can use data to better... execute our responsibilities in managing the public right of way. The collection of e-scooter data, which is something that we negotiated up front before our first pilot, or for our first pilot, has given us a better ability to manage scooter companies' compliance with city rules, such as where e-scooters may be operated and parked, and whether companies are providing equitable access, as well as understand where new bike and pedestrian infrastructure could improve safety. Please note that I said better manage, not perfectly manage, because as we know, there are still violations happening and bugs to work out. So everybody stay off the sidewalks, wear your helmets, and e-scooters are not allowed in public parks. To protect privacy, PBOT has worked with e-scooter companies to minimize what information the city collects and to aggregate data so that no personal information is revealed. I switch back and forth between data and data. I just can't stop. I should just stick with data. My favorite Star Trek character. And finally, PBOT also recognizes that there is more work to be done and will be working to expand its... data privacy practices in alignment with these council adopted privacy principles. So thank you once again. I vote aye. Fritz? This is really reassuring to me that people who are not as old as I am are worried about this too. And so I appreciate all the work that's being done. This resolution is an example of community-centered governing. The world of data and technology is quickly transforming the ways in which we all work, travel, shop, receive medical care, basically everything in our communal lives. And that's why it's important for all of us to be involved in this. As local government, it's particularly our civic duty to strike a balance between granting community members easier access to key city services... while ensuring that the information we collect in that process is not misused in any way. Fel y gwelwn yn ffenestr San Francisco diweddar ar dechnoleg ffasiol, mae'n ddiddordeb hyfryd am ddefnyddio'r data i ddiffyg... Dwi ddim yn gallu ddweud y gair hwn o hyd yn oed heb feddwl arnoch chi. Rwy'n meddwl am a ydw i wedi'i ddweud yn iawn neu ddim, ond rwy'n cael dweud llawer o bethau yn wahanol. Mae'n ddiddordeb hyfryd am ddiffyg data i ddiffyg cyflogwyr sydd wedi cael eu targedu'n amlwg gan waith gwrthgynhyrchu. Mae'n bwysig bod yn ymwneud â'r effaith ar gymunedau anodd gan gynnwys cymunedau anodd wrth i ni ddylunio dulliau a phroblemau a phrosiectau ac yn ymwneud â'r hyn rydyn ni'n eu cynnal. Mae wedi bod trawsgwyddiad diweddar am mapiau Portland ac at a ydynt yn ceisio sefydlu gan ddewiswr. aeth i ffwrdd aeth i fy nghymryd hynny i'r cyngor a dywedodd hi i mi bod hynny oherwydd bod bywydau gwahaniaethu gwleidyddol yn cael eu targed trwy'r gweithrediad yna. Felly fe wnes i fy ysgrifennu i'r cyfarwyr a oedd wedi ysgrifennu ataf am y penderfyniad hwn ac fe wnaeth y ddau ohono dweud, o, mae hynny'n gwneud gwirionedd, diolch yn fawr. Ac y peth o'r peth, John Lew, fe wnaeth dweud, ah, ond mae'n eithaf syml i'w troi allan. Mae'n hollol ddiddorol pan fyddwn i'n gallech chi encoedio i ddychmygu ceisio arweinydd os yw'n dod yn ôl un neu ddwy adroddiadau, neu ddychmygu'r rhan o unrhyw gweithrediad arweinydd sy'n dod yn ôl adroddiad yn ymwneud â'i gweithredu, lle gallai adroddiad yr arweinydd dynnu'r adroddiad y dynion, neu'n adroddi penderfyniadau ar y cyd-dynion ymwneud â chyflawni gwagorwyr gwagorwyr. Felly mae'n cymryd mwy o ddiddordeb. Rwy'n credu bod hynny'n ddiddorol iawn. Ac yna roedd John wedi mynd i ddweud wrthi am rai o'r pethau y maen nhw wedi gallu ei ddod o hyd drwy ddefnyddio'r data ar ar gyfer cyfnod cyhoeddus. Wrth i ni weithio i ddechrau'r defnyddio a'r gwahanu gan y prosiect ddysgu ar gyfer ymchwil, rydym yn casglu data sy'n dangos effaith adeiladu amrywiaeth ymchwil ar gyfer prifysgolion. Yn y gorffennol, roeddem yn gallu adnabod pob prosiect wedi'i wneud gan un dechrau, ac yn dangos bod yn pum mlynedd, wedi dechrau 172 o ddysgu ar gyfer prifysgolion yn fwy na 200% yn ystod y cyfnod. Felly dyna enghraifft o ddefnyddio'r ddata cymhwysol, yn y canol, yn enwedig, yn edrych ar y person gweithiol sy'n ei wneud, ac yna, byddwn i'n dweud, yn y cyhoedd, yn y gwaith cyhoeddus. Mae'r llinellau hyn ddim yn syml, felly rwy'n credu ei bod yn bwysig iawn. Cefais sgwrs da diwethaf pan oedd Comisiwnor Hardesty yn gallu bod yma am cameraiau cyflym a p'un a yw cymryd data demograffig o'i gilydd yn bosibl neu'n dymunol. Byddwn ni i gyd yn gwneud y penderfyniadau hynny. Dwi ddim yn gwybod bod llinellau bryd. Mae'n debyg bod llinellau bryd ar un o'r sbectrwm, a gallwn ni gyd yn cytuno'r cywir a'r anghywir. Ond wrth i chi ddod mwy a mwy i mewn i'r polisiau, Rydyn ni'n cydnabod cyfleoedd i ddatblygu a chyflawni cymdeithas a chymunedau sy'n cael eu cynnal â data a technoleg, ac rydyn ni'n cydnabod y gwahanolwyr sydd ar gael i'w gynnal er mwyn gwneud y cyfleoedd hynny'n ddigwydd i bawb. Rwy'n hapus iawn bod Ystafell Gweithredu a Gwleidyddion Dynol wedi bod yn partner cyffredinol ar y tabl o'r datblygiad cychwyn cychwyn y polisi honno ac yn parhau i gydweithio mewn datblygiad a chyflawni ymhellach a chael cymorth i gymunedau o gwledydd, cymunedau gyda disabiliadau, ar y ffordd cynnar. Diolch yn enwedig i Judith Mowry a'r Rheolwr Marquesha Smith yn yr Oesgynnau Gwleidyddiaeth a Gwleidyddion Dynol, yn ogystal â Claire Adams-Sick, ar fy nhermau, a hefyd i'r Bwrdd o Blynyddoedd a Chyflawni ar gyfer eich arweinyddiaeth ar y gwaith. Rwy'n edrych ymlaen at bod yn cynnwys ymwneud â'r trafodaethau hyn. Rwy'n credu eu bod yn ddiddorol iawn ac yn bwysig iawn ac mae angen i ni eu sefydlu ar gy gyda chyfartal a chymorth. Weeler. Mae data yn adnodd mwyaf gwerthfawr i wella a chyfathrebu penderfyniadau y ddinas. Trwy ddefnyddio gwybodaeth gwell, rydyn ni'n credu y gallwn ddarparu gwasanaethau'r dinas yn well i'r bobl yma. Ond fel rydych chi wedi'i glywed, os nad ydym yn rhoi diogelu cymorth cyhoeddus yn y cyffredinol wrth i ni symud i ddinas sy'n gweithio â data mwy, rydym yn risgo effeithio ar ddinas Cymru mewn ffyrdd negidol, yn enwedig ein cymunedau sydd yn fwy amgylcheddol. Mae'r gwerthoedd wedi'u cyhoeddi yn y prinsiplau hyn wedi'u llwyddo ar draws yr adranau arall y ddynion a'r cyngor y dynion. Rwy'n hynod o ddiolch i ddod â'r adroddiad hwn yn gyntaf gyda pob un o'r cynghorwyr y cyngor hon. Rwy'n hoff i ddiolch i fy nghymdeithasau am eu cefnogaeth sylweddol o'r gwaith pwysig hwn. Mae y ddinas Portland yn y dyniaeth cyntaf y Gymru i briori cyfnod data a chyfnod cyfrifol yn ein gwaith smart city. Trwy'r cyfnod yma a trwy'r cyfnod ymlaen ymlaen y PDX Smart City, y cyfnod fframwaith cymharu yn ddynol 2018. Mae'r egwyddorion hyn, fel rydych chi hefyd wedi'u clywed heddiw drwy'r testemoni, yn ddyniaeth cyntaf. Maen nhw'n arwain i Smart City PDX i weithio yn partneriaeth â'r Swyddfa Gwleidyddion a Gwleidyddion, a'r Gwasanaethau Dechnoleg a'r eraill i ddrafnod prosesau a polisïau arbennig i ddatblygu'r prinsiplau hyn a chymryd y cymuned yn eu datblygu. Mae'r ddinas Portland yn ymwneud â dod yn ddwylo'r data a'r wybodaeth sy'n cael ei ddysgu ar gyfer y cymunedau rydyn ni'n eu gweithio. Nid y gallwn ddod yn sefydliad sy'n ddwylo'r data, heb ymddiriedaeth y cymunedau, ac fe wnawn ni ei wneud yn gyfrifol, yn cyd-dwylo ac gyda thrysgwriaeth. I'd particularly like to thank Hector Dominguez, Judith Mowrey, and the Smart Cities PDX team for their diligent and thoughtful work on this resolution and the work that they'll be doing going forward to ensure success. And I'd also like to thank Elizabeth Perez for taking the lead. This is a great first step, terrific testimony. Thank you, everybody who came forward today to provide their feedback. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. And the timing on that turned out to be perfect. We can now go right into 611. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County Department of Community Justice in the amount of $206,000 to conduct general heavy brushing and cleanup work. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, and if I can invite our presenters to come forward. Thank you. You know, I've, as you all know, been on the council list in my 11th year, and periodically we have had ordinances like this come forward, particularly when I was in charge of parks, for using the crews from the Community Justice Programme or the Corrections Programme to do... tasks for different bureaus. And so when this one came forward for the Water Bureau, I pulled it back because I wanted to find out more about what the program is, who does it, how does it work, and why is it that the city is investing taxpayer or ratepayer dollars in these work crews? Is it equitable and in fact restorative justice? And so I'm really pleased to introduce this presentation. Chris Warner of the Portland Water Bureau and Darren Peters of the Department of Community Justice And one more person. Slight change. Commissioner, my name's Stu Walker. I'm a senior manager with Department of Community Justice. You obviously now are fully prepared to take us away. Please do so. Thank you. Hello, thank you for having us. My name is Lisa Lewis, senior manager of the Department of Community Justice. And I am here just to talk about the IGA and how we, our partnership with the City of Portland, the Water Bureau for many years now with community service with both our adult and our juvenile divisions. So we have had, my understanding is that we are the contract that the IGA that's up for renewal right now is with our adult services division. in which we work two days a week for the Water Bureau with community service. Water Bureau is one of the many jobs that community service through Department of Community Justice goes to every week. We normally work seven days a week. We have crew leaders who are employed by Multnomah County, highly trained crew leaders who take our crews out to a variety of sites, Water Bureau being one of them, and work on whatever jobs they might have at the Water Bureau, but in a safe manner, teaching job skills having a pseudo type of job environment. It is an alternative to incarceration so it's used on both the front end from the courts in sentencing and it's used for us in community justice as a sanction, a sanction for behavior. So these are people who've been found guilty of a crime and instead of going to prison, they get sent to community service? That is one option of how it works. Instead of going to jail, you would have community service. Sometimes it is a small amount of jail and some community service. There are formal probations, bench probations that also, we also serve bench probations, community court. and then our own Department of Community Justice clients. And this is scheduled so that people who have other jobs can do the job and then do their community service at other times? Absolutely. We run crews seven days a week. We ask that for people, if possible, to commit to one day a week to enable to start and be able to get hours done. However, we're very accommodating. We have a variety of different types of work sites because not everyone can work at every type of work site. So we make a point to be accommodating. I think it's worth noting that this is part of a larger case planning that we do with our clients. Probably specifically to get to some of the concerns that you have, we want people that come to community supervision to exit the program with pro-social skills that are going to allow them to make the decisions when nobody's watching that are going to take them out of the system and not lead them back into the system. So to that end, we're going to encourage folks to develop good employment, both the skills and the actual employment during supervision with us. So this is a piece of that puzzle. We'll also have fairly large contracts with employment services to really start at the ground level and look at education, look at prior experience. to work and develop the skills and put the person in the place to get more than just a basic entry-level job. We want to set goals for above minimum wage with preferably... benefits that are going to come with that job and the skills to advance in a position, not just a minimum wage entry double job. So this is a piece of that puzzle which is really our focus in restorative justice is a whole comprehensive wrap around service package that the officers and other classifications within the agency are going to develop so we can get to that goal. And it's not always the easiest goal. The population that we serve comes with a lot of previous history and oftentimes a lot of barriers. And we know that if we continue to put barriers in front of them by only making something available on a limited basis, we're just not going to be able to get them what they need to be successful. And it's... Not a big surprise. The more barriers we put in place, probably the more people we put in custody. And that's really, as a tenet of behavior change, it's not a very good practice to really change behavior. We, as an agency, use jail for two reasons. Very, very short periods of jail for behavior change and longer periods of jail to promote public safety when we really have concerns about folks in the community. This is one of the range of sanctions that we can use outside of jail to get people in the right place at the right time with the right services so we'd have the best chance of long-term behavior change, which is our ultimate goal. Thank you. And my understanding is people get paid minimum wage and that money goes to the victim, where they have reparations to be made to the victim. Can you talk about that? So community service by statute is not paid. So there's two types. We run two different types of services through our community service. So the community service piece is not paid anymore. What we do have and it's been, we've had it on the juvenile side for quite some time and we've recently started on the adult side is a restitution crew. Which would not be community service. It's not used as a sanction. It's not something that is sentenced. It is the ability to come and work on a crew and then What the county will do is pay directly to the court for restitution. And the folks who are employed through the Water Bureau, are they eligible to participate in that program? Absolutely. Although many times who we have that will go and work at the Water Bureau are oftentimes people that are sentenced or sanctioned. It ends up being to where... And it is one pot of money, but it's generally not our restitution crew is the Water Bureau. Okay. Thank you. And Chris Warner, what's your experience been with the crews that have done this over the years? So we've been working with the county community justice folks for actually a couple decades now, if my recollection is correct. And it's been a very successful program, not only in what they do, you know, for the folks that they are representing, but... But from the Bureau's perspective, it's a very cost-effective way, if you're just looking at the efficiencies, of getting the work done out there. So we've become very well-coordinated with the county and their crews, and it's a very effective method of getting some of the work done that we would not be capable of doing otherwise. So it's not taking city jobs? Pardon me? It's not taking jobs from city workers. Oh, no, not at all. This is recognized by the unions and others as being an effective method of getting work done that we don't have the crews to do necessarily. So it's been promoted not only by management but by the union as well. Thank you. Colleagues, do you have any questions? Not off the top of my head, no. Thank you so much for being here. I really appreciate your information. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a public testimony on this item, Carla? No. No one signed up. Anybody like to testify? Very good. Anything else before we move this on? Thank you very much. Yeah, very good. Great presentation. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, and we're right on schedule, item number 612, please. Thank you. Authorize three-year grant agreement with Portland Community Media for public, educational, and governmental access resources, and to provide community media and digital literacy services on a citywide basis, not to exceed $929,587 increased by inflationary factors in years two and three. Colleagues, we're here today to authorize a grant agreement. agreement with Portland Community Media, otherwise known as OpenSignal. The grant amount as outlined in this ordinance is included as part of the proposed budget through the Office of Community Technology. So I'll turn it over to OCT for the presentation. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Elizabeth Perez. I'm the acting director for the Office for Community Technology. As many of you know, Portland Community Media has been a pillar in our community for nearly 40 years. It has transformed through the years, being nimble and responsive to our community's multimedia access and training needs. In the recent past, under new leadership, the organization underwent rebranding and is now best known in the community as Open Signal. This agreement for operational funding is a companion to a grant agreement between OpenSignal and the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission that provides funds derived from cable services franchise agreements for capital funding. For these reasons, we are really excited to bring forward this agreement for your consideration. I'll now turn it over to Justin Harn, Executive Director of OpenSignal, for the rest of the presentation. Hey, folks. Wonderful to be here today. I want to welcome some of my colleagues up here right now. Rebecca Burrell, Director of Strategy and Development at OpenSignal, and Kareem Hassanein, Vice President of the Board of Directors of OpenSignal. Excellent. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning folks. Thank you so much for providing the opportunity to present. We, as you all know, are located on Northeast Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, where we've been for over 30 years with a commitment to creativity, technology, and social change. OpenSignal makes media production possible for everyone. Nationally, we're becoming known within our field for rethinking what a community media center can be and how we can leverage public resources for the greatest possible community benefit. OpenSignal provides to Portland cable broadcast on five channels airing locally and independently, produce content reaching 400,000 homes in the Portland metro area, a 10,000 square foot media facility including two media production studios, an immersive media lab, editing rooms and more. Affordable media education for adults and youth covering camera and production studio operation, editing, animation and much more. OpenSignal also provides world-class community engagement and artist support in the form of exhibitions, screenings, public events, in-house artist residencies, community meetups, and skill shares. Our Black Filmmaker Fellowship is the first program of its kind in the Pacific Northwest. We recently shared the Fellows' works in progress to a sellout audience at the Hollywood Theatre. Supporters of the program include Kamal Sinclair at the Sundance Institute and Emmy-nominated actor David Oyelowo, star of the movie Selma, pictured here with our Fellows. Of course, OpenSignal also provides professional production services. We film and broadcast every city council session as a means of facilitating access to information, enhancing transparency and accountability in service to a more civically engaged citizenry. In addition to the high quality programming that takes place on site at Open Signal, we also partner with dozens of schools and non-profits that serve historically marginalized communities, including McLaren Youth Correctional Facility, Outside the Frame, and Vanport Mosaic, offering media production and storytelling trainings. This year marks the end of a five-year collaboration with middle school students at Open School, a non-profit for students who need an alternative to a traditional public school. This is a program that I initiated at the Hollywood Theater in 2014 and brought over to OpenSignal in 2016. It was one of only 18 arts learning programs across the state, funded through a five-year Oregon Community Foundation Studio to School grant. The partnership included the installation of a media lab on OpenSchool's campus, seven artist residencies connecting media arts to math, science, and other curriculum. 10 teacher trainings, 284 total participating youth, and 800 community members engaged at public events. Tab Waterman, one of Open School's founding teachers, had this to say about the partnership with Open Signal. Open School is forever grateful for the amazing experiences you have provided our students. The chance to collaborate with such talented and caring people is a career highlight for me and life-changing for my students. Thank you. Now it's my pleasure to turn it over to Rebecca Burrell to provide further data about our work last year. Good afternoon. My name is Rebecca Burrell, Director of Strategy and Development at OpenSignal. I'm here to share some incredible signs of our growth since Portland Community Media became OpenSignal in 2017. Last year, Open Signal engaged nearly 4,000 community members through classes, studio and equipment rentals, and public programs. We provided media education to 804 students through 116 classes. We broadcast more than 10,000 new hours of cable programming in English, Romanian, Russian, Chinese, Farsi, and Spanish. We provided record-breaking access to OpenSignal's equipment library and production studios with more than 90,000 hours of access to cameras and nearly 130,000 hours of access to laptops. Overall, 41% more people checked out our equipment last year than the previous year. We also received local recognition for our work. Last summer, Executive Director Justin Harn won a 40 Under 40 Award from the Portland Business Journal. In November, we received a Light a Fire Award from the Portland Monthly Magazine, given to outstanding nonprofits across the city. You can see some of our board and staff here at the celebration. For our Black Filmmaker Fellowship, we received cover stories in The Scanner and The Portland Observer, and more press through The Oregonian, Blamit Week, KBOO, OPB, and more. OpenSignal has long survived through major support from the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission and the City of Portland. Thank you so much. But we know that our capital funding is declining every year and will continue to do so as cable subscriptions drop. In order to sustain and grow our programs, leveraging our public dollars to find additional revenue is a priority. In May 2018, we launched a radically inclusive membership program with the Pay What You Can annual fee. The program now includes well over 600 active members who have paid anywhere from zero to hundreds of dollars, depending upon their ability to give. In fiscal year 2018, we received competitive grants from the Collins Foundation, the Oregon Cultural Trust, the Oregon Community Foundation, and many others, as well as the MHCRC Community Capital Grant Program for our Black Filmmaker Fellowship. Overall, between fiscal year 2016 and 2018, despite substantial cuts to our capital budget, we grew our overall budget by 7% and our operating budget by 36%. Since last summer, we have also received major grants from the Equity Focus Mar Memorial Trust and the City of Portland Special Appropriations, both to support our Black Filmmaker Fellowship. We have also just received our first federal funding from the National Endowment for the Arts for our new media fellowship, which will help four artists explore virtual reality and other immersive media in the coming year. It is only because of the City of Portland's support that we have been able to leverage additional dollars to bring filmmaking and new digital media to the members of our community. Thank you for providing us with the vital funds we can build upon to grow and to ultimately make our organization an excellent national model for an arts technology and truly equity-based community media space. We depend upon your support now more than ever. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to take the opportunity first to thank the commissioners and the mayor for your time and attention this afternoon. As was stated previously, my name is Kareem Hassanein, and I'm vice president of the board at Open Signal. And this is the first time that I've ever spoken directly to representatives of my government. It's a particularly meaningful moment for me, especially because I'm doing so on behalf of an organization whose function I believe is essential to a democratic society, which I say without hyperbole. I spent much of my life in Egypt, which is a country where there is neither freedom of speech or of assembly, and certainly not of the press. All media is heavily censored. And a center like Open Signal, where people have access to professional training, state-of-the-art technology, and most importantly, the ability to document and share their own stories, would not be allowed to exist in my hometown. That is because Open Signal is a powerful asset for self-expression and civic engagement. Under Ifani Bell's exemplary direction, we just held the first screening of our Black Filmmakers Fellowship Program, which was a shining success, moving, motivating, and optimistic. In April, we held a sold-out Design Week event focused on democratizing VR as a tool for equitable placemaking, I worked closely with Open Signal staff to organize this cross-sector collaboration with Bora Architects, ZGF Architects, Vanport Mosaic, City Repair, PSU Center for Public Interest Design, and artists Matt Henderson, Sherita Town, and Alex Chu, where we invited the public to visit the city of Vanport and, in a VR experience, have a highlight of the stories of its residents. We then offered them a chance to explore imagined futures for the Central Eastside Industrial District and a mixed reality model on the bleeding edge of architectural practice. The event concluded with a panel discussing how urban design processes have been historically inaccessible to key communities and how immersive technology can help citizens engage more fully. We are here to serve the people of Portland, prioritizing service to those who have been historically underserved and underrepresented. Simply put, access to the means of 21st century communication and collaboration is access to democratic participation. It is imperative that these resources should not be at the exclusive disposal of large, wealthy private corporations. And OpenSignal is the only place in Portland offering needs-blind access to these tools and facilities. With the rapid development of immersive media, the Internet of Things, and the Smart Cities movement, we cannot afford to silently witness the exclusion of black and brown folks in yet another paradigm-shifting technological revolution. Self-representation at every level of media production is critical, from the global entertainment industry to the resurgence of community journalism. We can't wait for newsrooms and studios to find enlightenment via their revenue reports and write us in. We must write ourselves in to pop culture, placemaking, technology, and governance. The decision to sustain civic media access is in our hands. It's my hands and it's in your hands. That is why I contribute to this organization and why I'm asking the city to continue its partnership with us. Thank you for ensuring that conversations like this one remain possible and that Open Signal can continue to foster dialogue, creativity, and democracy in Portland. Thank you, and thanks for your comments up front. It's an honor that you're here and you're doing your first exercise. in front of a government body with us. We really appreciate it and appreciate your comments today. Thank you. Thank you. It's my privilege. Thank you, Karim, and thank you, Rebecca. I'm now going to invite LaFonny Bell, executive producer of OpenSignal Labs, to join me, as well as Janelle Neal, our director of production services. Thank you. Welcome. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Janelle Neal and you may have seen me behind the scenes at some of your community events. I'm the Director of Production Services for Open Signal. I've been working in community media for 13 years. I started out at Willamette Falls in Oregon City and arrived at Portland Community Media, now Open Signal, in 2013. I became the Director of Production Services at Open Signal in 2018, which means I am not only documenting and broadcasting your city council meetings, I also work with local clients to cover events including non-profits like the Oregon Robotics Tournament, Regional Arts and Council, and the Bus Project. Other government entities like regional Multnomah County, Metro, and TriMet, and private companies like the Winterhawks and BrandLive. So far in the fiscal year, my teams have completed 367 productions. That includes 129 city council meetings and regular sessions, work sessions, community budget events, which we broadcast on Xfinity Channel 30 and High Definition Channel 330 and online on the city's website. This year, we have provided 238 productions for other clients, our outside clients, Our outside client work provides necessary earned income that we use to fund and direct services to our citizens of Portland. Under my leadership, the production services department is constantly reconsidering possible technology as it evolves. We are deeply responsive to our clients' needs, and services allow them to be more progressive in a way that they engage the community through media. Increasingly, our production work also creates an opportunity for Portlanders to enter professional broadcast media. We hire crew members every year to help us document and broadcast events through cable broadcast, online streaming, and Facebook Live. My department also provides workforce training and professional networking to emerging media makers. Through our longstanding partnerships... At the Winterhawks hockey team this year, we piloted a program for pre-professionals who wanted to enter sports broadcasting. After receiving training at Open Signal and additional education on-site at the Memorial Coliseum, our trainees then get field experience supporting live broadcast for Winterhawk games in Seattle. These trainees are paid regular on-call wages for customized on-the-job training, and travel expenses are covered. They are eligible to work with us on an ongoing basis when training is over. They also gain track work experience that they can put on a job application and other media production positions. We expect to provide more training programs like this in the next fiscal year. Earlier this year we were also hired by private video production company called Brand Live to be a subcontractor for a major 12 team job for Nike. By the end of the production one of our producers performed so well on this project he was hired by Brand Live to take a full-time production job. OpenSignal is helping to connect members of our community to new educational and economic opportunities, to family wage jobs. Speaking personally, I had been working in a career towards the medical field, but after experiencing an accident, I used photography as a mode of therapy. Learning to make media and be part of the open signal community has made a difference for me. I believe that OpenSignal makes Portland a better place to live. And as a longtime staffer, I can say that I am excited by our recent growth and increased focus on equity. I feel confident that we are stronger than ever and we are headed in the right direction. Please help us to continue doing this work and grow to provide more and better services to the community each and every year. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Good afternoon. My name is Yifan Yu-Bell, and I'm the executive producer of OpenSignal Labs. And a couple of us talked about an event we had last Friday. And I'm not sure if you guys got an invitation, but it would have been amazing for you guys to have been there. It was really a transformative experience for, I think, all the people who showed up, and for myself, indeed, as well. And we also have a bit of a video that we played. at that event that will give you a little bit of a taste of what I will talk about thereafter. These are not stories that are translated by white people or people outside of the diaspora or the culture. Stories are finally being told about black people and about white people. And are being seen by everyone in the world. What if we had a creative black people sitting in a room trying to figure out how to tell stories? What are the results of that? That was kind of the seed around which this... this program developed. I wanted to tell stories with sort of black people and black culture and black identity. And I wanted to do it here in Portland and all places. I have a desire to tell stories about this place that haven't been told before. I mean, as far as like telling more interesting stories about black women, I mean, I think it's happening already. Like there's so many exciting news that I think is coming out and doing amazing work. I think the difference is having a black woman in positions of power to make decisions about who gets green-lighted and what stories get told and what gets aired. Um, especially if you don't have to ask to permission, or if you don't have to work as hard. People just talk about how white-pointing it is, and that's not my kind of experience. That's not the experience I want to have. I learned a lot of ground people too. I was different. My research is cultured and it's important to be a representation. I guess when I was a kid I used to watch TV shows and I would see actors doing something and I would be curious about like if I was the director telling them to do something and how I would tell them. And so having an opportunity to write a script and then direct it and get a group of actors to do, to, act out your words and act out your vision and I think that's a pretty awesome experience. I have visions and dreams but you still gotta pay bills and so just managing time is really important. I really didn't get into film too heavy until I moved to Portland. This particular program is about providing access to industry quality equipment and resources. And that's something that, you know, traditionally as black and brown people, we just did not have access to. I think it's important for people to have a space, especially black people, people of color. I think it's important for them to have a space. I think a lot of the fellowship isn't really just about filmmaking or being creative. It's just about being in space with people that you can relate to. So right now my creative focus is in telling stories to people who don't have the resources or the skills to do it justice. They have... you know, producers, is what they've got from their hard, passionate work. And so I wanna do that justice so that we all benefit from it. I mean, doing teaching or doing workshops at the library, whatever, working with youth is what I do. And you know, if something, if there is a community issue and it's keeping me up or whatever, you know, one of the multiple off-hours that I do are the ways that I get at that. You know, it's what we do, especially Open Signal, it's all about community for the producers there that I know and myself. For me, I've always been a one-man band, you know, and having an opportunity as far as working with people that you can trust to do things and actually being around people who are better at things than me has really helped me a lot. It allows me to move much faster. That is satisfaction. That is success for me is to create these themes of art on my own terms. And occasionally, those are the people. There's a lot of obstacles that are... I want this fellowship to last as long as it can. I want it to be a signpost in the world for other organizations, and I want to support storytelling and people of color in communities where workplaces are heard. And so I think growing the number of people who are fascinated by these technologies and and they do as the Telstra is, which I'm thinking about, I'm feeling like I'm just going to go all the way down to the lower level and those that go down to the first, all the way to the higher level. That's great. So that video was produced in partnership with Travel Portland and it was a result of a collaborative work between six fellows who we worked with during a pilot year that really kicked off an experiment for us. It was this project, and still is somewhat of a hypothesis. And the question being, what are the results of a program that specifically targets a group of people that is responsive to a movement that is happening all around us, not just here in Portland, but nationwide and globally? Absolutely. and that is to include voices of marginalized people in a larger conversation, not just about media, arts, and culture, but about politics, our environment, and other issues through which we can tell our stories through the media, film, and television. One thing that's particularly important about this program is that I think it stands out in our ambition, I think that there are a lot of programs here that I think are designed to help create content and media that helps people understand who they are as people. I think there are some diversionary programs around filmmaking. I think those are critically important to our community. I think this program has that goal, but I think it also has the goal of making a mark, setting an example, I think, in terms of how we are able to participate both from a technical standpoint, but how to actually break into the larger industry of Hollywood and filmmaking on a serious level. And I think that being in the Hollywood theater where we sold out the main theater, I think we beat Godzilla King of the Monsters that night, was a strong testament to what the community, how the community responds to that. So in terms of that hypothesis, is this something that's needed? I think the success of that event and some of the work that was just that was on display there really signaled to this community that we are serious not just in creating works that we want our friends to see or we want people here in Portland to see but for the world to see and the I work very closely with the Oregon Film Office the Portland Film Office Travel Portland and also several producers who are here actually bringing projects to the city And the signal from those folks who are both here in Portland and who are in Los Angeles and who are in New York City who are coming to work here is that they are looking for talent from people of color. And I think that that pressure that they're feeling to have black people on their sets, to have women and people of color working on their projects for months at a time or This is what we're being responsive to. And if people are going to come here and they're looking for people of color, we want to be able to say they exist and they're here and they have the skills and they're prepared and they're ready to work and to be ready to be involved in these projects. I think Rebecca mentioned that we had a really good conversation with David Oyelowo and his project and one of the first things that he said before he was bringing his Oprah produced project, The Waterman, here to town was he was looking for African American talent to serve as production assistants, camera assistants, and whomever he could sort of identify with this community. and we were able to sort of make connections in that way. But that won't be the last time that happens. If there's any indication of where Hollywood and where industry is going, I think that the inclusive nature of what we want to do is going to sort of fill that niche. It's going to be there to support this kind of participation. The other important thing to note is that These stories, I think, that the fellows are producing, and this is the first cohort. Like I said, there were six of them. We'll be developing, we'll be moving into our second year sometime towards the end of the fall and into the winter. We're going to bring in six more. And I think that that kind of growth, I think, is going to be critically important. Filmmaking is not a single-person sport. and to be able to have a growing cohort of people in order to sort of support individual productions is is is very very important. We've also had I think someone mentioned that We've had some critical support from folks at the Sundance Institute, which has been advising us in terms of how we structure our program and has completely sort of given us, I don't want to say the green light is sort of the best word that I can think of at this point, but I've signaled that this is exactly what they're looking for. There are opportunities to develop filmmakers in order to send them into pipelines of that such as you know Firelight Media, POV, Sundance. So the stories that we're creating here that tell different stories about Portland and about this community and about the Pacific Northwest filter up into a national sort of distribution network of content. So when I'm talking about having global impact I think I really am serious about the opportunity for the work that gets created in this particular project to be seen by millions of people and to help redefine and to correct the stories about the history of Portland and the Pacific Northwest. So this is a... extremely critical program. I think that in sort of working in this sort of equitable space, the goal is to support the entire community. I think everyone will benefit from the stories that come out of this program. And I think that everyone knows that Hollywood and filmmaking is an expensive proposition. And we need your support in order to help continue this program and to add more evidence if we need be to this hypothesis that black stories are important to our community. So thank you very much for your time today. We really appreciate all the support you guys have given to OpenSignal over the years, and we are hoping that that can continue for as long as it can. Thanks, Afan. Appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you for being here. That's the end of our presentation. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Carla, do we have public testimony on this item? No one else signed up. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? Well, I'd just like to say that I regret that I wasn't able to attend your event on Friday. Friday night is my parenting night, so unless it's something my kid is really excited about doing, you will probably not see me anywhere. But my arts and culture policy director, Polly Ann Burge, attended, and she said it was fantastic. So congratulations, and I hope it's the first of many. Thank you. Well done. Thank you. Carla, please call the roll. Well, thank you for the presentation. I'm a big fan and will continue to do what I can to support your work. I think film has become important in Portland. I think film has a tremendous future in Portland. The fact that we're a film-friendly environment, the fact that we have a Portland Film Office helping companies navigate regulations and other things here. The fact that Tim Williams is doing such a great job at the state level and the fact that Portland Community Media does such outstanding work locally are three of the pieces that fit together that give us an advantage. I just spent four days in L.A. The entire city is blanketed with ads for TV shows that end with the acronym FYC. I kept asking my kids, what the hell does FYC stand for? Well, it turns out it's for your consideration. Apparently, the only people who vote on all these awards live in Los Angeles, so all the signs are there and everything is up there for their consideration. Literally every bus was blanketed, every signpost, every billboard. It was quite astonishing. But I'm a fan. I appreciate what you're doing, and I'm very pleased to support this item. Hi. Eudaly. Eudaly. Well, I just want to quickly say I love OpenSignal. And, of course, I'm a big fan of DIY Media. I devoted most of the 22 years of my life before coming here to it. I love the way that you have both supported and expanded the original mission of Portland Community Media. And I'm probably going to offend someone by saying that I think in the past, the public has associated rather controversial, notorious characters with cable access. And it works. didn't necessarily seem like a welcoming, inclusive place for everybody, but now it truly does. And my only regret is I don't have time to come take classes from you. Maybe I'll have a podcast when I retire. So just thank you for your work for the capital city and the lowercase city and the community. I'm a big fan. I vote aye. Fritz. Fritz. Thank you so much for your work. I will not have a podcast when I retire. I will, however, watch a lot more important news media. It's been a pleasure to co-sponsor this ordinance and became a fan when I was in charge of... the Office of Cable Communication and Front Trace Management in my first term with Portland Community Media. As always in this presentation, I honor you, Justin Hahn, for what you've done at OpenSignal, following on from the good work of C.C. Hughley-Noel, who I think really started to turn the ship. and thank you very much for your work on the board as well it's always interesting in this presentation how the work of staff and the work of volunteers melds together so well and you've really done a really great job of embracing the need to do that to bring together the underrepresented and to make you the representatives of our community so thank you very much for doing that and particularly appreciate the way you step up and forecast all of our council meetings it's Just like you've been at all of them, we've been at all of them as well. So it's a little bit tiring just to think about it. And it's not always easy, especially when we go into other areas of the city outside of City Hall, and yet you make it work because you share our commitment to trying to be more open and transparent to everybody in the community. Thank you, Elizabeth Perez, newly of the Office of Community Technology, and just everybody who's been involved in this. It's amazing. It's a wonderful thing that you do with relatively small amounts of money. I was really pleased to see the pie chart with diversifying the income sources, and you must feel very good about that. So keep up the good work. Bye. Well, today's, in today's digital world more than ever underserved community members need access to multimedia technology training and tools. I think it's interesting the way this issue and the previous discussion we were having are blending together, I think, in important ways. Through the Digital Equity Action Plan, which has previously been adopted by the Council, the Office for Community Technology continues to lead a path forward for public agencies, businesses, and community nonprofits to work together in a more efficient way to address digital inequities in our community. So I want to thank the OCT staff. for their hard work on this grant agreement and ensuring the ongoing partnership between OpenSignal and the City of Portland. OpenSignal remains a very important partner to us. I look at all of the exciting things that you're doing in the new ways that you're engaging community members and utilizing new technologies in really positive ways. And then I think about the 129 city council sessions that you had to help orchestrate. That must be something of a letdown, but it's critically important in terms of transparency. And there's a lot of people in our community who can't come to city council for a variety of reasons, and you bring city council to them. In essence, you help them to be able to exercise their democratic rights through the technologies that you provide as well. To summarize this particular proposal, city funds under this grant with OpenSignal specifically focus on supporting people of color, English language learners, and people with disabilities to use media and broadband technologies. And these are, of course, the very same communities that are the most impacted by the digital divide that we're trying to overcome. So your engagement is critically important in closing that digital divide. This grant agreement also ensures that we're able to broadcast our City Council meetings and budget forums to increase transparency in public engagement in local government. I want to acknowledge having just sort of watched As a casual observer of the work you do, when we go out into the community, we go into unique spaces, you have to recreate everything from scratch. And it's almost magical the way you go about it, the way you troubleshoot potential problems in the field. You do it quickly, you do it gracefully, and it always seems to work out for the best in the end, and I appreciate that. I want to thank Justin Hart, of course, the director of OpenSignal. I want to thank your entire team who works so hard with both the community and the city of Portland to reach our digital equity goals. And I also want to thank Lisa Faust and Phoebe Ebright for their services on the OpenSignal board as the city of Portland's appointees. And it goes without saying they are volunteer citizens. They're dedicating their time and their talent and their energy, and we're really grateful for that. And, of course, Elizabeth Perez, for all the great work you are already doing and the work that you will continue to do with the Office of Community Technology. Thank you for an A-plus presentation. Thanks, everybody, for your testimony. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it. We'll see you soon. Colleagues, do we need to take a quick break or go right into the next items or second readings? I'm good. Keep going. Very good. All right. Carla, could you please read items number 613 and 614 together? 613, add evaluation of applicants for dwelling units to include renter protections in the form of screening criteria regulations. and 614, add security deposits prepaid rent to include renter protections in the form of security deposit regulations. Colleagues, both of these are second readings. They've already been... There have already been presentations on both of these ordinance. There's already been substantial public testimony and amendments to these ordinances. Is there any further discussion before we call the roll first on item number 613? Mayor. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor. No further discussion. I just want to read Commissioner Hardesty's statement on fair into the record before we take the vote. Commissioner Udailey, go for it. Thank you. Once again, this is Commissioner Hardesty. While I'm unable to be at council to cast my vote, I wanted to provide comments highlighting my support for both fair ordinances being voted on today by city council. As the city of Portland changes more and more, people are finding it challenging to rent housing. This problem is particularly felt by immigrants, people with criminal backgrounds, people with limited income, and communities of color. I applaud the hard work and deliberative process Commissioner E. Daly and her staff went through in preparing these proposals. While no one thing will solve the housing challenges everyday Portlanders face, these proposals are an important step forward to ensuring access to housing in the city is a goal that can be achieved by anyone. The protections provided to rental applicants and the limitations on screening fees and security deposit deductions will make renting more just and fair. That being said, I appreciate the concerns many small and mid-sized landlords have. Having to change how you've conducted business for years can be a challenge. I also recognize that many landlords do not discriminate in their business practices. But the fact remains that many do, and many Portlanders are impacted by these practices on a regular basis. These ordinances will provide protection from these discriminatory practices. I am happy that the city will be working to educate landlords on the new requirements, and I'm thankful for all the input I have received from residents, landlords, and community groups on this important subject. If I were present, this would be the place where I would emphatically vote aye. Very good. Thank you. Any further discussion? Carla, could you please call the roll on item number 613? Fish. Well, I'd like to begin by thanking my colleague, Commissioner Chloe Udaly, and her Director of Policy, Jamie Duhamel, for bringing this policy forward. In particular, I'd like to thank them for taking the time to get it right. Sometimes the hardest thing to do with big and meaningful policies like this is to wait. But the additional time is given the community and the council the opportunity to weigh in, to make suggestions, and to improve this policy. I'd like to thank many of our key community stakeholders for the hundreds of hours they volunteered to helping us strengthen this policy. Special thanks to Katrina Holland at the Community Alliance of Tenants, Alan Lazo with the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, Hannah Halloway with the Urban League, as well as the folks from Legal Aid, the Oregon Law Center, the Coalition of Communities of Color, SEIU Local 49. Members of Portland for Everyone, the New Portlanders Policy Commission, dozens of housing providers, elected officials, and the hundreds of community members who came out to testify over the past few months. In my ten years on council, I have been focused on removing barriers. in the workplace, in housing, and in our economy. From helping individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities find meaningful work at the city, to the creation of our first fair housing action plan, to banning the box, removing the question of criminal history on job applications, to creating Harper's Playground, the most inclusive and accessible playground in Portland, if not the nation, to removing gender designations and creating all user restrooms across the city. They all reflect a simple truth, that when you remove arbitrary barriers, everybody wins. This proposal has a lot of individual components that I deeply support. Security deposit reforms, standardized applications for tenants, tools for more fully implementing and supporting the Fair Housing Act. Education for landlords and tenants, clear rules for the entire community to abide by. Now we continue to hear concerns from critics, some say they need more time, Others that these regulations may be burdensome and that new regulations will drive up the cost of housing or decrease the supply. I appreciate that Commissioner Udalli has delayed the rollout until next year. This will give us time to do an intensive education campaign to landlords and tenants. And that's why I also proposed an amendment to require annual audits. And as we draft regulations and work with the community, we will have the flexibility to make changes as necessary. to ensure that our goals are met without unduly burdening anyone. In my role as a policymaker, constructive criticism is welcome if it leads to better policy. But I reject the efforts by some in this debate to mischaracterize the law and to target and demonize classes of people like those exiting the criminal justice system who clearly deserve a second chance. During my service, we have made big investments in combating homelessness and increasing the supply of affordable housing. Since Commissioner Udalli joined this council, we have sharpened our focus on the rights of renters. Building in protections for the 47% of people in our community who rent, many of whom who are rent burdened. Chloe, I deeply appreciate your leadership in this area. Finally, I want to thank my Jamie, Jamie Dunphy, for all of his work in tracking this issue and briefing me and helping me to understand the dynamics of this debate. Jamie, you've been a great partner and I've appreciated all the time and energy you've put into this. Today, I vote aye. Udailey? Colleagues and community members, I want to apologize in advance for what is very well my lengthiest closing remarks. But considering it took us two years to get to this point, I think I deserve a little extra air time. We live in the wealthiest country in the world, yet we learned this week that there is not a state left in our union where a full-time worker earning federal minimum wage can afford a modest two-bedroom apartment. In Portland, where our minimum wage is significantly higher than the federal minimum, a full-time minimum wage worker cannot afford the average rent on a one-bedroom apartment. They can't afford the average rent on a studio apartment. And they cannot even afford the average rent for a room in a shared house. We are experiencing a national housing crisis driven by our federal government's divestment in affordable housing. By state and local governments who have failed to meet the growing need for affordable housing. to adequately regulate their rental markets, or to protect and stabilize tenants. By Wall Street, who is not only responsible for our housing crash, but has been snapping up thousands upon thousands of multi-family and single-family residents in our region, while showing rampant disregard for the health, well-being, and very lives of the people who reside in them. And finally, by multiple industries, not the least of which is the landlord lobby, with a vested financial interest in extracting every penny from renters with no regard for the impact on their renters, our communities, or our local economy. We know that half of the renters in Portland are cost burdened by housing expenses. We know that housing discrimination, both intentional and unintentional, is still prevalent. We know there's an overwhelming correlation between affordability and homelessness. The challenges and needs are overwhelming. We need 24,000 additional deeply affordable units just to house our extremely low-income residents. It's going to take many years, possibly decades, to fill that gap. But something we can achieve much more rapidly is protecting and stabilizing tenants and decreasing barriers to securing housing, which is critical to our overall housing strategy. This policy package is a significant contribution to that effort. I think I've talked enough about our housing crisis, our failures, and the devastating outcomes of this crisis over the course of the three public hearings this item has had. Today, I want to focus the rest of my remarks on the lessons I've learned while developing this policy with my team and our many community stakeholders. When we began the challenge of changing tenant protections in Portland, we knew we would face intense scrutiny and resistance. As mostly tenants ourselves in my office, we had our own experiences of obstacles and challenges that informed our perspectives and our priorities. But what we didn't fully realize and what we had to learn was that extrapolating from our own limited experience wasn't enough. It took some courageous partners to look us in the eye and tell us we were not centering the right people, those who face the most disproportionate impacts of our housing policies. What we learned was that racism and discrimination are so deeply embedded in everything that we do, that despite our best intentions, even our own policy-making processes were flawed, and without genuinely confronting that reality, we stood to perpetuate harm to many of the people we were setting out to serve. It's no secret that Portland has a long history of overtly racist housing laws, the effects of which still shape our city today. What we fail to acknowledge more readily is that many of our current laws continue to uphold discriminatory practices. While the language may be less explicit now, the effect is just as clear. We continue to see communities of color and especially black residents pushed to the margins of our city and beyond at an alarming rate. The heart of the fair access and renting policies is about addressing the criteria that continue to be used as a proxy for race. Which includes criminal records, income requirements, and credit scores, which leads to discrimination and disparate outcomes. We would have never come to these policy solutions if we did not consider the unique experiences, needs, and barriers faced by black renters in Portland. The policies before us today would not have been as strong if they were not developed in partnership with our community allies. I believe as policymakers we are most effective when we listen to and champion the solutions put forth by impacted communities. When we recognize individuals not just as stakeholders, but as the best experts on their own lives. We must take the time to develop authentic relationships, listen with an open mind and heart, and have the faith and courage to advance these community-developed solutions. Believe me when I tell you that we also turned to the industry experts. While we did receive input and support from some housing providers, what we received most of was opposition to any change at all. My staff spent untold hours with landlords, big and small, imploring them to provide some meaningful suggestions that would get us to the outcomes that we all agree on. What we heard from most landlords is that while everyone agrees that discrimination is wrong, no one wants to be compelled to do anything about it. We heard from small landlords that they're not professional enough to implement our policies, and from large landlords and property management companies that they are too professional. What substantive suggestions we did get from them that did not compromise the outcomes of increased access were incorporated into the final policy, including the two-track system that gives landlords a choice about how they screen applicants. I do not claim that the fair access and renting package solves all our problems, nor do I believe the communities themselves are happy and satisfied with everything in it. But together we built the most comprehensive screening criteria reform policy in the country, and I am proud of how we did it and why. I want to thank everyone who worked with us to make this happen, and because we worked with a lot of people, this is going to take a few more minutes. First, Fair Housing Council of Oregon, especially Yoni and Alan. You held our feet to the fire on fair housing guidance and got us to abandon a different version of the policy that went too far astray of what the federal government says is best practice. Because of that, our policy is defensible and its foundation is strong. Thank you. Community Alliance of Tenants, especially Katrina and Pam. Thank you. You were the ones who first alerted us to the ways in which our policies could cause more harm than good if we didn't center the lived experiences of people of color first and foremost in the work we were doing. You were with us every step of the way to make sure we stayed focused on the most impacted communities, and you weren't afraid to push back when we didn't. Thank you. Urban League of Portland, who has turned out in force for every single one of these hearings. Everyone in red is with Urban League. Could we just give them a round of applause, especially Hannah? much like Kat, you were steadfast in your stance that this policy must make actual change for impacted communities. You openly refused to endorse until you were confident that they were strong enough to do good for black communities. You pushed us continually to be brave and to imagine what was possible. Your official endorsement is one of our proudest achievements. Thank you. Oregon Law Center and Legal Aid Services of Oregon, especially Christina and Becky, your constant vigilance and your expertise pertaining to what tenants really face in the rental housing market was invaluable. You also steered us towards some of the most profound research available and guided us on what other cities and states are moving toward to make sure we're in alignment with recognized best practices. Thank you. One App Oregon, especially Tyrone, while we may still disagree about the potential outcomes of this policy, I know you worked very closely with my office on your own time and took some real risks with your business to help us get the data we needed to make sure we were moving in the right direction. Your platform gave us the informational foundation we needed to ensure we remained centered on the communities we intended to serve. Thank you, wherever you are today, Tyrone. Central City concern, especially Mercedes. While you came a little later into the policy development, the work you did to support these changes, as well as the immense amount of experience and policy brilliance you brought to the table, was invaluable. We got over the finish line in no small part thanks to your efforts to build bridges where we still had chasms. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Lisa Bates, without your expertise in data and housing research, we would have never been able to demonstrate the potential outcomes of increased housing access for the tenants we centered. We are forever grateful that you made time to work with us and use your award-winning skills to strengthen what the community has always known needed to happen to open doors for renters facing extraordinary barriers. Thank you. I would also like to thank the many people and organizations that spent untold hours with us developing this policy and pushed us to understand the broad complexities and its impacts on everyone in the system. So big thank yous to New Portlanders Policy Commission, Margo Black and the members of Portland Tenants United, Southeast Works, Northwest Pilot Project, Portland Commission on Disability, Home Forward, Human Solutions, Reach CDC, Transition Projects, PCRI, the Rental Services Commission, the Human Rights Commission, Southwest Corridor Tenant Leadership Group, the Fair Housing Commission, Pacific Screening, National Association of Professional Background Screeners, Cascade Property Management, Arc Transitions, ERCO, and Tim Pitts with Think Real Estate. I want to thank the people and organizations who gave testimony or sent in letters of support, including Unite Oregon, members of... the Portland for Everyone Coalition, Coalition for Communities of Color, Portland African American Leadership Forum, Oregon Public Health Institute, JOIN, Cully Housing Action Team, Bridge Housing, Catholic Charities of Oregon, Rental Providers for Positive Change, Hacienda CDC, Housing Development Center, Madeline Kovacs, Rose CDC, and small landlords like Henry Kramer and others who stuck their neck out within their own industry to support tenants. I want to thank the external parties and elected officials that lent their endorsements of our work, including Policy Link, Congressman Earl Blumenauer, County Chair Deborah Kafoury, County Commissioners Jessica Vega-Peterson, Sharon Mirren, and Sushila Jayapal, and Metro Councilors Bob Stacey, Sam Chase, and Shirley Craddock. I want to thank my colleagues for their time, their advice, their support, and right now their patience on this complex issue we ask them to face head on. I know it wasn't easy to absorb and understand what took us a couple of years to create. In particular, I want to thank Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Fish. I'm grateful for the trust they put in the community and in us. Thank you to the mayor for allowing Keep It Alexander and the Portland Housing Bureau to attend many development meetings and for lending input into the final drafts. I'm almost done, everyone. And I'm really not trying to be obnoxious. all of these individuals and organizations deserve to be recognized and I think it's really important for the public to know the lengths we went to to engage and to collaborate and to listen in the development of this policy finally I want to thank my director of policy Jamie Buchamel for spending the better part of the last two years developing these policies and weaving her way through all the organizations, housing providers, advocates, and lawyers to arrive at where we are today. And to my entire team for fielding calls, directing traffic, pushing out our message, and for always upholding our values with everyone who engaged with our office. I'm proud of the policy our office helped create with the community. And I'm excited to see how it changes the way tenants access housing over time. We know it will take time for tenants to understand and for the industry to adjust. We know some fine-tuning will be necessary, but we also know that research and data have laid a solid foundation for the decisions we made. We know that doing nothing isn't working for people who have long been neglected by those of us who have the power to change it. Whatever challenges we may face, we can feel confident that in the end we are doing the right thing for the right reasons. Jamie's making me say this. It's true. This is a moment. I will cherish for the rest of my life. I vote aye Michelle that was a beautiful speech and I hope you'll post it to your website. It was not a single word too long It was really good Thank you for explaining how you came about your decision and all the partnerships and thank you to all the partners who are here today and who have been part of making this this product When I moved to the United States, I lived in a Salvation Army single room occupancy residence for two months before subletting an attic room in an apartment close to the hospital where I trained. I was just thinking about that. I could only stand upright in the middle of the attic. So if I stoop, that's because I did that for quite some time. I lived below the poverty level for seven years, moving apartments four times. I've also been a landlord when we rented out our first home in Portland for five years between our family growing up too large for it and my parents-in-law retiring to it. So I have lived experience on both sides of this issue. First, thanks to all of my staff for their input and advice on these issues. And thanks also, as was mentioned, to the Community Alliance of Talents and the Urban League in particular. To all the community members who advocated on all sides of this issue, this has been a solid discussion and I have appreciated being part of it. Rwy'n rhannu ymrwymiadau'r Cyngor Ynni Ddyddol i ymchwil am solwyddo polisi sy'n cael ei ddarparu i'w gynnal yn dewis cyflogau lleoliadau mewn marchnwyr sydd wedi gwneud i bobl yn gwerthu, yn enwedig Cymreigion Cymreigion a chymunedau eraill o gwbl, ac lle mae ymarferau ymddygiadol yn parhau, er bod llawiau ymddygiadau yn ffurf. Pan es i'n cofio'r prosiect yma, roeddwn i'n hynod o gyffrous oherwydd, dros y cyfnod, rydyn ni wedi cael eu cyfrifoedd yn dangos bod ymddygiad ym Diolch am y cyfnod rydych chi wedi'i ddefnyddio ar y proses hwn, Cyffredinol Newdailey. Rwy'n sylweddoli'r amserau rydych chi a'ch staff, yn enwedig Jamie Duhamel, wedi'u rhoi i ddatblygu polisi teuluol iawn dros y ddwy blynedd diwethaf, ac rwy'n hafforddi eich cymeriad i nifer o bryderon gan ein cydweithwyr ar y Cyngor. Rwyf wedi darllen trwy llawer o e-bostion, yn ogystal â chymharu amser o ddysgu. Diolch i bawb a wnaeth y amser i rannu eich profiadau, penderfyniadau, ymddygiadau, arbenigedd a gwestiynau. Mae elfennau yn y polisi leoliadau yn dda, fel gwella'r broses ar gyfer pobl sy'n profi disabiliadau a sicrhau bod ffeeiau cais yn cael eu cyflwyno os nad ydynt yn cael eu defnyddio wrth brosesu'r gwasanaeth. Byddwn i'n cefnogi'r newidiadau hyn yn eu hunain. Dydw i ddim yn gallu cefnogi'r gwylltau'r Un o'r ffynwyr sylfaenol yw'r cyfnod aros 72 awr, ymlaen â cyflwyniad cyntaf. Rwy'n hyfforddi'r ddylen hwn i allu i bobl sydd angen help, amser i gael materion ymgysylltu, yn ymwneud â gwasanaethau trafod, a chyhoeddi fias gan ymgyrch cyntaf. Mae'r problem yn ei fod yn cynyddu'r fias, ond yn ei gweithredu. Byddai'n fwy cyfrifol yn ymwneud â chyhoeddi'r fawrth, ac yn ymwneud â'r cyfrif. Mae rhoi'r adroddiad yn galluogi pobl sy'n gallu cymryd amser o weithio neu teulu i ymgwrdd â phan, neu sydd â gwasanaeth 5G internet yn gychwyn. Rwyf hefyd yn bwysig am yr anghenion cymysgedd o ddefnyddio cynhyrchwyr i fuddsoddi mewn systemau i allu cymryd 72 awr, ac yna trafod yr awdurdodau a gyflwyno. Nid ydw i wedi gallu gwneud hynny fy hun pan oeddwn i'n llynu fy mhrofiad cyntaf. Yn y ddiwedd, roeddwn i'n fwyaf o ddoddwr ar y llawr, yn ôl y cyfrifiad hwn. Fe wnes i adnodd yn yr Oregon a chyflwynnais y teulu cyntaf sydd wedi'i ddefnyddio. Fe wnes i gwrtau credid ond doeddwn i ddim yn gwybod beth oedd y canlyniadau. Doeddwn i ddim yn gofyn am hanes gwych. Doeddwn i ddim yn gofyn neu'n gwerthu'r ganlyniadau'r teulu oherwydd roeddwn i'n meddwl mai'n eu busnes eu bod yn gallu gael y llawr neu ddim. Fel canlyniad, 3 mis yn ôl, fe wnaethon nhw symud allan, yn Mae llawer o bobl yn gallu nid cymryd ffwrdd yn ffwrdd yn Portland. Mae'r polisi hwnnw ddim yn soli'r problem honno, mae'n gallu ei gyflawni. Mae un ffordd yn ei wneud drwy gael stoc ymweld â'r cyflog. Nid yw'r arwain yn ddweud y gwirfoddau eu bod yn gwerthu eu hwynebu oherwydd y polisi hwnnw. Maen nhw wedi'i gael. Rwyf wedi clywed o'r rhain. Mae wedi'u ddweud i mi. Mae wedi'u ddweud i ni i gyd yn e-bost. Rwyf wedi clywed hyn yn unigol o arwain, yn ogystal â rheolwyr, sydd wedi cyfeirio'r polisi arwain yn ffyrddol, fel rheswm bod nifer o arwain yn dod ato i'w gosod eu hwynebu ar y marchn. Bydd llawer o'r teuluoedd unedig a duplexau yn cael eu I've heard testimony from a developer who's put an affordable housing project on hold here in Portland and is planning instead to develop in Clackamas County. Here's what another one said. We have delayed starting three projects, one for 39 micro units, all inclusionary, another one for 48 low-income situations, and a third one on northeast 102nd, close to Macs and Goods grocery stores in the Gateway corridor, potentially bigger than the first two. We have asked for no subsidies, but Portland's deciders are making it too difficult for developers, owners and managers. The word in investor meetings is that other cities are more attractive for investing. I think that's really sad because I think what we need, as well as fair housing and rental policies, is more supply. Another way the new rules will drive up housing costs is by more of the small owners who currently own 60% of Portland's rental users' units, changing from managing their own units to hiring property management companies and lawyers. A constituent informed me that already, over the past four years, over $6 billion in multifamily housing in Portland has been purchased by large corporations. Owners with a small number of units know their tenants by name and develop relationships with them. Multi-state corporations maximize profits for their investors. Perhaps the most troubling in this policy is the lack of an exception for people convicted of violent crimes, even rape and murder, in the low-barrier screening process. On the day of release from prison from a seven or more year sentence, every landlord in Portland would be required to accept that application if they use the low barrier screen criteria. Will any landlords choose to use the low barrier process with that in mind? I'm concerned that the actions the city and state have taken collectively will have an adverse impact on the supply of affordable housing. I expect that those landlords who do choose to keep their rental properties will increase rent significantly on vacant units, pricing out those very people we are trying to help with our actions. What this means is the population we intend and need to support the most, communities of colour and lower income renters, will not be better off as a result. I know that the Portland Housing Bureau is up to the task to lead implementation, and I want to acknowledge the amount of work that still lies ahead in developing the administrative rules, education and ongoing monitoring of policy impacts. The Housing Bureau will need more staff to implement this policy. Thank you to Director Shannon Callaghan and her team for taking this on, and Mayor Wheeler for being willing to do so also. Not all landlords are bad actors, and very few are sitting on bags of money, as Tyler and Paul of One App and others testified. Rather than pass a complex policy that is administratively burdensome and costly to catch a few problematic owners, I believe there are proven methods that we should have focused on, such as increased education and training for both landlord and tenant, and increased enforcement of existing fair housing laws. Of course, that's not mutually exclusive. I hope we do that anyway. In closing, I have to say I very much hope that I am wrong. This is one policy I would be more than happy to see work brilliantly and increase the supply of rental housing for those who need it the most. Well, I'd like to start off expressing my thanks to Commissioner Udalli, to Jamie and to the entire Udalli team. There's probably been no one more frustrating to work with on this policy than myself. And I want to acknowledge that. I want to acknowledge the hard work that Commissioner Udalli has done in the community. And I also want to acknowledge that the policies that we're voting on today have gone through literally dozens of drafts. And I want to thank you Commissioner Udalli. Many of those revisions came at the request of the Housing Bureau, of which I'm the commissioner in charge. Many of those came at the request of my team. And I'm grateful to you for thoughtfully considering those revisions. I also want to thank my colleagues for agreeing to several amendments that I put on the table two weeks ago that addressed a number of my specific concerns. I also want to note that many of the concerns that were originally stated to me by landlords early in this process, i.e., many drafts ago, many of those concerns have already been addressed through revisions and through amendments. I want to be very clear that there's no question in my mind that these policies are rooted in important values and they're based on real issues that exist in this community. In particular, there is still far too much discrimination in access to rental units for people of color, for people of lower income, and for people who experience disabilities in our community. That is not to say that all landlords are bad actors. I personally believe the vast majority of landlords are playing by the rules. They're already playing by many of the rules that are established in these policies and We heard what I thought was very valuable testimony from them. We also heard heart-rending testimony from people about the very real need for change in this community. The coalition supporting these proposals is large and diverse, as Commissioner Udailey pointed out. And the values underlying these proposals, the screening proposal in particular, are vital to the community. That said, I want to offer a reality check. The work is most certainly not done with the passage of these ordinances. We can't ignore that the reality is that we have much work to do in the months ahead. We have to align our values with sound policy and measurable deliverables that are associated with these policies. As Housing Commissioner, it's of particular importance to me that we be able to measure who is being helped by these policies and to what degree. Much of the actual implementation of this policy is going to be left to rulemaking by the Portland Housing Bureau. As the Housing Commissioner, I look forward to working with my colleagues, and I look forward to working with the coalition that helped to shape these policies to ensure that they're implemented as successfully as possible. It's my goal to have an intentional effort to center the affected communities and to make policy changes and suggestions in hopes of clarifying how these proposals can best help the community. I also want you to know that I've weighed out the requested changes to determine how our housing operators, owners, and management companies would implement these policies. And I've asked hard questions of Commissioner Udailey and her team about potential unintended consequences from this policy that would contribute to our city's biggest housing issue, which is the availability of affordable housing supply. We also have to acknowledge that as of this moment, there is no ongoing budget associated with the implementation of these policies. The council's going to have to engage in some very difficult conversations going forward about funding priorities, and I want to again state that My belief, in fact, I'll just say this is a fact. I will not support the funding of these proposals coming at the expense either of the public safety or from affordable housing production. So we will have to find alternative means to fund these proposals. There are of course also legal, administrative, and cost uncertainties that will have to be ironed out in the months ahead. Commissioner Fish offered an amendment which I supported, which will give us the opportunity to periodically assess the results of this program, to monitor access, to monitor administrative burdens and costs, and the impact on the housing market, if any, and to make any adjustments to the policy as necessary. For my team, I want to thank Cupid Alexander, who has spent two years working on this proposal and in advising me and helping me to frame questions and to seek answers to those questions. I want to thank the Housing Bureau Director, Shannon Callahan, for doing likewise. But I want to end where I started, which is with Commissioner Udailey. It is my belief that you could have passed this proposal some time ago without the revisions that I requested and without any of the amendments that I proposed. I appreciate the fact that you slowed down to give me the time to process how these potential policies could impact. the affordable housing market in our community. And I appreciate your graciousness in accepting both the revisions that were proposed, as well as supporting many of the amendments that I put on the table. That is what I would describe as the spirit of collaboration. We talked about it earlier this morning that nobody gets everything they want, but at the end of the day, a five person council is based on pragmatic compromise with all of us hoping to move the interests of the community to the forefront. And I believe every member of this council has worked hard to find that space. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call the roll on 614. Fish. Aye.
 Udaly.
 Aye. Fritz. So this is the security deposit regulations. That is correct. And it's really unfortunate. This measure has received far less public input than the screening criteria. It's been said that the two work together, but regrettably I believe the two together compound the problems for both owners and renters. The security deposit rules also add huge administrative burdens for both owners and renters. A reputable housing provider, affordable housing providers told me there are multiple issues concerning the practical application of this policy. For instance, there's lack of clarity on who bears the burden of repair costs. Given the amount of paperwork required, even well-intended landlords may miss things and be subject to steep penalties. As I can attest, the cost of repairs often far exceeds the security deposit, as was the case when we were renting out my ex-home. What happens if an owner bought a home that was not new construction or just recently acquired it? How do they then prove the original cost and depreciation of items they didn't buy? Like the screening criteria policy, I wonder whether the proposed solution is in proportion to the scale of the problem. And so, again, I hope I'm wrong. I vote no. Wheeler. So, um... I almost hope to never see another depreciation schedule for the rest of my life. And I'm sure you feel the same way, Commissioner Udaily. I want to thank you for working with Cupid and working with other members of my team in the Housing Bureau to refine this policy. I vote aye, the ordinance is adopted. And with that, we are adjourned. Thank you everyone.