Good afternoon, everybody. This is the June 14th, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Fritz? Wheeler? Here.
 Here. Colleagues, Commissioner Fritz asked that I note that she's absent on city business. She's attending the League of Oregon Cities meeting as the city's representative, and she has indicated that she will certainly review the record prior to voting next week, and we're appreciative of Commissioner Fritz doing that good work at the League of Oregon Cities. So she is absent.
 noted as excused this afternoon. Our first item is item 656. Do we want to read the rules? We decided to defer that today. 656, authorize the renaming of Southwest Stark Street to Southwest Harvey Milk Street in the City of Portland. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This is indeed a great moment here in this city chamber today.
 to consider the renaming of Southwest Dark Street to Southwest Harvey Milk Street. And this was a result of residents who have...
 earned signatures to bring this forward through the arduous process that we impose for street renamings. And so they have met the litmus test, and I am honored to be the commissioner to bring this forward today. And I'm going to turn it over to my staff person, Stacey Brewster, who has done an outstanding job of working with the petitioners to put together the program today. So I'll turn it over to Stacey Brewster.
 Hello. Can you hear me? Yep. So before you today, obviously, is the application to rename Southwest Dark Street after Harvey Milk. I'm Stacey Brewster, Communications Director for Commissioner Dan Saltzman. With me is Kurt Kruger with Portland Bureau of Transportation. To answer any questions you may have, I'm just going to do a quick overview of the process that got us here today. Okay.
 I did want to just start with a quote that comes from the Harvey Milk Street Project Committee's webpage. It's a short bio on Harvey Milk, just to set the stage here. Harvey Milk was a visionary civil and human rights leader who became one of the first openly gay elected officials in the United States when he won a seat on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 1977.
 Milk's unprecedented loud and unapologetic proclamation of his authenticity as an openly gay candidate for public office and his subsequent election gave never-before-experienced hope to LGBTQ people everywhere at a time when the community was encountering widespread hostility and discrimination. His remarkable career was tragically cut short when he was assassinated nearly a year after taking office. Thank you.
 Throughout the materials and in the council documents that I filed, I used the term LGBTQ. Obviously, you all know that stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, but in no means do I mean to think that that is a perfect term. I know that it incorporates a large umbrella of our community, including those who identify who are asexual, pansexual, non-binary, and two-spirit and intersex.
 So I just wanted to lay that out there. So here's the fun part. Chapter 17.93, Renaming City Streets. It's actually pretty straightforward for folks to come forward and rename city streets. Any person or group can apply.
 Streets are only to be renamed, this comes directly from City Code, after prominent persons who have achieved prominence as a result of their significant positive contributions to the United States and or the local community are a real person and have been deceased at least five years. PBOT accepts just one application at a time and by City Code undertakes just one major street renaming per year.
 Prior major street renaming honorees, both before and after that code was written, include Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Bill Nadeau, Rosa Parks, and Cesar E. Chavez. The next piece of code is about how we select the piece of street that we're renaming. This picture's not great, but...
 You'll remember we were back here in February to grant an exemption to this application so that it could move forward through the process in good faith, checking all the boxes as they went, to only rename Southwest Stark Street rather than Stark throughout the city. City code would have indicated that we had to rename all of Stark throughout the city, even though Southwest and Southeast Stark are separated by the Willamette River and Waterfront Park.
 So this is the map of what we're looking at. It's 13 blocks from where it intersects with West Burnside all the way to Nato Parkway. And council felt in February that the committee made a compelling case in terms of downtown's association with the LGBTQ community historically.
 So how did we get here today? I will let the committee members and special guests speak to how they got to the process of selecting Harvey Milk and Southwest Dark Street. They'll speak to that. But I just wanted to sort of run you through how we got through all the steps here. So first we have back in the fall, we were approached by the committee about renaming a city street.
 As you know, PBOT can only accept one application at a time, and there were a couple already in the door, so we were sort of in a holding pattern. So we waited for the decks to be cleared at PBOT. We thought at the time that it would only be a few months. They were sort of in various phases and would probably not be going the route of street renaming. So in the meantime, the committee announced their efforts publicly. They launched their website, continued to gather endorsements. Their website's listed here, harveymilkpdx.org.
 In February, we got the green light from PBOT to go ahead with the application. All the decks were cleared. Council voted to waive the portion of city code so the application could proceed. And immediately, because we passed out on emergency, PBOT was able to give the committee petition forms to begin application.
 gathering signatures. And just to remind you of city code, city code indicates that you would get either 75% of abutting addresses signatures or signatures from 2,500 Portlanders at large, residents of Portland.
 This is still on here for February because even though they have six months to collect those signatures, they came back to us in about three weeks with 2,800 signatures of Portland residents. So really enthusiastic, very quickly gathered those. So the application itself, you have it in your packets.
 But it had checked a lot of the boxes and went above and beyond in terms of what they provided to both the historian panel and all the people considering this and included a support letter from...
 Harvey Milk's surviving nephew, Stuart Milk, who's here with us today. A biography, a list of previous honors received, a support letter from the Downtown Neighborhood Association. I put an extra copy at the dais for you all. As well as the committee's vision for the project and their narrative on the choice of Southwest Dark Street.
 They also went above and beyond and gathered a ton of endorsements from community organizations and leaders. I'm not going to read them all to you now, but we can just briefly flash to them. These are some of the community organizations that endorsed this before their application went in. Community leaders that endorsed this. Businesses on Southwest Stark Street and other Portland businesses. Thank you.
 So in March, we, Commissioner Dan Saltzman is the commissioner in charge of PBOT, appointed a historian panel. Many of those folks are here today and will be speaking. That included Cindy Comfort, retired nonprofit attorney and historian, Darcelle 15, the longest performing drag queen in the country, and owner of the longest running drag show west of the Mississippi, Kathleen Sadat, lifelong civil rights activist and musician, and Carrie Timchuk, the executive director of the Oregon Historical Society.
 So that historian panel had their public meeting in April. They discussed every aspect of the application, including the history of Benjamin Stark, and voted unanimously to approve this application.
 Meanwhile, the city auditor was sending postcards, surveys that people could return anonymously any abutting address on or abutting Southwest Dark. So not only people with addresses on Southwest Dark, but if you are in a building that has a wall on Southwest Dark, even if your address isn't Southwest Dark, you got one of these postcards with the option of filling that out and sending back to the auditor. Okay.
 And then another thing that's not in city code, but I wanted to talk about, I think it'll be referenced here today because it comes from the manuals
 and the vision laid out by the committee from the outset, which is that we convened a meeting with PBOD and the Regional Arts and Culture Council committee members and members of council staff to discuss additional ways that if we were to do this street renaming, how we could honor the struggle for LGBTQ civil rights and the legacy of local LGBTQ heroes and places. So that work is ongoing. We've done a walkthrough with staff, and there's a lot of ideas being generated there.
 everything from PBOT end of doing a rainbow crosswalk to bigger ideas of historical markers and artwork and things like that. Folks may mention it, but the Harvey Milk Street Project Committee has a booth at this weekend's Pride Festival, so you can check them out there and share your ideas on what you would want to see happen for this then.
 And then all the other steps go directly to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. I've used the abbreviation PSC on here for anyone who's following. The historian panel sent their unanimous recommendation letter. The auditor reported the results of their postcard survey to the Planning Commission. The vast majority of those were non-responsive, about 80%. We had 67 return in opposition and 46 in support.
 And then PBOP provided their budget impact statement, exactly how much this would cost to manufacture the signs, install them, and by city code remove the old Southwest Dark Street signs in five years. And the total whopping cost of that is about $8,000. So just to keep that in mind as we're talking about this and what the scope of this is, it's rather small.
 So on May 15th, the Planning and Sustainability Commission held their public hearing. There was public testimony. All the testimony was in favor, none against. The commission asked some questions and voted unanimously to send a recommendation letter to council, which they did June 1st, which you have. And really, those were all the steps. We've gotten to city council in remarkable speed. Thank you.
 As a Gay City employee, I didn't want to lose this moment just to say what an honor and how grateful I am to have been working on this project. I'm probably the longest-serving gay staff member in elected office here in this building, almost 10 years, and proud.
 I really cognizant working on this project, what Harvey Milk has meant to me and how many people have been involved in the fight and the struggle for our humanity and dignity in this community. So just to them, I just want to say thank you. Thank you. And that's really it. I want to allow if you have any questions for us or PBOT, and then we can get into our invited testimony. Thank you. Good presentation. Okay. Yeah.
 So first up, we have Mickey Gillette with the Harvey Milk Street Project Committee, Stuart Milk, Harvey Milk's nephew and the founding chair of the Harvey Milk Foundation, and Nancy Hack, co-executive director of Basic Rights Oregon. Good afternoon and welcome. The microphones move around, so you can pull them closer if you'd like. And we find about this distance here works really well, and the only requirement is name for the record. Appreciate it.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. My name is Mickey Gillette. Is that too close? That's perfect. That's good? Okay. I'm going to speak about the process that our committee went through in bringing about this project. We're a diverse grassroots coalition of folks representing community leaders, nonprofits, and the Southwest Stark business community.
 We met and discussed potential LGBTQ icons for the renaming, who met the two requirements in the city code, which were that the person be a prominent individual and that they be deceased for five plus years. After the deliberations, we decided that Harvey Milk is a compelling choice, that it's a name that will be recognized internationally by allies and by LGBTQ folks alike.
 We see this portion of the project, the renaming, as a starting point, creating a space and opportunities to recognize additional LGBTQ icons, such as Marie Equi, Keaston Lowry, Marsha P. Johnson, and Sylvia Rivera, and others that we discussed as a committee.
 We also, we're in the process, as Stacey mentioned, of brainstorming with PBOT and with RAC about these additional projects. We wanna be cognizant that we're in Oregon and we'd like to be able to talk about Oregon LGBTQ history and Oregon LGBTQ figures, but we see Harvey Milk is a really great choice for this renaming project.
 So I appreciate you holding this hearing today and considering this important project. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and members of the City Council, for considering the renaming of Stark Street for Harvey, for my Uncle Harvey.
 I want to also thank Terry, Nicole, Stacey, and everyone in this room who has worked so hard to support this effort. I'm a little travel-weary. I came here from Lafayette, and the time difference is extreme. Someone said you came down. I actually said no. I think actually the midnight sun is there, so I think I came south.
 It was important for me to be here, and it's important for me to recognize the role that the family plays.
 have the unfortunate and fortunate opportunity to be in a small club of individuals who are family members of those who gave their life for civil rights movement. And, you know, before I come to these type of events, I always touch base, usually with a member of the Kennedy family. And Cara reminded me yesterday, Cara Kennedy, of –
 The quote of President Kennedy, who said that a community is judged and ultimately should be judged on who they honor and who they want their citizens to inspire and to be inspired to be more like them.
 At the very essence, my uncle was a dreamer who believed that everybody should be accepted for who they are, that everybody be included, that everyone be authentic. He was one of the first openly gay elected officials, but he was also the first person to ask people to be out publicly.
 to be visible and he realized that our struggle was one of invisibility and that the lies and myths and innuendos about any minority community are only sustained when people don't know people from that community and whether it's a bully on the playground or possibly a bully on Pennsylvania Avenue, bullies only win when we as a community are divided. Um,
 And I particularly appreciate that Terry and everyone involved in the committee did ask the family to be involved. One thing that we do struggle with with the LGBT community is sometimes there's a dehumanization of our LGBT leaders by not realizing that they have loving and supporting families.
 So my uncle's legacy was a battle, as I said, for visibility. And when we went through the process to get a terminal named after my uncle in San Francisco, some individuals suggested that maybe someone who had something to do with the airport have that named after him. And it was folks like Dolores Herta who said no, no.
 Harvey gave his life. He was a martyr. And there is a special place that we hold as Americans for those who are willing to give their life.
 He continues to inspire new generations. I was just with Emma Gonzalez, who is an amazing leader and survivor of the Pultz Massacre, who herself is a member of the LGBT community. And she said that Harvey was the reason that she was able to be out and visible. And it's what gives her sometimes the courage to take a national stage like she did at the mall in Washington.
 I've got two stories. I know that they've given me five minutes. I've got two brief stories, so if you have a hook, you might get that ready. But I wanted to give a sense of what Harvey and who he inspires globally around the world. Two years ago, we had a U.S. Navy ship naming ceremony that the U.S. Navy named a ship after my uncle. We held that event at Treasure Island, and it was...
 the event that the U.S. Navy had the most press, the most positive reaction than any naming ceremony in their history. We got at the Milk Foundation thousands of emails. One in particular represents many of them. It was a young man named Camille, 14-year-old named Camille, who said that he is in Kuwait, his very existence is illegal,
 If he came out to his family, they would do an honor killing. And that he wanted to let us know that he was sitting at the port in Kuwait waiting for the U.S. Navy ship Harvey Milk. That he put aside his plans for suicide and that he will wait until that ship arrives there. And by the way, it will. I have since met Camille. And I can tell you that Harvey's story...
 resonates in communities around the world. And if this naming street resolution goes through, you will join communities like Verona, Italy, which has, for the last 10 years, its LGBT center is Harvey Milk LGBT Center, or the one in Ansoncion, Paraguay, and I can go on and on. Finally, let me tell you a story from just last week in Lafayette, since it's fresh in my mind. Um...
 I was at an event called Love Talks. It was an open forum event, and we didn't know who was going to speak. And a woman named Katrina in her 50s got up, and she said that she went to a wedding at San Francisco City Hall. So if any of you have been there, you know we have a bust. Harvey's the only non-mayor that has a bust in City Hall.
 and it sits at the top of the stairway. And every wedding, LGBT or not, takes place in front of that bust.
 And this Russian wedding was taking place in front of that bust. Latvia is a Russian-majority speaking country. And Katrina saw people leaving things in front of that bust. And that, by the way, happens every day. People leave tokens, whether it's a lei or a feather boa or a ring or a letter.
 And she said that she saw that and she didn't know who Harvey was. And she got the documentary and she watched that. And she said that she always suspected that her youngest son was LGBT. And she would never have accepted that. But she showed it. She brought, she said, her whole family and a very reluctant husband in to watch The Times of Harvey Milk. And she just looked at her son and he looked at her and...
 She said that he said, yes, mom, I am like Harvey Milk. And she said, I hope you are. And they embraced, and it was really, she said she has now gone on to be one of the great and one of the few PFLAG mothers in the Baltic states. So let me just close by saying that my uncle...
 It wasn't a Hollywood. It wasn't Sean Penn. It wasn't my friend Dustin Lance Black who invented his prophetic view that he would face assassins' bullets. He knew he was going to be killed. I have two letters from him saying that he wasn't going to make it through 1978. I was 17 when he was killed. He didn't want to die.
 He didn't want to be killed, but he believed it was important that someone be asking people to be visible and coming out. And so he knew that he was going to be assassinated, and he was willing. He always told me it wasn't the quantity of time, but the quality of time that we're on Earth. And so I'm always asked as a family member, yes?
 If I'm sad that he didn't get to see a day like today when we have a whole room of people supporting LGBT individuals that are out themselves or allies or folks like you that realize that diversity is a strength. And my answer is always the same, that I'm not sad that he didn't get to see this day because he dreamed of it. It's what gave him the courage to go into work every day, to read those letters.
 of hate and death threats, and to still go in. He dreamed of this day, and you are fulfilling that dream. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, I recommend we suspend the rules for the remainder of the item. Thank you for being here.
 Why did I let him go first? Thank you. Thank you, Stuart. That was incredibly moving. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and city council members. And I've been in this chamber many times. I've never heard testimony that made people suspend the rules. That's very exciting. Nancy Hawk, I'm co-executive director of Basic Rights Oregon, the state's advocacy and policy organization for LGBTQ Oregonians and our allies. Thank you.
 Basic Rights Oregon is also a member of the Harvey Milk Street Project Committee. I'm here today to ask you to vote yes to rename 13 blocks of Southwest Dark in honor of Harvey Milk, an LGBTQ hero. As a queer person, as the mother of a four-year-old, I am incredibly grateful to live in a state that has been on the leading edge of LGBTQ justice. Portland and the City Council have always been ahead of the curve.
 And I know as a person of color who grew up in Virginia, in a town where our main thoroughfare was named after Confederate General Robert E. Lee, that street names matter. They can make us feel welcome or definitely not welcome in a place. Naming a street for an LGBTQ hero sends a powerful message to our kids who still face alarming rates of bullying, family rejection, and homelessness that we have their backs.
 There are many wonderful people we should honor through renaming public spaces, and Harvey Milk is among the best. Harvey Milk was a visionary human rights leader who became one of the first openly LGBTQ elected officials in the United States when he won his seat on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 1977. Harvey Milk was out and proud during an era when few in our community could be.
 He was out just eight years after the Stonewall riots, where Marsha P. Johnson and Sylvia Rivera and others launched the modern LGBTQ movement, protesting police brutality in New York City. He was out four years before the first cases of AIDS were reported. And he was out a full two decades before Ellen DeGeneres boldly came out on national television as part of her sitcom.
 He was a bold and inspiring leader who believed firmly that for LGBTQ people to be treated with dignity, we must be willing to share our stories openly and honestly. His life was tragically cut short when he was assassinated in 1978, just a year after he was elected. And leaders like Harvey Milk, Marsha P. Johnson, and Sylvia Rivera are tragically absent from our history books.
 LGBTQ youth have few role models to look up to in a time when the Trump administration is working to dismantle our progress, excluding transgender people from the military, carving out religious exemptions in the law, and trying to undermine our freedom to marry. So let's send a message that Portland, Oregon believes in LGBTQ equality. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next I want to call up Kathleen Sadat and Darcel 15, who are both on our historian panel, as well as Lisa Schroeder and Jean-Pierre Nouglos, both business owners on Southwest Arc. Welcome. The oldest drag queen takes a minute. Good morning. First, I'd like to thank you very much for the rainbow flags. Is that a first?
 I think it's the first that I've ever seen and I want to thank you. I'd like to thank also the Oregon Convention Center for lighting their towers in our colors. It's amazingly wonderful. A step forward. These are all step forwards. A few years ago, domestic partners, Multnomah County, at least I think they let it run for a month. I was in line with my partner, Roxy.
 along with hundreds of other couples, gay couples in Portland. It was a wonderful, wonderful day. We signed up as domestic partners. Roxy died in October of last year. And because we were signed as domestic partners, his estate took 10 days to settle. Thank you, Multnomah County. And another step forward. Because of this council and the state,
 Governor, Portland has become a vacation destination. We thank you for that. They come for the scenery, the smiles that we have in Portland. They come for the donuts and the dried greens. And the omelets. Amen. Those are steps forward. I'm very proud and happy that
 to be able to say to our bachelor parties who come to my club, you can love who you love and marry who you love. That's a step forward. I hope and know that you will make another step forward for Portland and for all of us. Please vote yes on Harvey Milk Street. It'll be an exciting time. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your being here. Good afternoon.
 Thank you for coming this far. This is so important. This is such a symbol, and our symbols convey meaning. They evoke emotional responses which help crystallize identity and help people feel connected to something outside of their own selves, their immediate self, their family, and their immediate community. It is because symbols carry meaning that,
 that reflects our values and ideals, that they are important. We've grown up with symbols all around us. We respond to them. We think about them sometimes. Sometimes we choke up when we hear a piece of music or see the flag or think about something that reminds us of who we are at our core. We know that those symbols reflect our collective ideals.
 And we also know that sometimes they need to be changed or added to, which is where we are today. We need to have symbols that challenge us to think about whose images represent us as Americans. We need to have symbols that precipitate discussions about and conversations about
 who we are, and to help bring the marginalized narrative into the mainstream. We continue to imagine each generation, cross-generationally, what we need to be, to be our best selves, to connect to the ideas of equality. Sometimes change can feel like a threat, but debate and discussion are imperative.
 for a healthy democracy. So there's no reason not to have the discussion. I believe that the renaming of Stark to Harvey Milk Street means a lot of people will look at and re-evaluate the meaning of being an American. We who are asking for this renaming have the same rights and responsibilities as all other Americans. They are ours not to be taken away.
 Given a history of bias and bigotry against the people who make up the GLBTQ community, this is an opportunity to create a cultural symbol that reinforces the idea that members of the GLBT community are positive members of the broader society. And I remind you again that the sadness and despair of,
 The rate of suicide experienced by young people struggling with issues of sexuality, we can't ignore it. The symbol also brings hope. Hope. We need to help them reject negative issues of sexual labels and inspire them with hope for lives built on foundations of love and support.
 Naming a street after Harvey Milk will help accomplish both things by acknowledging our struggle and our humanity. What a joy it would be to see the rainbow flag flying from a flagpole on Harvey Milk Street. Please vote yes. Thank you, Chatham.
 I want to thank you very much for hearing us today. I am fortunate enough to have come to Portland at a time when Stark Street was the hub for the LGBTQ community. From red cap to boxes to scandals and Silverado, people in the gay community knew they had a place to go where they could be at home and they could be themselves.
 Now, few of those establishments remain, but the memories of what was once a vibrant hub for the LGBTQ community must live on.
 And this can happen by renaming Southwest Stark Street Harvey Milk Street. Naming the street after this important gay leader will help preserve the important part of Portland's history, hopefully inspiring learning about Portland's gay community and their important contribution to this city.
 I am so honored to have been a part of the Harvey Milk Street Committee project, and I am thrilled at the prospect that my restaurant, Mother's Bistro and Bar might be situated on a street called Harvey Milk. I am thankful to you commissioners for what I hope will be a historic vote today, which will bring pride and honor to an important part of Portland's population and every one of its citizens. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, Councillor. Please excuse me. I'm very nervous. And English is my third language. I'm Jean-Pierre Nouglozé. You might remind me from the... ..it... Excuse me. It...testimony in January. I'm from Togo, West Africa, and own a clothing store on South West Dark Street.
 I moved from my home country three years ago to save my life. I was an LGBTQ activist and one of the founders of the first gay rights association in Togo.
 When my country passed a law making it a criminal to be homosexual, on year of prison time, I said I saw them here in Portland. I have personally experienced the...
 violent gay people first in a homophobic place. Portland has been a wonderful place for me, but we must be strong to help to keep it and serve it. Having Milk Street, we carry a message of
 in an up city. That we respect the LGBT community. I will be so honored to have my store on the street that celebrates humanity and diversity.
 And I hope you will vote in support of having milk straight. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Get up. 87. And counting. Right behind you. 87.
 I want to welcome a couple more special guests. And before they speak, we're going to play a short video. But the special guests are Nicole Murray Ramirez, a human relations commissioner from San Diego, and Governor Barbara Roberts. So welcome. There's a short video testimony that we have from Matthew Shepard's parents, Judy and Dennis Shepard. And I'm going to play that for you.
 I'll never say the same thing twice. Okay, go ahead. I'm Dennis Shepard. And I'm Judy Shepard. We're thrilled to find out that Portland is having a street named after Harvard Milk. It's just critical that LGBT youth know about the history of the LGBTQ movement. If our son Matthew were still alive, this would be exactly the thing he would be thrilled to see. Acknowledgement and recognition of historical figures in the LGBT community. Thanks.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the council, first of all, thank you for allowing me a second time to speak to you in favor of naming the Harvey Milk Street. I spoke at the very first hearing and now another opportunity to speak to this important proposal. Now, I don't have to tell you, and we certainly heard it delineated at the beginning of the program here, this proposal has gone through many steps.
 as it should. But it has now arrived back here today for your consideration. Each of us, if we are fortunate, have heroes, role models, icons that bring inspiration and hope and vision into our lives. They help us see new paths, envision an expanded future, and create dreams of dignity and accomplishment.
 Portland has wisely recognized many of our role models, the lifelike statue of Vera Katz on our waterfront, buildings named after Bud Clark, Gretchen Khafre, Judge Gus Solomon, Mark Hatfield, Edith Green, Gladys McCoy, Maureen Neuberger, and Wendell Wyatt, and streets that honor Martin Luther King,
 Rosa Parks, and Cesar Chavez. A walk around our city is a walk through the history of role models and heroes. And today I am asking you to add Harvey Milk's name to Portland's recognition of leaders of courage.
 And let me say at this point, I spoke with Governor Ted Kulongoski, and he could not be here today, but he asked me to also add his support to this decision today. And so the rest of my remarks, you can think of Ted making them with me. Harvey Milk's election to public office as a gay man opened minds and it opened hearts.
 Since his death, that image of bravery and openness has lifted spirits and hopes for millions of LGBT community members across the continents, across the world, across the globe, especially gay youth. This is the right choice and the perfect time and the perfect place for this recognition.
 When my dear friend Terry Bean first raised the idea of naming a street in Portland's historic gay district after Harvey Milk, I was a little hesitant. I thought it might be a little difficult. I told him I wasn't sure he could make it happen. We could make it happen. And then I remembered.
 We live in Portland, Oregon, where we honor courage and diversity, where we honor bravery and inclusion. What better place than Portland? There isn't one better. What better time for this decision than Pride Week? And what better, who better to take this decision, this decisive step forward together?
 than our elected city council. I am privileged to support this proposed street naming. It makes me a very proud Portlander and an extremely extra proud Oregonian. So I will tell you, I didn't intend to say this today, but after listening to Stuart and knowing that Nicole is going to speak in a moment, I proudly display in my living room a bust of Harvey Milk.
 that I received as an award in his name from his foundation down in San Diego about three years ago. And Stuart and Nicole were there to help honor me with the Harvey Milk Foundation Award. So it's extra special. Mayor Ted Wheeler, President Fish, Honorable Commissioners, I bring you greetings from the city of San Diego and our great Mayor Kevin Faulkner.
 As a Latino and gay activist for about 50 years, I've had the privilege to have worked with both Cesar Chavez and Harvey Milt. I come from a generation that well remembers the 1950s, 60s, and 70s, when homosexuals with just a stroke of a pen with a signature of either their parents or a judge were sent to mental hospitals, many subjected to electric shock treatment and lobotomies.
 God has blessed me these last decades to have witnessed the progress and empowerment of both my people of color communities and the GLBT community. But we all know that the continuing fight for GLBT equality is the last civil rights movement of the 21st century.
 Since the Revolutionary War, GLBT Americans have made great contributions to this nation. Finally, in the last decades, cities have been honoring such civil rights icons as Martin Luther King and Cesar Chavez, and now Harvey Milk. San Diego is proud that it is the first city in the nation to have named a street after Harvey Milk, followed by Salt Lake City.
 Harvey Milk was a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy and was stationed in San Diego. In honoring Harvey Milk, we honor our active military and veterans, especially those who are GLBT.
 Our nation's oldest GLBT organization, the International Imperial Courts, and I led the successful national letter-writing campaigns that resulted in both a Harvey Milk U.S. Posture stamp that was unveiled at the White House and the Secretary of the Navy naming a name of vessel after Lieutenant Harvey Milk. The UNSNS Harvey Milk will be built and dedicated in San Diego starting next year.
 By the way, the Portland chapter of the imperial courts was very involved in these national letter-writing campaigns, and Portland Court will be celebrating its 60th anniversary on October 20th. In closing, I must also state that I have had the privilege of going with Harvey Milk's nephew, Stuart, who is with us this afternoon, to Europe and Central America, and have seen firsthand –
 how Harvey Milk is becoming a civil rights icon for the GLBT global community, especially since the Academy Award winning movie Milk, based on his life. And since the issuing of the Harvey Milk poachers stamp and the announcement of the USNS Harvey Milk and Citi's honor in his legacy, I must tell you there has been an outpouring of pride, inspiration, and honor, especially by GLBT youth from all over the world.
 around the world as steward so noted i salute the portland committee terry beam susan darcel the basic rights organ and everyone involved on behalf of the city of san diego and mayor faulkner we hope you would join us in other cities in honoring the legacy of harvey milk thank you very much thank you so much thank you for being here
 Mayor, that completes the invited testimony, but before we move to public testimony, if I may, I would like to introduce an emergency clause to make this ordinance effective upon our vote. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman to add an emergency clause. We have a second from Commissioner Fish. Any further discussion? Carla, would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 We'll get wording for that. He's just adding the emergency clause. Okay. The wording for it. Sure. The wording being this is Pride Month and the Pride Parade is Saturday, and we want to celebrate and honor Harvey Milk with the street being renamed Harvey Milk today. Thank you. Fish? Fish?
 Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. And just so you know, legally she has to ask that question. The answer is aye. The amendment is adopted.
 How many folks do we have signed up today, Carla? We have 15 people. 17, sorry. 17 people. Very good. Three minutes each. And there's a little red light that will go on when your time is up. 30 seconds before your time goes. There's a yellow light. And when the red light goes, you're going to hear a beep if you are able to hear said beep.
 We ask you again, keep the microphone about this far from your face. It's a very sensitive microphone. And please leave the microphone on when you leave so the next person can just tee it right up. The first three are Norwood Paladin, Kathy Travis, and Cameron Witten. And they'll be followed by Peter Pariseau, Ben Levia, and Cindy Comfort. And we ask for name for the record, but nobody needs to give their address. Keep going first, sir. Sure.
 Good afternoon. There's no particular order. If you'd like to go ahead and start, we're good to go. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I am Kathy Travis, a retired Portland attorney and an LGBTQ civil liberties activist and a member of the Coalition of Individuals and Organizations that comprise the Hovring Milk Project.
 I'm in my 70th year and therefore have seen progress and backlash in the struggle for gay rights. In Oregon, we fought against the OCA's anti-gay ballot measures. We fought for and succeeded in passing hate crimes and anti-discrimination legislation. The process for me and for so many others like me has been a journey from being cast as an outsider to finally feeling part of the community.
 This kind of journey that ultimately speaks to the best in all of us needs to be affirmed, encouraged, honored, and celebrated. I want to flash back to a moment that I experienced in my early 20s. I was leaving a lesbian bar with my girlfriend when we were confronted by a group of teenage boys with baseball bats.
 who had been waiting outside the bar, as they sometimes did, to victimize people like us. I heard one of them yell, get them! Terrified, we ran and they ran after us. Luckily, we outran them and reached my apartment building, and with trembling hands I was able to unlock the door to safety. Collapsing inside, my heart pounding as it had never done before or since, I kept thinking over and over.
 that we could have been killed or maimed, and nobody would care. We had no rights. We were outcasts who did not matter. I don't want anyone ever to experience the terror that we felt that night, but they do still in this country. Renaming Southwest Stark Street to Southwest Harvey Milk Street is not a cure-all or an end-stop to the journey. Thank you.
 However, the inclusion and acceptance such a step represents is important, and not just for the LGBTQ community, but to our greater Portland community. I hope we will continue to work together towards a more equitable community where each of us, regardless of sexual identity or difference, can reach our full potential and be who we truly are. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. My name is Cameron Witten. I have lived in Portland for eight years. I am young, poor, queer, black, and proud.
 And I'm going to be brief. I'm just going to say that this is a great day for celebration. We live in a time where our news is sad, where so much is sad in the world. And this is a room that is full of energy and full of celebration of something that this community has needed for a long time. And, you know.
 think about many renames that the city of Portland's had in the past, whether it's Union Street, Cesar Chavez, and there are always naysayers. There are always people who are afraid of change. But what we're here to show is that community is here and that justice is on our side and that these stories matter and this is a long time coming. And so I'm
 I really hope and I put in faith in you all and in the city of Portland that this is just the beginning to recognize LGBTQ leaders who have shifted this city and have shifted this world and that we continue to elevate leaders from underrepresented communities. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I'm Norwood Paladin. I came very well prepared. But since I've been here, I feel as though I might have to go off script. Meeting people outside, I may be one of the only dissenters, dissenting opinion here. And I'm just here to learn more than anything else. Yeah.
 Since I've been here today, I've been made to feel very uncomfortable, unwelcomed, unwanted, and it was even suggested that I go home and not speak, simply because I have a different opinion. Now, before I start, and if I don't say anything else, I just want the council to know, the other speakers, the assembly, I want everyone to know that I am not...
 homophobic, as was mentioned. I'm not bigoted or intolerant. And I support the gay community. But my research has led me to find some things that are fairly disturbing about Harvey Milk, and that's what I came to address. Please, no disrespect to anyone should be taken. And I will continue to go off script.
 The Life and Times of Harvey Milk, Mayor of Castro Street. This is an excellent book given to me by a gay friend. In this book, there are page after page of accusations against Harvey Milk. Accusations of pedophilia, child abuse, statutory rape, racism.
 It's said that he preyed on young, vulnerable, drug-addicted boys, and we all know that he lived with a 16-year-old runaway, Jack McKinley, his husband and wife. In the book, you'll see that he referred to one colleague, John Woo, as Lotus Blossom. He referred to another colleague, Michael Wong, as My Little Fortune Cookie. His Mexican-American lover, Jack Lira, he called Taco Bell.
 until Mr. Lear hung himself in their shared apartment. I've got many more examples if anyone would like to read them, but here's the thing, and it's what I'll get to now, and I've got 30 seconds. My quarrel isn't with Harvey Milk.
 I want to ask this question. How in the age of the Me Too movement and so many woke individuals can anyone in their right mind and with a straight face possibly think it's good or proper to memorialize an accused pederast, child abuser, or sexual predator? I think this is a terrible and irresponsible message to send to victims of abuse.
 If I may, Mayor and Commissioners, I'd like to address the allegation that was just made very briefly. You know, let's keep moving on. Yeah. Okay. Let's move on. Thank you. Appreciate it. All three. The next three are Peter Pariseau, Ben Levia, and Cindy Comfer. And they'll be followed by Rick Jung, Bill Dickey, and Matt Steele. Thank you for being here. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Peter Pariseau. I'm Deputy Executive Director of Cascade AIDS Project and Prison Health, and I'm here to convey my organization's support of this initiative to rename Stark Street to Harkin Milk. I don't want to repeat what you've already heard, but I do want to emphasize why this public statement such as this is an important one, particularly from the perspective of public health.
 As you know from your prior support of CAP, we opened an LGBTQ-focused primary care center a little over a year ago. And since then, we've seen incredible demand for these type of LGBTQ plus specific services. The demand seems to be growing faster than we can bring on providers to serve them. And I think this speaks to the importance that Portland plays as a hub for LGBTQ people.
 for LGBTQ plus individuals across the Northwest. On a personal note, this was true for me growing up as a gay kid in Montana. I knew that Portland was the place I wanted to be, which is why I moved out here in 1997 the first time. And it's why I stay, so thank you for that. But while it's easier for LGBTQ plus individuals to navigate the world, it's still quite difficult for a number of folks.
 And I wanted to speak a little bit about some demographic data. Every five years, the Oregon Health Authority issues a report that describes the state of our health. It's called the State Health Assessment. They're issuing a new report this year that has some fascinating data on the growth of the LGBT population. Nationally, we've seen data for years that show about 4.1% of our population identifies as LGBT.
 However, and the data seemed to be released by the state health authority, will show that fully 10% of the adult population in Oregon identifies as LGBT. But that report also shows that nearly 23% 11th graders are now identifying as LGBT. That's 8% 11th grade boys and 15% of 11th grade girls.
 Moreover, about 6% of 11th graders are reported to be reported themselves as non-binary or having multiple gender answers.
 And among gender non-conforming youth, 64% of them identified as LGBT. So this is just to show that the LGBT population is changing and it's growing in Portland and in Oregon. However, there are higher rates of violence and trauma and mental health issues within that population. I'm running out of time. 56% have reported depression and anxiety. 50% have reported post-traumatic stress. And
 and there are significantly higher rates of depression for transgender folks, about 72%. And there are
 Among 11th graders, significantly fewer gay and lesbian youth reported good to excellent emotional health, basically because of the social stresses of being LGBT in our culture. However, there have been notable where participants receive social supports. Those numbers go up considerably. So thank you. Peter, do you have any final statements you'd like to make?
 I just wanted to say that renaming Stark Street is an important step in raising the visibility of what it means to be an LGBT individual in our community. It means that we're being seen and heard. And it sends an important message, especially for our youth. Thank you. Thanks for being here. We appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Ben Leyva. And I work for Stumptown Coffee Roasters as the manager of our cafe that is located on Southwest Stark Street.
 As the manager of a business that is located on South West Stark, I'm excited for the opportunity to express my support for the name change to Harvey Milk Street. It's very much in line with my company's values as well as my personal philosophy of providing a service to our visitors and our guests that enter my cafe. Thank you.
 At our cafe, we serve hundreds of customers every day, and the majority of these customers are tourists. They're visitors who come from across the country and across the world to enjoy Stumptown coffee as a part of their Portland experience. Through the hospitality that we deliver and the service and engagement that we provide, we become...
 unofficial ambassadors for the city in a sense. And I believe that this name change provides us with an opportunity to leave a lasting impression on the visitors to my cafe and really showcase that our city is welcoming and inclusive to everyone. On a more personal level, I feel that the name change provides us with a great opportunity to impact many people. However,
 Even if just one individual is able to be made to feel more safe and more welcome and more accepted, then it is so worthwhile. And even if just one individual who might not even know what LGBTQ even means is able to reach a deeper understanding and greater awareness and in turn a greater acceptance, then it is very much worthwhile. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Did you all get the handout? We have a handout. My name is Cindy Comfer. I'm a member of the Historical Review Committee for the street renaming. In addition to being a retired lawyer, I'm a historian with a Ph.D. from UCLA. I've written two history books, both of which won awards, and I was a professor of history at Reed College in a visiting position for two years. I'm also a lesbian. Thank you.
 I'm testifying today to point to the historical importance of downtown Stark Street to the LGBT community and to Portland. Southwest Stark Street sits near the center of a district that, dating back to at least the turn of the 20th century, might be called Portland's Gay District. Thank you.
 Included in the southwest wedge of Portland, east of the Gulch, now I-405, and south of and including Burnside Street, were important institutions like the YMCA and numerous hotels, restaurants, taverns, and nightclubs, a number of which over the years housed and served LGBTQ people.
 Southwest Stark Street was the site of many of these businesses. This handout I gave you is an incomplete list of what some of those are. I'd like to call special attention to entries four and eight, hotels where Dr. Marie Equi made her home. Dr. Equi was a well-known doctor who, among other things, provided birth control and abortion services during the first several decades of the 20th century and who supported labor causes.
 She was imprisoned in 1918 for her opposition to U.S. entry into World War I, impugned in part because she was a lesbian. The daughter she and Harriet Speckert, in number four, adopted, grew up to be Oregon's first female pilot. I'd also call attention to number five, the Music Hall nightclub. Portland's LGBT community swelled during World War II as the shipyards brought tens of thousands of new workers to Portland.
 Working in same-sex environments, many of the LGBTQ workers had the opportunity to connect. The music hall on Stark and Southwest 10th was a major draw for many of these people. The city of Portland closed it in the early 1950s as part of an anti-vice campaign. I came to Portland in 1970 as a young lesbian, and I can echo the testimony of others about the importance of having, and now holding up, places where my marginalized community met.
 But this is about more than my community. As an historian, I suggest renaming Southwest Arc as an excellent opportunity for the city of Portland to claim and honor its LGBTQ history. And I thank you for your consideration. I turned 69 25 minutes ago. Hey, happy birthday. That's great. Thank you, and thank you for this timeline. This is fascinating. I appreciate it very much. Next three, please, Carla. Are Rick Jung, Bill Dickey, and Matt Steele
 and they'll be followed by Suzanne Hale, Thubtu Comerford, and Richard Walden. Greetings and welcome. I'm Rick Young, the Executive Director of the Portland Gay Men's Chorus, and it is a pleasure to be here to talk today. On November 27, 1978, a city grieved as Commissioner Superintendent Milk and Mayor Moscone were assassinated in an act of hate.
 That night at City Hall as the city came together to grieve, that was the very first time that a group of gay men that became known as the San Francisco Gay Men's Chorus joined together to sing together for the very first time in public. From that initial movement, a year and a half later, the Portland Gay Men's Chorus was formed.
 In 1980, the Portland Gay Men's Chorus was a group of 20 men who sang together. It grew very quickly into a group of about 140. Some of its early performances and some of the things that it did was perform in the bars on Stark Street. They would go in late at night and recruit. I know you're not supposed to say recruit these days, but they would recruit new members to the chorus by singing body songs online.
 in the bars up and down Stark Street. And that was our early days. Of course, now we're a much bigger institution and we don't resort to those kind of things anymore. But I do want to say this. I know, I know. I do want to say that, you know, that that night when the San Francisco Gay Men's Chorus formed,
 led to a movement called Gala Choruses. There are 180 gay choruses across the United States, and there is a burgeoning of gay choruses all around the world. Of course, there are 13 of them now in China, and there's one that just formed in Latvia where Stuart just was.
 The gay choral movement was a way for people to come together to sing and to be proud of who they were and to be proud of the music, and the music became the way they came out in the world to fulfill Harvey Milk's legacy of being out and open. So I hope that the legacy that Harvey Milk gave to this community and to the Portland Gay Men's Chorus, the Portland Lesbian Choir, to the Rose City Choir,
 Gay Freedom Band and the Bridging Voices, all of whom have endorsed this proposal to rename Stark Street to Harvey Milk Street, is a part of our legacy, and we are proud of that legacy, and we know that you will do the right thing by supporting this momentous occasion of renaming Stark Street to Harvey Milk Street. Thank you. Thanks so much. Good afternoon. Hello, Bill Dickey. I'm here to testify in favor of changing the name.
 of Stark Street to Harvey Milk Street. And I thought it would be worth our while to just set the record straight on a couple of items. The pages in the Life and Times, the book, The Life and Times of Harvey Milk, has some pages in it. And those pages have been debunked by...
 varying degrees of historical people. Number one, the president's office debunked them and researched them in giving Harvey Milk the Freedom Award. The United States Post Office investigated those in deciding to place a stamp in the honor of Harvey Milk. And the Secretary of the Navy researched those pages as well, and they were all proven to be debunked.
 Uh, they're just some right wing, uh, pages that really have nothing to do with reality today. And so I'm just here to tell you that that, uh, is the truth. Um, beyond that, um, my grandfather, 111 years ago, opened a shoe store on Union Avenue, um,
 And so for the last 111 years, somebody in my grandfather's family has been in business in Portland, Oregon. I myself have been working here in town for...
 going on 40 years, and everyone that I've talked to about this issue, and this is anecdotal, I realize my saying this, but everyone that I've talked to about this issue has told me that they think it's a great idea. And I do too as well, so I'll cut it short and let Matt take over. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Thank you.
 All right. Thank you. Thank you so much for having us here today. I know it's been quite an effort to have this happen before Pride, and I'm very grateful for that. My name is Matt Steele. I've been involved with the Harvey Milk Street Project since last fall, starting as the website guy behind the scenes, and hundreds of conversations later, here we are.
 So I grew up outside of Salem, Oregon, which isn't the most progressive place, but also not the most conservative. And growing up, my entire narrative for the LGBTQ reality was in slurs, in bullying, in violence. There were no heroes, no icons, no basic life-giving acknowledgment of existence and of hope and happy endings.
 not from family or classmates or teachers or the broader community. And I'm sure there are many progressive, compassionate, pro-LGBT people amongst them, but without tangible words and examples, I was left with no narratives that gave affirmation or comfort.
 Then social media happened, specifically MySpace, which isn't the best thing to ever come out of the internet. But for the first time ever, I saw gay people. I saw happy gay people with no political spin, just regular, normal people. Yeah.
 And it was mind-blowing. It showed me a narrative for myself that wasn't miserable, that challenged this idea of having to hide from myself and others. And these positive narratives are truly life-saving.
 I now work with preschoolers a couple days each week, and we have many kids in our classroom that transcend the gender binary, and that two and three are so fabulous. And I say that to really emphasize that LGBTQ people exist everywhere.
 We are reality regardless of the political, social, and religious climate of any era. And these kids need, and our community needs, lasting visible markers of our existence, of our heroes, and our history. Proof that our stories can be fulfilling and impactful and happy. And I think that we need our leaders to go on the record affirming this with projects like the Harvey Milk Street. Thank you.
 Harvey Milk Street in Portland would give LGBT folks who see or hear of it a positive narrative It's not a cure-all, but it is a solid, powerful step that would challenge the prejudiced narratives that we're seeing come out from a lot of figureheads today So, yes to Harvey Milk Street for the community pride it would bring and extra yes for the basic, life-giving beacon it would serve as for our youth and our members who might not otherwise know that a positive narrative exists
 I hope that you decide to leave a legacy today, that LGBT Portlanders and visitors alike feel seen and respected for generations to come. Thank you so much. Next three are Suzanne Hale, Dub 2 Comerford, and Richard Walden. And then the last three will be Michael Whitmore, Tyler Kershaw, and Shedrick J. Wilkins. Welcome. Thank you. If I was a lady, I'd say ladies first. Thanks.
 I am in support of the naming of Harvey Milk Street. My name is Suzanne Hale, and for nearly 24 years, I've owned and operated the world-famous diner, The Roxy, on Southwest Stark Street. Along with my staff, led by April Shattuck, we have gathered hundreds and hundreds of signatures in favor of this petition to change the name. Our customers supported this wholeheartedly as well, even the tourists who could not sign it.
 Our staff and customers also generated hundreds of letters in the successful campaign to release the Harvey Milk stamp, which was unveiled at the White House, due in large part to the efforts of the international court system, of which I have been a member for several decades. We could not be more honored to have our address become 1121 Southwest Harvey Milk Street, Portland, Oregon.
 Harvey Milk is an icon not only to the LGBT community, but to seniors, immigrants, and all disenfranchised peoples. That is who we are in Portland.
 The current name, Stark Street, represents a history that does not represent us. Benjamin Stark was the original landowner for which the street is currently named. Benjamin Stark was an unapologetic racist, a known advocate of slavery, opposed public schools, and fought in the Rogue River War, which slaughtered indigenous Americans in the 1860s. 150 years of honoring bigotry is enough.
 Let us join the elite few cities who are enlightened and look toward a future that celebrates the best of us. Please vote to allow Southwest Stark Street to become Southwest Harvey Milk Street. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, commissioners, thank you for granting me a couple of moments.
 My name is Richard Walden. I am a 60-year-old gay man who has lived on Stark Street for about 12 years, right next to her wonderful establishment. I come in for hash browns at 3 in the morning all the time. I am respectfully speaking in opposition.
 Not because I oppose renaming Stark Street. Benjamin Stark was a racist, a eugenicist, and I would love to see the street renamed. And not because I have a bad word to say about Harvey Milk. I'm incredibly proud that as a young man, when I was living in San Francisco, one of the very first votes I cast was for Harvey Milk. And one of the very first protests that I went to was after his death.
 And those marked me indelibly. I just think we have queer heroes in Portland. We've got Dr. Marie Equi. Most people have never even heard her name. Lesbian doctor from the 20s and 30s who was on the front lines of women's rights, reproductive rights, gay rights. Back when there were hardly any women doctors.
 And although I understand the policy that somebody has to be dead for five years, you guys can bump that. We've got Ursula Le Guin, who lived and died and ranted and raved literally within a mile from Stark Street and on the front line of gay rights since the 60s. Let's name something for Harvey Milk. Okay.
 But let's take this opportunity to name the street for an Oregon hero. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you for your testimony. And let me throw a compromise on the table. The two individuals you named absolutely should also be honored. Absolutely. So thank you for raising that. Commissioner Daly. Well, I would like to put a vote in for Gracie Hansen, maybe a statue or a plaza. But I, to be clear, do support renaming our street for Harvey Munk. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Tube 10 Comerford.
 I am a citizen, resident of Portland, and don't represent any particular organization here today. I just heard that this hearing was happening, and I got extremely excited. When I was 13 years old, Harvey Milk fought against the Briggs Initiative in California. He was very vocal. I was a very closeted 13-year-old in a world that was very unfriendly.
 and knowing that someone cared enough about me
 to fight the way that he did and to die the way that he did, fighting for me and for every gay, lesbian, queer young person to grow up free and open was just amazing. So when I heard that this was happening today, I wanted to come down and express my gratitude to the council for considering it, express my gratitude to the committee for proposing it,
 and ask you to vote in favor of it. Harvey Milk was an inspiration to me when I finally did come out. I founded an openly gay fraternity at my college. I was the president of the Gay and Lesbian Association and also the other four gay and lesbian organizations on our campus. I've become a community organizer and have moved into the general community. I organize technology events
 the technology community here in Portland, 7,000 member new tech PDX. That means every third Monday, Mayor Wheeler has spoken at our events in the past. Um, and I just, I, I became a whole person and excited to contribute. Um, I hope that what I have to contribute to the world, um, is just a fraction of what, what Harvey milk has. And I know that, um,
 having a Harvey Milk Street in Portland would send an incredibly welcoming message. Part of why I moved here with my partner nine years ago was because I heard that Portland was a welcoming place
 Live and let live. Do your own thing. Nobody could care. Right? Just an amazing place to be yourself and be openly whoever you are. And having a Harvey Milk Street would not just have that be a rumor, but it would help make it a fact. So please do vote for Harvey Milk Street. Thank you. Very good. Thank you.
 The next three are Michael Whitmore, Tyler Kershaw, and I believe Shedrick Wilkins left, so we'll go with Kerry. No, he's here. Oh, he's here. Oh, and Shedrick Wilkins. And then last will be Terry Timchuk. Good afternoon. Hello. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. Is that okay? You want to do that? Go for it. Before I get emotional. My name is Michael Whitmore. I work with Lisa Schroeder at Mother's Bistro and Bar.
 Formerly, I worked in mental health for several years in the city. I worked with many, many, many children that would come in, even adults of the LGBT community, many of them in fear of coming out due to their backgrounds and their family upbringing. I don't know how many people I talked to who were suicidal or...
 just in fear of coming out. I had a lot of things to say before, but everything's already been said. But I'll tell a quick story. I moved here in 1994 from Savannah, Georgia, where I was raised. I came out in 93 and had been fired numerous times from businesses that I had worked in. I was told numerous times, hide it. Can you not act so gay? Can you not be a sissy? Okay.
 and that kind of prompted me to move to Portland, Oregon in 94 because it was liberal, it was liberal back then and of course much more liberal now. Stark Street was a safe haven for us for many, many years. One of my first jobs here in 94 was working at the original C.C. Slaughter's which was on Stark Street and back then it was just a porthole window with no sign to come into and
 The original owner there, John, I was about an hour and a half late to work one Friday evening. And I came in and my face was all black and blue. I'd been beaten and chased. And I just parked like a couple blocks away. And my boss, of course, forgave me. The next week I came in and I wasn't wearing such flamboyant clothes. And my boss was really upset with me. Told me to go home and change. And I said, well, you don't understand. I don't want to get beat up again. And he said...
 I don't care. This is a gay bar. You're a gay man. Be proud of who you are. You wear those colors. That's exactly what Harvey Milk stood for. Be out. Be proud. If you've got to fight, stand up and fight. And that's something that I think that we should honor. It's a small token to a man who fought for all of us. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Me? Sure. You're up center. Okay. He was next. I thought he was next. All right.
 Yeah, I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I think in 2015, the Supreme Court and the Obama administration passed gay marriage, which is an issue brewing from the Supreme Court for four years. I remember in 2003, Monoma County issued a marriage license, and they had to rescind them. So this is a milestone in history. Like, 2015 is like 1865 with the Civil War ending. And that's on a national level, U.S. national level.
 So I think it's important to name a street after Harvey Milk because of what the Supreme Court did in 2015, legitimize his crusade for sexual orientation. Now it's a law in most employment. Sexual orientation is the law. Now it's when you go to an application that says sexual orientation. We don't have any bias against that.
 So also I think to internationally, Alan Turing, a great computer scientist, wrote German codes during World War II. After the war, Alan Turing was persecuted for sexual orientation, and he committed suicide, and there is a street named after him in London. So it's good to name a street after somebody. And the legal system in the 50s in England was not appropriate. Modern times, they would have done nothing to him.
 So, thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. For nearly 60 years, the Imperial Sovereign Rose Court of Portland, Oregon, has served the LGBTQ plus community here in our city of roses, paving the way for leaders and monumental events to take place and shape our beautiful city into one that takes care of its citizens.
 My name is Tyler Kershaw. I also go by Ty Van Helsing. I serve as the vice president on the board of directors for the ISRC. And I'm here today representing them on behalf of our membership and the community at large. The Imperial Sovereign Rose Court has many leaders that have served this community, including Rose Empress 15 Darcelle, Rose Empress 29 Lady Elaine Peacock, Rose Empress 44 Poison Marie Waters, and our current Rose Empress 59 Krista Boulevard.
 In its near 60-year history, the ISRC has been witness and played part in many of the fundraising efforts relating to HIV AIDS research and awareness, cancer research, youth outreach and involvement, and supporting places such as Esther's Pantry, which does an insurmountable amount of work for those individuals and families affected or living with HIV or AIDS today.
 Having been a part of this community for nearly six decades through leadership and community service, we, the Imperial Sovereign Rose Corps of Portland, fully support and endorse the renaming of Southwest Stark Street to Southwest Harvey Milk Street. This renaming would serve as a reminder to those as to where we as a community have been, where we are today in our current political climate, and serve as a beacon of hope to those who have been hurt or otherwise shamed for who they were born to be.
 Harvey Milk was a pioneer of his time. Having been the first elected openly gay city official in the United States to serve on the San Francisco City-County Board of Supervisors in 1977.
 His words, hope will never be silent, is a reminder to all that to see change in the world that is ever changing, we must raise our voices and be heard. As you are aware, Supervisor Milk's life was cut tragically short when he was assassinated in 1978. The leadership of the ISRC here in Portland was instrumental in calming this community when Harvey Milk's life was taken in cold blood.
 Renaming Southwest Dark Street to Harvey Milk Street would be its first major step in showcasing Portland's commitment to serving its LGBTQ plus citizens and would honor a nationally recognized icon who gave hope to humanity like that of Rosa Parks, Cesar Chavez, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and others.
 All which the City of Portland honors today with streets named after them. The tragic loss of Harvey Milk will always serve as a reminder that while there may be danger around any corner you take, the sound of hope will resonate in the hearts of those who are willing to raise their voice and remind others that we are here, we are queer, and we aren't going anywhere. We urge the Honorable Commissioners of the City of Portland to pass this without hesitation and adopt the renaming of Southwest Stark Street to Southwest Harvey Milk Street. Thank you. Thank you.
 The last person who signed up is Kerry Timchuk. Mr. Timchuk. That's the last word. As they say in Capitol Hill, everything's been said, but not everybody has said it. So...
 Mr. Mayor, City Councilors, for the record, I am Kerry Timchuk, Executive Director of the Oregon Historical Society. At the request of Commissioner Saltzman, it was my privilege to serve as Chair of the Historians Panel that analyzed this proposal. You've heard from my other members, other members of the panel previously. It was one report that we met on Monday, April 2, 2018, at Portland City Hall to review the application. It was our unanimous conclusion that the application did successfully meet the renaming criteria
 which is outlined in Section 17.93.020 of the Portland City Code, in that one, Harvey Milk is a real person. Two, Harvey Milk is a person who has been deceased for at least five years, which would, of course, prevent Ursula Le Guin from having a street named after her. And three, Harvey Milk is a person who, as you have heard eloquently from others, did achieve prominence as a result of a significant positive contribution to the United States of America.
 All members of the panel expressed appreciation for the quality and thoroughness of the material provided in support of the application by the Harvey Milk Street project, and along with certifying that the application did meet the criteria of the code, the panel also unanimously expressed their support for the eventual approval of the proposal.
 I could also add that at the Oregon Historical Society, we're proud to be the home of GLAPN, the Gay and Lesbian Archives of the Pacific Northwest, which we house at Oregon Historical Society. And in our permanent Oregon Voices exhibit, which tells the story of modern Oregon history, we display the wedding dresses of the first lesbian couple to get married in Oregon, which was here in Portland. Responding to other testimony, too, I can, as head of OHS, also comment on... The question I got as we looked at this issue was not...
 Why Harvey Milk? It was, who the heck was Benjamin Stark? Anyway, why?
 and why was this street named after him? Who was he? And I can report, of course, that he was an early landowner in Portland, a successful landowner, sold a lot of land, served briefly in the Oregon legislature, was appointed upon the death of Senator Baker, who was killed in the Civil War, to serve in the U.S. Senate, where he served for less than a year, returned to Oregon briefly. He was, like many of his time, definitely pro-slavery. Right.
 was not an enlightened member of the community, certainly back then, and in fact served most of his life in Connecticut. The first 25 years of his life, the last 25 years of his life, lived in his home state of Connecticut, was here in Oregon and in the West Coast, briefly in California during the Gold Rush as well, but not a monumental figure in Oregon history, certainly. Thank you, Mr. Timchuk. We appreciate that. Thank you.
 That completes the testimony. Very good. Any further discussion before we call the roll? We've lost Kathleen. I really wanted to be here for the vote. All right. Thank you, Carla. Please call the roll. And we'd like to get a photo with everybody after the vote, please. So come on up afterwards. Fish? Well, Mayor and colleagues, as I've been reflecting on the testimony this afternoon, I've
 I couldn't help but conclude that I think this qualifies as one of the most inspiring hearings that I have witnessed during the 10 years that I've had the honor of serving on this council. And it is clear to me that this room is full of love and pride. Governor Roberts spoke eloquently of the importance of heroes and role models in our lives. As many of you know, I've been very fortunate in those regards. Governor Roberts is my role model.
 and she is the role model for everyone who seeks public office in this great state of Oregon. When I got out of college, I was offered my first job from a guy named Barney Frank. He was my first boss, and as he will be remembered in history, is one of the first openly gay members of Congress. He literally helped to shape my politics and put me on the life path that has led to this moment. Harvey Milt's nephew quoted Kennedy very eloquently. Harvey Milt.
 I think I have this right. I was taking notes. That a community is judged by whom they honor. I love that sentence, particularly because it's grammatically correct. A community is judged by whom they honor. I am very proud that we're about to take this historic action. I want to thank my colleague Dan Saltzman and his staff person, Stacy, who has shepherded us through to this point. I want to thank the committee that worked so hard today
 To follow our code and to bring this forward, I want to thank all the supporters. I want to thank all of our honored guests who are here today to share in this moment. Kathleen Sadat reminded us in her testimony that symbols matter. Well, I hope that this action today makes Portland a more welcoming place. And that, after all, in these rather dark times, is something that I think we can all aspire to, to be a city that welcomes all. Thank you.
 regardless of whom they love or where they're born, regardless of their sexual orientation, their ethnic background, that we welcome people for who they are. I also hope, based on the testimony I heard today, that Harvey Milk is not the last champion from the LGBTQ community to be so honored. I vote aye. Saltzman? Well, I have some prepared remarks, and I'll give those remarks, but I do want to say that I think it's particularly appropriate
 The City Council is honoring another City Councilor, a supervisor in this case, and a mayor who were cut down doing their jobs. They worked hard. They were doing their jobs on behalf of their residents, just like we do every day when they were cut down short. So I feel it's particularly appropriate that we, the City Council, get to honor two of our colleagues. So I want to start by thanking all of the organizations and community members who organized so well and so quickly around this event.
 The diverse coalition that made up the Harvey Milk Street Project Committee came in with such clear vision and articulated goals around renaming Southwest Stark Street. It really was our job to step out of the way and let the community do its job. So thanks to all the committee members here today and for those who came from far away to testify. Thank you especially to Stuart Milk with your words.
 and the work you do on behalf of your uncle and the Harvey Milk Foundation every day to carry his enduring message of hope to the world. And I also want to thank Stacey Brewster on my staff, who has been handling all of the city and all the things, ensuring that we were able to get this done in time for Pride Month and the Pride Parade on Sunday. I've been here long enough to know how fraught with peril street renamings can be.
 and this process showed it didn't have to be that way, and for that I am very grateful. This is a cause for celebration, and we continue to welcome the cultures and communities that make our city great and to make our city strong. With the street, we honor the ongoing struggle for LGBTQ rights and ensure that Harvey Milk's legacy and the message of hope endures for future generations.
 I love this short quote from Harvey Milk, and it might as well be on the doorstep of every organization that is funded by the Portland Children's Levy. It says, all young people, regardless of sexual orientation or identity, deserve a safe and supportive environment in which to achieve their full potential. Well, I couldn't agree more, and I'm proud to support this and vote aye. Hugh Daly.
 Well, thank you for being here today, everyone. It's always a pleasure to see so many friendly and familiar faces in this chamber. You may not be aware, but it doesn't always go this way. I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman and the mayor for bringing this item forward. Of course, I want to thank the historian panel.
 the Harvey Milk Street Project Committee, and especially Stuart Milk for being here today and all of you for giving such moving testimony. I am also going to be weaving on and off script today. I want to thank, especially thank the elders in this room today.
 Because of you, I can't remember a time when Portland didn't celebrate Pride. I'm 48, so I think this is the 44th year, right? So I thank you for that. Because of you, I grew up in a household where gay wasn't a bad word. In fact, I never heard one negative thing spoken about the gay and lesbian community.
 And because of you, my family didn't bat an eye when I brought home my first girlfriend, who happened to work at Roxy Hearts. So back in the 80s, before the lovely Suzanne was the proprietress. And because of you, Gay Pride has grown to LGBTQIA Pride and has made room for those of us who do not fall neatly onto one team or the other.
 but we certainly appreciate the welcome and inclusion. We live in such divisive times right now. It feels as though our progressive communities are constantly under attack, not just from the right, but also from the left, as we seem determined to kill our idols and to criticize and dismiss many of those who came before us.
 So it's a relief that we have near consensus on honoring Harvey Milk today. I think we can all agree that our history is not perfect, our movements are not perfect, our heroes are not perfect. But we're here because of them, and we're standing on their shoulders, and we owe them a debt of gratitude, and we owe them recognition and honor.
 And we owe them our commitment to never stop fighting for a more equitable, inclusive, and just society. So it is with great pleasure I vote aye. Wheeler? Well, first of all, let me just say this is fun.
 This gives us something to celebrate. As Commissioner Udaly said, it doesn't always go down that way at Portland City Hall, and that's too bad. It should. First and foremost, I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman for your diligent work. We're here to enjoy the end result of this, but I assure you,
 through his stewardship of PBOT, Portland Bureau of Transportation. They went through many, many steps. Many obstacles have to be overcome with any process like this. And as Dan had said, street naming can be a very highly contentious process.
 The last time that it was done here in this city, it was certainly one of those contentious processes, and I'm delighted because of your leadership and Stacy's leadership on your team. The road was very smooth, and I want to thank you for that. I want to thank the committee.
 for your hard work. There is seldom a group of people that are brought together in this community representing the level of experience, skills, the lived experience, the diversity, and the level of energy.
 and passion that was brought together by the committee that worked on this. And I want to thank you. I think that also is really, really important in terms of building the public support for this moment.
 I also want to acknowledge somebody asked the question up front. I think it was Kathleen Sadat. How come there are flags here? Or was this a new thing? Serafie Allen, who is sitting in the back there trying to be unobtrusive from my team. Wave, Serafie, so we know who's blushing in the back of the room.
 She is an important member of my team, and she has been my representative throughout this project. And she and her colleagues were the ones who are responsible for the decorating job. And twice I've gotten credit for her work. And I want to acknowledge two things. Number one, she did the work with her team. And number two, you do not want decorating skills as I speak them. You don't want to take my advice on it.
 Now, about Harvey Milk. Harvey Milk, I think, is one of the most inspirational people, not just to the LBTQ plus community, but to the nation as a whole.
 There is a broader important message to this community. It sends a signal that we are an open and a welcoming and inclusive community. It signals that these are values that we hold very deeply. We don't just speak them, but we live them. And it is important, I think, for the entire community.
 LGBTQ plus community to see that we are willing to publicly and vocally and emphatically and passionately endorse and support and honor Harvey Milk because it speaks so much more about the values of this community. We heard a number of people say that they chose to come to Portland, Oregon. Their decision to come here was not accidental. Right.
 They made intentional decisions to come to this community because they saw us in the 80s or in the 90s or more recently as an open and a welcoming and inclusive community. And I think it is important that all of us, not just us here on the city council, but all of us who are leaders in and of our own rights in various ways, that all of us walk the talk.
 And I believe this honoring opportunity today is another example of walking the talk. Speaking of walking, Sunday is the Pride Parade in the city of Portland. And if there are people watching who are curious about this, who have never participated in said event, I assure you it is one of the most exciting.
 It's energizing, fun, inclusive, community-oriented, family-friendly things that we do in the city of Portland. And for reasons that I don't understand, it is always perfect weather.
 Perfect weather. And so I encourage everybody to be there. I will be there. My team will be there. Our families will be there. And there will be a very, very large and energetic contingent of city and Portland employees. And we encourage everybody to come out for that event. So with that...
 Congratulations to all of you for completing this important goal right before Pride. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you. We have a little special something here, the Pure Portland Bureau of Transportation. We went out on a limb, and we have a little special thing for the group photo. Oh, boy.
 Now that we're on the dais, I have a photo with the sign in front. That's awesome. Good stuff. Yeah, let's go ahead and come back here. We'll need the whole space. Thank you. Good work. Chloe. Hey, Chloe. Chloe.
 I don't know. I'm excited about till 4.30. I'm just going to call it. Okay, yeah, call it. Yeah. All right. Let's use it for 4.30. Yeah, it's 4.30, sure. All right, are you ready, Carla? Yes.
 All right, we are back in session. We're here this afternoon to celebrate Juneteenth Day. Carla, could you please read item 657? Mm-hmm.
 Proclaim June 19, 2018 to be Juneteenth Day. Very good. And colleagues, I'll just reiterate that Commissioner Fritz is co-sponsoring this. She very much wanted to be here, but she is absent as she is representing the Portland City Council at the Oregon League of Cities today. That's a very important role. It's important that we be represented there. And so she sends her regrets for that.
 So today we have the honor of joining, I have the honor of joining Commissioner Fritz in introducing the proclamation naming June 19th, 2018 as Juneteenth Day here in the city of Portland. On Juneteenth, which is the portmanteau of the words June and 19th, we recognize the day that the last enslaved people in Galveston, Texas were notified of their freedoms in 1865.
 This is important because it was nearly two and a half years after the Emancipation Proclamation had gone into effect. Two and a half years they had been legally free, but without knowing it or without being informed that they were legally free. Two and a half years that these men and women died.
 had continued to toil in bondage under the brutality of an inhumane system that no longer existed under the law. It's appropriate that we recognize Juneteenth, not just in recognition of the labor and the sacrifice and the suffering of those men and women in Galveston, but as the true end to legal slavery in the United States.
 It's appropriate because a great nation and a great people recognize that the sacrifices many have made have led to our collective successes. And it's important that we take the time to recognize it. This is especially appropriate for Portland. As many diverse people have come to make this city their home and have helped craft what is the highest aspirations in terms of what our cities are, familiar cities.
 familial, industrious, and welcoming. Yet, I'd be remiss if I glazed over the importance of history and the effects that it's had on our community, of the elimination of the historical indigenous people of this region prior to the foundation of the United States, of the internment of our Japanese citizens during war, of the enslavement,
 of our African American ancestors for hundreds of years. This, too, is an important part of our history. And still, we can change, and this is a sign that we are changing, by proclaiming June 19th, 2018, Juneteenth Day. And it's long overdue. And this will serve as a sign for future Portlanders
 That though we can't erase history, we can be part of history moving forward and recognizing that our proclamations and policies can recognize the wrongs that we try to right and to celebrate monumental actions taken to the benefit of all of us in this community. I believe this is what Portland is and what Portland and Portlanders engender.
 And I'm humbled to join the Commissioner in introducing this proclamation. And so with my colleagues' forbearance, I will read the proclamation.
 Just a side note here, I'm pleased to see we have some kids here today. Proclamations are official documents and official statements of value of the Portland City Council and the City of Portland. And so we take these proclamations very seriously. We consider them carefully. And I am very, very proud and honored as mayor to be able to read this one here today. Okay.
 Whereas Juneteenth is the oldest known celebration commemorating the ending of slavery in the United States, and whereas the day brings into national memory historical events that occurred on June 19, 1865, leading to the abolition of slavery in Texas, and more generally the emancipation of African American slaves in the South,
 And whereas, more significantly, it is a day for celebrating African American freedom, education, resiliency, and agency.
 And whereas on Juneteenth Day, we remember the stories and teachings of black leaders who gave and still give a voice to the daily struggles for freedom, equality, diversity, equity, and inclusion, both past and present.
 And whereas on Juneteenth Day, all Americans are encouraged to reflect on past successes and challenges of African Americans and continue to uphold and live up to the ideals of freedom, social justice, equality, and human rights.
 And whereas we celebrate the many achievements and contributions made by African Americans, specifically to Oregon's economic, cultural, spiritual, and political development. And whereas the City of Portland continues to work towards becoming an inclusive community in which all citizens are recognized for their contributions to our community.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim June 19, 2018 to be Juneteenth Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day of celebration. Thank you. With that, Janine, you want to come up and you can kick us off today. Thank you so much. Thank you for being here.
 For the record, my name is Janine Gates, and I am with Commissioner Fritz as her Constituent Services Specialist, and I am also on our affinity group CAN, City African American Network, and I was our Juneteenth coordinator. So I want to thank our panel for agreeing to be here, as well as our community showing up to support everyone. I really appreciate that and having you all celebrate Juneteenth with us.
 So today I invited LaKeitha Elliott, who is our first speaker. I don't know how we met. We know each other from the community, but she has been very instrumental in Black Portland and keeping us all connected and having events for Black women to come together and be together. And so I really appreciate her. Apple Madison, who is next, but we know one another because she came to visit Commissioner Fritz, and during that time she talked about it.
 petition she started at her school regarding toilet paper and then she attended the Oregon Historical Society and had some words about black history and just the struggles we still endure today and I was like she has to be our speaker so I'm very thankful to have her here
 And then our last speaker will be Sam Thompson, who we met, again, I don't know how, but we've been communicating, working together. And he's also part of Good in the Hood and making sure that's a successful event for our city. So I'm very thankful to have these three people here, and you will hear from them. Great. Thank you.
 So like Natalie said, my name is LaKeitha Elliott. I'm a fourth-generation black Oregonian. I do a lot of different work in the community, but really take pride in being a member of Portland's black community. We do a lot of really awesome and amazing stuff in our community.
 We are resilient and powerful, and so I do appreciate this opportunity. I want to thank Natalie. I know Commissioner Fritz is not here, but I want to put it on the record that Natalie deserves a raise, and she's doing really awesome stuff. She didn't tell me to say that. But I really do appreciate the work that she does. Let's make it happen.
 So as I reflected on Juneteenth and thinking about what it means and just thinking about the fact that it took two years for folks to realize that they were free, that you said that it was a law and that just because something is a law doesn't mean that it's true or that it's right. And so often what happens is we pass laws or ordinances, those kind of things, but it doesn't make it true. It doesn't mean that everyone benefits from it.
 And so I want to challenge you all to make sure that when you all are passing laws and things like that, that you're making sure that those who are mostly impacted benefit from those things. I've had the pleasure of working with a DCL program, so both as a graduate and as an administrator through the Urban League of Portland. That's some powerful work that's doing the work to engage communities of color across the state and young people, which is powerful work.
 But I would say that it's probably still not enough, that those who are still mostly deeply impacted aren't the ones who are getting the information, who are accessing the services. And so I love that program. I think we need to look at other ways that we engage...
 communities of color and those who are most deeply impacted. I also got the opportunity to serve on the Office of Equity and Human Rights Bureau Advisory Committee, and that work led to you all ensuring that all city bureaus are developing equity plans
 and it's not enough to just develop an equity plan and put it on the table. I want to challenge the bureaus and those who are doing that work to make it a living document, to look at it all the time, and to, again, ask the question.
 You know, if it took two years for folks to find out that they were free, and we're still here in Portland when things are happening, it's two years down the line that people are finding out that something changed or something that's going to deeply impact them is happening. So I want to challenge the Bureau directors to think about that. And Portland, you know, prides itself on citizen engagement and community engagement.
 but if you haven't engaged those who are most deeply impacted it doesn't really matter if you're engaging the same voices and the same people and so I want to challenge those of you who are working on those equity plans to look at those plans and ask yourself who's going to be most deeply impacted, how can we make sure we engage them early on that they're not two years down the line blindsided by something that you've changed or done and so yeah, that's my challenge to you all and I appreciate the opportunity to speak here, thank you. Thank you for being here we appreciate it. My name is
 My name is Apple Madison. I'd like to say I'm thankful I have the opportunity to speak here today. My hope for the black youth is that I want us to know that we can be more than just what they tell us to, more than basketball players and rappers. Like there's nothing wrong with being that, but we can be way more than that. We can be doctors, lawyers, judges in anything we want to be.
 Mm-hmm. And I want the black youth to know that we can make hopes for ourselves and try to achieve them, but nobody can tell us what we can and can't be. Only you can make yourself. Nobody else can write you a label. Only you.
 The reason I started my petition is, one, we needed better toilet paper. And two... Good reason. And two, I wanted to make a change, but I wanted to start small. And I was like, hey, we need better toilet paper. And we still need better toilet paper. But anyways... I just wanted people to know that you can make a change, even if it's big or small. But you have to start somewhere, right?
 And I had a lot of people agree with me. We needed better toilet paper. So I just want to say that, first of all. And second of all, my love for being a young black woman is that people tell me I can't do things or I'm not able to do things, I'm too young. But then I approve them and they have this dumb look on their face. So, um...
 and I just want my hope to the black community is that I want us to know that just because our president is like
 He's not afraid to say that. It may look like a few steps back, but as long as we try and we start petitions and live our lives the way we want to live our lives, it can be a few steps forward. So thank you for having me at Opportunity to Take Care. Thank you. We appreciate you. You did good. I think we can clap it up a little better for her for that. She did an amazing job.
 My name is Samuel Thompson. I am born and raised here in Portland, Oregon. I'm currently the shy care manager for the Elevate Black Men program at POIC, working with young men between the ages of 18 and 27 that are gang-involved on probation to help them to come up with plans to not reviolate and get their lives in a better place. I'm also a member of this community. Love it.
 And so I want to thank Ken for having this. I want to thank you for being here, the city council, everybody who showed up today. And so when I was asked about what does Juneteenth mean to me, when I was first presented with this question, I first thought about the historical significance. So...
 On June 19, 1865 was the announcement of the abolishment of slavery in the state of Texas and more generally the emancipation of the enslaved African Americans throughout the former Confederacy of the Southern States. And so on that day we celebrated. We celebrated like black folks do, only we can do, through singing, dancing, music, and food. But in that moment I couldn't help but to think of the irony of being granted freedom but never truly being free.
 You know with segregation and the Jim Crow laws, systemic racism and processes put in place to continue to oppress us, gentrification, redlining, and a disproportionately unjust justice system. So have we ever truly been free? And so what does Juneteenth mean to me? It means perseverance and community. So for me, for those that don't know, perseverance means steadfastness in doing something despite difficulty or delay in achieving success.
 And so being able to celebrate in the midst of so much injustice is a gift, a gift that my people possess. We know how to make lemons and take lemons and make lemonade and making a way out of no way. My people have excelled at that. And so community is a group of people living in the same place or having a particular characteristic in common. So Juneteenth is an opportunity for community, for the babies all the way to the elders, fellowshipping, the laughter and the joy and the music together.
 It always outlines the uniqueness of the people who can make something out of nothing. I love when the dominoes are being played, the arguments that happen when you renege in a game of spades. You know, that lets me know that I'm home. And so I love my people, and Juneteenth shows us at our best the perseverance of our community. And so the next question I was asked is, what is my commitment to black Portland? I thought on this for a minute and went back to my childhood, to my black Portland, to my community.
 I was raised in a Portland that where between Interstate and 33rd, Lombard and Fremont. That was my community. The days that you could take a note to Franklin's and get whatever your mama wanted and get a jawbreaker on the house. When you get in the car, go through a drive-thru and get the best milk and juice you ever had in your life. When Kregos was a one-stop shop. When one-stop records had all the cuts. When you're riding your church bus to go skating at Oaks Park. When Leon's haircuts was only $5.00.
 When the burgers at Cleo's tasted like heaven. When we would stand outside Wonder Bread and wait for them to throw out those snacks. When you go to Alberta Park and make a gimp and then get the cookie after lunch because you really didn't want the sandwich anyway. When you went to SEI camp to get the shoes and ended up getting way much more. My black Portland was beautiful. And so the definition of restoring is to bring back, reinstate, return to a former condition, place or position
 to repair or renovate. So synonyms for that include to fix, to mend, to rehabilitate, to rebuild, to reconstruct, to remodel, to overhaul and to redevelop. And a village, a village is a self-contained district or community within a town or a city. So we asked what my commitment to black Portland is.
 is our village needs to be restored. It needs to be mended. It needs to be fixed. It needs to be rehabilitated. So my commitment to Black Portland is to restore the village, to bring us back to where we once was. I want my son to grow up in a community that is invested in his growth and his well-being. I want to create opportunities for us to engage with each other on a personal level, to build relationships, because ultimately relationships are what makes the world go around.
 You don't hurt who you love and you take care of what you feel a part of. We need to restore our love in one another. We need to restore our love in our community. But first and foremost, we need a village. We need a village to feel a part of so we can take care of it. So I'm here demanding the opportunity to reconstruct, remodel, overhaul, and redevelop our village. Black Portland was my village. When you're disciplined three times from 25th to 11th for doing something wrong on 28th,
 By the time you got home, your mom knew the full story when you walked in the house. And all this was happening with no Facebook, no Snapchat, no cell phones. My village taught me accountability, responsibility, and respect. So when I was 11 years old, a guy named Billy Moore taught me about faith, focus, and follow through, and about tradition, discipline, and respect. And those things to me are what the beauty of being black is.
 The faith that everything will be better if you focus on where you're headed and follow through until you get there. That's perseverance. Our traditions that were imparted on us by the elders help shape the discipline that we have today and the respect that we show tomorrow. That's community. That's beauty. You're beautiful. We are beautiful. This is beautiful. So I want to say happy Juneteenth. Restore the village. Be great. And black power. Very good. Commissioners?
 Well, thank you all for being here. This has been an unusually joyous day at City Hall, which I think we could all use more of. Thank you to the speakers. I just want to say, LaKeitha, I absolutely agree with everything that you said, and I hope that you can help hold me and my colleagues and those bureau directors accountable.
 Apple, thank you very much. I don't want to ask you what school you go to, because it's not my business, and I don't think we should say it in a public forum. But maybe it's... They need tissue, though. Pardon? They need some tissue. I was going to say, if someone wants to tell me over on the side, I'll put in my two cents on that toilet paper issue.
 Oh, the only other time I ran for elected office was vice president of my freshman class, and I promised doors on the girls' restroom stalls. So we have something in common. You guys have stalls? We did have stalls, Mayor, yes. Yes, I went to school in the suburbs. And thank you also for your wonderful testimony, something that I think about a lot.
 Another re-word is remedy. How do we remedy the wrongs that have been done? And how do we ensure that in our good intentions, in pursuit of remedy, that we're not actually causing more unintended harm, which is quite possible. So I do not have the answers today, but I consider it,
 important part of my job to pursue those remedies and I want to invite everyone here to contribute to that conversation and especially around rebuilding community so thank you and happy Juneteenth in a few days I don't know what day it is today but I know it's not the 19th and thank you for bringing this celebration it's
 I've only known about Juneteenth for a few years, and I hope this becomes a regular tradition at City Hall and in the larger community. Well, thank you all for your eloquent statements, Samuel in particular. That was a very poignant image of North Northeast Portland that you created for me, and I really appreciate that. I hope you've put those words to paper at some point. It's very vivid, and it's...
 Something I hope we do, restore the village. And I want to thank Janine Gates for all of her great work in this building and for helping to orchestrate today's celebration of Juneteenth. So thank you very much. So this has been a very positive development. And Janine, again, I want to thank you and your team, and Lakeitha and Apple and Sam. Great testimony.
 Apple, you definitely deserve better toilet paper. So we're going to stay on top of that one for you. That seems like something we should be able to solve that one together, right? I think we can do that. I think we can. There are a lot of serious issues that are at stake here. And I want to start by acknowledging that I had a lot of questions about what is Juneteenth and why is it important. Right.
 And just the asking of the question and the telling suggested to me that we have a long, long way to go, just in terms of understanding the history. And it is very important in everything that we do. And we're imperfect at it. I want to be very clear. Everything we do in this community, we have to acknowledge intentionally the history, the good, the bad, and the ugly, because until we embrace it, until we speak it,
 Until we own it, we can't really move on together as a community. And I talk about this a lot. Last night we had a very distinguished group of African-American pastors in this room.
 And I won't get into the details, but they were pretty upset about a policy issue that we were working on here at Portland City Hall. And they didn't feel particularly well informed. They didn't feel that they had been part of the process. And they were right. And for me, it was a really important moment for this council, for the community, because we acknowledged it. We owned it. And as a result, what could have been a really contentious –
 discussion, we all left feeling really good about it. We left feeling closer. We left feeling sort of one step closer to that beloved community, the one we cannot get to unless we are actually truly a community.
 And that's what the spirit of Juneteenth is, and this celebration really is all about. And I'm really pleased to see a lot of my team here. I see Cupid is here, and I saw Trevon here earlier, and I see Angel sitting in the back. And I think of all the really difficult, hard, contentious work that they do and do.
 Nicole Grant, who isn't here today, but she's working on some really, really thorny and difficult public safety issues on behalf of the community. And I think about that and justice, and I think about the work that we're doing around the hill block, which is an issue rife with history and emotion. And the conversations around it have been very, very challenging but extremely important issues.
 And I think about the work that we're doing around the North Northeast Housing Coalition. Because, Sam, it gets to your vision. You know, I was listening to your vision. I'm going, wow, this is a piece of it. It's not the whole thing, but it's a piece of it. How do we, you know, starting with Dan's leadership as the commissioner in charge of the Housing Bureau, and now I've inherited this, how do we actually make good on the promises to support and rebuild housing?
 a community that was intentionally destroyed through urban development. Right? And the hill block is the exact same question. And very few cities are actually even engaging in this conversation because it's really, really difficult.
 The conversations are difficult, and it's particularly difficult for the majority community because it requires the majority community, including people like me, right, to look into a mirror and see with clarity what is being reflected back.
 And yet we're doing it. And I'm really proud of the work that we're doing here. I'm proud of the city employees that are here. I'm proud of the community that is engaged. And I just got to say, Apple, the thing people on my team know this, it is very difficult being mayor. And there are days, I don't mind telling you, where I ask myself, what the heck have I done to myself? It's a really difficult job.
 And for some reason, whenever I'm with the kids, I just, I feel better. I feel better about the future. It gives me a lot of hope and confidence. And the fact that you have the aplomb and the courage and just sort of the sense of togetherness to figure out, hey, if the toilet paper isn't working, somebody's got to do something about it. And who's the somebody? Me. It's you. You already get it.
 So I'm going to stop there because she just said exactly the right thing. So thank you all for being here. This proclamation is obviously overwhelmingly adopted by the Portland City Council. Could we possibly get a photo for people who feel comfortable and like a photo up front with the proclamation? It would be a lot of fun. Thank you, Janine. Thank you. Thank you. Let's go. Go take a picture. I will. How do you feel?
 I want you to stand right in the front. Hold that. Hold that.
 I'm not gonna do it. Okay, one more time. Okay. Okay. Squeeze in. Baby skin. Alright, right here. One, two, three. One, two, three. Okay, everywhere else.
 Thank you. Yeah, well, thank you. Appreciate it. I couldn't get it to you. It's good. Thank you. Appreciate it.