Good morning everyone. Welcome to the June 17th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Thank you.
 Good morning, everyone. Welcome. We have some communications items up front, followed by several times certain items, presentations, proclamations, and other business, and then the regular calendar after that this morning. If you're here to speak, we welcome the public to the council chambers for these deliberations.
 During the time of our regular council calendar, there will be an opportunity to sign up and testify on items that are on our calendar today. So please do if you're interested. When you do testify, you need only state your name for the record. You don't have to give us your address. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization under our code, you need to disclose that. And if you're representing an organization, it would be nice to know who you are with.
 We have time limits, and there's a buzzer that indicates at 2 minutes and 30 seconds that you're within 30 seconds of using your time, and another buzzer and lights that indicate that your time's up and that someone else needs to have a chance to speak.
 And when it comes to people having a chance to speak, we ask that we maintain some courtesies in this chamber, and that is if you agree with someone and want to show support for their point of view, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you also feel so inclined, if you disagree with them, likewise, but we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or in opposition to our fellow citizens' points of view here so that everybody gets heard. Thank you.
 Finally, if there's conduct that disrupts the meeting, the person who's disrupting the meeting will be warned and then asked to leave the chambers and then excluded if they're unable to get the message. So that's the rules of procedure. We want to welcome everyone. And let's move first to communications items number 607. Request of Ethan Beck to address council regarding placement of a poll on Southeast 71st Avenue. Mr. Beck, come on up.
 Not here yet. Okay, we'll see if he arrives in time later. 608, please. Request of Marilee Day to address counsel regarding Pembina proposal. Good morning. Good morning. Well, I'm actually going to wear two hats. So here's my first hat, and that is that I am a nurse practitioner, and I work with Medical Teams International, and I go to emergency clinics.
 regions when there's an emergency for them. And my most recent deployment was to the Philippines, where there had been a 236 mile an hour typhoon. It was the greatest wind on record in the history of the earth. And it occurred
 because the sea is warming up there faster than any other place in the world. It's three degrees Fahrenheit hotter, and that caused the typhoon to have so much more power that when it hit land in a place called Taklavan, it tore children away from their parents' arms. All the houses that were wood blew away.
 And the trees, which they depend on, the coconut trees, blew away also. And at the same time, the cargo ships, when an 18-foot wall of water came over to the city afterwards, came over on top of their town. So they had five cargo ships. Can you imagine a cargo ship on top of City Hall? And that's what they're left with that we want to take care of. And the Philippines know that this is because
 that the world is getting hotter and that the typhoons are going to get stronger, that this is going to happen to them again. And they know that it's human-caused and fossil fuel is the leading cause of it. And they asked me to come back here and talk to U.S. officials and tell them to stop the fossil fuel. They in the Philippines are on geothermal and they ride bikes for the most part. Not in Manila, but out where I was.
 Right now, Kate Brown just reported that we have 19 counties in Oregon, I think that's out of 32, that are experiencing a drought right now. And that means that we're going to be in for it with lower crops and fires this season, probably. And I think that it's really time that we do something seriously about it. I think it's time that we have a really clear, firm climate action plan, which I know you're going to get to later.
 and that we have no fossil fuels, and that includes propane and LNG, that we get off of them entirely over the next period of time, which I hope is short, and that we...
 divest totally by 2020 out of fossil fuels. And that we really, I think Portland does a great job of looking at carbon reduction, all the things that we do. But I think that we need to do a lot more to get where we need to go to. So now I'm changing my hat here.
 I'm putting on my Cully Association of Neighbors farmer's hat because I live in Cully and it is the most diverse. You've used up your time, but tell us about your statement from Cully. Okay. So here's my statement from Cully. I'll need to read it, though, because you've given it to us. Yeah. Can I just read one part of it or no? Just a quick mention. Oh, just a quick deal.
 Kali always researches well, and we're opposed to the PIMP unit, and we wanted you to know two things that are really important that you don't know, and that is Sandina Labs, who does the atomic research and nuclear, has looked into propane, and they say no propane train can come through with more than 20 cars because if it derails...
 and it explodes, it will take out a massive amount of area. So no train can have 100 cars of propane through a residential area.
 So that's one. And the other one is that propane really is fracked, and it releases methane, which is 83 times worse than carbon dioxide. And so it's really a greenhouse gas that is worse than oil and coal now that we're finding out. So it's a baddie. It's not the bridge. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. Thank you.
 Mayor, just a quick update. In this excellent testimony we have, it refers to the drought that Oregon's experiencing and the 19 counties. And so we get, obviously, a lot of calls from people. Thank you, Marilyn, asking where we stand here in Portland. And the answer is we are working with the governor, Richard Whitman, and the regional consortium on this question of the statewide drought.
 But the good news is that because of the foresight of people over 100 years ago and the Bull Run watershed and our Columbia well water, we actually have all the water we need this summer. So Portlanders and regional partners are not at risk of drought this summer. But there are significant shortages statewide, and we'll be trying to figure out a way how we can help with that. That's great. Thank you. Okay, let's take 609, please.
 Request of Kelly O'Hanley to address council regarding Pembina Terminal. Good morning. Indirectly talking about Pembina. My name is Kelly O'Hanley. I'm a lifelong Presbyterian. I served as an elder and a deacon and a vice president at Rose City Park Presbyterian Church. And I was able to be on a nationwide call hosted by the Franciscan Action Network.
 and was able to learn a little bit in anticipation of the Pope's encyclical that will be coming out tomorrow. An encyclical is a letter that's circulated to bishops and shared with the community, and this one is going to be different. It's usually about matters of faith. This one will be different because Pope Francis is different. He will be calling everybody to action. He'll be calling us to protect creation. And if we listen, we will be different.
 We are in need of a spiritual awakening. He will be telling us that a core teaching that seems to be forgotten is that the earth is a gift, that we cannot stand apart from creation, that we should not be destroying it or compromising it. In a mass in May, Francis warned the powerful of the earth that God will call them to judgment one day if they don't do enough to protect the environment and the poor. There are times in lives and in history when decisions of consequence must be made.
 That time is now. The time to act is now. It is urgent. He speaks about the aspect, or will speak about the aspect, of the justice that the poor who have done the least to cause climate change will shoulder most of the burden. The Pope wants to unite a divided world. Catholics are by no means the only ones interested in climate change.
 We anticipate a Muslim fatwa on climate change, Hindi proclamations, other Christians, Jews all joining. Let a thousand flowers bloom. And the question is, where will we stand? Will we stand with the community of faith? It has been noted that the coal industry has started to adopt the language of morality, that we have a moral duty to let developing nations use coal and other fossil fuels.
 However, ultimately, this is a cynical strategy bound to fail because they are no longer – the coal industry and the fossil fuel industry is no longer denying climate change, and they're treading in the territory of morality of choices. In fact, it is too late to have developing countries go down the path that we have trod. We need to instead be helping them with technology to move to green energies. Is that the beep? You've got 30 more seconds. Go ahead. Okay.
 Economists and scientists have done their part. It's now politicians that have to do their part, and that's where everybody in this room comes into play. We anticipate that climate change will be part of the elections in November. There's going to be a big United Nations conference in November. And so, in summary, 2015 will be extraordinary. That's the good news I've come to share.
 As Portlanders, Oregonians, Americans, and humans who love our home, last sentence, we are invited to join arm in arm, turning from the old toward the new. For now we see in the mirror dimly, but we can act increasingly in faith, hope, and love to protect the environment. Thank you. God bless you, and let's act in faith. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay. Number 610, please. Request of Sue Disciple to address Council regarding Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission Budget. Good morning, Sue. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, and thanks for having me this morning. I'm here to highlight a couple aspects of our fiscal 1516 MHCRC budget request. It's...
 And you also have our annual report being distributed now, and I'd like to highlight some points from that also. As you know, the MHCRC is an intergovernmental partnership among Gresham, Fairview, Troutdale, Wood Village, and Multnomah County. And each jurisdiction appoints citizen representatives to the commission, and, of course, that's why I'm here as a Portland representative. We have oversight.
 of enforcement and public benefit responsibilities for the cable franchises that serve our cities and the county. And in Portland, we have two franchises, one with Comcast, one with CenturyLink. So we're pleased to have this annual report in front of you today. And I just wanted to highlight a couple of things that you'll find in there.
 MHCRC granted $2 million, over $2 million, in the 2014-2015 year to local schools, libraries, to non-profits, and to local governments. The grants also leveraged $4.1 million in additional resources for the projects.
 We launched the TechSmart initiative for student success in the fall of 2014. It's up and running. We are really excited about this program. A description of that and of our other grants can be found in the annual report. Thank you.
 The MHCRC provided funding and franchise enforcement support to Portland Community Media. This year, PCM produced over 3,500 programs and trained close to 700 citizens in digital skills, production skills, and digital literacy skills.
 As you know, affordable broadband has become more and more critical to our local public institutions, and we continue our work with the Institutional Network, a.k.a. the INET, which provides high-speed broadband connectivity to 293 schools, libraries, and other agencies throughout our county.
 We addressed consumer protection issues, both broadly and with individual subscribers. For example, we worked with cable company on issues related to clearer information on subscriber bills, use of electronic messaging to subscribers, service installation scheduling, and we assisted citizens with 218 individual complaints.
 I'm happy to report that our independent audit for 2013-14 found our financial statements fairly represented our financial position, and the full audit document is available on our website.
 So on to the budget. The MHCRC 15-16 budget generally represents the status quo, but also it looks to the future. I'm going to give you some extra time since you're reporting in on one of our own commissions here. Okay, thank you. The commission projects that the franchise fee revenue will remain flat in the upcoming year.
 Jurisdiction's contributions for the operating budgets have increased slightly due to cost of living increases. Portland's contribution in FY15-16 is $296,435. And as you know, the other jurisdictions contribute also. MHCRC anticipates that 15-16 is going to be a future-focused planning year.
 Considering rapidly evolving technology and public policy and our community's increasing reliance on the availability of broadband, the MHCRC is turning its sights towards those issues into the future. And we look forward to working with you and your staff and our communities to identify needs and opportunities around broadband. Our budget includes funds to assist MNH.
 MHCRC in this endeavor. So in conclusion, we respectfully request that council approve the 2015-16 proposed MHCRC fund budget. And if there's questions, I'd be happy. I have a couple questions. First of all, thank you very much for coming to council and reporting in the way you're doing. Not everybody does in our community, so thank you for doing that.
 When is that budget ask coming before us? Is it part of what we're going to do tomorrow, or is it coming to us separately, Mary Beth? It's a separate item. Today, okay. And, you know, in your report, Carol, you highlight something. I'm Sue. Sue, you highlight something in your report that's very important. I just want to acknowledge, which is almost a million dollars to the Earl Boyle's Early Learning Technology Integration Project.
 And last year, this council, I think it was last year, supported the Earl Boyle's Early Learning Program. And it's something that we're very committed to. So the fact that you're then giving a substantial grant to help with technology is a good partnership.
 The one thing that I would just urge you to consider in the next report is there's a ton of really good information here. But I think for us it would be helpful if there was a page that showed sources of funds and how you allocate them.
 It's the only thing I don't see here, and I'm sure if I went online I'd find it. But I'd urge you to put two pie charts just so that we can see where you get your money and where it goes out the door. I think the public would be interested. Sure. We would be happy to do that. It's not that hard. It's a result of our cable franchise, but there are some discrete patterns.
 of money that can only be used for certain purposes. So, sure, that makes perfect sense. Commissioner, thanks. And just, I mean, the summary numbers you have here are pretty compelling. I mean, that's, I don't think a lot of people know what a success story this is, that you're only spending about 4% of the,
 revenue flow on your own operations so that you and the other commissioners and the staff are really taking that broad public benefit responsibility seriously and getting most of the money out the door in services and grants and that's really excellent. Yeah, we're pretty proud of that also. Thank you.
 Commissioner DeSalle, I add my thanks to you and your fellow commissioners also. To Mary Beth Henry, the manager of the Office for Community Technology, this is indeed a remarkably different story from the one that maybe was told five years ago. And you've worked really hard to...
 make things go as smoothly as they are. Particularly also want to commend Cece Hughley-Noel at the Portland Community Media for working with the commission and with the board there to get that organization on such a great footing that it is now. So thank you very much for all your service. Oh, absolutely. Yeah, it's been a pleasure. Steve, I do just want to acknowledge that the great socialist leader, Norman Thomas, is a member of the board. So interesting.
 Not that Norman. Sue, thank you very much. Absolutely. Thanks for your time this morning. Thank you. Okay. And then we have one more public communication item 611. Request of Fern Allen to address council regarding bringing dance to urban youth in schools. Good morning. All right. My name is Fern Allen. Thank you to the city council and the mayor for your time. I'd like to talk to you today about dance and particularly teens and dance.
 I've seen the rash of gun violence lately. I know that it's a problem that's never too far from popping off in many parts of Portland throughout the years. I was actually at the last Thursday event recently, just a block away from the gunfire, and ran towards it because I was concerned my own son was there. He's 15 years old and grew up with the boys who were shot. Luckily for me, my son had wandered the other direction just minutes before and missed the gunfire that I heard as firecrackers right by my vending booth.
 That's just one very public instance of what is far too often a happenstance event, something that occurs and that we dismiss as gang violence, as if the teenagers and neighborhoods are less valuable or less terrorized because we have downgraded the terror as gang violence. I see in the restlessness of my son and his friends that there's a great need for fundamental free and low-cost offerings that foster self-respect, self-care, self-interest, and self-love.
 Through mandates such as Common Core and standardized testing, much of what we provide children and teens today are repetitive and multiple choice learning models that do little to nothing to encourage the unique and gorgeous nature of each individual child. How can we mirror to these teens their brightness, their beauty, their own special creative spark? How can we provide a platform for them to find their inspiration?
 Four years ago, I found dance. Not just any dance, but a dance gathering that I can best describe as free dance, though it has names such as sacred dance or ecstatic dance as well. I attend twice a week in different locations. Basically, a DJ plays music and all of the people start to move freely or sit freely or stand freely or do head rolls or do anything they want. For an hour around, there's no instructions other than that there's no talking on the dance floor.
 People are free to simply dance and move and listen to their bodies and listen to their own stories and tell their own stories through their bodies and dance. There is no one telling you what to do, how to move, what your story is. There are only people possibly witnessing your story as you tell it and sharing your story with you through dance. Everyone's allowed and every story and every dance is welcome.
 I propose that this kind of dance can be offered in high schools and community centers specifically for teens as an intentional response to the recent rash of gun violence. Recently you generously made Matt Dishman open to teens for the summer and there are also classes offered.
 Free dance could be an amazing offering to teens there through the summer, and then it could be brought to high schools into the next school year. Basically, all that's needed is a paid location, sound equipment, and facilitators that could either be paid or volunteer. This is an easy type of teen event to set up in schools and community centers and make free or low-cost accessible to teens. The teens could help facilitate and participate in every part of dance, from the management of signing waivers to selecting and DJing music to leading the intention and, of course, all the dancing.
 This is the kind of teen community building that our neighborhoods and cities so desperately require after the kind of darkness we have faced together recently. Let's offer our kids something fun, free, and somewhere they can express themselves and get to know each other in a safe and positive environment. Thank you guys so much for your time and for your help governing this beautiful city. Oh, thank you. Well, thank you for coming. You're actually really in the right place at the right time.
 Because under the program that the council is approving in our budget, the Parks Bureau is not only going to make Matt Dishman free for teens, but we also have 160 Saturday nights at four different community centers where we want to partner with groups in the community. So Commissioner Fritz and I keep developing this program gradually. I'd urge you to.
 get in touch probably with Eileen Argentina probably. Very memorable name. Eileen Argentina in the Parks Bureau. And she can talk with you about that because we're actually looking for community-based non-profits to put programming into those 160 nights. So you may be in the right place at the right
 time. Yeah, I did want to say that feel free to utilize it myself or many of my dance colleagues for questions or internship, volunteer, or employment in putting together these programs. We have lots of people interested. Two other ideas. Your child was a block from 20th and Alberta? Myself and my son, yeah. My daughter was at 20th and Alberta. She texted me as the shooting erupted so my heart goes out to you for that. Yeah.
 And I know you were right by it. We were all right there. Very nice. The two other ideas, just that we'll follow up with you. One is that Sunday Parkways has a dance component in the parks. It's one of the most successful aspects. One of my favorite things. Where people, it's led by parks, but doesn't necessarily have to be. And the other thing is the arts tax is now funding dance in schools. So I'll shoot you an email to find out if...
 sacred dance, the dance that you're interested in, potentially fits in with any of the programs of arts in the schools. Awesome. Well, thank you so much for your time. Thank you for your inspirational testimony and for volunteering to help provide this service to our youth and be part of it. So, yes, please contact Eileen Argentino in Parks. I will. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks for coming. So did Mr. Beck arrive? Ethan Beck? Ethan Beck?
 Okay. Then let's move to the consent calendar and then on to our time certain items. I have some requests to pull a couple of consent calendar items to the regular calendar. One is 620 and another is 621. Any others that need to be pulled from the consent calendar? Okay. Then let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Okay.
 Bish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? So none of the folks in 617, which is an appointment to the Portland Parks Board, were able to attend today, which is why we put it on consent. But I do want to thank new appointee Ian Jaquis and reappointees Judy Bluehorse-Skelton, Tanya Booker, Kathy Fong-Stevens, and Krista Thoretz for their service on the Parks Board. Aye. Thank you.
 Hales. Well, again, I want to thank Sue for coming this morning. And the fact that the Cable Commission's budget adoption is this easy and completely uncontroversial is one more sign that you're doing good work. Thank you. Aye. Okay. Time certain. Item 612. Portland made on the Portland Maker Movement and their visit to the White House for Makers Roundtable Connect.
 Well, I'm very pleased to welcome a panel here this morning. And if you want to pull up a couple more chairs so that you can have all five of you up at once, I think there are going to be five at once, Kelly Roy from ADX and Portland Made, Katrina Escoto de Carlo from Supportland, Joshua Lifton from CrowdSupply.
 Dana Hinger and Sarah Tunstall from Spool Town are part of this movement here in Portland and had the opportunity to go to the White House and talk about what's happening in Portland and had some conversations with them already, but really wanted the council to hear their report about both the state of the movement and where we fit nationally and what some of the opportunities and problems facing makers in Portland are. So I just want to welcome you all and appreciate the chance for the council to hear your report.
 Thank you. I appreciate you having us. My name is Kelly Roy. I'm the owner and founder of ADX, which is Portland's maker space, and also of Portland Made, which is a collective of makers and manufacturers throughout the Portland region.
 who create over 1,000 jobs and over $270 million in revenue. That's as of last year. And we have multiplied our membership by five times. So you can do the math and see the economic force that the maker movement is in Portland.
 This contingent here in front of you, we were invited by the White House to become part of the Makers' Roundtable, which was representatives from cities around the country who are part of this movement. If you haven't heard about it, it is sweeping the nation and the world, and Portland has really –
 exerted itself as a leader in the movement. And what has distinguished us is our very Portland approach, which is very entrepreneurial. So all of my colleagues here are entrepreneurs who own their own companies, and I'll let them introduce themselves. Katrina Escado de Carlo, and I'm the co-founder of Supportland.
 I'm Josh Lifton. I'm the co-founder and CEO of CrowdSupply. We're a locally-based crowdfunding platform for physical manufactured goods. We ship all over the world. We take projects from all over the world. Of course, we have a pretty heavy Portland and Oregon base, both customers and creators. But there's a lot of demand outside of Portland for Portland is what we're seeing.
 Sarah Tunstall, co-owner of Spool Town. We're a small run sewing factory. We make mostly bags and accessories for 80 to 100 different clients across the country and Canada.
 And there's a button on the bottom of that. There you go. And I'll push the button. I'm Dana Hinger, and I am also the co-owner of Spool Town. So we, like Sarah said, we represent 80 to 100 different clients per year. Over the years, we've probably worked for 400 or 500 different clients. So we represent a lot of small businesses outside of Portland, but ultimately we're bringing all that money into Portland.
 So one of the things that we noticed when we were at the White House is that Portland really stands out for our approach to this movement. It's been very entrepreneurial, very grassroots. And the ecosystem that is here in Portland.
 really gives us an opportunity to continue to lead that movement and provide some examples to other cities for how to support makers and manufacturers. Portland is very fortunate in that we have a long history of manufacturers
 of manufacturing from Pendleton and Janssen to Gerber Knife, Chris King, Leatherman, Bullseye Glass, The Joinery. These are all kind of founding companies that have grown to become big parts of our economy. And the groups that we are working with, the companies that we're working with are generally
 small startups who are just getting into manufacturing a product. So ADX provides the tools and the resources for prototyping your products. CrowdSupply gives you a platform in which to launch your product and get funding.
 Once you get funding and you're ready to take your product to market, you can take it to a contract manufacturer like Spool Town to produce it in small batches, which is a huge challenge. And then consumers can support the whole system through Supportland by buying local.
 often hear about big tech investors and angel investors and venture capitalists, and our investors are consumers. So consumers purchasing locally made goods are what provides the success for these companies.
 And educating and informing consumers about these products is a critical part of Portland Made, telling their stories and getting them into the factories, showing them how the sausage is made, so to speak. But one of the big threats that we are experiencing as makers and manufacturers has to do with real estate, and we're really seeing the pressures in the central east side.
 So, the Southeast Quadrant Plan is something that you all are going to have been working on and reviewing. And through our experience connecting with other cities around the country, we have a couple of case studies that we've provided to you in your handouts from San Francisco and Philadelphia on policies that can be used to protect and preserve manufacturing in the central city.
 These are our culture makers. These are the people who are making our city the thing that is attracting so many people here. And keeping manufacturing visible and in the heart of our city is very important to the success of these companies.
 So we've provided you with some of that information so that we can work together with you as you continue to develop the Southeast Quadrant Plan to give specific examples of how land use policies can be used to preserve and protect industrial land. As you know, there's a lot of pressure on the Central East Side. There's a lot of...
 cash money, mostly from the marijuana sector coming into the city, putting cash on the table for buildings that have traditionally been in manufacturing, that infrastructure that's there in the form of electrical, lighting, just the nature of those buildings. We've already invested a lot in that infrastructure and it's converting that to office.
 takes that away from the manufacturing sector. So the examples from San Francisco, they use policy to preserve manufacturing uses in new development while allowing for creative office, but it requires that a certain amount of the buildings get preserved and protected for light industrial. So we thought that was a great example for new construction.
 And then Philadelphia, who also has a long history of manufacturing, has a lot of existing infrastructure. And there are some good examples there on how to preserve and protect that existing infrastructure while allowing for increased manufacturing density. Okay.
 So the nonprofit development companies and land trusts are things that other cities with really hot real estate markets are looking at to provide affordable real estate to makers and manufacturers. So have you been participating in the Southeast Quadrant Plan and talking to the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability? Yes.
 We have members, all of our members of Portland MADE have been tracking the Southeast Quadrant Plan. We haven't necessarily attended all of the meetings. We're, like I said, we're all entrepreneurs. We're all running our own businesses. But it's something that we've been interacting with PDC quite regularly and staff.
 So we're trying to make sure that we provide you with the resources that we are aware of that can be used to protect manufacturing. The importance not only with the close proximity, it's just the economic contribution that these companies are making to the city.
 So, like I said, the 1,000 jobs, these are just Portland-made members, 270 million in revenue. That money, so Portland is great for its research that it does on local economies. And I don't know, Katrina, if you want to explain the multiplier effects, but having that money stay locally in our communities is critical. So that kind of protecting the
 use for manufacturing is really important. Very much share your goal and your concern, and I'm hoping we're going to have a robust discussion next week when we do the Southeast Quadrant Plan, because it's one thing to share the goal, it's another to have the regulations that make sure that we protect those great manufacturing jobs. Thank you very much for raising, and also for providing code from elsewhere that we might be able to incorporate when we get to the council. Do you guys want to add anything?
 About this real estate issue, I can't imagine a more timely moment, actually, for you to be here at the council discussion, because we are about to get the proposal for the southeast quadrant plan. You know, we say it here all the time, but I'll repeat it. We always say that we want the planning commission to get something to maybe the 85th percentile. We don't expect that the city council is just going to rubber stamp what the planning commission produces, and that we exercise...
 our best judgment and make changes. And frankly, I'm not sure if we've got it right in the Central East Side. So that's why this is so timely. And actually, I'm going to be in San Francisco this weekend for the U.S. Conference of Mayors, so I'm going to call on Kelly to give you some specifics about
 to look at um there and also i'll be spending time with our our friend and colleague the mayor of philadelphia because we end up working on a lot of the same issues as philadelphia does and so i want to look very closely at what they've done in those other cities because our situation actually is pretty comparable and a lot of times portland is the only one you know we're the only one with a streetcar what we used to be we're the only one with light rail what we used to be
 You know, we only want with urban growth boundary. That's still mostly true. But you know this in this case And a lot of other cities are dealing with the same pressures that all this tech growth is driving out indigenous manufacturing
 and driving up home ownership costs dramatically in other cities. So I think it's really going to be useful for us to have the kind of dialogue that you had at the White House and that we have the chance to have with other cities and make sure that we're using the best practice we can find, whether it's our own creation or something we borrow from another city. But it's actually helpful that other cities are suffering from the same problems because they've thought about this too. So thank you.
 couldn't be more timely. And I, again, I want to just signal that even though I believe the Bureau's done a good job, and even though we had a great committee from the district that's done good work, I'm not sure yet that we've got it right in terms of what we have in the plan, and that every
 comprehensive plan is both a plan to protect things and a plan to change things. We have places in the city that we know we want to change. We have places in the city that we'd really like to keep pretty much like they are. And the southeast quadrant is a little bit of both. So how do we do that? And your advice and participation, yes, you're busy entrepreneurs, but over the next weeks and months is pretty critical because we kind of have a 20-year shot here at getting this right or wrong.
 And obviously we all know which one we want. I would add, you reemphasize Kelly's observation that Portland really was quite different in the context of the White House Makers Roundtable. Everyone else there had an organization or a foundation or a foundation.
 backing them, and really we were the only city there that was just entrepreneurs. Everyone else was talking about education, which I'm all for, of course, and STEM and STEAM, which are very interesting. We were the only ones really talking about manufacturing and business development and job creation. And I think that, as you alluded to, with the venture-backed tech companies,
 i think fairly quickly moving into town um which of course has some benefit to the city and it's easy to see that in in numbers it's harder to see the whole ecosystem that portland already has
 the full benefit there. I think it's much more robust. It's not as much rolling dice. And it really brings in the type of salaries, the type of jobs, and the type of people that we want in Portland. So not to be underestimated. I just don't think it's as well represented. So that, of course, is the role of governance. Can I ask a question since you were in Washington and you kind of got a sense of how our peer groups perceive us?
 So, I sometimes think it's a well-kept secret that we make a lot of things in Portland. And we know that, you know, we make big things and small things. We make rail cars and barges and award-winning Daimler trucks, but we also make bicycle frames and cool wooden things and frames and everything in between. What do people nationally think of when they think of Portland? Do they think of us as a place that makes things? Yes.
 Well, I mean, as many of you know, Portland is really hot right now. Again, another reason to capitalize on this movement and this moment in time. We're not only nationally known, but internationally known. We have flocks of Japanese tourists coming here to buy our goods.
 ADX has hosted over 75,000 people from around the world through our space in the last four years. So certainly Portland is on everyone's map and everyone is looking to Portland. But there are other cities that have similar kind of infrastructure and movements happening. San Francisco and Philadelphia. Detroit is obviously trying to make its resurgence. But...
 it did stand out to us that we were the only entrepreneurs at the table. Other cities had representatives from their mayor's office, from large foundations, and from large companies that were fully funding these movements, whether it was education, real estate subsidies...
 any number of tools that can be used to support an industry that is providing economic opportunity for, you know, for good middle class jobs. And I think that's a lot of what we're talking about right now as a country is everything in the middle is missing. Not every kid is college bound. There need to be employment opportunities for kids that take a nontraditional approach to their careers.
 And so there are similar issues that people are struggling with in workforce training because of the fact that we've moved all of our manufacturing overseas through bad trade policies. And there are issues around real estate and some of the hot real estate markets around the country. So those are the two big issues that are similarities. But what Portland, like...
 A lot of our movements, I liken it to the early stages of our green building movement, our sustainability movement, when people were struggling with language. What is a maker? What is a maker space? What are we really talking about? So we're really trying to help develop some definitions and some common language about what it is this movement is all about, what its impact can be, and we're trying to keep Portland on the leading edge, on the bleeding edge of this, because that's what Portland does.
 So that's what we're really hoping the city will rally behind with us, is helping keep Portland on the top and looking to other cities for good practices on the issues that we all struggle with. Kelly, on that note, the city has been very intentional about wanting to be a destination for film,
 and video. So we actually have concierge service at Portland Development Commission. We have two people whose job it is to welcome and then facilitate and expedite fulfillment and look at the success. We have a lot going on here in that area. One of the, in your call to action, your first proposal is an advocate in every agency. Having an advocate in every agency might be a stretch goal initially, but I've wondered why we don't have essentially concierge service for small business generally.
 and whether that's dedicated people at PDC or an office of business or something else, what would that mean to your sector to have a dedicated person or persons that did provide what we'll call concierge service to help small businesses start up and grow? Yeah, and just to be clear, those calls to actions are actually an Etsy report that we included in the packet, but it is a very good and thorough report.
 We have been trying to serve that purpose through Portland Made, which is a self-funded endeavor. We have been attempting to work with PDC over the years to try to get some staff involvement and engagement, and they're very open to it. I think there's just some confusion about where money can be spent, how staff time can be allocated.
 I think it would be a huge help to have somebody who was facilitating this conversation across the ecosystem and bringing partners together and primarily providing real estate services, real estate placement services. If there are buildings that PDC owns within our central industrial districts,
 helping put makers together. Shared manufacturing is the future. So having multiple manufacturers in one location is the best use and most efficient use of resources and also provides a community of people that can help support and leverage their success over time.
 So having additional staff support within the city as this movement grows, just like the green building movement, we didn't always have an Office of Sustainable Development. So we're hoping that by continuing to work with the city and navigating through some of these issues, we would love for the city to fully embrace Portland Made as Portland's brand.
 as we continue to export more products around the world. A cohesive brand has so much impact, and because we work with Portland State University on this annual survey that talks about job creation and economic activity, we have some real data that shows the power of the movement, and having the city rally behind that brand and help us connect makers
 to new markets overseas would be really valuable. So certainly staff time, resources from the city dedicated to keeping this movement elevated and keeping Portland on the cutting edge would be very helpful.
 You mentioned workforce. I know, Sarah and Dana, you've struggled a little bit to find or train qualified folks. Talk a little bit about that, not just what the city might do, but what Benson High School is right up the street from your business. So what should be happening at Benson High School, given what we want to see continue to happen in the Central East Side with businesses like yours? Sure.
 Sure. Well, I think that Kelly made a great point earlier about how not every student is college bound and about how there are great entry level jobs, you know, with with some training attached to them to be had here in Portland that really have a have a meaningful impact. A lot of our employees are are people who have gone to the Art Institute. They have they have degrees in fashion design and fashion.
 They're a little overqualified for the positions that they have doing production sewing for us, but they're really interested in becoming involved in the industry, and it's a great way in to get their foot in the door. So I feel like we definitely struggle finding employees. Portland never had...
 well, we haven't recently had a huge textile manufacturing industry, and so we don't have a lot of people who are already trained in the skills that they need to do the work that we provide. We see ourselves kind of as a training hospital, and we hire folks, train them how to do the work, and then keep them in there. But I feel like there are lots of opportunities for schools to get, and for us to work with schools to train students right out of school and to move them right into positions directly out of school. Mm-hmm.
 And we're going to hear a lot about, I'll steal a question from Commissioner Novick, we're going to hear a lot about transportation in the Southeast Quadrant Plan. How are most of your employees getting to work?
 Yeah, I mean, I'll just yell. The majority of them bike. They bike or bus. The majority of our employees, it's a young base. They don't live in the outer regions. They don't live in Beaverton. They don't live in Hillsboro. They don't live in Oak Grove. They come in from local, real close-in locations, which then just ties, it all ties back to real estate. You know, it took us nine and a half months of looking at every building that came on the market to get into our current space on Southeast 9th.
 And in all honesty, we ended up in that building because of the generosity and the kind of baseline connection that the people who own the building have with our company, which is entrepreneurial grassroots. We built it. There's no VC funding. It's us. So for them, they're an old school electrician company. They own a bunch of buildings in Southeast. They could identify with us. They understood the baseline of what we were trying to build. Yeah.
 And frankly, we can't compete with a brewery that wants to come in or a distillery with a ton of VC money that's willing to spend 30 times over per square foot what really what we can do and what we need is an IG1 building. And that's kind of what the tech...
 banks want as well in terms of style. So they want to gut them and turn them into raw spaces, and we need to keep them as raw spaces. So it's a very, very tricky dance that we're doing with them. Yeah. But that's why location matters so much to us, is because that's our employee base, and frankly, it's our client base. Used to be when we started, 80% of our clients were local. And it slowly shifted over time as we've grown, they've grown, maybe they're doing their own manufacturing, and pulling people in from all over the US, and a few from Canada.
 We get contacted by people from all over the world, but the truth is the local inner southeast area is pretty ideal for us in terms of light manufacturing. We don't have a paint booth. We don't have anything. What we need is power and space, open space. Kelly and Katrina at AlateMeet, a lot of you have great websites and even better apps. And since this is a chance to showcase those before the council, can you go through how we access your apps and the websites on all the things you're doing?
 Sure. So ADXportland.com is our website. And I'll just speak a little bit to the workforce thing while I'm saying that, in that ADX is primarily wood, metals, and some small batch manufacturing in those materials. But we're looking at applying the ADX model to other industries like fashion.
 so that we can do workforce training like we do at ADX. We can help designers. We can help educate designers on how to take something to production. They spend a lot of time dealing with fashion designers that don't understand how to take something through a production process. So things like that can also help with each of these industry sectors with providing...
 space and tools and expertise around incubating new businesses and product development. Portland Made is Portlandmade.com. And again, we're a collective of over 500 members from Bullseye Glass to Plywork to Crown Lab to Spool Town to Crowd Supply and the Portland.
 Yeah, so supportland.com and our mobile app, Supportland. You can join 80,000 other Portlanders in supporting local independently owned businesses. Yeah.
 If you want to really double up on your Portland-made love, you could head over to Made Here PDX, which is in Northwest Quadrant, and you can use your Supportland app or your Supportland card there and earn some merits for purchasing a locally-made good. And we gave you all Portland-made cards, Supportland cards, in your handout, so you all have them.
 Let's give a shout out to Little Boxes too because they have an app and they sell stuff that is actually manufactured in the inner southeast. So it's another example of just the linkages. Thank you.
 Yeah, and a good example of we all know how rapidly the craft brewing industry is growing nationally, but especially here locally with the recent craft brewers conference that we had here kind of overwhelmed the city. But ADX does production runs for brewers around the country. We've become the go-to tap handle production facility for Bowie beer.
 frame beer and other brewers around the country. So that's another kind of business to business connection that's really important is as one industry grows, it brings all these other industries along with it and that kind of economic multiplier effect for Portland is huge. So it's the power of the movement, the numbers through the Portland Maid Survey.
 I feel if we included all of the makers and manufacturers in our region, we'd probably be looking at 15,000 to 20,000 businesses. So if you take those numbers that are in there and multiply by that, you can start to see what we're talking about. And it really is important to have the space. This is very different than technology. You can start a tech company anywhere. You can start in a coffee shop. You can start in the basin of your house.
 But manufacturing needs space, it needs tools, and those are big investments that companies make that make us very good long-term economic stewards of the city. So we're investing a lot in the city, and it's helpful to have the security of seeing our investments pay off over the long term.
 Please. Speaking to Commissioner Fish's question about concierge service and how that exists for the film industry and also to Dana and Sarah's comment about where their base is and how it's in Southeast, but they also serve internationally, in my role at CrowdSupply,
 I kind of serve as an unofficial ambassador for Portland to the outside world in the sense that a lot of our clients, people who are making products and trying to figure out manufacturing and then trying to sell it, are often intrigued and enticed by the idea that they can get it all done in Portland and have us manage that and then have us ship that out to the rest of the world. And so it's a real... One of the biggest strengths there is...
 like I was saying before, that ecosystem. And so having Spool Town close in with, you know, so I can ride my bike within five miles of my office and pretty much get anything made that could be made, right? Right.
 whether that's a prototype or a small batch or even a medium or large-sized run, is really powerful. And that's the ecosystem that I think is so invisible but so powerful. And so making that more visible is what I would ask. That would be the best thing for the city to do.
 Well, I really appreciate the fact that you got this opportunity to be part of the national conversation on Portland's behalf. And I really appreciate the fact that you're part of the local conversation as well, because it isn't just talk. We really are going to make some pretty important decisions that I think are watershed decisions about whether we are able to keep and grow this sector or not. And I know you're worried about that, and we should be worried, because those market pressures are huge.
 But if we can surf this wave of change the right way, we might be able to get to a good place. But I think it really is going to require the council to look with great care at both our strategies in the Portland Development Commission
 and in our plans and policies in the comp plan. I'm going to be spending more time with the Portwood Development Commission leadership on this. We're about to have a couple of new folks cycle on to the PDC, and I was suggesting to this group earlier that we might want to take them on a tour of some of these facilities in the Central East Side because I think a lot of people simply aren't,
 as familiar as we should be with what's going on there. And I know some of us have had a chance to do that, but I think it's good for us as policy makers and for the members of the Planning Commission and for the members of the PDC to go visit Spool Town, as I did, and see your space and how you operate, spend some time at ADX because it's kind of a maker wonderland as far as I'm concerned. What Kelly and her team have wrought there is pretty amazing.
 So I really appreciate what's going on in this movement. And again, I think the fact that you got to do this right now, just before we start to make these decisions here, couldn't be better time. So that's why I really wanted to give this group a chance to come check in with us. But I think we want to hear more from you in those critical decisions that are up ahead. So again, we know you're busy and you have businesses to run, but we're going to keep calling on you to help us try to make the right choices. Thank you.
 Thanks for bringing this forward and particularly the timing of this. I'm going to put a plug in for the ADX lunch wagon, which is not only a great lunch, but a chance to actually hear from makers and visiting guests. Do you still do that every Friday? We actually stopped doing that. Uh-oh. Better start again. You can come have lunch.
 Anytime at ADX. I'm always there. If you had plugged in earlier, we'd still be going on. We do have a... We partner with Burnside Brewing and Scrap, and we do a Making It night that's coming up. So we're always doing events at ADX to get people engaged in the maker movement. We, you know...
 All of the great companies that we mentioned, they all started out of their basements. They were all just people with ideas that they didn't have access to a place like ADX. So in some ways, we really do help accelerate that process. And we really want to encourage everyone to come and just experiment and play around and
 It's a really fun place to be, and you never know. That idea that's been rolling around in your head just might have legs, and we'd love to help everyone get those ideas out and onto CrowdSupply and into Spool Town and through Supportland. I just want to say thank you because I've done the same circuit the mayor has, and it's very inspiring. Sometimes in economic development, we spend a lot of time thinking about importing the next big thing,
 And we don't spend as much time nurturing the great things that are happening in our own backyard. And this is something great that's happening in our backyard. And at our peril, we will lose it. Yeah, I think Jane Jacobs calls it economic gardening. And in addition to Kelly and Katrina, who are two of my heroes, I would have to say Betsy and Will and all the folks in the trenches trying to make this movement sustainable are doing really great work. So thank you.
 Well, please continue your leadership, and we appreciate you and are honored by the fact that you got to represent Portland at the White House, and we look forward to following up more with you soon. Thank you. Thank you very much. All right. Let's move on to Item 613. Proclaim June 17, 2015, to be Small Community Kiosk Day in Portland. Commissioner Novick.
 uh mayor actually at 6 13 and 6 14 are kind of a in a way kind of a package okay since it's now 10 30. okay we want us to read both yes greg raceman from pbot is going to address both of them okay go ahead and read the second item then crawl 614 modify conditions under which the city traffic engineer may issue revocable permits for use of dedicated street areas for an intersection repair project
 And, Greg, before you begin, I'd like to note that the reason we bring 614 before the council today in particular is that, in the immortal words of Martha and the Vandellas, summer is here and the time is right for painting in the street. Yes. You may proceed. Close enough. Thank you.
 Okay, so thank you so much for your time today. We're here today to really build upon Portland's tradition of building community in the public realm. You know, Portland's got a long history beginning with really
 transformational movement that resulted in obviously a big change on the waterfront. You know, this is, I think, a really emblematic photo of people wanting to reach the river. And when we let them do it, just something beautiful happened. And it really started to change the conversation that's happening for us as a community. Thank you.
 You know, building a park is really great, but, you know, we have such a bigger canvas when we look at our streets as far as a place where we can bring people together and places to meet each other. We have about 4,000 miles of road, about a quarter of the land mass of the city. It's a huge inventory, about $8 billion in assets. And so the more that we can use our talents to get as much out of that as possible, the stronger we'll be.
 So we have also a tradition of reclaiming space with paint. This is a slide about Pioneer Square, which of course used to be a parking garage, and one of the first actions there was to paint the roof in order to show what a Pioneer Square could become if we took out that parking garage.
 And, of course, another amazing movement for us. So painting the street really grew out of that kind of an idea. Mark Lakeman, whose dad led the process to install Pioneer Square as a kid, was watching that and was there for that painting, and I think it inspired a lot for what we started to do. And when we think about intersection repair projects, which are these street paintings,
 Really what they are is a chance to bring people together. We've seen the movement grow faster and faster. We had our first one in 1996. Today we have 40. The interesting thing is that in the last four painting seasons alone, we've put in 29.
 It costs the city any money. Miller Paint provides a 50% subsidy for the paint. City Repair provides a 25% subsidy, the nonprofit. And the community raises 25%. So we provide free professional services and a free permit. And then the neighbors initiate it, install it, maintain it themselves.
 There's a lot of community values that come out of it Mostly they're about building community and building relationships There's some misperceptions about them, about traffic They don't affect traffic We don't see any change in speed or volume or likelihood to stop at a stop sign We do see a change in perception Because as these places are owned by the community And they pay more attention to them They start to notice the positive more often They feel better about where they live
 So we've also used them as tools for empowerment. So this intersection, some children in a local low-income housing development designed the street painting with an artist and carried the petition and led the process in the painting. They changed their place. It was a really powerful moment. This neighborhood is using it as a way of crime prevention through environmental design, building relationships, watching out for each other, and creating an environment where it's not comfortable to commit crime. Thank you.
 We've also used them as an integral part of our neighborhood greenway program to build community and identity for those greenways. About a quarter of these paintings are on neighborhood greenways. And then we've also started to use them as a way to literally build community. This intersection we worked with to do a little intersection realignment, basically a curb extension with community-built planters. So instead of like an $80,000 bioswale, it was a free permit that the community was empowered to do themselves. Okay.
 We're here to talk about starting to move away from the intersection or to add to the intersection to allow for mid-block paintings. These are important because of some of our long blocks. A lot of times folks want to do them near commercial centers, and this is a way to allow that to happen. And sometimes it's just where people want to do it, and we don't really have a good reason not to, except we needed the policy behind it to do it. So our project...
 policy has been working well in bringing people together and the mid-block street paintings permitting will be basically modeled on what we've been doing at intersections, significant petition process, and so far it's been going very well to use that model. How does the petition process work and does the petition call out the actual artwork itself or just the right to put art in the
 Oh, it absolutely calls out the specific artwork. So what happens is the community works together on how they want to express what they love about their neighborhood. They bring it to PBOT. We review it. There's some basic rules like no speech, so no words or symbols, no traffic control devices, no copyright material. It then gets approved by the city traffic engineer. Once it's approved, we provide them with a petition that says that all adjacent properties must sign 100%.
 plus 80% along the street for 400 feet. So it's a very high level of consensus. And when that petition is going around, they carry the approved design with them so people know what they're signing up for. Some places want to change the design, and we just ask them to go through the process again so that we know everybody is included in the decision-making and there's community consensus about what it looks like.
 I'm just going to quickly talk about small community kiosk, which is the second item on our agenda. Think about the small library boxes you see around town. We didn't really have rules in the encroachment policy to allow for them. So when the county youth violence prevention office came wanting to build some, we didn't, we weren't able to say yes because we didn't have rules for them. So now we're going to allow them in residential settings. There's very specific size limitations, location limitations.
 So there's rules for guidance. We're basically saying here's how big it can be and where it can be. You have to follow rules like no nuisances and no communication and no commercial activity and it has to be in a residential zone and those kind of things. And then we can allow one per block face to go in if they follow the rules.
 So it all started really with this chalk revolution down in 9th and Sherritt where there was just a plate with some chalk on it. Kids used the chalk. And, you know, when it went out, adults would fill it. That kind of evolved into a little free library and poetry kiosks.
 You can imagine it being used by Safe Routes to School as meeting spots for our walking school bus program or games or history kiosks or, you know, Etch-a-Sketch stations or anything that might make our neighborhoods more vibrant places to walk and live in.
 So, you know, really what these rules are accommodating is allowing neighbors to start to dream a little bit more broadly about how they want to express themselves and build community and relationships with their neighbors. So with that, I want to let Mark Lakeman say a little bit about the perspective of city repair. But you look like you had a question. No. Okay. Where are you at? There we go. Good morning, Mr. Lakeman. Morning. It's great to see you all. Such a pleasure to be here again.
 Well, I want to just kind of frame what we're talking about today in terms of the Portland tradition of innovation as we retrofit our city. And we certainly have a history of retrofit, whether it's our park system, our neighborhood association system, or our fantastic public spaces. And one of the things that we've learned, even in looking at the way that our housing has developed, is that if we don't –
 you know, strengthen this ethic of engagement and participation. There are so many different unwatched or unseen areas, departments, or contexts in the city in which development processes will just play out without necessarily taking into account things like the fact that a house needs a porch, right?
 a house needs to talk to public space, the street, as if it's a room. And, you know, the city won't be walkable and talkable that we'll have to drive to get everything we need. So we've been very busy retrofitting our landscape. But frankly, it's a ubiquitous set of problems, and we've inherited not only the problems of our own place, but now we find ourselves in a leadership position for the rest of the continent, and we know it. I think this is very exciting. We don't necessarily write it into our...
 Okay, we don't necessarily write it into our local aspirations that we will help everyone else change the world where they live, but it seems to be where we are. And I think we're also talking about that today.
 One of the things we're remembering is that there was a time before cars existed when the streets were a vital public space. In fact, it was only about 1920 when the federal government decided to create the crime of jaywalking. Before that time, the streets were used for all kinds of different cultural celebrations, market activities, and even birthday parties before the rise of the car.
 But now as we look through the Portland landscape, for instance, here on Northeast Sandy Boulevard, this is the only bench just for sitting between the Willamette River and 360th Street, unless you're waiting for a bus. And hardly anyone ever sits there because we've basically withdrawn. We don't think of the street as a place. And really, the best places in the world that are most walkable and talkable
 Think of their pathways as journeys where you're actually in a place as you go from place to place. And of course the retrofit of Pioneer Square is very much this Portland story and now it's one of the most spectacular places in the world. But we've also learned it's not just functional, it's also symbolic. It helps everyone in the city know that there is a place where everyone can go that they all sort of have a relationship to. And we were very consciously modeling Pioneer Square historically
 after some of the most spectacular examples in the world. But we have also learned since that move that we need an entire network, an entire fabric of place in which each neighborhood is punctuated by multiple gathering places and pathways that connect them. And this is urban design, really. This is just the basic sort of understanding of urban design. We need a place that helps people to talk.
 Everyone can do this, and we've learned this as we've worked in contexts across the city and now in more than 50 other cities around the continent. People are hardwired placemakers, and they can speak, and they can listen to each other, and they can work out ideas. And one of the things that every neighborhood discovers along the way is that every person in every neighborhood is surrounded by all the skills and talents of the entire society, and it's just really a question of tapping into that broad, deep base. Thank you.
 So this is what we've been doing. Exactly the same first move as Pioneer Square to retroactively install a sense of place in communities. And, you know, we've been focusing on intersection nodes because that's where the piazza tends to happen in other countries.
 But now we're wanting to connect the tissue in between with these sort of, you know, fabulous installations that help people to come outside and find each other, really. This little library in Selwood turns out to have been the first Little Free Library in the world. And now there's something like more than 30,000 of them, I think. So these inspire delight, but also replication. Thank you.
 And the results have been, frankly, tremendous. Not always occupied in this sort of fashion, like a street wedding, but these are happening more and more and definitely helping people feel like they're part of a greater whole.
 Kids know how to do this. We've been going around talking to the littlest children and basically challenging them with James Howard Kunstler's words. You know, can we retrofit our communities with a sense of place? Children, can you help your parents talk to each other? And little girls say things like, well, yeah, all you've got to do is get a pony ride out on the streets or locate an ice cream parlor in an intersection. Maybe we'll get to that next year, but not quite yet. But this is what's been happening all around the town.
 And I don't need to tell you that these places are almost entirely free of vandalism because we're engaging people at the very start of the process so that we build local identity and ownership from the very beginning. And really we're cultivating a civic sensibility in everyone that we think contributes to the great broad successes that we're enjoying as an entire city. And the thing that we're not forgetting and that is foremost in our minds is that we are the village. The village is not the stuff that we make. It's fundamentally ourselves today.
 And I think Portland has decided to get out of the box, look at each other in the eye, challenge every assumption that we can, and re-garden this place. And it really looks like this in a community visioning workshop, this coming from Selwood, where we decide that we want to have the most walkable, talkable, lush environment that meets all of our needs and values and expresses the qualities of ourselves and our time.
 We've gotten this much work done in the city, and now we need to connect the tissue in between by making streets more as places and engaging more and more people in the process. So we finally come back to our home in an entirely new way where we're not afraid to just sit in public space and where we find that we have way more friends than we ever realized was possible. Great. Thank you very much. Great presentation. Questions? Can you go back to the map that you just showed for a second? It's two slides ago. Okay.
 And this is a familiar map in other respects, cities' investment in green streets as it comes to mind. So there's a lot in the inner core and then less so as you spread out. What's the biggest challenge we have to export this great idea east of 82nd?
 Well, it's been happening, but slowly. I think that we could be more aggressive in our outreach, and we could contact key institutions and neighborhood associations to try to create stronger partnerships with them. Just as east of 82nd is a challenge, so is a lot of the west side, because, as you know, people lack sidewalks there. They don't tend to know a lot of the people around them, and the geography is a bit of a challenge, too.
 Steve, I think this is a tremendous opportunity, another one, for BES and PBOT to work together. Just as you've suggested, we have actually implemented a closer working relationship on big capital construction projects and a better coordination. You do the roads. We do the bioswales. We invest in trees. And now we're suggesting creating more community spaces. And I would look forward to working with you to think about ways that
 we can expand these great ideas east of 82nd Street and use existing neighborhood organizations and groups like EPAP to see if we can make some progress. That sounds great. Look forward to that. Thanks. We have some more people that want to testify.
 We actually have these, but just procedurally, 613, what we're doing is reading a proclamation. 614, we're actually passing an ordinance. So if anybody wants to testify on 614 in particular, please come up. I have a sign-up sheet. Did you want to take it? Okay. Were you on the sign-up sheet? I don't want to. Okay, I've got Mark Tobin, Reedy DeCruz, and Rebecca Stavanger.
 Hi, I'm really glad to be here. And I'm the executive director for City Repair. And in that role, I'm continually thankful for the ways that Portland's local government has been really responsive and supportive of citizen-led placemaking. Please give us your name for the record, too. Yes, Mark Tobin. Yes, thank you. And...
 The mid-block repair projects and small community kiosks will really expand our placemaking toolkit that gives us a lot of different tools. We're sort of known as the people who put in these intersection designs and paintings, but really at our heart, City Repair is about helping to empower and facilitate citizen-led projects.
 transformation of spaces into places. And so it's really important for us to expand our toolkits and have lots of opportunities to do that. In city repairs history, we've helped to put in over 380 community projects, and that's including 40 intersection repairs. And having these mid-block projects
 Painting opportunities will allow us to connect a lot of those, as Mark Lakeman described, and it will help people who live in the mid-block to be more directly involved in the work that we do. Some of those people will want to initiate projects and really have that opportunity to do that near their homes.
 In City Repair's history, we've helped to incubate important Portland projects like Depave, Shift, the organization that puts on the World Naked Bike Ride, Free Geek, the community compost heaps, and the Little Free Libraries. And elements of our work have been replicated in over 50 cities.
 And we're really excited about the potential to be collaborative and, like you had mentioned, to work in more diverse areas in the city to get east and to be collaborative with other organizations and with local government to really help the work that we've been doing connect in with larger goals that the city has for making Portland more livable.
 So, yeah, I just wanted to thank you all for having us here today. That's you. Hi, my name is Riddhi D'Cruz, and I'm from India.
 And back in India, I was involved with a lot of activism and was drawn to Portland specifically because of the great story of good governance, urban green space, and just a host of things that make the city so pleasant and livable. And I got here five years ago, was pursuing a graduate degree and graduated.
 quickly found my niche within the fabric of citizen participation here, working on diversity, equity, and inclusion, along with sustainability. All these powerful movements that are really built upon a sense of place and a sense of community empowerment. And I just wanted to frame that because I
 I'm not from here, but I did hear about it. And it's a powerful story that's increasingly being spread across activists in India who are just facing pretty stark realities of development and other challenges and looking for solutions that have been tried and tested in places like Portland to see what we can come up with that's culturally responsive to our own communities. Thank you.
 So within that framework, I quickly found City Repair. I went to PSU because there's a cob oven right there, and I was like, what in the middle of campus? Oh, my gosh. It was such a powerful physical symbol, as Mark Lakeman was saying, that it just tends to draw more like-minded people and people with hearts to contribute into taking care and investing and maintaining public space and community.
 What I found simultaneously astounding as well as really hopeful is the people that are drawn to this work. This year, we facilitated, City Repair facilitated 41 community projects, and each one of those placemaking site leads and each community story is just stunning.
 So incredibly inspiring, whether it's a memorial to a neighbor that passed away that people had a connection to, whether it's Rebecca's placemaking as peacemaking initiative, whether it's disaster preparedness and community resilience where people are just connecting with each other and really finding out what assets they have that they can invest in claiming their place and,
 and knowing one another and then facing the uncertain times that we are in. And so lastly, I just want to thank you all. The mid-block repair and the community chaos continue to expand our tools for community expression. As we try to go further east,
 communities have cultural and class-based intricacies and nuances, and as we continue to respond to what it is and unlock what they have and can express, we will only see more participation, more diversity, and more just like a richness to what is expressed in terms of our public space. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Rebecca Stavanger. I work for Multnomah County Government Relations, and I'm the East County Community Liaison for Government Relations. Up until recently, I was the project director for a grant through the local health department called STRIVE, striving to reduce youth violence everywhere, and that's the initiative that Reddy mentioned, that placemaking is peacemaking. We have our new coordinator here, Vanessa, who's representing the county health department here,
 and I wanted to speak just for a few minutes about the partnership that we've experienced in the city-county relationship around placemaking. So STRIVE has been a five-year investment on behalf of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to begin to look at youth violence as a health issue and building the health of our community by protecting against risk factors that would lead to violence. We've identified strategies that are focused on empowering young people
 And then addressing the space in which we live. And so that's how our partnership with City Repair came to be. Last year we developed an intersection repair project in North Portland. Mr. Mayor, you were there painting with us, so thank you. And that process was amazing to bring youth and community members together. We went through the entire planning process, design, carrying the petition around to neighbors.
 The fact that the school and the church had existed across the street from each other and had never had a conversation and now are very close partners and that young people who experience that space as a place of violence and some fear were able to recreate that intersection and now there's a greater sense of ownership there.
 We also participated in a Little Free Library build, which Greg mentioned earlier. And instead of just one or two Little Free Libraries, we wanted to scale this up. And so recognizing the 150th anniversary of the county library system last year,
 the youth in the program built 150 little free libraries. And we now have hosts from St. John's to Troutdale that are really recognizing this importance of building social cohesion and getting people out into their front yards, talking with their neighbors, and they're doing that through this love of community building and supporting literacy. I wanted to speak just very briefly about the...
 The work that we're doing in East Portland and East County and the work that I'm doing is very close to my heart because I'm actually a Lentz resident and have lived out there for 10 years, being involved in a lot of community projects. And we have Little Free Libraries that organically came to be in that neighborhood, but we will be completing another street painting at the end of this month. So we'll make sure that you all get an invitation to come out and have more of a dialogue about what this means to youth in that neighborhood.
 Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for being a great partner. Thank you. Others that want to speak on this item? I've got three more who signed up. Thank you both. Chrissy Mulkey, Nancy Whitman, and Erica Dennison.
 good morning morning my name is chrissy mulkey and i'm the placemaking coordinator for the sunnyside sunflower piazza off of southeast 33rd and belmont and just really quick i know there's a lot of people who are here and supportive in our community of the mid-intersection repair as well as the kiosk so i was just wondering if those people who couldn't speak could stand up really quick to show the support that we have here today that's great thank you thanks for coming
 I recently moved out of my neighborhood to northeast 22nd and Burnside. And as a lot of us know, Portland is a really fast-growing city. And to accommodate this, we started building a lot of high-rise apartment complexes to accommodate the increase in our population.
 What I see, having been a placemaking coordinator that really got integrated into my community because I was just there as a volunteer and then I took on the role, a leadership role, and it was so important for me and it really connected me to my community. I see the opportunity of a mid-section, mid-block intersection repair as a way to create a thread and a cohesion for our new neighbors into the neighborhood, these large apartment complexes.
 take up an entire block, typically. And so if you could put this kind of intersection repair in the mid-block, something that these neighborhoods could see, it could be a really nice way to integrate them into our community. So I just think it's a great opportunity to accommodate this population growth and yet still keep that Portland mentality of what it is to be a part of our community. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Nancy Whitman, and I am a native Portlander. I was born here, but it's only been in the last few years I've had the privilege of being at home. I live in no man's land, East 82nd, Beach and Milton, and we have a wonderful success story in less than two years. We explained where we came from to other people as we were raising our money for the project,
 And we explained that on one side we had the monastery, and on the other side we had the hotbed of the ladies of the evening, to be polite. We also had heavy drug use and drug houses.
 In two years, we have eradicated the hotel that did the prostitution. We have taken out a drug house, and we have taken our neighborhood back. We are so thrilled. And City Repair helped us do that by awakening our need to pull together, meet our neighbor, and create a sense of place, a sense of community.
 We've done two street paintings, and even though we're a very small group, live in a very poor area, two things kind of stand out. One is that we have older homes, and they don't usually have garages.
 And I did a study one time which pointed out that most American homes that are big and fancy, their garage faces the street and shuts the house off from being neighborly. When you look at our older homes, we do have a parking issue, but we don't have any garages barricading the front of the house. So that's really kind of a neat thing. We have probably close to a dozen different ethnic types in our neighborhood, and we all get together.
 In the two years that we have developed our street painting, and by the way, we did two intersections our first year, and we've just recently completed repainting those two intersections. We've also developed our own newsletter that is totally paid for by us called the Rocky Butte Times, and everybody loves it, keeps everybody informed. We have developed a thing in the wintertime where we have Sunday night soup,
 dinners and the house that hosts the neighbors provides the soup. Everybody brings their own bowl and spoon and we do this through the winter months to keep people talking and engaged and working together. One little thing that I would point out, we just finished painting again this last weekend.
 And we had a fellow join us from Cambodia who worked both days very, very diligently, working hard, long hours, doing a really great job. And it was his first time in the street painting. And at the end of the second day, he came up to us, and I was working with another fellow, the paint booth, and he says, next year I'll bring my spray gun, and we can do this a whole lot faster.
 all the people standing around said no no I want to paint I want to paint so you know it does work it really does work and in conclusion we also have fellow who's totally intrinsic to working with us and he lives in Vancouver but he says I don't know my neighbors there I love everybody in this neighborhood so we thank you for supporting us and I appreciate your time
 Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to speak on these items? Then, Commissioner, would you like to read the proclamation, and then we can take a roll call vote on the ordinance, please. Thank you, Mayor. Whereas Portland residents have led the world with the first free community lending library, chalk-sharing stand, and other small community kiosks,
 And whereas Portland residents have requested clear guidance about how to install small community kiosks, and the Portland Bureau of Transportation collaborated with multiple community partners to write new administrative rules for these small structures. And whereas Portland's transportation right-of-way, which includes our streets and sidewalks, is the single largest public space in the city.
 And whereas, opportunities for community engagement in neighborhoods throughout Portland improve livability, reduce crime, improve public health, build relationships between neighbors, and deliver creative solutions to everyday problems. And whereas, projects built and supported by the community reduce social isolation and foster a culture of stewardship within neighborhoods.
 And whereas small community kiosks can function as book and game libraries, meeting places for anything from walking school bus stops to natural disaster organizing, and displays for art, poetry, and history plaques, and community kiosks can be used to demonstrate the efficacy of small-scale green building technology. And whereas the small community kiosk administrative rule provides clear guidance about placement, allowed zoning, and physical scale of such structures.
 whereas the City of Portland will include the small community kiosk administrative rule in the encroachments on the right-of-way administrative rule. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim June 17, 2015 to be Small Community Kiosk Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you. Thanks very much. If there's no further council discussion, we can take a roll call vote on 614, please.
 Fish? Commissioner Novick, thank you for bringing this forward. We're really talking about building community this morning, and we've been highlighting how small investments can have a big difference. And I think all of us know that when you put a community garden or a kiosk, you plant a tree, you paint an intersection, it builds community, and it brings people together. And it's what makes Portland a very special place to live. And I'm very pleased today to support this initiative. Bye. Novick?
 Thanks to everybody who's testified today and everybody who's part of the street painting movement, the small community kiosk movement, whether you could be here today or not. And I also just wanted to say that it's always a delight to work with Greg Raisman on anything. Hi. Ritz? Yes, I second that commendation of Greg Raisman's. It's also interesting.
 Always a delight to listen to Mark Lakeman talking about our community and communities and how to build community. Thank you for your leadership over many, many years. It strikes me that both the Portland Made presentation that we had previously and this one, this is really Portland. This is...
 Portlandia says people come here to retire. No, people come here and stay here to work really, really hard and intentionally to better our neighborhoods, to get to know each other, and to figure out ways to connect. And that's very much part of what makes us special. I particularly appreciated Mr. Cruz talking about coming from India and City Repair's attention to cultural specificity and
 East of 82nd and making sure that everybody is welcomed and part of this great movement that we are co-creating. It's important that we don't leave anybody behind and that we
 find those who have previously been left behind and make sure that they feel welcomed and included and take leadership roles. So thank you very much, everybody who took the time to attend this presentation. Thank you all that not everybody had to say their three minutes, because otherwise I think we could be here all day. And so that was very, very helpful. Thank you.
 Hales. Well, I love the stories that this movement generates. Nancy, I loved your story about you and your neighbors and serving soup. And Rebecca reminded me of the story of being out there on one of those projects. And I had already met a young woman named Brenda Mazza because she was an advocate for buying a really –
 bad land use in her neighborhood and converting it to something better. And then I got to paint with her that afternoon for a while and got to know her better. And then Commissioner Fritz and I saw her this weekend at Matt Dishman Community Center because she now works there. And this is what happens is we make a big and sometimes scarily growing city into
 a small town again. That's how we get to be a community and we all generate these stories from this work that we do together. So thank you, Commissioner, for bringing this forward. I think it's another case of city government having the good sense to recognize a great movement and supporting it and partnering it like we've done in so many other ways.
 The other story that I'll tell is that when Mark Lakeman first came to the city with this crazy idea almost 20 years ago, there were some, I joked later that it was a good thing that the ninth floor of the Portland building didn't have openable windows because some of our crusty old engineers would have probably jumped out if they could have gotten out.
 But some of those so-called crusty old engineers like Vic Rhodes and Don Gardner eventually became big believers in this movement and supporters of it. And, Greg, you're neither crusty nor old. But I love the fact that our professionals in the Bureau of Transportation are active partners with this rather than simply permitters or, worse, skeptical about it because it's not in the manual. Okay.
 So in one more great and wonderful way, Portland's a little weird, and now that's normal. Thank you very much. Aye. Great work. Please continue. Thank you. Okay. Now we have item 615 on the calendar. 615, adopt the goal of Division 0 that no loss of life is acceptable on our city streets. Commissioner Novick.
 And actually, Mayor, I think this could be read simultaneously with 616. Please. They're quite related. Yes, right. Let's do read 16 as well. 616, accept two grants for a total of $150,000 from the Oregon Department of Transportation for the development of a Vision Zero Transportation Safety Action Plan. Mr. Novick. Mayor and colleagues, thank you.
 We have two items for us today. One is to hopefully pass a resolution adopting the principle that no loss of life is acceptable on our city streets and resolving that a Vision Zero Safety Committee will be formed to develop a Vision Zero Safety Action Plan.
 and to pass an ordinance authorizing the commissioner in charge of PBOT to accept grants from the Oregon Department of Transportation to assist in the development of a Vision Zero Transportation Safety Action Plan. I'm going to turn this over very quickly to Director Treat and Margie Bradway, but I do want to say one thing first, which is that
 I think that there are people who assume that it's not possible to drastically reduce or even eliminate fatalities and serious injuries on our streets because, after all, people might think accidents happen. But that is not true. And the truth is that when you look at various cities around the country and the world, there are drastically different numbers in terms of fatalities and serious injuries.
 In the United States as a whole, we have 11.6 roadway fatalities per 100,000 people. In Portland, however, we only have 6.2, so barely just over half as many as the average. But we're not the best city in the country. In New York, there are 3.9 roadway fatalities per 100,000 people.
 And we're certainly not the best city in the world. In Stockholm, there are 1.1 roadway fatalities per 100,000 people compared to our 6.2 fatalities.
 And some might think that, well, are cities just different? Has it always been the same in each of these cities? And that's not true either. I don't have the Stockholm-specific figures, but if you look at the nation of Sweden, in 1970, they had 16.3 traffic deaths per 100,000 population. By 1990, they brought it down to 9.1. And as of 2010, it was 2.8, so more than an 80% drop.
 So what you do in terms of policy, in terms of engineering, education, and enforcement does make a difference. Now I'll turn it over to Lee and Mark. Steve, when you say traffic deaths, does that include pedestrian deaths? Yes, it does. Thanks for the clarification. A city like New York with significantly more pedestrians and cars has a lower number,
 fatality rate. It does. Now, my, actually, Leah and Margie can say if this is true, but my assumption, having briefly lived in New York, is that there's sort of safety in numbers, that there's so many pedestrians in New York that drivers know to look for them. But I might be speaking out of my depth. I'll speak to that.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you so much. I'm Leah Treat, the Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. And I am really pleased to be here today with the City Council about Vision Zero and to affirm the city's commitment to reduce traffic deaths and serious injuries on our roadways. This means a lot to me. It means a lot to my bureau. And it means even more to the victims and their families and their loved ones who survive.
 Earlier this month I joined Mayor Hales and Commissioner Novick in an important stakeholder meeting at City Hall where we talked about multimodal traffic safety and we were joined by our stakeholders in the freight community AAA the BTA Oregon walks and all many others to discuss how all modes can travel safely on our streets and
 And at that stakeholder meeting, the one thing everyone agreed on is that we all need to work together to reduce traffic fatalities and injuries. I'd like to point out that traffic fatalities and injuries are a health and a social justice problem. Even the World Health Organization has recognized traffic fatalities as a global epidemic. In Portland, in some years, you were more likely to be killed in traffic, in a traffic crash, than to die by homicide.
 And nationally, pedestrians make up 14% of traffic fatalities. I'm sorry, that's a Portland number. They make up a third of those that are killed, or 35%. Last year, of the 28 people killed in traffic crashes in Portland, half were pedestrians. So the Vision Zero safety action plan that we're talking about today is going to build on the safety work that we currently have underway, including the actions that have been laid out in Portland Progress.
 We're making progress on many of those action items. Last year, we installed 20 rapid flashing beacons in East Portland, and we'll be installing 24 more this summer. We are also tackling speed issues. With the council's support, House Bill 2621 is getting traction in the legislature, and it's a bill that would allow us to use fixed photo radar cameras on our high crash corridors to address aggressive speeding.
 I also want to thank the Council for investing in two of our ten high crash corridors, Burnside and 122nd, as part of the budget that hopefully will be adopted this week.
 I'm assuming we're gonna get that money but that's at those are only two a bar high crash quarters we have 8 others and up those 8 we only have a hundred and fifty thousand dollars in our budget to address I traffic safety issues on those roadways so there's a lot more to do in funding is definitely an issue for us
 But back to our partnerships, we're very excited to be working with our partners, and we believe that's how we're going to make progress towards Vision Zero. And fundamentally, I believe that with your support and working together at the local level, the regional level, and the state level, we can reach Vision Zero. And I thank you all for your support.
 Hi, my name is Margie Bradway, and I am the Safety and Active Transportation Division Manager for PBOT. And I'm going to just kind of walk you through a little bit some of the background on where we are in traffic safety in Portland, and then just spend a couple slides on the Vision Zero Safety Action Plan. Sorry, I'm getting used to here next. Next slide.
 So as Leah said, Vision Zero is the elimination of traffic dust and serious injuries on our roadways. If you're looking at that map up there, that's our crash map that we use showing the past 10 years of data. And you'll see that urban arterials are very highlighted on that crash map. One of the lessons that we've learned and one of our focuses in the safety division is to really focus on our urban arterial highways. You are 4.3 times more likely to end up in a
 crash on an urban arterial highway than you are a highway like I-5 or even a local street. So that's why we have this. And you've heard Leah say it before and Commissioner Novak say it before, why our high crash corridors are so important. Six of those corridors are east of 82nd
 And over half of last year's traffic fatalities happened in East Portland. Could you remind us just what are the characteristics of a high-crash corridor? What are the things that you would observe that make it more likely that there will be more fatalities at a particular intersection? That's a great question. What you have is typically four-lane highways where there's a lot of speed and there's a lot of freight use and truck use.
 with mixed land use, with neighborhoods abutting it, with neighborhood greenways crossing it. So, you know, or Barber is one. They all have slightly different characteristics. You know, Barber is slightly different than 122nd or Marine Drive. But the big issue is there are places where people want to walk and bike, and they're right next to high-speed arterials.
 Oh, how we designate them. Crashes. No, no. I think that's helpful how to describe it. And what's the typical speed limit in an area that we're addressing? Well, it ranges, but typically it's above 40, and I'm going to address speed is 40 and above. I'm going to address that issue. That may actually be one of the keys to New York City because my sense is that the average speed limit, the average speed in New York City given the congestion is about 10 miles an hour, 15 miles an hour or so.
 That might be a factor. And New York City DOT just went to their state legislature and asked for the authority to drop all their local roads down to 25 miles per hour. Right after this presentation, I'm going to do a presentation on the Oregon Speed Zone Board down in Salem to ask for permission for an administrative process that would make it easier for us to set some of our local roads lower. So we see that as part of our Vision Zero process.
 So Commissioner Novick mentioned that Vision Zero philosophy started in Sweden. And I'm going to walk through the basic philosophy. The death or serious injury of even one person is too many. Human error is inevitable. The street design must be forgiving. Responsibility for fatal or serious crashes rests just not on the users, but also on system design. And in roadway design, the focus is either lower speeds, as we just talked about, or separate users. And that's separating the modes.
 So, this is the slide that Commissioner Novick was referring to in terms of Stockholm being the leader on this, how New York compares San Francisco, Seattle and Portland. The reason I put New York, San Francisco and Seattle on these slides is these are all Vision Zero cities that have adopted Vision Zero who are being really aggressive about this.
 The mayor in New York, it was very much a mayor-led initiative with a strong focus on speed and also a strong focus on police enforcement.
 San Francisco, it's interesting, they kind of was more a grassroots initiative, and it was very focused on pedestrian safety as well as health safety. So the health advocates were very involved. So just knowing that these Vision Zeros efforts are happening citywide and obviously in Europe as well. But we have a ways to go in Portland. Obviously it was 6.2 per 1,000. So why Vision Zero in Portland? Our...
 Although we have reduced, and we being, you know, I guess the federal, state, and local efforts have reduced motorist deaths, we remain stubbornly flat on pedestrian deaths and even motorcycle deaths. We have, in terms of pedestrian tests, three times the national average.
 So Portland has a terrible record there. Motor vehicles still represent the largest amount. This chart shows through 2013. We just got the 2014 numbers back, and we had an all-time low at 7 last year. That said, we're already at 8 this year. Our year is looking pretty bad.
 compared to the trend line. So the trend line kind of dipped down and went up. And I think I've heard Mayor Hale say that in any given year, you're just as likely to die by homicide as you are in a traffic crash. So we need to reset how we think about traffic safety because what we're doing now is not working. And Portland's behind the mark.
 Speed is a major focus. Of all the traffic accidents, the police report 40% of those accidents, speed is a factor. And that does not include the kind of rushing through the intersection speed. This is clearly just driving down the road. At 20 miles per hour, if you're a pedestrian hit, you have a 10% chance.
 of survival at 40 miles an hour, you only have a 90% chance of survival. I always like to talk about the positive survival rather than death.
 So this is an example of something that we would do under Vision Zero. So this is in 2011. This is an intersection where Portland knew was a, we identified as a problem. We had put, PBOT had put in their CIP budget improvements for this area.
 Unfortunately, a teacher on her way to work, Heather Fitzsimmons, was walking to school at Vespas Elementary School and was hit and killed at this intersection. This was particularly sad for us because we knew that this area needed improvements. It's a four-lane intersection at Northeast Gleason, and the speed limits were 35 miles per hour.
 This is how the intersection now looks. You can see there's a lane taken away. There's a refuge pedestrian island. There's a marked crossing, and there's a rapid flash and beacon. And we have seen improvements. So these are fairly low-cost improvements that make a big difference in terms of pedestrian safety. What is the fine for someone driving a car to disregard the signage at an intersection like this?
 The law has not caught up to the technology. So there's two different types of beacons. I'll just talk about the beacons. And I don't want to speak for police, so just let me know that I don't know all the police code. But for the hawk signals, which are more integrated and even flashier and brighter, it is actually a traffic violation to proceed through those. For a rapid flashing beacon right now in the law, it's just...
 there's no way to ticket anybody if they go through a rapid flash beacon if it's still flashing. But in terms of the ticket amount for just...
 Not letting a pedestrian cross, do you know off the top of your head? We'll have to get back to you on the ticket amount. Is that what you're asking? Yeah, because I know, for example, the very significant penalties that we now have for speeding in school zones are a pretty big deterrent. Right. And I just wonder whether the deterrent, the stick in place for these kinds of things is sufficient to really get the message across.
 That's a great point and I'd love to get back with you on that. And just so you know, we have had a great relationship with Captain Kelly Schaefer of the traffic, Captain at police and she's been an incredible partner. We have a meeting next week to try to figure out how we can even better coordinate our efforts in terms of enforcements on High Crash Corridor and make sure we're looking at the same data sets.
 But I'll get back to you on that. And, Commissioner, I mean, we do know that the rapid flashing beacons are more effective than a crosswalk without a beacon, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't also explore whether the penalties for violating one of them should be higher.
 Absolutely. But even without that, they are far more effective. Yeah, on that note, we put in thus far 20 rapid flashing beacons up until 2014, and we have 24 more going in this summer in East Portland. So we know they're effective, and they're something that we're investing in. By the way, there's a big demonstration outside. I don't think it has anything to do with Vision Zero. No. So I just want you to know. Oh, really? I think it's $15, so.
 Okay, great. Good to know. I'm not fazed by it. They're at the wrong building, but other than that. You may have to raise your voice. Thanks for checking. You may have to raise your voice occasionally. You may be in Salem, but somebody can go let them know. So...
 Part of the reason we're up here is to accept grant funds from ODOT on to do what is called in transportation speak, the official term is Transportation Safety Action Plan, or TSAP. You might see that in your materials.
 The point of that document really is to come up with two-year and five-year actions for a safety action plan focusing on Vision Zero. Currently, there is some policy support for Vision Zero in the draft comp plan. There's Vision Zero language in the RTP and of course the strongest language in the two-year plan. There's not Vision Zero language in the TSP, so one of our goals would be to make sure that at the end of our safety action plan process, we have language in the TSP.
 So what are we going to do for the Vision Zero Safety Action Plan? Well, first we're going to form a task force, and the mayor announced that at the stakeholder meeting. That task force will represent all modes and community members in different interests, and they will guide us on developing two-year and five-year actions and strategies coming out of this plan.
 We are hiring a consultant. One of the things that we know we need consultant work right away is on the data side. We know we have data being collected from the Fire Bureau. We know there's emergency service data and then, of course, our own crash data, and we want to combine all of those, have it analyzed, and then inform our policies. But I'm over my time, so I want to just kind of stop there. And if you have any questions about this particular slide, I'm happy to answer them.
 Okay. Questions? Either of our team. I have some questions, Steve, but are we going to have other people testifying? I don't think that we have any more. Let's say, I think we are definitely going to have other people in the community want to testify. Oh, okay. So can we have them come back at the end? Yep. Let's do that. Sure. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So let's take testimony, please, on either the resolution or the ordinance.
 We have six people signed up the first three please come on up our Craig Rogers Terry Parker And I believe it's Corey pool. Good morning. Good morning My name is push the button on the base of that the light will come on there y'all that one. Okay. Good morning My name is Craig Rogers. I didn't expect to be here this morning, but when I went on Oregonian online I saw that this was a subject to be brought up and My enlightenment on this subject is
 got a lot more serious when I came across an article about three children down in Springfield that were in a crosswalk. And there was a gentleman traveling at 40 miles an hour, and their lives were taken when he collided with them, hit them. They're gone. And I had the opportunity to attend a meeting on transportation and this subject. And Alistair was there.
 And an incredible young man. He talked about changing attitudes, getting people out there to think different. I don't know if this is working properly. It seems to be going in and out. Okay, thank you. So when I came away from that meeting, I was very aware that I had a deeper vision. When I drove over the Hawthorne Bridge and I saw the bicyclists riding their bikes over
 And to me, it's kind of like they're heroes because they deserve equal treatment. Everybody does. Life is very special, and we deserve to have the opportunity to be our best, and that involves being safe. And whether you're on foot or on a bicycle or perhaps the young lady that was here a couple months ago, and we were all present when she recited her poem, and she was...
 the vehicle that moves her around we all deserve to be safe and to become our best self and I think a cornerstone I don't know the details of Vision Zero but a cornerstone of it is bringing the speed down now Commissioner Novick is a wealth of knowledge for unusual facts and I'm gonna mention this
 This is what I would say is an abstract analogy, and I'm going to try and say it very quick. At the end of World War II, one of FDR's sons had an audience with Joe Stalin. And he goes in to visit with him, and Joe Stalin dismisses his interpreter and begins to communicate in English. And FDR's son said,
 How is this? Every time you met my father, whether it was at the Yalta conference, you had an interpreter. And Joe Stalin said, it gave me more time to think of an answer. And that's what slowing the speed down is about. It's going to give people more time to make a decision.
 And I've also sent Leah Treat one of my favorite quotations. I never thought I'd be saying it here, but it's Mahatma Gandhi. There's more to life than increasing its speed. And I hope that ends up on a billboard. Thank you. Thanks very much. Morning. Morning. My name is Terry Parker, and I'm wearing my own hat today. This past Friday, I witnessed an adult bicyclist riding against traffic on Star Street near Peacock Lane.
 Ditto for two bicyclists riding against traffic on Division just east of 122nd. At the Hollywood Library on Northeast 41st and Tillamook, the intersection is a four-way stop. Even with pedestrians in crosswalks, the vast majority of bicyclists just rocket through as if they are literate to the stop signs.
 In Portland, bicyclists are responsible for nearly half the auto bike crashes. Although drivers are human and make mistakes, the majority of drivers do not demonstrate the free-for-all arrogance to defy traffic laws that the majority of bicyclists exhibit. In Skamania County, Washington, touring bicyclists are frequently cited for running stop signs. Their excuse? We don't have to stop in Portland.
 Clearly, an attitude adjustment is needed. Vision Zero must include bicycle stings and a strict enforcement of traffic laws as it applies to bicycling, and the enforcement must include consequences such as heavy fines. The current double standard, slap on the wrist and look the other way bicycling enforcement, just cultivates more mayhem.
 Bicycling speeds also need to be reduced. Bicycle calming devices need to be added to places like on the interstate hill. Out-of-control bicyclists are known to zoom down the hill for momentum and not be able to stop when a vehicle like a garbage truck gets in their way near the bottom. With exceptions of where permitted by signage along with allowances for slowly escorting young children, adult bicycling needs to be banned on all city sidewalks.
 additionally bicyclists need to walk their bikes in crosswalks when the crossing is not part of a bicycle trail the all too often on again off again bypassing a traffic control device by riding on the sidewalk or hastily using a crosswalk is a crash looking for a place to happen finally a person only needs to look at that TSP to view people one-sided plans for bicycle infrastructure depressing even more
 motor vehicle infrastructure and parking that in turn will create additional traffic congestion on our city streets. Motorist representation and participation has been excluded from the process, while bicyclists have a huge I want list. This list includes adding bike lanes and specialized bicycle infrastructure, buffered bike lanes and restricting motor vehicle access to bikeways on green streets.
 Equity requires that bicyclists must start accepting the financial responsibility for all that specialized space, funded through bicycle-paid user and license fees, and not by siphoning off and raiding motorist-paid gas taxes. Instead of protests demonstrating law-abiding behavior needs to proceed, any more bicycle infrastructure being built. Thank you. Thank you. Morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Corey Poole. I'm here today representing the Northwest Skate Coalition in support of Vision Zero. As you all well know and we've heard today, we're experiencing a troubling increase in vehicular accidents involving people walking and riding bicycles. I hear from too many Portlanders that they don't feel comfortable riding their bicycles or skateboards on city streets due to the quantity and aggressive behavior of motorists in their neighborhoods.
 People will not let their children walk to school for fear of dangerous road crossings near their homes on the way to school. The resolution that is under consideration today gives me hope, but we all need to give this urgent crisis the immediate attention it deserves.
 The Northwest Gate Coalition today is joining the broader coalition of pedestrian and bicycle organizations Calling on you to adopt the date of 2025 as a deadline for Portland to achieve vision zero and I hope we can Include that into the language soon As you well know every Portland er deserves safe and legal access to active transportation and I look forward to your support. I
 thank you thanks very much thank you all okay others are noel nickel mickleberry rob sadowski and roger averbeck should i should i start sure go ahead while they get organized thanks um my name is noelle mickleberry and i'm the executive director of oregon walks pedestrian advocacy organization um this weekend i was riding my bike and walking through mount tabor park to celebrate my anniversary with my partner
 when I got the call about two pedestrians that were hit on the Burnside Bridge. I spent the rest of the day with a clenched chest thinking about what might have happened if we had been in a different place at a different time. And knowing that a family was getting a phone call confirming that reality. And this is going to continue to happen as long as we have the streets that allow for it. When a person driving a two-ton vehicle going at speeds that are almost guaranteed to kill someone, this isn't the same kind of mistake that happens when you forget your keys at home.
 No one should accept this as an okay consequence of getting from here to there. This is not something that should turn a sunny afternoon on a beautiful bridge into a crime scene, a memorial site, a place where we can only remember what could have happened. I want the city to adopt Vision Zero, and I want to see it with a date to reach that goal. We need political will to invest in things that we know make our streets safe. We know that Burnside, with curb-tight sidewalks, high speeds, and wide lanes, is not a safe place.
 that's really not a surprise to anyone that something bad happened here. What can we do to be proactive and be proactive fast to stop this from happening? There are other streets like Burnside in the city where other people have died this year, where tragedies could easily happen when someone looks down at the radio, chokes on some soda, and is driving too fast. We need this date. I'm looking forward to the long-term thinking of this task force, of the type of legislation that we're seeing at the state,
 and the work that even my own organization is doing to instill behavior change and a commitment to change across the state to make streets safe for everyone. But this doesn't change the very real need for action now. People traveling through the city don't think about what jurisdiction they happen to be in when they're walking, biking or driving. They want to see the same safe infrastructure that allows them to access their community that they live, work and play in everywhere. And they don't want to see politics as usual. They want to see collaboration.
 There have now been three deaths in less than a month, two since the mayor announced his public commitment to Vision Zero. The sad thing is that this isn't new. This is happening across the city all the time. We need to continue the urgency. Next month, will action be swift? Will news media pick this up and question what we're going to do next? I don't know, but I hope that you'll consider this when planning your next steps. How can you assure our communities what's going to happen to prevent this from happening next?
 How can we assure them that you have specific plans to change these dangerous streets? We know where this might happen next, and what can we do to stop it? I just want to end by saying I really don't want to be up here again talking about this two days after someone's died. So I'm going to ask you to adopt Vision Zero, set a date, hold yourselves accountable, and get to work on making this goal happen. Our communities deserve it. Thanks. Thank you, Noelle.
 Mayor Hales, City Commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to testify. I'm Rob Sadowski. I'm the Executive Director of the Bicycle Transportation Alliance. First off, I'd like to applaud the Council and the leadership from Director Treat on Vision Zero. And on behalf of more than 36,000 people who rode a bike today,
 The Bicycle Transportation Alliance knows that a good Vision Zero policy will save lives for all people who use our streets. Whether we ride a bicycle, walk our first grader to school holding their hands, drive a delivery truck to drop off delicious beer to a local restaurant, or wait on a corner for the next TriMet bus. I have formal testimony that I'm submitting, but I'm just going to jump to the key points. First of all, pass the resolution.
 So the first step is establishing a steering committee to build a collaborative consensus toward reaching zero fatalities is taking a good step towards saving lives. I look forward to that day when we no longer have to comfort a family member who has lost a loved one to traffic injustice.
 Number two, we'd like you to address racial profiling from the get-go. I'm attaching a proposed amendment that's being handed out right now that directs the steering committee to include specific steps to prevent disproportionate impacts on communities of color during enforcement of Vision Zero, communities that have historically seen traffic laws used as tools for other intended purposes.
 Number three, I'll echo what Noel said, set a target date. Vision Zero cannot be effective unless it sets a measurable goal with a target date and interim benchmarks. Otherwise, it is simply window dressing. We specifically recommend setting a target date of zero deaths by 2025. Number four, dedicate funding and pass a street fee.
 Number five, act now. There are many steps we can take today to protect lives. Our full set of recommendations made in collaboration with Oregon Walks can be found at our healthystreets.org. And actually, I think what I'm hearing them in the background say is they're pushing for 15-mile-an-hour speed limits. I think that's what they're saying. They're very angry about the lack of that. Yes. Rob, you have a future in politics. Boy, thank you.
 Thank you for sharing and starting this difficult and life-affirming work. We can all be proud of Portland as it seeks to lead the country in a drive to zero. I am very familiar with a lot of other policies. I'm part of a national Vision Zero network with seven other cities, including New York and San Francisco, and I'm available to answer questions about what other cities are doing in this area. Rob, I have one question for you. In the presentation we had earlier, it said that,
 We have to change the behavior of users, and then we have to change the way we design our streets and our bikeways and our sidewalks. So I live in the Hollywood Grant Park area, and I'm spending more time as a pedestrian, as a bike rider, and as someone on a bus. And my sense is that we're almost getting to the point where everybody on the road, whether it's two-wheel or four-wheel, believes that a stop sign or a light is discretionary.
 And what we know is who's going to get the worst of it if there's an accident. But I think it's equal opportunity. I think everybody is frustrated with the congestion. Everyone's in too much of a rush. And apparently almost everybody is disobeying the traffic rules. So in addition to Vision Zero, if you were king for a day, what would you do that we're not doing to get the message to people driving a car or riding their bike that these are not discretionary laws? Yes.
 Well, hopefully as being king for the day, that would include being king over ODOT. Because, first of all, I'll just share that we can't do this alone. And without the state's support, we're not going to get to where we need, including things like DMV review or driver's review. The first thing I would do is say we know that people will make mistakes. We know that at some point a child will run out in the middle of the street to get their soccer ball.
 We expect you to drive accordingly. If you're driving on a residential street, we expect that you will know that will happen, so you have to slow down. And if you hit someone, you're going to pay the consequences for that. Those consequences will be you no longer will be able to drive, and that's going to take state reform.
 Number two, we want to make sure that our streets are designed so that we can't get to above 20 miles an hour. We know that magic number. Commissioner Novick talked about it. We can get that by creating diverters on our neighborhood greenways, which we're lacking in most, if not all, of our major neighborhood greenways. And we can look at both temporary and permanent solutions there. Number three, I would...
 that all those safety messages are really clear that it's everyone involved, that we're not just targeting people who are driving cars, we're targeting every single behavior that can have a consequence. If you look at the sad stories that we had to deal with over the last three weeks, each of those were because of a decision that a driver of a motor vehicle made into an intersection. And those consequences were borne by some of the most vulnerable people that are
 are using our roads. So we need to focus on our vulnerable users, but we also need to be data-driven. We can look at the data. We know where these crashes are. We know what's causing it. And we cannot accept the consequences for not acting now, even if it costs us money.
 Thanks very much. Rob, did you mention the pledge that you're asking people to take? So one example of what we're calling for in our report that we co-authored with Oregon Walks was to launch a pledge roughly called Travel with Care. There is some evidence that when people make a personal pledge to change their behaviors, that they have a greater likelihood of following through. If you promise to your neighbor that you're going to lose weight, it's a better chance than if you promise to yourself.
 So the pledge seeks to establish driving behaviors, operating behaviors, bicycling behaviors, walking behaviors, basically paying attention and act predictably. We've asked the city to look at launching that pledge in collaboration with us and to take one of the first steps is to ask all employees who are operating fleet vehicles that they would take that pledge before operating a vehicle. Thank you. Roger, welcome.
 My name is Roger Everbeck. As a volunteer, I serve as co-chair of Portland's Pedestrian Advisory Committee. However, my comments today are my own, in part because although our committee is aware of this effort, and we support it, we haven't been invited to participate yet.
 On to my comments. We live in a permissive society, and we really depend on others to respect and follow a lot of complicated and not well-understood rules intended to keep us from harming each other. And this is obviously not working well in the realm of public roadways.
 The problem is worsened by the imbalance of power created by motor vehicles. They're out there in greater numbers and they have a false sense of superiority and the consequences are obvious. That they not following the rules can be severe or fatal for more vulnerable cyclists or pedestrians.
 So I'd like to propose some solutions which are partly already included in Vision Zero, which I do support. The city and its partners should engage in an immediate increase in messaging that all road users need to be alert and focused on their travel in the public space.
 We need increased education efforts on the most basic but specific rules of the road that deal with points of conflict, intersections between different modes. Everybody, pedestrians, cyclists, drivers, advocates, law enforcement, planners, engineers, and decision makers, that's you, need to raise their level of personal responsibility and take part in the solutions.
 Portland needs an immediate increase in funding for and a higher priority on traffic enforcement, especially on our high crash corridors. Motor vehicle drivers have the advantage. The arterials are designed for them. They must take greater responsibility to not injure and kill vulnerable road users who have the right to share and safely cross these public facilities.
 In the longer term, the above efforts need to be programmed and sustained. A short-term political reaction to all our recent crashes is inadequate, unacceptable. And lastly, PBOT and ODOT need to fully adopt and use the NACTO best practices on all new and redesigned projects on urban arterials. And PBOT's development review group needs to be on board with this.
 So finally, in closing, please consider Portland's modal committees, pedestrians, cyclists, and the freight committees as stakeholders in the Vision Zero effort. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you, Roger. Thanks very much. Good suggestion. Thank you. Others that want to speak on these items? That's all who signed up. Robert, do you want to? Yeah, actually, can we bring Margie and Leah back up?
 Before that, I actually would like to, sorry, this might generate additional testimony. I would like to move the First Amendment suggested by the BTA, which would be to add to the resolution
 City Council directs the Vision Zero Safety Committee to develop assurances against racial profiling and targeting as it pertains to Vision Zero enforcement and to ensure that communities of color, police bureaus, and community leadership are included in the decision-making and development of enforcement plans or policies. So further discussion on adopting that amendment? So let's take a roll call on that, please.
 Bish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Excellent suggestion. Thank you. Aye. Bales? Yes, I appreciate this very much. Aye. Okay, so that's approved. Do you want to talk about the second one? On the second one, I'd want to have further conversations about the pros and cons of setting a date, but particularly,
 I mean, which means I'm not prepared to move the amendment now. I mean, I particularly want to talk to colleagues and other people who have been involved in the 10-year plan to end homelessness and what the implications were of setting such a goal and then what happens to the discussion when, despite great efforts, you can't quite meet it.
 Commissioner, I'm glad I was going to ask you that question. I had two questions. First, I'll just address that. And I think the 10-year plan is a good example because while I was not involved in the creation of the 10-year plan, the goal was to end homelessness among chronically homeless individuals. Over a 10-year period, we moved 13,000 chronically homeless individuals off the streets into homes. And by any measurement, that was an enormous success. And yet at the end of 10 years, we
 There was a lot of commentary in our community that somehow we had failed because we have not conquered homelessness. And my view of that is that we haven't conquered poverty either.
 or all kinds of structural issues in our society, but we made a hell of a down payment. So one of the things that I'll be interested in is less setting goals that you may or may not be able to achieve with such clarity, and more what does success look like in five years, in 10 years, in 15 years? Because that's what we're going to want to measure. If we set a goal that we're not sure we can reach,
 then I can tell you we're setting ourselves up for failure. But if we're clear about the goals and the trend lines, like 13,000 people off the streets into homes, then I think we can celebrate those wins and then also look to what other things we need to do to get closer to the goal. So I look forward to having that conversation with you. May I ask a question, an additional question? Sure.
 The resolution before us, which I will enthusiastically support, says that a Vision Zero Safety Committee will be formed and then we'll have an advisory role. How do you intend to select members of that committee and what role, if any, are you going to ask the city council to play? Okay.
 We have, well, we intend to look to our stakeholders that we've had conversations with, usually about traffic safety and our partners and lots of different efforts. So we have a draft list that we'll be working off of that include county,
 State private entities advocacy organizations. It's actually a list of 20 to 25 people It's not finalized yet, and we definitely welcome input from the council on who should Be a member of our advisory committee But we're looking to cast a very wide net so we can make sure that all modes and all interested parties have a seat at The table thank you welcome, and what do you think about our?
 Rob's idea that the city adopt the pledge and test drive it with folks in our fleet or anyone who drives a vehicle for the city of Portland. Thank you. I support the effort as well. I think that it shows an intentionality when somebody has to physically sign a pledge saying that they support Vision Zero. It reinforces that.
 your behavior and your attitude towards roadway safety. We actually put on PBOT's website yesterday a pledge for anybody in the city to take, so they can go to our website now and sign the Vision Zero pledge and submit it. But to the specific question, I think it's a great idea. Well, we look forward to following your lead on that. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions for staff?
 Okay, then I think it's timely to take a roll call vote on the resolution first. Fish? Director Treat and Commissioner Novick, thank you for bringing this forward. Director Treat, I owe you an apology. You came up to me the other day with a lot of enthusiasm, and either because my eyesight is failing
 or you've had a makeover, I didn't recognize you. And so I, probably a little bit of both. And so I apologize. Because I look remarkably younger, right? Under 2.02, I can't answer that question. I will tell you privately over a beer, but you're on the right track. Thank you. On a more serious note, I applaud the resolution and the goal. And while I,
 My only concern about timeline is I want you to have the time to get it right, and I don't want to set a goal that you can't reach and then have people declare failure when you've made great progress. And we've seen that time and time again in the city, and so there's an art to that, and I will look to you and to Steve to tell us what's achievable under what timeline because you're going to be the ones that are held accountable. But the other thing I just want to observe on a personal note is that, again,
 Commissioner Amanda Fritz and I share many bonds, a bond of friendship, shared values, seven years on the council, and we have both buried someone in our family who died in a car accident. I was 11, she was an adult. There's no difference. No one should have to experience that, ever. And frankly, speaking from personal experience, no one fully recovers from that experience.
 And if at the end of the day we can prevent something like that from happening, because someone is encouraged to drive a little slower, to put their goddamn cell phone aside and not use it while they're driving, to pay attention and to drive as someone suggested, like on every street there's the chance of some child chasing a ball or someone we love in a vulnerable position, then that doesn't seem to me like a big imposition. Right.
 And speaking as someone who has gone through the trauma of losing someone at the foot of my driveway in a car accident, I would say we should not put anybody through what Amanda and I have both experienced. And it is about time we got to the business of getting closer to Vision Zero. So thank you very much for your leadership. Hi. Novick? Thank you.
 Commissioner Fish, thank you very much for that statement. And Leah and Margie and everybody on PBOT who's worked on this and all of our community partners who share this vision, thank you so very, very much. And this is a vision that will guide all aspects of our work, whether we're talking about what our legislative agenda looks like,
 We're talking about the investments we need to make in our transportation system, the question of to what extent we invest simply in maintaining what we already have or in making safety improvements that we need, and how we spend the money that we are spending on safety improvements in the most efficient and effective way.
 So, again, I really appreciate everybody's input. I appreciate all the work people have already done and the work that we are going to do. Thank you. Aye. Fritz.
 Thank you very much for your work on this. It's been very difficult for me to sit through this hearing. It's 38 weeks ago today that I was in the same situation to what Ms. McElbury was talking about, of a person not doing anything wrong, just being in the wrong place at the wrong time. And so I appreciate your...
 opening presentation which talked about yes and things happen. So we need to engineer to allow for things happening. And I don't know what the structural improvements on the Burnside Bridge might be that we could install in short order. I hope we're going to be looking at that. I very much appreciate the council's support of Senate Bill 921, which the governor signed last week, which...
 has an aspirational goal of putting crash barriers on the 100 miles of interstate highways where there aren't any. The crash barriers that were installed in Salem where my husband and our friend Kerry were killed have already saved lives.
 And in one case, they didn't indeed stop the truck from crossing over, but they slowed the truck down. And then that allowed for the other drivers to be more careful and to avoid a fatal crash. So we need to be looking at that structural issue. The reason that Senate Bill, now the Fritz Kershaw Act, not a bill, does not have a specific structure.
 requirement of when it's going to be implemented. There's an aspirational goal of 2021, and the reason is funding. And so that's another reason why I don't believe we can, at this point, set an actual target date for Vision Zero. We will know when we get there because the answer is zero.
 But we can't currently set a timeline because we don't have the funding. We know we don't have the funding. And that's heartbreaking to know that there are safety improvements that are needed all over our city for which we do not have funding. And at this point, the state isn't going to be stepping up, although I still have hope the session's not yet over. And we'll see how that goes. That's a conversation that's part of this conversation. What do we as a community want to pay for? Because we know how to engineer for more safe streets.
 It's a matter of what does it cost and how are we going to pay for it. And so I'm looking forward with engaging with my colleagues on the council after the session gets done to figure out, even if the legislature does something on street funding, it's probably not going to be enough to take care of our backlog here in Portland. We need to reopen the conversation about how much of any new funding goes for maintenance versus safety, because as Commissioner Fish said, any life lost is too much.
 In the meantime, we are all responsible for traffic safety. It's not just about drivers. Since I've become a single parent, I have been much more careful about my mode of travel as a pedestrian.
 So I wear lights and reflective gear when I'm taking my nightly walks outside. I make sure that I stop on the curb and I look around when I'm going to cross. Every time I come down to Third and Jefferson, I remember Third and Madison where Catherine was killed on her bike.
 I don't know the circumstances of all of the crashes. I do know that I'm a lot more wary that, as my grandmother used to say, it's not you I'm worried about, dear, it's the other silly fools that are out there driving. Which if you think about it, is a really nice backhanded compliment or put down. We are, each of us, responsible for Vision Zero and it's not something that we can expect PBOT to be able to do by yourselves.
 Each one of us, in whatever mode we're on, let's be more careful, and let's sign the pledge, and it's every driver, not just the fleet folks. So we, and actually, incidentally, when I was in Seattle for the Governing for Racial Equity Convention last week, I realized that we may need different lanes on the sidewalk for people who are walking while texting, because I had to dodge out of the way of people who were diligently doing their work,
 So there's new challenges with technology that, indeed, we all need to be much more aware of. And so thank you, Commissioner Novick, for your leadership on this. Thank you, Director Treat, for having the vision that nobody needs to die on our streets. And thank you to all of the community partners. We do need to get together to figure out how to pay for it because time is a tick and lives are important. Thank you all for being here today. Bye. Thank you.
 Hales? Well, thank you all, colleagues, and Commissioner Novick, for bringing this forward. One more affirmation that we hired the right transportation director. So, Leah, thank you for your personal passion for this issue. This isn't a soundbite or a photo opportunity. This isn't checking the box of political correctness. It's a serious commitment.
 It's a serious commitment by us as a city to say this is our goal and we mean it. And we're going to join other cities that are doing that as well who are in the vanguard of this movement. And that's something we can draw on and learn from. What have they done that's working? What have they done that's making a difference, whether it's in Amsterdam or New York? And how do we get to that kind of policy and investment here?
 We've made those kinds of serious commitments before. We've made a commitment to take more housing in order to avoid expanding the urban growth boundary. And we've executed on that commitment, although with some difficulty and some controversy.
 we made a commitment to reduce our carbon footprint in this city and we have a goal and we have a timeline and that's why again although maybe it isn't appropriate that we set that timeline now we should and say based on the resources we plan to have this is where we plan to go so i want to keep that pressure on all of us as well as we heard here today and and
 and not just on us as policy makers and on PBOT as a bureau, but as has been mentioned, I want to re-emphasize that. There are others who need to help, whether it's the state legislature giving us the authority to control speeds on our street, giving us the authority to use photo radar where it's appropriate, and not treating Portland like a wide spot in the road on the trip to the beach.
 So we need to have the authority to manage our streets as a big city with lots of people moving around in lots of different ways. So hopefully the legislature will affirm our responsibility in the legislation they have yet to pass this session.
 We need our fellow citizens to take the pledge, as I know each of us will and as we'll ask our staff to do as they drive city vehicles around the city and their own private vehicles when they're driving. And to say, I mean this. This is something that I plan to do. We need to ask our fellow citizens to do that. And I do think those kinds of pledges matter. I think it does make a difference when we say, I'm in for this.
 So I am, and I know we all are, and that's important that we make this a personal matter. And it is personal. We've heard those stories here today. You all know I get all kinds of midnight messages from the police bureau when something goes wrong. I don't get messages when things go well. But that's what goes with being police commissioner. And I've been at the scene of some of these horrific incidents.
 or tragedies, they're not accidents, these horrific crashes. And I've seen actually the pain on the face of police officers who
 who've had to deal with those tragedies and they feel it too so i appreciate captain sheffer and her folks in the traffic division they're committed and will continue that commitment to make sure that the police bureau on the enforcement side is a reliable partner in making this vision real so i want to thank everyone the advocates in the community the advocates on this council the advocates in the police bureau for making this a really important serious commitment
 For a serious crisis in our city, and I look forward to seeing real progress year by year real soon. I Thank you all very much. Let's take action on the ordinance the housekeeping matter yes, so Dan's not here. I'm not going to be here for the afternoon session. Yes, it's just going to inadvertently prevent you from emergency stuff yes
 We've got two emergencies, 635 and 636. And 616, the one we're about to vote on. Yeah, so I just want to propose we hit those first. I think that's a fine idea. Let's do 616 and then move to those. The roll call on 616? 616, please. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 I have two apologies to make. One, I apologize for the fact that this was only scheduled for 15 minutes. I think that was a holdover from where we're just going to accept the grant. We do strive to be realistic. My other apology is to Commissioner Fritz. I regret not having informed you that we are starting a pilot on separate sidewalk lanes for people on their cell phones. It's going to be on Broadway between Alder and Madison starting in September. So we'll look forward to seeing how that works. Hi. Hi.
 I think you should I fails all the clueless zone I okay let's move on to those other two emergency items on the regular counter.
 The afternoon pieces? No. I'm going to break for lunch, and then I'm gone. I'm just thinking we're all going to do them all, but if we don't do the emergencies now, we might not have the votes to pass. So we might be able to, looking at the regular calendar, we might be able to dispose of all this in about half an hour, I would think, right? Right.
 Well, Mayor, we put 15 minutes on some time certain if they last an hour. We've got things that are 20 minutes and 10 minutes, so I just want to be respectful. Yeah, I don't think that they're going to take that long, so my suggestion is if everybody's good until... So you're going to make me listen to your 20 and 15-minute things when you're not here? No, I don't have anything. I'm saying we have the Bureau of Police and Budget Office have together scheduled 30 minutes. But you don't think 638 is really going to take 25 minutes, do you?
 I think it'll take two minutes, but we tend to put more time in because we've...
 We are beginning to become impatient with the reverse. I was questioning 638 and 639, Commissioner. Right, right. Those are five-minute presentations. Yeah, so the minute we're off in a favorable direction in that case. So I think judging by the number of people here for the remainder of our agenda and what's on the calendar, my bet is if we stay here until 1230, we'll be fine. Does that work for everyone? Let's go.
 Let's power forward and see if that prediction comes true. 634. 634, extend. Oh, wait. Let's come back to the pulled consent items at the end. Go ahead. 634 or the pulled items? 634. Oh, sorry. No, it's not being pulled back. I'm saying let's. The items that were pulled from consent. No, let's do 634 first. Mr. Choo's is here. 634, extend contract with EC Company. Okay.
 and increase the total not to exceed amount to $3 million for solar system installation services.
 Dave, press the button on the base of your microphone and you're good to go. There you are. Very good. Good morning. Dave Tooze from Planning and Sustainability. It's a great solar day outside. Yes, it is. And we're coming up on the longest day of the year, so that makes it even better. I know you're pressed for time. Very, very briefly, the ordinance before you extends a contract with the existing solar installer contract.
 that has been on board to provide services to all of our bureaus for the past five years. Actually, yeah, five years. It's a one-year extension and an increase from $2.5 million contract cap to $3 million contract cap.
 The reason that we're doing this is to position several projects for grant funding that we're seeking. And if we receive the grant funding, then we'll need especially that time extension in order to complete the projects within the grant period and the contract period. Thank you.
 I'd be glad to answer questions you might have. Sounds promising. Any questions for Dave? So I have just a quick question, and the Water Bureau is going to do a project, I think, under this contract. Correct. Okay.
 At what point should we go out and solicit and have a competitive process since this is a growing field and there may even be more local providers that want in? Sure. What's the timeline for when we're going to do a broader procurement? Good question. Of course, the contractor that we have now was hired under a competitive process, but it is old. It will be a total of seven years under the contract if this is approved.
 So our conversations with purchases was that this is it, no more extensions. So by mid-2017 or so, I would expect another process to competitively bid out those services. Is that a commitment?
 Well, I won't be around, Commissioner, but... The mayor can... You've got my commitment on that. Dave's going to be retiring. I'll take the mayor's commitment. Purchases has been very clear that they do not feel comfortable with an extension beyond that. So I can't imagine that that would not be honored. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Dave. Any other questions for Dave? Anyone want to speak on this item? Then it will come forward in the second reading next week. Thank you, Dave. Thank you. 635. 635.
 Amend contract with Taser International Inc. to extend the term and amend the not-to-exceed amount to purchase the new Taser model for an estimated $1,790,000. Okay. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon. Oh, sorry, Bob. Mr. Mayor, commissioners. Yes.
 I'm Brian Parman. I'm the captain of the training division for the Police Bureau. We're here today to talk about amending the Police Bureau's existing contract with Taser International. As just a little bit of background, the current model of Taser has been in use here in the city of Portland since 2005, and over the course of those years, we've been able to put Taser out to all uniformed patrol members and make it mandatory for them to carry it.
 We were notified last year that TASER was going to discontinue the current model of TASER, so the Police Bureau now needs to move and transition to a new piece of equipment. Out of, we believe, a need to train and transition in a very systematic way, the Police Bureau is proposing this amendment, which would allow the—it would do two things. One, it would raise the dollar limit on the existing contract to accommodate the purchase of the equipment.
 and it would remove the not to exceed annual spending limit. It's important to note that that in no way gives us the ability to exceed the total contract amount. What it does is it allows the police bureau within its own resources to buy tasers in a way that makes the most sense for the transition rather than being bound by a spending limit with any one calendar year.
 We have been testing two different models for nearly 12 months now, and we're very close to having a final decision. But this increase will accommodate either model selected. Great. Anything to add? Okay. Questions? Thank you both. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? We have three people signed up. Dan Handelman, Max White, and Shedrick J. Wilkins. Please come on up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 just push the button there dan on the base of that there you go okay uh good afternoon uh mayor hales and council members i'm dan handleman with portland cop watch uh first of all important cop watch members attend meetings the crc coab training advisory council and cprc and follow these issues closely but we've never heard the police say that their current tasers are malfunctioning and need to be replaced it's really not clear why the bureau needs to
 To replace all the tasers since the cartridges made for the new X26P model also fit the current X26 model that officers carry. Secondly, although there is a budget windfall, it seems a shame to be pouring more money into electroshock devices, which have been called instruments of torture by the UN Committee on Torture, when so many people have no place to live and our streets are crumbling. When Portland first got tasers in 2002, they were touted as an alternative to deadly force.
 Once all the officers were armed with the weapons, they were used some 800 times per year. Thankfully, that number is now down to under 100 times per year. But the Portland police engage in shootings four to six times per year, down from six to ten times previously. In other words, at best, six of the taser uses are alternatives to deadly force, and the rest are, well, one of the reasons the Department of Justice called out the Portland for its taser use. We hear, this is better than being hit with a baton or being shot. But that's like being asked whether you want to be hit over the head with a lead pipe or a wooden plank. I don't want to be hit over the head at all.
 MC International said that as of early 2013, at least 540 people in North America had died after being hit with tasers. Even though the manufacturer swears by the weapon's safety, in 2005, the company's previous claim that tasers had never been linked to a death is now that tasers have never been cited as, quote, the sole cause of death. In 2008, after losing their first product liability lawsuit, Taser International added a new warning
 When possible, avoiding chest shots with electronic control devices avoids the controversy about whether stun guns do or do not affect the human heart. In 2014, the UN Committee Against Torture said it was appalled at the number of reported deaths that followed the use of stun guns and it recommended that weapons be used exclusively in extreme and limited situations and be banned for use on children and pregnant women. And that's a direct quote from their, from a report about their meeting.
 Here in Portland, Aaron Palfos's healthy 50-pound pit bull died after being subjected to multiple taserings on June 5, 2005. Timothy Grant died on March 20, 2006 after being hit with a taser after he was allegedly jumping in and out of traffic.
 While it's not conclusive that the weapons led to the deaths of James Chassear Keaton Otis, officers did use the 50,000 volt devices on both men, with three officers hitting Otis simultaneously. And Officer Sean Maycomber melted his taser when repeatedly using it on the mortally wounded body of James J. Perez. Like the flashbangs that have been used at a few protests now, upping the Bureau's weaponry is a symptom of the militarization the country finally started noticing after Ferguson. But soldiers don't even carry tasers on the battlefield.
 Also, like the flashbang's introduction, the proposal to maybe upgrade the tasers being done without a serious public discussion would urge counsel to at best leave the contract as it is and, if possible, find less harmful alternatives instead. And just as a side note, the Taser International itself calls them conducted energy weapons and not electronic control weapons, so it's not clear why the DOJ and the Bureau use that term, which implies they're used for control rather than in defense of an officer who feels his or her life or the life of another is in danger. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Yeah, I agree. I'm Shedrick Wilkins. I think it's an electronic torture device. Why don't you give people shock treatments? I mean, I've seen when they use these things, you have to be within 5 or 10 feet, and they're shocking on the ground. I think the standard policy in some sort of situation with a violent person is to shoot them in the knee or the leg and then have another officer point the weapon at the head.
 Ultimately, if you can't stop a person, shocking doesn't do them any good, you have to basically take them out. That's just the way it is. When it comes on the news, it looks like people here in Portland are shocking people and this is some sort of deterrent. It's not necessary. Like say a handgun is basically shoot the leg, a person gets in pain and then basically stop them by the implication of deadly force.
 Thank you. Welcome. Hi. I got here late, so I hope I'm not off the mark. But I read the documents and- Just put your name on the record, Trudy. Oh, I'm sorry. Trudy Cooper. I live in Elliott neighborhood of Portland. My question is, I looked over the materials and I concluded that it is to renew a contract at a higher price for a product that I think is questionable in the first place.
 But in the context of a move toward relationship-based policing, earlier known as community-based policing, which I understand the chief wants to move toward, I am wondering why wouldn't we also recontextualize the level of use of tasers. I'm wondering if they're needed at the same level that we've had with a police force that's embedded more in the community. Okay.
 more knowledgeable about the community. I'd like, at some point, I hope to hear a response to this, because if community policing doesn't reduce the use of force incidents, then what is it intended to do? And second, I don't know what has been said so far. I'm sorry I wasn't able to be here for work reasons until now. But what's the impact this new product will have on the directives regarding their use and use?
 Might it in light of the settlement agreement it seems like police are to use them when there's a situation of genuine danger I don't think that's always what we see sometimes. It's the convenience of being able to arrest someone and I'm not supporting a ban on tasers though many in this country are doing so for the reasons that Dan was outlining and I
 But tasers are certainly preferable to bullets since by policy, my understanding is that officers are required to shoot for the largest part of the body, the torso. So if there's no other alternative, then certainly we would want to have tasers if there's no other alternative to that.
 So I hope that we're going to see an analysis or a rationale for how the use of guns and tasers can be reduced as we move more towards community-based policing and community-controlled policing. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else want to speak on this item? So, Captain Parman, come back up for a second if you can. I have a question. I have a question. Okay.
 So to the point about the necessity to make this change as opposed to it being an option? Right. Okay, so just to talk a little bit about that, the majority of the tasers that are carried by the Police Bureau, probably close to 75% or 80% of them are outside of the warranty period. Taser will no longer service our existing equipment so as –
 as models stop functioning, they cannot be replaced, or they have to be replaced with one of the two new models. I think the rationale behind transitioning in larger batches is it makes the training and the transition easier
 It allows us to structure that in a deliberate way that makes the most sense for our officers to avoid having multiple types of tasers. There are some slight functional differences just in the mechanics of the taser, not the internal workings of it. It's not more powerful than the previous model. But it will allow us to, as I said, it will allow us to purchase in batches large enough to train officers in a way that makes sense.
 Other questions from the Cabinet Department? So the current contract has a limit of $250,000 per year. Correct. I understand the rationale for taking away the per year, because you can buy them in larger batches if you wanted to do that, but it seems then that the $2.3 million is more. Actually, it says it's an additional $1.7 million to bring the total contract to $2.8 million. Correct. So that's more than $250,000 a year.
 Yes, it is. We have the current contract had a value but had a spending limit on it. The increase in value reflects the purchase replacement price of the entire inventory we have of the equipment, which is estimated at about $1.6 million. But do you actually have to buy everybody a new one? I mean, are you going to be training everybody again? Yes, that's our intent. Why do you – I don't understand –
 what the difference in operation would be. Well, we have a policy that requires members when in uniform to carry the taser, and there are several instances a year where we take members who are not assigned primarily to patrol duties, but they are a parade or a large event. They're put into uniform and then required to carry the taser. And so we want to transition the entire organization over to the new model within a single training cycle. Okay.
 Not all of them are not functioning. Some of them are still usable, right? Yes. We still have inventory that is functioning. Are their controls that different? There are subtle differences between the two, and we want to avoid any confusion with members, and we think that a wholesale cutover to the new equipment makes the most sense from a training and deployment standpoint. Do we currently have a policy that when an officer draws a taser that they have to fill out a report?
 When they point a taser and use the laser tool to use, yes. But not when they take it out of its holster? No. How about if they take their gun out of their holster? If they point their firearm at a person, they have to write a report. If they point their taser, do they? Yes, if they turn it on, yes. I'm a little concerned about buying a whole new set of equipment when it's not clear what's
 how often they're used and whether it's necessary. Is this new product better in terms of less lethal, less painful? There are improvements. The new model is more durable. It's more waterproof. It offers two, for example, one model has two different targeting lasers, which allows us to increase accuracy so that we can ensure we're getting good hits better.
 with the probes, trying to keep them at the belt line or lower. We are, excuse me, and again, like I said, the current equipment isn't malfunctioning, but we are concerned about the training implications of maintaining multiple versions of the same piece of equipment over time that members may not be familiar with equipment. And so we think that a wholesale cutover makes the most sense. What do we do with our old tasers?
 The city has the option to declare them a surplus and dispose of them. And then does the money come back into the police bureau's budget? I think that's a decision for this body to make when that time comes. But that would be what you would do? Because how many functioning cases do we currently have? I don't have the exact number. I believe it's going to be north of 700. So it seems like that would be a pretty good number.
 supply for a smaller police organization that they could have, even though it's no longer maintained by the manufacturer, they could have some spares. So is that something that you'll be looking at? Yes, that's something we'll be looking at once, assuming this is approved. We would move forward with a strategy to dispose of the existing inventory. Other questions for Captain Parman? Thanks very much. Thank you. Okay, this is an emergency ordinance. I'm ready to vote on this. Let's take a roll call then, please.
 Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? I don't like tasers. I don't like guns even more though, so I'm willing to support this. Aye. Thales?
 i think there's some been some good questions raised about how and how often we use these these public safety tools of guns and tasers and i totally agree with commissioner fritz's bias i want our police bureau to using be using force less and less and fortunately that is the case we are using force less and less that's a trend that we need to continue i'll certainly exercise some oversight about this contract like any other to make sure that we're not in any way
 contradicting that direction with the equipment that we purchase aye okay um 636 is our next emergency item adopt the supplemental budget for the fiscal year 2014-15 over expenditure process and make budget adjustments in various funds good afternoon good afternoon uh andrew scott city budget director i'm gonna briefly uh talk about some of the major items in the over expenditure ordinance and
 And there's actually two, but we'll do the overexpenditure ordinance and then the inter-fund loan resolution after that. So the overexpenditure ordinance is the last opportunity for bureaus to make any council-approved adjustments that are needed in their fiscal year budgets. In addition to a number of technical non-general fund changes that are included in the ordinance before you, there are just four general fund requests in the overexpenditure ordinance that I'll talk about in a little bit more detail.
 There's a $121,596 request for an advance encumbrance for the Office of Youth Violence Prevention Special Appropriation. This was an item that was not requested in the fall bump, and it probably should have. These funds were advanced back in fiscal year 2013-14, should have been carried over into 14-15, but they were not carried over.
 As a result, our excess fund balance that we came to you last fall was about $121,596 higher than it would have been otherwise. This is a request from contingency to ensure that there are funds to cover that advance.
 There's a $1.5 million request for compensation set aside from the Police Bureau. In the spring budget monitoring process, the Bureau only asked for a portion of their overall comp set aside based on their projections at that time. More recent projections and some additional costs in the last couple of months show that the police may need their entire comp set aside amount, and that's what they've requested as part of the overexpenditure ordinance.
 There's a carryover of $100,000 for the PPS Concordia Early Childhood Learning Center. These funds were appropriated by council in the fall budget monitoring process of the current fiscal year. But, again, the proposal here is to carry them over into next fiscal year and add them to the $400,000 that is in the adopted budget, which you'll be acting on tomorrow, for a total of $500,000, and it will all go out the door at the same time next fiscal year.
 Finally, there's a request for we've included a million dollar draw on general fund contingency to prevent the possibility of an over expenditure in the parks bureau.
 Parks is projecting that they may be as much as about $650,000 overspent due to a shortfall in revenues. The City Budget Office is recommending a million-dollar draw on contingency just to ensure that Parks stays within that legal budget appropriation. And I think Director Abate is here to provide a little bit more detail on the Parks Bureau request. Andrew, can I ask you a question about the comp set-aside? I know it's a complicated area. I just want to make sure that...
 We're all on the same page. What is the – why is the police bureau requesting this additional comp status? What is it going to fund?
 So it will fund personnel expenses in the existing fiscal year. So all bureaus, again, compensation set aside. We set aside the inflation, both the cost of living adjustment as well as health benefit inflation for personnel in general fund bureaus. And we asked them to come back in the spring bump and show us sort of their projections through the end of the year and show us if they need those resources. Because in a lot of situations due to vacancies and other things, the bureaus don't need those resources.
 In the spring, the police came and said, you know, we think we need about $2 million of resources from Comp Set Aside. Council granted that amount. They were eligible for up to about $3.5 million, sort of based on, again, the size of their bureau. And they've come back now recently. There are some additional overtime expenditures over the last couple of months and other personnel expenditures. And their projections say, you know, we may need the entire amount. So they're asking for essentially the rest of their $3.5 million allocation. Okay.
 And how does your office, excuse the pun, police the drawdown on comp set aside and distinguish between what you might say is a valid or invalid or one that triggers an alarm that perhaps there's a structural problem that needs to be addressed? So we review the requests when they come in from the bureaus. And, you know, one of the things we look at to be sure that bureaus have an earlier in the year transferred money out of personal services into materials and services is,
 and then they're coming back to ask for comp set aside. To the extent a bureau has done that, we would probably recommend against that draw. That wasn't the case with the police bureau in the spring bump. And then we also look to make sure that the bureau hasn't hired a number of temporary positions or limited term positions, which again, they can do. They have some authority to do throughout the year. If a bureau had done a significant amount of hiring, we would also really question that. But again, that wasn't the situation from the police bureau. They have a number of vacancies right now.
 And could you remind me how fungible those dollars? So if the police doesn't draw, if the police bureau doesn't draw down the, I think you said $3.5 million that was budgeted,
 What are the eligible uses of the dollars that are left over? So at the end of the year, anything remaining in compensation set-aside falls to ending fund balance, which then means it becomes available as beginning fund balance the next year. So, again, to the extent there's unspent comp set-aside money that contributes to beginning fund balance, which then in the fall bump, 50 percent of which –
 50% of any excess fund balance would go towards infrastructure, and the rest could go towards unforeseen expenses. Comp set aside started this year at about $8 million, and after this draw will be? It'll be $826,000. Yeah. You know, it is lower than it has been in the past. It varies from year to year, but this ending balance. So this is one of the things that Josh Harwood, the city economist, takes a whole, you know,
 dozens of things into account to get that ending fund balance estimate. So I'm not asking this final question because I'm advocating. I'm just trying to understand. If the police bureau doesn't use its full comp set aside, but let's say Parks Bureau comes to you and says we need a bigger chunk because we're converting seasonals to full time or whatever, wouldn't it make more sense to have that process occur before it drops to the general fund and is split up 50-50? Yeah.
 In other words, wouldn't it make more sense, since those dollars were originally prioritized for a personnel-related issue, a compensation-related issue, to have that discussion before it drops to the ending fund balance? Well, I think –
 I just want to follow your question. To the extent that they are existing fiscal year 14-15 costs or anticipated costs in 15-16? We're having this ongoing discussion about what parks is going to need to comply with some mandates and also to further some council objectives. Yes.
 I'm not advocating, I'm just trying to understand. The money drops to the ending fund balance and then is subject to the 50% split that we have agreed to on major maintenance. It complicates a little bit the task of then finding the money for a sister bureau that might have a unique ask, and my question is,
 Should there be an opportunity short of it dropping to the general fund for us to reallocate those monies, or is there a structural reason why we shouldn't do that? Well, in terms of the cost in the current year, I think what you've identified is there are different pots of money. There is compensation set aside, which is available for compensation-related expenses, and
 And then there's also our general fund contingency. And what we'll hear, you know, from Director Abate, you know, we're recommending a draw from that contingency for current expenses. Council could take that money instead out of compensation set aside rather than contingency, although the net impact would be the same at the end of the year. So if we had leftover comp set aside, it falls to balance. If we have leftover general fund contingency, it also falls to balance. So if we're talking about this year's expenses, it doesn't have an impact.
 If you're talking about potential expenses next year, I think that council has occasionally taken money from current year and essentially reduced it and reappropriated it in next year's budget. That would be an option. It does sort of go around that 50% infrastructure resolution. Another way of looking at it is...
 Was the 50% split that we all supported intended to trump the threshold question of whether there is sufficient resources allocated to compensation needs? Again, I'm not advocating. I'm noting a structural issue about how we do this, and I'll revisit this with you offline. Because it seems to me it becomes an even harder question to address once the money –
 falls to another pot, and after all, we did put this money aside for a very specific purpose. I'm not sure why it should have to compete with all the other laudable goals of the city thereafter. So just food for thought. You said we have the option of doing that. Yes. Yeah. The option of taking comp set-aside surplus, in a sense, and transferring it to another bureau for a compensation-related issue. Yeah.
 In a future year, yeah. It would be no different than in the spring bump. Council took some action to carry over funds, to essentially take funds out of Bureau budgets this current year and reappropriate them into the budget for next year. I guess – You could treat compensation set-aside the same way. It may even be that the more compelling example is, what if the Parks Bureau underutilized their comp set-aside? Mm-hmm.
 and then wanted to take a portion of it to fund another compensation-related issue they were dealing with. Under our current system, that money drops, and it has to be competed for and appropriated in a future budget. Anyway, just food for thought. I'm just –
 The only thing, yeah, it is an option. The only thing I would say is when we look at ending fund balance, we look at it globally. So not as specific pots of there was this much contingency or this much comp set aside or this much underspending. At the end of the year, all of those things contribute to our ending fund balance. There's a budgeted ending fund balance. I think it's about $1.
 $10 or $12 million this year that we need to hit, right? And we expect to hit that this year. Anything above that amount becomes the excess fund balance, which we'll talk about in the fall bump. To the extent we're taking any of those pieces, whether it's underspending in a bureau, comp set aside contingency, and rebudging, it brings us that much closer to that budgeted balance line. Again, this particular year, given where we are on the cycle, I don't think that will be a problem. In other years it may be.
 Okay. Any other questions? Mike, anything to add? Mayor, Mike, and... Button there in front of you on the base of the microphone. There you go.
 Good morning Mayor Mike Abate, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation and members of council. This spring while our bureau's projected expenses continue to hold steady and the bureau was projecting to remain under budget for expenses, we began to forecast possible revenue shortfalls. At this point we're projecting a revenue shortfall in this current fiscal year of no more than $650,000.
 Some of the factors related to that shortfall are, first of all, our revenue target of $400,000 for sale of surplus property. It's not going to be achieved by June 30th. As you know, this is the final year of that revenue target put in place several years ago to avert some cuts. And in this coming fiscal year, you've removed that revenue target from the Bureau. And so we're no longer mandated to achieve it.
 We're also expecting to collect about $300,000 less in revenue from recreation programs than we projected. We're analyzing the possible causes of that over this summer because we may need to make some course corrections in our offerings, printed guides, and other things that we're evaluating.
 And we projected about $100,000 in additional revenue from the Portland Tennis Center, the new bubble structure over the four courts. That project was delayed by an electrical service issue that really actually resulted in about $100,000 less revenue coming to the Bureau.
 On May 12th, I implemented savings measures for the Bureau that required my approval of purchases over $100,000 along with other various cost savings measures. In early June, again, we took another look at this. As you can understand, our revenues peak in April and May and June as people come to summer. We've been hoping that those dollars would come in, but in early June, I had then ratcheted
 Closer down, our expenditure is both on vacancies and also purchasing to require my approval for anything over $1,000. Our goal is to close that gap, attempt to come as close as possible to keeping the Bureau within the overall budget.
 After the fiscal year, and as Director Scott mentioned, CBO's recommendation is that we take a million-dollar draw, even though we think the need is going to be far less than that. But after this fiscal year is completed and we look back and we know exactly where we landed, we'll determine how much, if any, of that million dollars we need to balance in our current budget. And we'll develop a plan to fund back the contingency in the fall bump.
 In addition to controlling expenditures as part of solving this issue, we continue to pursue additional revenue opportunities as well to close that gap. So I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 Okay. Any questions? Looks like none. Thank you, Mike. Yep. Okay. Anything else that you need to cover with us? All the adjustments in the ordinance are approved. Unrestricted contingency will end the year at about $49,000. And I'm happy to take any questions. Okay. Anything else? Unrestricted contingency? That's our general fund contingency. And that's down from? It started at $2.5 million this year.
 Okay. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it's time for a roll call vote. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thanks for ongoing good work from the City Budget Office, also my team at Parks who have been fiscally responsible. There are many explanations as to why the revenue didn't come in. The one that I'm actually quite proud of is that we did not sell off any parkland to gain the $400,000 that was set into the target.
 But that does mean that it's a revenue shortfall. And essentially what this does is borrows from next year's budget to cover this year's costs. So we will make sure that we will have to do some more belt tightening next year, and I will be happy to oversee that. Thank you very much. Bye. Okay. And now 637.
 Authorize temporary operating loans between various funds to provide interim funding to cover lags in federal, state, and other grant reimbursements and other negative cash and fund balances.
 Okay. Andrew? So this is a technical resolution we've done for a number of years now. And what this ensures is that no fund ends the fiscal year with a negative cash or fund balance. Our grants fund is a reimbursement fund, so it collects reimbursement from entities outside the city. Expenses in that fund are incurred when the services or goods are provided, but the revenues aren't recognized until they're received and there's a lag there. Accounting rules and state budget law require us to make sure that the fund doesn't go negative at the end of the fiscal year, so this authorizes a number of temporary loans
 to ensure that that doesn't happen. The other thing just to note in this is it does call for a loan, and this is not something we normally do every year, but a loan from the General Reserve to the Bonded Debt Interest and Sinking Fund. Estimates in that fund of fund balance and prior tax collections were higher than actually realized, and then fiscal year 15-16 tax collections will repay that inter-fund loan. So, again, these are just transfers of dollars within the city. Andrew, do you really expect elected officials to support a resolution that has in it stipulations
 support for lags, for loans, and for negative cash. We have to actually stand for office from time to time. So could you clean up the language on this one? We can blame the federal government for the lag and grant reimbursement. How's that? The federal government is very good at lags. Okay. Any other questions for Andrew or Claudio on this item? Anyone want to speak on the resolution? Roll call, please. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you.
 Okay, 638. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Lagoon Reconstruction Phase 3 for Project Number E07146-10.
 for $11 million. Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mayor. We've budgeted 40 minutes for both of these presentations. Hopefully that was a glitch. And I think we can do them each in five. Okay. And I think if I read my opening comments, it'll even make it shorter. The Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant has a 37-acre biosolids lagoon that is part of the plant's solids reuse program.
 The city built the lagoon in the early 1970s. In 1998, the Bureau of Environmental Services started a long-term project to reconstruct the lagoon in phases over several years. The project will improve lagoon operations and protect groundwater. This ordinance, if approved, would authorize a construction contract for the next phase of construction, which we estimate to cost about $11 million. Scott, take it away.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Welcome. My name is Scott Gibson. I'm with the Bureau of Environmental Services. And with me today is our project manager for the project, Muriel Gisatufo. Muriel is a senior engineer in our wastewater engineering group, and she's one of our experts on wastewater processes, and she has a short presentation for you. Shorter. By the way, I will not accept any jokes about legacy solids. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. So I'll skip over the lagoon introduction. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I just wanted to say that it treats biosolids. It has important functions, reducing the overall volume of solids that we haul to the eastern Oregon as fertilizer. It also provides side stream treatment at the treatment plant. It provides emergency storage.
 and is an important asset to the treatment process.
 This phase 3-4 is a continuation of the program, so it would add a liner to the north half of the cells. As part of the project, we would have to remove the solids that are existing, that are in place currently in the lagoon. We estimate those quantities to be about 52,000 dry tons of solids that would have to be dried and removed away from the existing north cells.
 the quick overview for the phase one of the project was that we built the first dike to separate the lagoon in two cells phase two built the southern half of the lagoon so separated constructed two cells and took 36 000 dry tons of solids away
 One part of the project was to construct a monofill on site, which you see the horizontal bar at the bottom of the picture. That's an on-site landfill where we dispose of the solids. This was proven to be an approach that saves us on hauling costs, hauling and disposal costs for the solids that are currently in the lagoon.
 So as part of the current phase, which is ongoing and scheduled for completion this summer, that's phase two, the monofil is halfway full, and we will start. The objective would be to start the next phase in November 2015 and construct the north cell and then finish closing out this monofil permanently.
 The last phase of the program would be to essentially do environmental enhancements between the public trail and the lagoon system. So it would be plantings between the trail and the lagoon.
 So the main, the key element of the project that we wanted to bring to your attention today is that, as you can see, the lagoon, the northern portion is really sort of a tranquil lake with solids in it. And so we've put a lot of efforts in the engineering part to develop.
 try to determine the existing conditions. So we did some surveying of the bottom to determine the baseline and the contours. We also had to do surveying for the characteristics of the solids in this volume, but we have a 37-acre surface to survey. So there are still uncertainties as far as what the actual conditions are.
 So these pictures are just to illustrate the variability of the solids that the contractors will have to deal with. And our inspection staff during this phase of the program were using qualifiers to describe the solids in the drying process.
 Clockwise from top left would be the cake batter. The next one would have been the warm muffin. And then we would have the hard cookie and then the stale cookie would be the last one. And so the point is just to illustrate that these conditions are a little variable and the properties of what we're dealing with is a little variable.
 So therefore, because of that, we've set up this contract on a unit price basis so that we would have quantities estimates and we would pay the contractor based on unit price. So we have 17 unit price items for the contract.
 What we also did is we spent a little more time developing a level of confidence for our cost estimates based on the parameters we thought were most influencing on the cost estimates. So we had 10 independent parameters and they ran, our consultants, Brown and Caldwell, they ran Monte Carlo analysis for that. So they ran 50,000 iterations.
 The conclusion came up that our best estimate, based on our quantities estimates at this point, is $11 million. But with the variabilities we're expecting, the end price of the actual conditions could vary between 9.3 and 13.6. And that gives us a 95% level of confidence in that range.
 Just for my colleague's benefit, though, we had a lot of discussion about this prior to the hearing about how could we have a 95 percent degree of confidence on a number when we're saying there's a range of 9.3 to 13.6.
 And it's a complicated question, but it is ultimately Scott's job to come in with a number that he can defend with some confidence, and that then helps establish the market for the bidding process. I ask the question, well, if there's that kind of range, why don't you downgrade your confidence level? And the answer is, because of their methodology, they're pretty confident in this range. But, again, the bidding process will determine the ultimate price. Okay.
 It's an interesting conundrum because we're also trying to manage public expectations in the contracting process. So perhaps at some point we can even have a deeper conversation about that. Thank you. Sort of simply put...
 What would happen if we didn't do this project? Would the lagoon simply function inefficiently? Would it at some point stop functioning? That's a great question. Actually, when the program was undertaken in the late 90s, the question came up, like, what if we didn't use a lagoon? Some treatment plants do not have lagoon. And then the evaluation included the functions the lagoon –
 occupies now and what would happen if we would replace these functions at our conventional plants, so with mechanical and basins. So the replacement value through conventional treatment came up at $91 million. That's worth that $91 million. Yes, exactly, in today's dollars. It reminds me a little bit, Mayor, of the discussion we have with green infrastructure generally. We say the pipe-only approach will cost this, the...
 bio swells and less pipes cost why and this is another example of harnessing nature a little bit to deal with a problem of our legacy solids and we'd never find another site this big at this point you couldn't simply abandon this one and start over yes yes that's the parks Bureau wants to give up a golf course there might be some people use the golf course
 Call it a water hazard. Huh? It's a water hazard. Let's not go there. Let's not go there, Scott. The lagoons are currently unlined. They have a clay bottom, and this project really is about providing a liner so we can provide protection to Columbia Slough to make sure that we're not contaminated. Currently, we monitor. We have wells. We monitor consistently to make sure we're not having an environmental degradation, but we really want to eliminate their risk and get those liners in.
 Because the unlined lagoons are really not the way to go these days. Okay. Further questions? Do you have a final slide? That's pretty much it. Okay. Thank you. Sorry, we interrupted you. Good. Any further questions at all? Anyone want to speak on this item? Thank you very much. It will come back on the second reading. Scott and Muriel, thank you very much. Thank you. I have one more, I think. And we'll get it read into the record first.
 639, authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Piedmont sewer rehabilitation project, number E10332 for $3,500,000. Mayor, I want to welcome Scott Gibson back to the council for his presentation. Over one-third of Portland's 2,500 miles of sewer pipe are more than 80 years old.
 You can relate to that. Can you relate to that? Not quite yet. One-third of our 2,500 miles of sewer pipe are more than 80 years old. The project that we're coming to council today is part of the Environmental Services Large-Scale Sewer Rehabilitation Program.
 The program is addressing sewers around the city that are severely deteriorated and in need of replacement. Excuse me. Thank you. Once again, my name is Scott Gibson. I'm here to talk about the Piedmont Sewer Reconstruction Project. First thing I'd like to talk about is the overall program. As Commissioner Fish mentioned, this is part of a larger effort. On the slide here, you'll see 23 neighborhood-based sewer rehabilitation projects,
 This one in particular is in Phase 2, but there is a Phase 3 that will come up, and this graph shows both. The green area is the Piedmont Sewer Rehabilitation Project. It's located in North Portland with boundaries made up of Interstate 5 freeway to the west, Vancouver to the east, Lombard on the north, and Rosa Parks on the south. The intent of this project is to replace or rehabilitate highly deteriorated sewers. I've shown you a couple of these before, and I'll tell you up.
 Clockwise in the top left, what you're seeing there is concrete pipe degradation. Essentially, the pipe is corroding, and we had problems during the original installation with the amount of cement in the product. So there are quality issues within decades of installation that we're kind of chasing down. On the top right, you see a sag where the sewer has sagged, and so now we don't get cleansing velocities in there. We basically have a pool which collects things and needs to be maintained.
 In the bottom right you see a break in the sewer and the bottom left we see a broken joint.
 This project is similar to others you've seen. There's some slides here about some statistics. When we're, 95% of the streets are residential. When we're in front of the residents, we have one set of challenges. And that is that we want to make sure they get in and out of their home, everything's handled safely, and that we're communicating well with them. In the major streets, we have a separate set of channels, challenges, associated with commuters, keeping them moving. Oh wait, one thing colleagues I've learned in this process is that
 When we do these neighborhood-based sewer rehabs,
 oftentimes we hear from the businesses that they want us to go on a 24-7 schedule to get it done quicker and be less disruptive. And, of course, folks in the residential areas have a different view. So what we often do is come up with a hybrid where we do the 24-7 on streets that are purely commercial, and we do the normal work schedule on the other streets. But in any event, we've started expanding.
 extensively polling, surveying the community to get the sense, and then we try to adapt to that and do the least disruptive plan that we can. Yes. Leading me into my next slide. So we do have a number of schools we're working around, and we've timed the improvements in front of those schools to occur during the summer or other times when they're out of school.
 And we do have some areas where traffic handling requirements force us to work at night. These are both in Lombard, or all in Lombard, and we're going to be using a trenchless technology, which is a short duration. They basically use a fiberglass pipe in a pipe when it's wet. They pull it in, they inflate it, and they cure it to harden.
 That takes the cure times, and the installation process can run longer than our current noise ordinance allows us to do construction, but much faster than open cut. And so in Lombard, we're using that technique, and we've acquired a requisite noise ordinance system.
 We've done a good job on public outreach, I believe, and one of the key things is to communicate with the impacted businesses and residents so they know what to expect, what we're going to be doing, when we're going to be doing it, where we're going to be doing it. It makes the construction much more palatable for them. And finally, our engineer's estimate is $3.5 million. We'll advertise sometime in July and hope to begin construction in October. It's about an eight-month construction period. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Questions? Anyone want to speak on this item? Then that will also return to us on second reading. Thank you, Scott. And we'll recess until 2 p.m. Oh, sorry, we forgot the two consent items from this morning. Let's go back to those. Sorry. 620. Thank you.
 amend an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County District Attorney to reimburse the Police Bureau for overtime costs of officers assigned to the District Attorney's Office as investigators not to exceed $33,418. We need to amend this, don't we?
 Is that right? Yes. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. This is a contract with the county. Three officers are assigned as investigators, and the county provides what amounts to a premium for that work. It's just north of $30,000 a year, and this contract would be extended for the period of next fiscal year. It needs to be an emergency ordinance so that the contract can be put into effect. So we need a motion to add the emergency clause then?
 So moved. Is there a second? Any discussion? Roll call on adding the emergency clause. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. And then on the ordinance itself, anyone want to speak? I don't think so. Okay. Roll call. Fish? Aye. Novick? Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay. And 621, Hales?
 Authorize application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $437,882 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, Fiscal Year 2015, Local Solicitation to Prevent or Reduce Crime and Violence. Thank you.
 Okay. And this has been pulled to the regular calendar because we need to conduct a public hearing. So here we are. That's correct. Again, my name is Bob Delgizzi, business operations manager with Portland Police Bureau. This ordinance is also heard with intergovernmental agreements that we'll put into place.
 On June 24th or 25th, City of Portland will submit an application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, also known as the JAG Grant, fiscal year 2015 local solicitation. Edward R. Byrne, a New York City police officer, was killed while on duty in 1988. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program was established by the Department of Justice
 which directs funding to local law enforcement agencies with the primary concept being to enhance officer safety, the equipment, technology, and training. The 2015 JAG funds will be made under disparate certification to the City of Portland, Multnomah County, and the City of Gresham. The JAG solicitation requires the City to submit a joint application for the aggregate eligible allocation to all disparate municipalities and also for Portland to act as the fiscal agent for the grant.
 The intergovernmental agreements must and will be executed by Multnomah County and the City of Gresham in order to obligate agency roles and responsibilities before July 24, 2015. A grant agreement will be executed with LifeWorks Northwest in order to obligate agency roles and responsibilities before July 24, 2015. Department of Justice has notified the City that it will award a grant in the amount of $437,882, no match requirement.
 The award is allocated based on a statutory formula provided by the Bureau of Justice Statistics. The City of Portland will receive $210,099. Multnomah County will receive $165,081. And the City of Gresham will receive $62,702. The Police Bureau will use $210,099 in JAG funding for the following two items.
 We'll hire one full-time equivalent senior administrative specialist for the Police Bureau Detective Sex Crime Unit to work as a victim advocate. The SAS will provide trauma-informed direct services and ongoing support to victims of sexual assault and their families throughout an investigation during the court proceedings and continuing services beyond the conclusion of the investigation.
 and also to contract with LifeWorks Northwest to coordinate treatment, temporary housing, counseling, and training opportunities for individuals involved in prostitution-related offenses at a cost of $110,000. Multnomah County agencies decided individually to use $165,081 in JAG funding for the following three items. To retain...
 0.36 full-time equivalent North neighborhood deputy district attorney for 12 months at a cost of $55,027, to retain 0.45 full-time equivalent parole and probation officer for 12 months at a total cost of $55,027, and to hire one full-time equivalent enforcement sergeant for three months at a total cost of $55,027.
 The City of Gresham will use their allocated portion of JAG funding to purchase scheduling software for their Police Bureau personnel at a cost of $62,702. As part of the required solicitation review process, the Police Bureau posted the grant solicitation and Bureau contact information on the City Police Bureau webpage on May 19, 2015.
 Visitors to the site were able to view a description of the grant program, the solicitation, and fiscal services contact information. The solicitation will be removed and the approved application posted on the 24th of June, 2015. Visitors to the site are encouraged to contact Police Bureau's Fiscal Services Division if they have any questions or concerns about the application or about the application process.
 This governing body review of the grant application document and the related intergovernmental agreements provides an opportunity for public comment and involvement, and this satisfies one of the requirements of the grant. We have a representative from Multnomah County to describe portions of the program that are funded with the grant.
 Welcome. Is this on? Yes. Okay. Hi. I'm Laura Holick. I'm a probation and parole officer at the Multnomah County. And I am currently the parole officer that is in this grant-funded position under DCJ. And from what I understand, my particular position is funded through this. And what I do in my particular unit, which is the health assessment and treatment transition team, is to coordinate with our treatment programs that we work with.
 facilitating our clients, individuals on both probation and parole, on post-prison supervision into residential treatment programs to address their substance abuse issues as well as any criminality issues that coincide with that. Great. Thank you. Thanks for coming over. Any questions for either?
 of our resource people here. Do you want us to have an emergency clause for this one? Well, I think we have to conduct a second public hearing. Is that right? There'll be a second, yes. This will return for a regular council calendar for a second public hearing, and then we can adopt it, right? That's correct. So we don't need to add an emergency clause, I don't think. That's correct. No emergency clause is required. OK. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it will be continued. And now we're recessed.
 Okay, good afternoon everyone and welcome to the afternoon session of the June 17th City Council meeting. Would you please call the roll? Fish, Saltzman, Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome everyone. We have a relatively small agenda this afternoon starting with item 642. 640? Sorry, 640. Okay.
 640, improve land use and other city regulations through the regulatory improvement code amendment package 7, technical amendments. Okay, so this is our seventh tour through what we call RICAP, and Joe Zender and others are here to present.
 come on up. This is the first reading of this package to amend our zoning code, amending multiple zoning code chapters. The staff is going to present the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendations. We'll hear from the community. I want to thank both the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Bureau of Development Services for
 Bringing this project forward, we've got this, I think, somewhat down to a science of how do we tune our code periodically to respond to new information or problems that we encounter. So I appreciate you being here this afternoon. I'll hand it over to Joe to start the presentation. Great. Good afternoon. I'm Joe Zender with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 We're pleased to be here today to bring this regulatory improvement package. It's the seventh year that we've done this. It's an annual package focused on process and code improvements, driven by the experience of the Bureau of Development Services at the permit intake desk, driven by comments we also get from the development community and the public. This year, it's a lot of technical issues.
 A few of the major issues provide some more clarity to the code, removes costly reviews and procedures that are out of scale with the level of work proposed or have become sort of outdated and no longer necessary. And we look forward to your consideration of these today and a future decision on the package of amendments. Douglas? Yes.
 Thank you. Mayor Hills, council members, Douglas Hardy with Bureau of Development Services representing Director Paul Scarlett. I, too, would like to thank the staff at Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for their continued work on improving the zoning code through this ongoing recap program.
 It really is a great example of the two bureaus, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and Bureau of Development Services, working collaboratively to respond, and importantly, in a timely manner to zoning issues that are raised, both by staff and by the public in our daily use of the zoning code program.
 For this recap package, the focus has been primarily on ensuring consistency of regulations within the zoning code and with other city and state codes. As you have seen, the amendments provide greater clarity to the public and, importantly, increase the consistency with how the zoning code is implemented on a daily basis by staff.
 BDS is particularly excited about the proposed amendments that allow for a more streamlined design review process for minor revisions to approved design and also those amendments that provide greater clarity on how to measure a variety of different roof forms and to clarify how limited land use reviews are to be regulated.
 And as Joe said, we look forward to continuing to work together on Recap 8 and other planning efforts. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Thank you both. Thank you. Come on up. You can walk us through every page of this package, I'm sure. A 330-page document of excitement. Thank you.
 That's right. So good afternoon. I'm Morgan Tracy with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Recap 7 project manager. With me is Kristen Cooper, senior planner with Development Services Bureau. This is a public hearing of the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendation for Recap 7. Today we'll be asking council to approve the commission's recommendation. Before we get started, a couple of housekeeping measures. We're going to be working off this handout for simplicity rather than waving the 330-page document around.
 In addition, you've received a, you're in the process of receiving a memo that is essentially replacement pages for page 237 and 238 due to a formatting error. Some of the proposed code amendment language was not underlined in the recommended draft. This replacement page corrects that error in formatting, just noting that there's no changes to the content of that proposed amendment. So where do recaps get their start? So this is our seventh time around, but it's always good to sort of refresh.
 This diagram illustrates how ideas for improving regulations are funneled into the regulatory improvement request database. Some of these issues are directed to other bureaus, the other appropriate bureaus to address. Some of these issues are tackled by BPS as part of a larger geographically targeted or topic-specific project like Central City Plan, for example. The remainder include technical matters of code clarification or consistency or maybe discrete minor policy-related requests, and this is the world of RECAP that we work in.
 So recaps are a bit different from other legislative code projects in that they are not topic or area specific, but they could include bundles of related items that are related to a particular area or topic. More significantly, they're limited in scope to address mainly technical issues and some minor policy matters within a quick time frame. They're also not part of the comp plan update. That's an important distinction. The miscellaneous items and recaps are packaged into one-year cycles for efficiency and greater economies of scale.
 In other words, recaps are a means for continually maintaining and updating the City zoning code, much like we maintain our cars for regular tuning. Each recap work plan is selected from eligible items in the database that rank high in the following criteria. So we look at who is affected, what groups, and how many people, how widespread an issue is, is it one zone, is it a citywide issue, how problematic the issue is, and how often it comes up, and the potential for improving the regulation without adding undue complexity.
 Recap 7 included considerable amounts of public outreach. Publics have been able to review these proposals since January. We sent notice to over 700 people. We met with many organizations and individuals during that time. And the feedback we received has helped us to further hone and clarify the proposed zoning code amendments. On April 28th, the Planning and Sustainability Commission accepted staff's proposal to make one additional clarification to the scenic resources overlay to address trees in the right-of-way and then unanimously approved the remainder of the recap proposal.
 So going back to the two page summary, this guy, you'll see the recap covers 47 items in three areas of amendment topics. There's four minor policy items, 38 clarification items, and five items where no changes are being proposed. So I'd like to start with the minor policy items. So what do we mean when we're talking about minor policy changes? Minor policy items are those where they modify existing policy rather than create new policy.
 They do represent a change from the original intent, but they're consistent with the original intended outcome. These minor policy changes can be initiated to react to state or federal legislation, address evolving needs, or respond to innovations in development practices. So Kristen will begin by explaining the issue behind each of these next minor policy changes, and then I'll describe what the proposal is.
 Large-scale development, such as a new building downtown, is reviewed through a Type 3 design review with a hearing before the design commission. Sometimes after a building is approved, minor changes are required once engineering is completed, tenants are secured, and materials are sourced. The code currently requires these changes to go back through the same review procedure and a design commission hearing, even if the scope would usually just require a staff review.
 So the proposed amendment would allow for minor alterations to the approved design to be reviewed at a staff level, with appeals going back to the design commission. The projects would have to meet four qualifiers to be able to fit into this type 2 review. First, that the approval is still valid. Second, that the building is not finished yet. Third, specific conditions of the approval cannot be changed. And fourth, the overall change to the project cost is not more or less than 15% of the original project value.
 Pre-application conferences are required for all Type 3 land use reviews. They allow applicants to present their proposal and planners and infrastructure bureau representatives to outline application requirements such as traffic studies and stormwater reports. They are often the applicant's first opportunity to get site specific public works requirements locked in and incorporate these requirements into their proposal.
 The current code requires the conference take place before a subdivision application can be submitted, but allows other land use review applications to be submitted at the same time as the request for the pre-application conference and prior to the conference being held. The proposed amendment will consistently require that for land use cases where a pre-application conference is required, the conference must be held before submitting the land use application.
 The zoning code uses the term floor area to regulate the bulk of buildings. It's currently also used to limit what goes on inside a building, but it does not work as well for this. As you can see in the figure on the left, active building areas and limited uses below grade are not counted toward floor area, and other parts of the building that do not contribute directly to the impacts of a use, such as an above-grade structured parking, are counted toward floor area.
 So these amendments will replace the term floor area with the term net building area to measure limited uses as this term measures area above and below grade and exclude structured parking area. Floor area will continue to be used to describe the scale and bulk of buildings above ground.
 What will be the practical effect of that in terms of how much parking is required? Actually, so we made changes throughout. Part of the reason this package got so voluminous, we made changes similar or consistent throughout the code addressing required parking. So if there's, for instance, a retail sales and service use that's established in a basement below grade area, we would now be able to capture that for the required amount of parking for that use. I'm wondering the same thing.
 Does that change in what we measure as net building area make it – does it affect the percentage of the project that can be parking? In other words, does it – I know we have ratios, right? We did get this many parking spaces for this many square feet of building area. But does this have a –
 incentive or disincentive effect on how much of a project becomes parking, maybe not? Well, it would more adequately or more accurately account for the areas being used in that particular use. So the classic example is in an industrial zone we have limitations on the amount of retail service that's allowed. Right. If that retail service is established below grade now, it doesn't count against that limited floor area.
 The amendment will count that retail sales service both above and below grade, and it will also require the parking be applied to that use, whether it's above or below ground. So ultimately, I guess the answer to your question is it would require parking for uses that are established below ground that are not currently required. Or at least allow, even if it wasn't required.
 So Andina has restaurant space on the basement level as well as on the main floor. If they were applying for that land use today, we wouldn't necessarily count the basement level as building area and their parking ratio would not be affected by that.
 Maybe I'm entangling this in other zoning code issues that I don't need to, but I think Commissioner Fritz and I were both wondering whether this is going to have an effect on the parking issue. Both on the parking and on the size of the building. If you're no longer counting parking, does that mean that more of the building you get higher by right because of the FAR?
 So when we're talking about FAR, the mass and the bulk of the buildings above grade, that won't have – there is no change between the current requirements and this proposal because we're still talking about floor area ratios, and that still counts structured parking area. In terms of requirements for parking –
 So retail sales and service use requires one space per 500 square feet of currently floor area. If that retail sales use was in a basement, it wouldn't require parking at all. So we're sort of ignoring the impacts of that use and the demand for the parking in that regard. But in terms of what gets built, we're still looking at floor area, not space.
 not what happens below grade. So we're looking at a mass and scale of the building, including the mass and scale of structured parking. It doesn't change the development standards. Yes, it doesn't change the development standards. So the ratio would still rule.
 We are still having a floor area ratio standard as well and now we are having a net building area standard. It is just fine tuning them so that floor area is used when it is meant to limit bulk and net building area is used when it is meant to look at how much building is used for a certain use. Thank you. That is helpful. Thank you. The zoning code specifies how to measure the height of various roof types. Gable roofs are measured to the height of the highest gable.
 The average height of the highest gable, sorry. Shed roofs are becoming increasingly popular but are not directly addressed in the language or figures for measuring height. Since shed roofs don't form a gable, they are measured to the highest point. Including a reference and diagram in the zoning code will make this more clear to applicants and other customers. So there are 38 other items in the Recap 7 package that address technical fixes for consistency, fix errors, or provide greater clarity for the existing regulations.
 Rather than spending time covering each one, unless you have questions on them now, why don't we wait to see what testimony we receive and we can respond to specific questions later. Okay. So that concludes our presentation. Today we are asking the Council to approve the Recap 7 Ordinance to amend Title 33 and Title 11 and adopt the commentary as legislative intent. And staff is available for any questions the Council has now or after we hear from the public. Great. Questions?
 Thank you both. Thank you very much. So we'll see if anyone wants to testify on any of the items on this list. Come on up, Mary Ellen. I'm going to channel Brandon Spencer-Hardell, who said he'd been here more times in the last three months than the previous ten years. And I also thought that I should ask for, like, a witness protection program. But I'm here today because I think this is a really good package.
 I wanted to start off with a quote from Paul Hawken, who I just recently discovered. He's the guy that formed, I don't know, Smith & Hawken, and he did a commencement address. And if you ever get a chance in your spare time, he did the commencement address at the University of Portland that's online. And somebody said, listen to it, and it's really pertinent to all the kinds of things that are going on now. Mm-hmm.
 The quote that I liked the best that he had was, good management is the art of making problems so interesting and their solutions so constructive that everyone wants to get to work and deal with them.
 I think the city, through various projects and work responsibilities, entrusts skilled and experienced staff to provide us with a functional and livable city. Some may disagree. I've been here on the testimony that will tell us all that we aren't doing the right thing and they have the perfect solution. And I think sometimes they do and sometimes they don't have those. I've been here myself with opinions that have been misled.
 contrary to some popular beliefs. But I think it's important to remember that we all are capable of and responsible to provide comment, and that you have the responsibility to decide and listen to those things. I'm here today because Morgan Tracy and his colleagues have done a really good job on this, and I don't think it will be hard to agree with me on this one.
 As you know, I spent a lot of time in the last 15 months going to neighborhood meetings, coalition meetings on demolition and infill. And while going to those meetings, sometimes Morgan was on the agenda. It had nothing to do with demolitions, and I was oftentimes jealous because he got such a warm reception and I was getting arrows shot at me. And so I always wanted to go first so I didn't have to have the pain of him being –
 having just a nice little presentation that nobody had any heartburn over. But this package was presented in such a way and explained in such a way that neighborhoods were easily able to understand it. And given the amount of development permitting that goes on, it might be boring that there was 330 pages and 43 –
 items that were corrected, but that all went to help us be able to understand things better and for the staff to do their job better so that neighborhoods didn't get upset.
 In all those meetings, I never heard anybody object to any of the things in Recap 7. I think some people don't trust the city is going to do the right thing or find the right answer. But I, again, quoting Ernest Hemingway, the only way to know if you can trust somebody is to trust them. So I trust that they get these things right, and I think they really did on this package. The two items that I think one of them Morgan pointed out was,
 That land use applications cannot be submitted before a required pre-application conference is held. That's really important because that way you stop or at least – uh-oh. Okay. So I have friends at the table. I'll help my invisible friends. That –
 So that the process can be refined in the neighbors involved in that. And I think that's really a great idea. And the other one is setting an expiration of one year for neighborhood contact meetings. This prevents applications from being submitted long after they've met with a neighborhood. And it happened in our neighborhood. We had a development come in. For us, a large development, 31 apartments. We've never had a building that big except the big box stores. And they did a neighborhood contact meeting. Well...
 That was 2009. They didn't start building until last year. 2014, different owners, completely different board. Nobody understood. Everybody got all excited. And the box had been checked on neighborhood contact meeting. And so this is really good because it keeps things current within those people that might have the questions. And I think this will help.
 future occurrences. There are other clarifications that I think that I've heard, and the one I've heard from a couple of DRAC members, is that the policies are more clear so that they don't come in and it's, and the one was about solar panels. There was something in there, and I don't even know the details of it, but somehow you could install solar panels one way or another way, and it was just very complicated, and they straightened that out.
 So I know that your staff's reviewed this package because you wouldn't come in here and vote on something at 330 pages and 43, and I know Commissioner Fritz has a special interest in planning these packages. So I just want to reiterate that this is a great package, and I think that you should vote to support it today. And thanks. Thank you. Thanks for all your volunteer hours on this subject.
 Yeah, well, I'm off to the demolition subcommittee follow-up. So I'm going from a happy place to the target place. Making progress there, too. I just want to thank you, Mary Helen, for your work on the Development Review Advisory Committee and also for taking the time to come and testify today. It's generally kind of worrying to me if we have a land use ordinance like this and the
 hardly anybody is here. So it was good that you spontaneously said that you had seen staff going around the coalitions. And so, in fact, the reason that nobody's here is that everybody's fine with it, not that nobody knows about it. And to just elaborate on that a little bit, I was a little bit concerned, so I sent all the obvious folks that might tell me something they didn't like about it of their concerns and heard next to nothing back. And I would have brought that to you if I did, but there wasn't any real...
 earth shattering news so thank you very much thank you thanks very much anyone else want to speak on this item
 um you make you make this look easy um so this will come back for second reading next week right appreciate again the good work that's been done by both bureaus and putting this together you know i think one way to look at this which i think the bureau staff also shares is that this these kinds of tunings a lot
 allow both the applicants and the staff to concentrate on stuff that actually makes a difference as opposed to trying to get through regulatory tangles that may or may not actually affect the outcome very much. So, for example, this change in the design review process hopefully will mean that our design staff and the design commission, who are under a huge amount of time pressure, can really focus on issues that
 really matter in the design of those buildings. So that's why it is important that we keep doing this. I just wanted to say while you're all here, just appreciate the good work. And if I might add, it is a pleasure to partner between the Bureau of Development Services and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability on this particular project. You and I are both...
 about minor code changes that make things better and particularly appreciate both the Development and Review Advisory Committee and the Planning and Sustainability Commission for the volunteer effort on this.
 I know there was a significant discussion about solar panels at the Planning Sustainability Commission and the Commission's recommendation to leave it as staff, and the community process had suggested is good advice, which I will be taking. But it's good to know that there was a robust discussion at the community level, which then in this case Mayor has sent it to us 100% correct. That's great. Thank you very much. Good work, you all. Thank you. This will come back for second reading next week.
 Okay, let's move on to It's almost 2 30. Let's move on to item 642 if staff is here. Yes, we are. Okay sit and read 642, please Carla 641 it's 42 Oh, sorry
 vacate a portion of... You guys think we're... I'm sorry. We were skipping that one because it's not quite 2.30 yet. So we might have everyone here. So I think we're going to take it. We'll get 6.42 out of the way, and then we'll come back to you promptly at 2.30. 6.42 is the street vacation.
 642, vacate a portion of an unnamed street north of North Shmier Road subject to certain conditions and reservations. Good afternoon. Commissioner Novick, do you have anything to introduce this? No, except that I assume that Shmier Road is a vestige of the city's Yiddish origins. Yes.
 Exactly. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. I'm Carl Arruda. I'm a right-of-way agent with the Bureau of Transportation. And so, yes, this ordinance is a street vacation initiated by Hayden Meadows Joint Venture, which owns all the adjacent property around this area.
 unnamed street north of North Shamir Road. This road was originally dedicated in 1941. I cannot find any reason why it was dedicated in 1941. It's in between I-5 on the east and North Denver on the west. So in 2013, Hayden Meadows requested the street vacation for this portion.
 It's an unused right-of-way that cuts through Hayden Meadows property. It's a large industrially zoned property, and so vacating it for them would provide them with basically more flexibility for future redevelopment. I don't think they have any specific plans right now, just that in a few years they may attempt to redevelop it.
 So comments, as usual, were solicited from city bureaus, other government agencies, public utilities, and neighborhood associations, and there were no substantive objections received. And if you have any questions, I'll be happy to take them. And I think representatives from Hayden Meadows are here also if you have any questions for them. Industrially zoned, right? Yes. I believe it was general industrial zoning.
 Yeah, it's the site where the containers were stored for quite a while. Yes, exactly. Now vacant. Right. Okay. So this vacation will allow it to be more feasibly redeveloped for another industrial use, I would assume. Right. That's our presumption, yes. Okay. I have to say, I think this is the oddest piece of right-of-way I've ever seen. It doesn't go anywhere. Yes. No, even in 1941, before I-5 was built, it didn't really go anywhere. Right.
 Thank you for researching this. It's dedicated. Well, we generally try to find out where the streets came from before we send them away. I think it doesn't even have a name. No, it never had a name, yes. After Schmier, maybe they just gave up. They were running low. Okay, anyone want to speak on this item? If not, thank you very much. It will return for second reading next week. Thank you. Okay, now 641.
 641, amend the Central City Plan District to increase the height limit of block U of Couch Street addition and support construction of a headquarters building for the Multnomah County Health Department. Good afternoon. Welcome, Chair Kifuri and team to explain this item to us. Very nice to have you here. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm Nicholas Stahn with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We're here for a public hearing today to consider the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendation on the Multnomah County Health Department Headquarters Project. In a few minutes, I'll explain the details of the project. Basically, it's an increase in height, building height allowances on a block in the Old Town Chinatown neighborhood.
 to enable the county to build a new headquarters facility for the health department. But before I do that, I have the honor of introducing Chair Khafre and with her is Doug Goldblatt to provide a little more background on the project. Great. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Deborah Khafre, Multnomah County Chair, and I'm happy to be here today to talk with you about our health department headquarters.
 I was still serving in the Oregon legislature when the Multnomah County Health Department started researching leaving its current headquarters in a 1923 former department store. It was unsafe, aged, inefficient, and undersized then, and it is unsafe, aged, inefficient, and undersized today. And especially as we face increasing demands for health services in Multnomah County.
 The Health Department is our largest department at Multnomah County, and they are the local public health authority, which means they are the front line to protect our quality of life. From inspecting every restaurant and food cart and public swimming pool to investigating disease outbreaks, from immunizing children so they can stay in school to overseeing the ambulance companies to ensure they arrive on time, the Health Department touches the lives of everyone who lives or visits Multnomah County.
 Multnomah County's health department is also the largest safety net provider in the state with 33 primary care, school-based dental and specialty clinics. In the last year alone, under the Affordable Care Act, Multnomah County provided nearly 15,000 people with health care at one of our clinics. So it's a unique public agency. It needs to be accessible, and this site right next to Bud Clark Commons is in the central city and is accessible to the MAX and bus lines.
 and the health department will be a great neighbor. Up to 350 health professionals will be in this headquarters, including the Tri-County Health Officer, doctors, nurses, epidemiologists, and administrators. They will need coffee, lunch, to exercise, and to shop. They will add to Old Town Chinatown's economic and vitality. Excuse me. I think I have what you have. Okay.
 This project will also leverage public investments made in the River District urban renewal area by increasing densities in an emerging area of the central city that includes Union Station, the new PNCA facility, and the future redevelopment site currently occupied by the Central Post Office. So on behalf of the 1,370 employees who work in every corner of our county protecting our health, thank you for considering this amendment. Thank you.
 Mayor, commissioners, I'm Doug Oblitz with Shields Oblitz Johnson and consultant to Multnomah County on this project. I wanted to take just a second to acknowledge the excellent and collaborative work that has been provided by Joe Zender and Nicholas Sterrin and the other folks at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. This was a technically challenging project that required a lot of compliance with state land use laws as well as city regulations.
 and the team worked extremely well together to get to this point today. The project that we're here to talk about today is in the process of evolving from its original six-story form, which was insufficient to meet the program identified and achieve the goal of consolidating all administrative functions.
 This change to the zoning code will allow us to achieve all of the consolidation that's intended by the county for the health department. This is a difficult site. At 17,500 square feet, it's less than half a block.
 It also needs to be designed in a way that carefully relates to the Bud Clark Commons, which is on the same block, while respecting the view corridor to the Union Station clock tower, the primary view of which is along 6th Avenue. The proposed map amendments will allow the county to develop...
 subject to approval of specific FAR bonuses as part of the design review process, up to 150,000 square feet of space, and that will allow all of the health department administrative functions to be consolidated. During the last few months, we've conducted extensive stakeholder outreach, including reaching out and consulting with those that were involved in the first generation of this project.
 And today you will hear from some of those key stakeholders who will express, we believe, support for the project, while also identifying issues that we need to address as we go through the design review process and undertake construction of the project. So with that, I want to turn it back to Nicholas, and he's going to outline this proposal for you. So the subject site is Block U of Cooch's Addition in Old Town Chinatown. It's bounded by Northwest Hoyt and Irving and 6th and Broadway. Okay.
 As Doug mentioned, it's a 17,500 square foot site currently owned by the Portland Housing Bureau. The development site is outlined in red on the eastern side of the block, and immediately to the west is the Bud Clark Commons building.
 The site is currently zoned central commercial CX, allowing a wide variety of land uses. And it currently has a six-to-one floor area ratio entitlement and is eligible for up to three-to-one in additional FERs, potentially to be earned through bonuses or transfers. Thank you.
 The existing height limits are shown on the map on the left. You can see that the site is currently limited to 75 feet in height, and the site is not eligible for height bonuses that may be earned through the use of FAR bonuses, and I'll explain that a little bit more in a minute later.
 And as Doug mentioned, the 75-foot height limit is not sufficient to allow the anticipated need for 120,000 to 150,000 square feet of site that the county needs for their headquarters facility. Okay.
 So BPS worked with the county and came up with a proposal to increase the height limits on the site. And this is going to be accomplished through two mechanisms. One is increasing the base height allowance on the site from 75 feet to 105 feet. So that's basically a buy-right allowance for building height.
 And then, secondly, make the site eligible for height bonuses that may be earned when the project uses FAR bonuses or transfers. And that's shown on the map on the right there by extending the area eligible for bonuses that currently terminates just to the south in the hatched area. And what would the maximum height with bonuses be? It would be 150 feet. And I'll explain how that works in a second. Okay.
 So this is just another view that puts the proposed height increase in the context of the recently adopted
 West Quadrant Plan. So it shows the heights in the area. You can see to the west there, the heights are 250 feet. To the south, they're 325. And then to the east and the north, they're 75 feet. And so this diagram shows that although we are proposing to increase the height on this site, that from an urban forum perspective, the sort of the step down to the river notion is being maintained in this proposal. Thank you.
 So to answer your question, Commissioner Fritz, so as you know, there are a number of different FAR bonuses and transfer tools that are available in the central city. As you know, through the Central City 2035 process,
 process. We are in the process of revamping that entire system. But that work hasn't been done yet. So I'm showing on the left side of the slide the available palette of transfers and bonuses that are currently accessible on this particular site.
 So when the project comes in with a proposal, basically the way the height bonus works, for each one-to-one of FAR that they earn through the use of one or more bonuses or transfers, they earn 15 feet in height. Basically, the height is –
 provides a mechanism for the project to utilize that FAR that they've earned up to a maximum of 3 to 1 or 45 feet. So that's where you get the 150, 105 by right, and then 45 through the use of bonuses. And this is consistent with the direction that we received from the Planning and Sustainability Commission
 sustainability commission and city council in the West Quadrant Plan where we're proposing additional that we require some use of bonuses to achieve that. My recollection of what we discussed in the West Quadrant Plan was to severely limit the palette of what could
 That's correct. And that's our intention. And we're currently doing that work and looking at the bonus system. And the direction from the council is that we very much focus on achieving our affordable housing goals and preservation goals. But that work hasn't been completed yet. So we're... So is it anticipated that this project will come in under these rules or under the new rules? Yes.
 I believe the intention is – I would defer to the county, but I believe they're on a fairly quick schedule, and so I think it would probably be before we would adopt the new zoning code for the central city. All right. So we're dealing with the rules we have rather than the ones we wish we had. So is the county currently required to do public art in your public construction projects? Yes. Mm-hmm.
 And I've had conversations with Commissioner Saltzman about the possibility of using our dollars in the affordable housing fund arena. You would probably not be surprised, but that is a huge area of concern for Multnomah County and myself personally. So hopefully if that's the direction that the council is headed with restricting these, you will find that agreeable as well.
 Because we could put conditions of approval on this to say, for example, that required public art wouldn't qualify for a FAR bonus. Right, City Attorney? This is a change to the code. We can still have conditions of approval for a change to the code.
 The way the code is written right now, the county's current requirement for public art would not count towards the FAR bonus. So I think you have a 2% for art. So it would have to be above and beyond that. And then, Chair Kofori, what did you put in extra for housing in your budget that you just passed? Sure.
 For this project or for housing? Housing in general. Additional new ongoing dollars of $2 million and then a one-time only infusion of $500 million. So $7 million in the budget. I think that's probably more than we would require as a condition. I think we are actually attempting to find additional dollars to use, Commissioner Fritz, to use for this project for this area because we know that,
 Those dollars that we've already allocated are to other projects. Right. Thanks. Knowing your passion for affordable housing, you might not even be too upset if we required an additional amount. I think it's great. So I just wanted to add, too, that this is in the central city, so the site is subject to design review, and so the final FAR and height would be evaluated as part of a land use review when the proposal actually comes in.
 The site is quite near Union Station, which is an identified historic and scenic resources. So as part of this project, we undertook an analysis to gauge potential impacts of development on the site under the increased building envelope on views, public views of the Union Station clock tower, which has been identified as a scenic resource in the scenic resources protection plan, as well as the draft update of the central city's scenic resources inventory. Okay.
 So we identified four key views and analyzed those in terms of potential impacts and found that the effects of the increased height on the site would not block or even partially block any of the views of the site. And so I'll just quickly walk you through some images that we used
 This is the view of the Union Station, probably the primary view, as Doug mentioned, down 6th Avenue, and you can see that the view is preserved. And I want to add here, this is not a building, obviously. This is just an envelope, a bulk, sort of the worst-case kind of scenario. It's not designed, obviously. So the view is preserved, and there's adequate light and airspace preserved around the view. This is a view from the center of the steel bridge. You can see the...
 proposed building mass on the far left of it and quite a ways away from the station. This is the view from the center of the Broadway Bridge. This is probably the most impact, although the view is not blocked at all and the Union Station clock tower is still higher than what could be allowed under the proposed height change.
 And finally, this is the view from the old Thunderbird Motel site on the east side of the river looking across at Union Station. And the project at Multnomah County site is to the far left there.
 And then this slide just gives you an idea. It puts it a little bit in context. In the center there in sort of pinkish-orange color is the Multnomah County building built to 150 feet, sort of in the context of the allowances for height and FAR around it as well as existing development. And you can see the Union Station clock tower on the lower left.
 We did undertake quite a bit of outreach for this project. This sort of summarizes some of the key stakeholders we spoke with as part of this project. I would say in general we received support for the project, in some cases qualified support, and there was a number of concerns that were identified specifically.
 that include the precedent that this kind of height adjustment to accommodate a single property might make, the desire for mitigation of impacts during construction, particularly as it relates to the nearby Bud Clark Commons, and questions about which particular bonuses will be used and the public benefits that would be received. But in general, we heard support for the project.
 The Planning and Sustainability Commission voted in April unanimously to forward it on for your consideration. They heard generally favorable testimony at that, again, with some of the concerns that I just mentioned were brought up.
 County folks can talk a little bit more about this if you'd like, but the county and the Old Town Chinatown Community Association and the stakeholders in the Bud Clark's Commons building are currently in the process of working out a good neighbor agreement that would address many of these concerns. I'm not sure if that will be in place by the time construction starts.
 So, in conclusion, we're asking today for you to pass the ordinance that adopts the report and amends the zoning code on Map 510-3 to adjust the height limits on Block U. Okay. Answer any questions. Thank you very much. Questions? I just wanted to check before you could. Is there any more certainty that you can put into your pledge about the affordable housing fee in lieu? I don't know what more certainty, Commissioner Fritz. I don't.
 We have the money. We figured out where the money is going to come from. We just need to, I don't know what the process is by which the transfer occurs. Do we have a number? Go ahead. Yeah, let me do the math for you on this. So this is actually pretty interesting. The code provides for an applicant to use an FAR bonus for affordable housing or payment into this affordable housing fund. You pay $21.70 per square foot.
 And if you did the math for this particular block, it would work out to, in round numbers, $380,000 for one FAR, one additional floor, I think is the easiest way to look at that.
 So the county could decide to apply for one floor or up to a maximum of two. To me, the greater challenge is what happens to the money afterwards, because this FAR bonus has never been used before. And so I think part of the challenge is if the money is paid in to make sure it's put to work, and that's something that we can address as we go through the design review process and start working with the
 Portland Housing Bureau that would be the keeper of the funds, if you will. But to make sure it's put on the street is perhaps the greater challenge than anything else because no one's done this before. But that's the intent is to essentially buy the two floors with an FAR? One or two, I think. And we have to go through this cost-benefit analysis of the other FARs and the other issues associated with them. Art, for instance, is one that the
 the county's already investing in art and we'd go through a review of whether it makes sense to buy more art or to use this tool it might be nice to have a daycare center that's another item so thank you very much i really appreciate your partnership on this thank you thank you thanks very much actually i have one more question for chair kafori chair
 you're replacing the courthouse you're placing the health department building aren't you at all afraid that by the end of your term you won't have any old dysfunctional buildings left um thank you commissioner novak for that question actually we have plenty so there'll be a lot for the next chair to do as well speaking while we're a little off topic old dysfunctional buildings uh the old health department headquarters your thoughts at this point about disposition of that
 We'd really like someone to buy it for a lot of money. Yeah, right. But barring that. That's actually part of the larger process here is to determine the disposition approach for that great old building. It does have its challenges. But on the other hand, the market for downtown real estate is very strong right now. So this is a very good time to be looking at options. Yeah, good. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. Okay, others would like to testify on this item? Yes, we have three people signed up.
 Please come on up. Our Shedrick J. Wilkins, Gus Baum, and George Davendorf. Come on up. Good afternoon. Afternoon.
 Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, I'm Gus Baum. I'm the Senior Director of Planning at PNCA. I recognized you and thank you for your support of our project, just kitty-corner of this one at 511 Northwest Broadway. I'm very used to challenging old buildings at this point, so if anyone wants to invest more in art or more in challenging old buildings, I can be available afterwards to answer questions.
 I wanted to urge your support of this project. One of the strategic reasons that PNCA's board chose to redevelop the 511 building, locate its headquarters there, was to help invigorate the creative corridor along Northwest Broadway. Part of that is not just our investment into the neighborhood, the city's investment into the neighborhood, but to bring a more diverse working population there.
 more students, more businesses, more activity. In speaking with the county and Mr. Oblitz on their project, which they briefed me on, we're confident that this type of activity is exactly why...
 PNCA was put in its position to succeed at that location and why others should be considering Old Town Chinatown in the Pearl District for future work. We're working on a second project at 321 Northwest Gleason with Brian Wanamaker to build three floors of that building for studios and sculpture 3D. And we welcome more business activity and workers into the neighborhood. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm Mr. Cedric Wilkins and I was a resident of the Bud Clark Commons for three months to six months. It's excellent. It was opened in June 2011 right when I was homeless and now I'm on the HUD-VASC program. I have locked horns with the Chinatown Neighborhood Association leader who thinks that this would attract homeless people. I don't agree. You should process homeless people there.
 I'm going to renew my membership and challenge the guy. He wants to cut you off. He wants to find any reason. This also guy who runs the Chinatown Neighborhood Association doesn't mind people coming downtown, getting drunk on Friday, Saturday night, and throwing up on the sidewalk or starting a brawl. In other words, he's willing to accept that, but not the fact that this facility would conjugate homeless people, right? Right.
 The Bud Clark Commons has an excellent array of solar panels on top, passive solar. I can't see anything else like it in the city. You can see it right from the steel bridge. Most passive solar is on a roof, you can't see it. When I took a shower there, the water was heated from the sun. And I would hope this new building has a lot of photovoltaic cells on it also.
 This building also makes a good bookend. Every county in this state should build something like it and the Bud Clark Commons. I also spent time at Dignity Village. Dignity Village is not a solution for anything. It isn't because it's very exclusive. And this is a good thing. My personal view that we should try to remove people, homeless people, from here, the Pearl District, and put them into Chinatown.
 And I'm going to become a member. And you need to build this thing. I didn't know where the wind's going. It looks like the money is going to build this thing. And I met Ms. Gaforia last year in the lobby when they announced the plans. And this is going to make Portland look good. So keep going. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, and thanks very much for this opportunity to address the council. My name is George Steffendorf. I represent Transition Projects. So we, along with our colleagues at Home Forward, occupy the other half of the block in question. And I'm here today in support of the county's proposal.
 As you all can appreciate, it's a dynamic neighborhood in many respects. It's also a very challenging neighborhood. I think the county's plans would represent a real benefit to that immediate neighborhood, and we would welcome having them as our neighbors. We share with them a...
 a similar goal in safeguarding the health and well-being of the residents of the county. And I think it would be, as I've said, a strong addition to that neighborhood, particularly at this time. And we would like to see it move forward. Thanks, George. Thank you very much. Questions? Thank you all. Thank you. Any others? Anyone else wants to speak on this item? All right.
 So this is an ordinance, but not an emergency ordinance. So it will come back next week for second reading. But I want to thank you all for a great presentation. Wish you well. Assuming the council votes next week to support this, which I think we will. And look forward to you successfully navigating the design review process with a really great building. Thank you. Okay. Let's move on to the next.
 Remaining two items this afternoon, 643. Amend Portland Parks and Recreation Smoke and Tobacco-Free Parks Policy Enforcement Strategy. Mr. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Harrells.
 On February 18th, the City Council voted to expand Portland Parks and Recreation's smoke and tobacco-free policy across our entire park system. The policy goes into effect on July 1st. The intent of the policy is to promote public health and protect our parks and natural areas and promote healthy behaviors in our parks. It aligns with Portland Parks and Recreation's focus of healthy parks, healthy Portland. She says this is the main topic of the council. Yeah, that doesn't sound very healthy. Sorry. Okay.
 he has not been smoking i'm pretty sure about that although well intentioned this ordinance although this ordinance has is well intentioned and i expect it will be successful because by and large when portlanders know what the rules are we comply with them there has been a concern that people who are in violation of the policy may be criminalized communities with higher rates of smoking and tobacco use may be disproportionately affected
 So we are proposing an amendment to be made to the policy's enforcement strategy to ensure that those in violation are not criminalized. And again, we are not changing the policy. We are amending the enforcement strategy. And I have a revised substitute, which I'd like to move at this time. Okay. Commissioner Fritz moves substitute language. And the main change in the substitute language is to say that Portland Parks and Recreation staff
 who have the authority to enforce park rules will be enforcing them, except that any person providing security services at Pioneer Courthouse Square, Director Park, or that portion of the South Park blocks adjacent to Portland State University may enforce the prohibitions of tobacco and smoking in those parks, only in the manner provided by this section. Is there a second to that amendment? Second. Okay. Thank you. So let's take a roll call vote to put the amendment on the table, and then we'll hear from Director Abate and anyone else. Okay.
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? This keeps the rules as they are and allows the security at these locations to enforce according to this amendment should it pass. Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, Mike Abate, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm joined by Assistant Director Warren Jimenez and also Security Manager Galena Burley. From the beginning, we've intended education to be our primary tool of enforcing the smoking policy.
 However, as it's currently written, there is still a possibility for patrons who refuse to comply with a policy to be subject to a parks exclusion or harsher penalties. And we expect that education will get us to the best outcome and want to clarify that in this amendment today. Thank you.
 The amendment specifies that a person in violation of the policy will not be subject to exclusion or to criminal enforcement. Rather, any person violating the policy may be required to leave the park in which the offense occurred for the remainder of the day. Enforcement will only be administered by Portland Parks and Recreation staff who have the authority to enforce park rules with the amendment that Commissioner Fritz just brought forward.
 You may be wondering about marijuana. Marijuana is different. The new state statute legalizing marijuana specifically prohibits smoking marijuana in public. Therefore, our current policy of exclusions for infractions related to marijuana will remain in place.
 We believe this amendment clarifies the intent to focus on education as it relates to smoking in parks and is responsive to the concerns we've heard from the community that the Commissioner described. With that, please let me know if you have any questions. Questions? Okay. Thank you, Mike. Yep. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Good afternoon. It's almost 3 o'clock. My name is Stephen Etwistle. I'm a member of Individuals for Justice and a...
 Founder of the Healing Man Sanctuary, also a whistleblower for the less fortunate. This ordinance is wrong. This takes away rights from folks. You don't just go take rights away from folks and then explain later why you did it. I don't know how to put this.
 We did not like this law. This law is, I don't care how you try to force it in, but
 And to say that marijuana is a more dangerous product to begin with, you're looking at arguably a non-carcinogenic smoke versus a very carcinogenic smoke. And to give leeway to people that are smoking the carcinogenic smoke is kind of intellectually dishonest on a medical platform. Also...
 This will disproportionately affect poor, homeless folks, people of color, regardless of how you're trying to make it sound good. Because I'll tell you what, you've got everything in place with this. The law is already in place. You've already taken away the rights from folks. They don't even realize this until July 1st, and then they will realize it. There's going to be a lot of people that are going to be...
 against this. They're going to be protesting against this. And I will be one of the protesters that will help protest against this because this is wrong. When it comes to poor folks, you always guys, you always talk about how you want to go slow, go move slow, move slow on this, move slow on that, move slow on this when it comes to helping the poor. Okay. But boy, when it comes to slamming the poor under the bus.
 Man, let's throw those fastballs in there and let's not even let the public even have a hearing. You know, I mean, that's ridiculous to me. And to take away the rights from folks at the same time is wrong. Regardless of smoke, regardless of marijuana, regardless of all that, this is just a wrong, wrong deal. Okay, we will not support this. We will never support this.
 This is something that should never – you should wait a couple of years and see what is really needed on this. If you really want to be intellectually honest about this, you need to slow down. This is too much. There's going to be people that are already just going to slam heads against park rangers. And by the way, are they allowed to smoke also, as well as the golf courses? They're allowed to –
 you know to have their way because of the money because they have influence because they agree to gentrification thank you okay anyone else so this comes back on second reading next week thank you and then item 644 644 approved the designation of five trees as city of Portland heritage trees and remove the heritage tree designation from six trees I can reading roll call Novick
 I just wanted to note that when you look at the map of heritage trees citywide, there aren't very many of them east of 82nd. So I just encourage anybody watching who knows of a great tree east of 82nd to remember it's a nominating process. And let's get some of those designated. Hi. Great. Thank you. Thank you for your support of the previous motion and also this one. Thank you.
 colleagues, the Heritage Tree Program is still going. We are focusing most of our resources on the tree code implementation, and I appreciate your support on that too. Parks and Recreation has a lot on our plate right now, and I very much appreciate Director Abbasi and our team, particularly Galena Burney and Warren Jimenez, who were here for the previous item. Everybody's working really hard and doing good work. Hi. Hales. Hi. And we're recessed until tomorrow at 2.