Okay, are we ready? Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the June 22nd meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Yes. Yes.
 Here. Helmsman. Here. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. Good morning, everyone. Welcome. We will get into our agenda in a moment just for some basic ground rules. This is a regular meeting of the Portland City Council. We have some folks signed up for communications. We'll take those first. Then we have some time-certain items, which we'll get to at that time or slightly after that time. A large number of housing items this morning as well.
 let's see, we have one request to pull an item from the consent calendar to the regular calendar, that being item, no, sorry, to item 715 and 721. Are there any others? Anyone else want anything pulled to the regular calendar from consent other than 715 and 721? Okay. And then, again, it looks like we don't have a huge number of people here today, so we'll allow three minutes for testimony. We ask that you do stay on topic. There are council calendar items.
 that are on particular subjects, and I will actually be enforcing the rules a little more clearly than I have sometimes in the past, because we need to actually work topic by topic through our agenda, and people come to these meetings in order to speak on that topic. So I'll ask you to stay on topic as we work our way through the agenda this morning.
 If you agree with someone's testimony and want to show support, feel free to give a hand gesture of thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you disagree, you're certainly free to make a polite hand gesture to the contrary. But we ask that there be no interruptions of either testimony or counsel deliberation. And we also ask that there be no vocal demonstrations unless we suspend the rules for applause, which we do sometimes, particularly for students and visiting dignitaries. So if you're one of those, you might get a round of applause this morning.
 With those ground rules out of the way, welcome, everyone. Let's get started with item 699. Request of April Sams to address council regarding opening a nonprofit business to benefit the homeless. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. My name is April Sams, and I'm here to talk about the growing homeless population in Portland. I've lived here for four years, and in that four years, I've seen it triple, triple.
 Um, I myself am homeless. I've been homeless for the last two years. Um, I do have a job. My fiance has a job. We cannot afford the high cost of living here in Portland. Um, I've had to send my daughter and grandson down to live with her father because we're living in our car, have been in for the last two years.
 I'm having a real difficult time finding grants, or I don't know how to write a grant, nor do I have the money for a grant writer to open up a second-hand store, much like Salvation Army, Goodwill, to benefit the homeless. I work in a second-hand store. I've seen the amount of money they bring in. I think it could benefit the homeless population by, you know,
 bringing in money through the store and purchasing apartment complexes, houses, to put the homeless in these buildings, in these structures, and give them the jobs at the store. The apartments, the living situations can also provide more jobs and help people get off the streets.
 A lot of people seem to think that most of the homeless are drug addicts, alcoholics, which is not true. Where we're staying, there are many, many homeless families living in their cars. We're chased out of parking lots. We have nowhere to go. One of my parking neighbors is an elderly woman.
 There's also an elderly man with a cat. And it's heartbreaking to see these people living this way.
 Wow. Thank you for coming. If you have a minute while you're here in the building, if you could stop upstairs on the third floor in my office and introduce yourself to Lucas Hillier or Ben Morrow. One or more of them is around. I think they are around this morning. They had a meeting at 830, but I think it's done. They're the homeless action team in my office, and if you would talk with one of them, let them know how to get in touch with you, and they might be able to put you in touch with some resources that you haven't found yet. Okay.
 Appreciate you coming. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Yeah, good luck to you. Thank you very much, April. Item 700. Request of Mary Eng to address counsel regarding women in policing. Good morning. Good day, counsel. My name is Mary Eng, and I want to present on women in policing, which I was joking with Officers Effling, Jensen, and Ruff.
 Gorgoni that I'm just going to, I said BS. I don't like cursing, but that's what I'm good at. That's maybe all I'm good at. I'm a big know-it-all, but I want you to know that I printed out this, the labor agreement between Portland Police Association, and I'm looking at the discrimination policy on page three and the family leave policy on page 14, and those are not the only interesting points. Did you get your handouts? Mm-hmm.
 We've got two handouts. We've got More Drama in the Cop Shop by Dennis Theriault for Portland Mercury. It's a 2014 article about the male masturbation gesture, which Chief Reese asked Rachel Andrew to demonstrate how a man masturbates and how the Portland police use this solitary gesture, like hand gesture of sign language,
 to indicate something. And I was concerned that Mr. Reese didn't quite understand that she had already been harassed, she had already been retaliated against, she'd been trying to match up into this double standard and do the boy's language, then got discriminated for her unladylike behavior. So I think Mr. Reese, when she's in this hearing and he wants her to do it again,
 Oh my goodness, and he's our new sheriff. So we have Hunt Lessons Learned. This is lovely. This is 8 May 2013 from the Hardesty Group. Lindsay Hunt gave rise to the phrase Paula Lindsay. Paula Lindsay. I would say if I were talking to a three-year-old girl, which I wouldn't bring this kind of thing before a three-year-old girl, this kind of filthy discriminatory behavior, but I would say...
 Pull the Lindsay. Be that young lady cop who's reporting falsification of use of force reports, shoplifting from the plaid pantry, concealment and hiding of weapons, misconduct, misconduct, misconduct. She's reporting it and she is retaliated against. So much so she has a death threat on her head and her death threat is, you will have no backup. We will send you on a
 She was abandoned by her officers. So which part of the thin blue line crossed into that woman's body? She was violated by the city of Portland.
 We owe her a big apology. I wonder where she is. I wonder how much anguish and emotional suffering we have induced. So you know I'm all for gender equity in policing. Mr. Effling, I don't know if he's the commander or something, because he was in on that Jason Cox police brutality Kfouri case where the paramedics were
 wrote up the police for denying Jason Cox care when his face was all bashed in. But he knows about that case, and he knows I follow this stuff. Mary, thank you very much. One second. Oh, I can't let this go. You guys read these stories. They're so important. Thank you very much. It was lovely meeting with you yesterday. Thank you. It was fabulous. Didn't you like it? We did. Thank you. Okay, great. Thank you very much. Okay, let's take Mr. Tetrick, 701.
 Request of Peter Tetrick to address council regarding part-time seasonal employees for the Bureau of Parks and Recreation. Mr. Tetrick, you here? All right. He must be out working, so we'll give him another opportunity. All right. Let's then move to the consent calendar, please. Again, we have two items pulled off for the regular calendar. Let's vote on the balance of the consent calendar, please. Fish? Hype?
 salzman hi nova hi hi hails hi um all right um you want to go ahead and take the full consent items are we ready for those uh would you rather wait a bit on that we can move to second readings if you'd like let's see if we've got some actually we don't have but one let's take the pulled consent items then
 715 yes reappoint Samuel Galbraith to the River Community Advisory Committee for a term to expire June 21 2019 okay and mr. Walsh I believe asked that this people the regular calendar do you want to testify on this item good morning my name is Joe also represent individuals for justice we don't take a position on the candidate at all
 We take a position on the process. We don't like the process because we think that there should be more community involvement in the appointment of all of these committees. If the committees are a mirror image of the elected officials, then why bother with the committees? Let's just get to the elected officials so we can yell at you directly. It is very disconcerting to yell at volunteers.
 So what we're suggesting is that you find a way to appoint people to these commissions that do not, do not look like you, sound like you, and act like you. Now, there's a good argument to go back and forth between
 on this issue, but we want to raise the issue that we don't like the way you're doing it. We don't like some of the people that are sitting on these commissions over and over again. We have 600,000 people in this city, and lots of people would like to volunteer, and we think that you should do a better job. It is good to have somebody say you are wrong. It makes you defend your position.
 It is a good thing to do that. It's hard and it's annoying when people don't agree with you, but it's the essence of democracy. You need different opinions. So we're suggesting that we call them shills. A shill is somebody that sits at a poker table and plays for the House. And that's what you have. You have a lot of people on these committees that play for the House.
 Play for you. And that is not just dumb, it's inefficient. And that's why you get such lousy ratings on your transparency. Because these committees are just like you. You sit there and look at your watch and say he's got 20 seconds left. And you don't care what the citizens say. You really don't.
 You may think you do, but you don't because you don't act on it. Ninety-nine percent of the time when group after group come before you, you override them. You just don't care. Well, let me tell you something. What's going on on a national level is coming down here. Eventually, it'll get here, and it'll be over. And we'll say bye, Charlie. Thanks, Joe. Okay. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and –
 For almost four years now, you've been putting up with me coming here. And it's great because after four years, I learned about the River Community Advisory Board. And I'm pleased to see that we have a member appointed to that committee who represents the floating homes and fills a vacancy. But I do think that there could be some procedural improvement here. When we bring up this brief little PDF about Samuel Galbraith, it would be – this is the year 2016 –
 we're looking at it on the internet, it should be a document that lets people go directly to a portlandoregon.gov webpage that tells us about who else is serving on the river community advisory board, what the focus of it is. Because really, I mean, people from Hillsborough to Gresham can make the argument that they're part of a river community. And I know that
 You know, we have some people whose daily life is spent on and near the river. But when we have these advisory boards, you have a busy agenda. It's obviously some things need to be dealt with by consent. But to echo part of Mr. Walsh's point,
 When you have this on the agenda, whether it's on consent or regular, if you can work with the information team to make it a more open processing so that when we look at Mr. Galbraith, and it's right here on the screen, I can just click one time and it'll take me and it'll show me who else is on the River Community Advisory Board.
 What sort of projects are they? Do they have any related to one of the dozens or hundreds of taxing districts that overlap inside the municipal governments here? But most of all, we wish Mr. Galbraith the best and hope to actually see him here engaging with making the city the wonderful city we'd like it to be. Thank you.
 I want to thank Joe Walsh. My name is Mary Eng, and I want to thank Joe Walsh for pulling this item. For people who don't understand the pulling the item concept, what I understand is that certain things will be going to a vote, but if a citizen wants to have their voice heard, they can respectfully approach Ms. Walsh.
 More love. More love. I thought so. Carla is how we informally know her. And then ask her to pull the item. And that gives the citizens a voice to look at an item such as item 715 to reappoint Samuel Galbraith.
 to the River Community Advisory Committee for a term to expire June 21, 2019. And I want to applaud Charles Johnson for drawing attention to ways that the way we display our PDFs and our websites can have increasing levels of interest
 tech savvy, which I think in our Silicon Forest, we're probably getting all kinds of great talent coming to our community who can help our already excellent tech delivery help deliver this information. In terms of the River Community Advisory Committee, I have to say I don't know very much, but I am very concerned that Ted Wheeler wanted to swim through the heroin needles in the Willamette. We'll schedule Willie Levinson to rebut her heroin needle remark. Thank you very much. All right. Anyone else on this item? Let's take a vote, please.
 Motion to accept the motion. I'm sorry, to adopt the report. Second, please. Okay, let's take a vote. Please do adopt the report. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Thank you, Mr. Galbraith, for being willing to serve a second term. And just so folks know, there is still a vacancy on the River Community Advisory Committee. So if you're interested, you can contact Commissioner Saltzman's office. Aye. Ailes? Aye. I'm sorry, say that again.
 Oh, we could go ahead and do the time certain and come back to that. Is that what you prefer? All right. Let's do that then. Let's go to time certain, item 702. Approve the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission Fiscal Year 2016-17 Budget. Good morning and welcome. Mary Beth, are you going to come too, or are you going to let your volunteers take the heat? Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Well, good morning, Commissioners. I'm Sue Disciple. I'm one of the three commissioners who represents the City of Portland on the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. You've seen me here before in this same capacity, but I'd like to introduce John Branham, who is your most recent appointee to the commission. I have to say your appointment was brilliant. John brings expertise...
 in educational theory and early childhood education practice that no one else on our commission has. And as you know, we're engaged in a multi-year grant process to bring technology into schools in California.
 franchise area. So it's just been fabulous having him and I'm gonna turn the mic over to him now to talk about our budget proposal and some of the programs that are contained within that.
 Thank you, Sue. And thank you, Mr. Mayor and commissioners, for your time this morning and for your appointment. I've appreciated the opportunity. My name is John Branham, and I'm a citizen and a commissioner. Before I get started on my sort of formal remarks and comments, I want to thank you all for your time this morning.
 I hope you'll allow me to read through them. There are a number of them. I also want to take a minute to both thank staff for their outstanding work over the course of the year and helping to prepare us for today's presentation, and also to thank Mary Beth.
 whom you all know is on the cusp of leaving after more than two decades of service. And she's been an incredible leader. And so on behalf of all of the commissioners, I wanted to just publicly thank her for her service.
 So, as Sue mentioned, and thank you, Sue, for your kind comments, so I'm here to highlight a couple of the many MHCRC activities over the past year, and we'll then be handing the mic off to Sue, and we are here to seek your approval of the MHCRC fiscal year 2016-17 budget. Thank you.
 I believe you have both our annual activity report, I can see you reading through that now, and your proposed budget. So as a reminder, the Mount Hood Cable and Regulatory Commission is an intergovernmental partnership among Gresham, Fairview, Portland, Troutdale, Wood Village, and Multnomah County. Each one of these jurisdictions appoints citizen representatives to the commission.
 The MHCRC has oversight, enforcement, and public benefit responsibilities for the cable services franchises within the cities and the county. Portland currently has two cable service franchises, including Comcast and CenturyLink. Over the past year, the MHCRC has provided many services to our communities and residents, and so I wanted to highlight just a few of those that stand out for us.
 The first is that MHCRC continues its work with public school districts under the TechSmart initiative for student success. And most notably, Portland Public Schools received a $5 million grant that focuses on improving kindergarten through third grade reading. Additionally, we've given a $1.3 million grant to Reynolds that targets the sixth through ninth grade math program.
 about 100 100 151 classroom teachers in four school districts are now supported by resources provided under the tech smart initiative so it's quite significant the mhcrc launched the tech smart initiative with plans to invest a total of 19 million dollars by 2021 and we're a little over nine million dollars into that investment
 The Community Technology Competitive Grant Round funded 12 new grants with community organizations here in our backyard. These grants leveraged over $1.6 million in matching resources. Thank you. Like many others, MHCRC Community Grants is supporting access to opportunity in the Rockwood neighborhood. Rockwood Library, Friends of the Children, and Open School East have all been grant recipients. Thank you.
 Affordable broadband has become a more and more critical component to our public institutions, as you all know well. The MHCRC is leading a long-term network planning effort in partnership with Portland's Bureau of Technology Services and 19 public agencies within the county, Multnomah County. The current institutional network provides high-speed broadband connectivity to 295 schools, libraries, and public agencies throughout Multnomah County.
 The MHCRC provided funding and franchise enforcement support to Portland Community Media. This past year, PCM produced nearly 3,000 hours of original local programming and have trained 500 residents in digital media and literacy skills, which are also critical in today's world. The MHCRC addressed consumer protection issues both broadly and within individual subscribers. For example, MHCRC...
 worked with cable companies on issues related to clear information on subscribers' bills, service line extensions, phone answering standards, and service fees. And finally, MHCRC assisted in the resolution of 330 complaints from cable TV subscribers. I'll turn it over to Sue. All right.
 So on to the budget. So I'm happy to report that, once again, we at the MHCRC have received a clean audit for our FY14-15 year. And that full audit document is available on our website. Just a couple of trends I wanted to note. If you look at page 9...
 on your annual report for the MHCRC, you'll see two graphs that illustrate some trends. So you'll see that the number of cable subscribers grew consistently from 2006 to 2012. However, since then, the subscriber numbers have been declining.
 In spite of the decline, the franchise fee revenue have consistently increased, beginning to flatten only in the last couple of years. This is primarily due to the cable companies raising rates, which, as you know, we have no regulatory authority over, and also offering more services for sale and more program packages. Yes.
 So we are closely watching those trends. We understand they have possible future implications for both our franchise fee revenues and for the revenues that support our community programs and community grants. So we'll be watching that. Coming up in FY16-17, we're engaged in a future-focused planning effort, specifically
 Considering evolving public policy, which we got to see a large, an important evolutionary step at FCC just this past week, and also evolving technology in our communities, increasing reliance on broadband, we're engaged in some planning to take a look at the next generation needs of,
 for our communities. We're looking forward to working with you and your staff and the communities throughout our jurisdictions on that future-focused planning. And there is funds to support that effort in the budget. So more specifically, on that FY16-17 budget proposal, the annual budget allocation for all the jurisdictions collectively funds about half of MHCRC's total budget.
 So another way to view it, another way to slice that, is that each jurisdiction spends about 5% of its cable franchise fee on regulation at administration services.
 The remaining portion of the budget is funded by other MHCRC resources, mostly through the dedicated capital revenues. We have an administrative portion of that that funds MHCRC and related programs such as our community grants, INET, and Portland Community Media.
 So Portland's allocation for FY16-17 is $288,330. This amount includes the 5% reduction requested by the mayor early in the budget process.
 I also want to note that although on paper it looks like the Commission has a large beginning fund balance of nearly $6 million, that's due to contingencies but mostly carryover and encumbrances from the community grants. So in other words, grants that were approved in prior years, but the money has not been spent fully on those programs. So that's carryover funds.
 Can I interrupt you there, though? Yes. Obviously, there's a large ending fund balance proposed for this year as well. So is that for the same reason? It's for the same reason. It's rolling. As we make new grants, then the money is not all expended in the year it's granted. So before closing, I'd like to thank the Mayor and Council for supporting this countywide partnership since 1993.
 And I would also like to point out that Mary Beth has been with us the whole time, 31 years of service to the city, 25 years with MHCRC. So thank you, Mary Beth, for your support to us and your service. And I'd just like to thank you for your time today. Please contact us if you have any questions, of course.
 And in closing, we respectfully request that the Portland City Council approve the fiscal year 16-17 MHCRC fund budget. Thank you. Questions? Why does the budget go down about $5 million from this year to next year? I'm going to turn that over to Mary Beth or to Julia Melchuk.
 Well, the large amount of money are the PEG capital funds, and we did just make a grant to Portland Public Schools for $5 million, and so it's really related to the issue that Sue talked about in terms of the rolling capital funding. So these grants are typically three years long,
 and they may expend their full amount in the first year or it may be allocated out over three years. It just depends on the nature of the grant itself and the expenditures. So it's all entirely due to the beginning and ending fund balance. Okay, thank you. And how do you decide which school districts get how much? And how can we be sure that it's an equitable distribution?
 I think that's an excellent question for Julie Omelchik to respond to. Okay, she's here. I like to give my staff opportunity. Thank you. Yeah, well, with her retirement, we're getting a little bit too much opportunity. Maybe close up. So the TechSmart initiative funding, what the commission did is set aside about two-thirds of its community grants funding for the initiative. And we have a program.
 relatively complicated formula, but about half of the money is allocated to the districts based on student population, and about half of the grants are based on particular, what we would call underserved or at-risk populations. And so there's kind of a weighted distribution
 funding allocation method. And the Commission made a decision early on only to grant funds that we already have in the bank, so to speak, that we've brought in, so that we don't run into a situation where if the cable revenues decline at some point that we've overcommitted our grants. And so that's one of the reasons that we have a large beginning and end balance.
 is because we only grant those funds that we have in the bank going forward. Thank you. Next year, when you're still here, I hope, it would be helpful to have that pulled out in the report. Okay. We do geographic mapping in the city for our funding, so just to see visually as well as really more detail. And actually, it would have been helpful to have gotten the report before today. So next year, I'd like to have more information. Just for folks at home, this Citizen Commission is in charge of distributing information
 $19 million this year. And we get to say, yes, thank you, but it's really your decisions on how it gets spent, and of course you spend it wisely, so I appreciate that. So if there are other people who would like to be involved in allocating $19 million or even $14 million this coming year, they should contact the news at Cable Communications and Franchise Management, the Office for Community Technology. Thank you.
 Thank you for your work. I really appreciate it. Absolutely. And one thing I would like to point out is that those monies are, they are encumbered per the franchise. I mean, they are dedicated to these kinds of community technology grants that have a tie to some part of the cable system. So just so that folks know, we are spending this money within a circumscribed framework.
 set of activities that are dictated by the franchise. We make the best of them, I think, but they are tethered funds, so to speak. So...
 Other questions? I have actually not a budget question but an authority question, and I'm afraid I can probably guess the answer. But I had an experience not with a cable provider but with DirecTV, but I imagine they all use the same marketing practices where they give you certain services for free when you sign up.
 and then they start billing you for those services a few months later without telling you you're about to be billed. And then when you call up and say, wait a minute, I didn't ask for this, they say, well, you needed to call up and opt out, and you're not getting your money back. And I was wondering, A, is that the kind of practice that the cable companies engage in as well as the satellite companies? And, B, is that the kind of thing that you'd have any authority over?
 Or does that fall into a sort of rate regulation, which you can't? Yeah. Our authority over the cable companies really stems from the right of way. And the satellite companies are using the airwaves over which local governments have no authority.
 And whether cable companies engaged in that kind of behavior, if they did, their option is we can come to bat for them and resolve their issues. That's what we do. That's our consumer protection arm of the work we do. Satellite, we have no authority. But, I mean, could you outlaw that kind of practice and just say it is illegal to bill somebody for a service that they haven't expressly said they want to buy? Sure.
 That would be something that we would want to take up at the Oregon legislature. Satellite can be – I mean for cable. I assume that all of these companies engage in the same kind of practices. I could be wrong. Maybe Comcast is pure as the driven snow. But I wonder, for cable purposes, could we say it is illegal to bill somebody for a service they did not agree to buy? Yeah. In fact, the city of Portland has customer service standards in our city code, and we could look at –
 the possibility of amending that code locally to make that practice illegal. Right. So we would have that authority. Well, I'd want to investigate it, but we definitely have the consumer protection is in our code already on cable. Okay.
 Okay. Well, I'm delighted to hear that, so I hope we can work on that. Thank you so, so much for your service, and we will miss you so much. Thank you. Can I jump in for a sec? It sounds like DirecTV will rue the day that they offered a city commissioner free service with an opt-in. I guess this is for John, who is our designee going forward. One of the parts of the report that I think is –
 One of the most interesting parts and probably the least developed in terms of text is on page two, the consumer protection section. One thing that I would urge you to consider going forward is you're documenting that there were 330 complaints that were brought. As the reader of this, I don't know whether that's a big number or a small number.
 And I also don't know whether there are some recurring problems that are going to require our intervention or larger attention. But the fact that they were all resolved, I think, is laudable. So that's your credential, that they were resolved. But I'd appreciate some more information apropos what Steve just raised. What kinds of consumer complaints?
 Are there patterns? Are there emerging things? Can we, for example, determine that certain classes of...
 subscribers are being targeted? Is that a concern? How are they being resolved? And are there any larger takeaways? So you don't want this report to be, you know, 10 pages. I'm not suggesting you add a 10-page annex, but addendum. But that's an area that I think we'd probably be interested in knowing a little bit more about. Commissioner, we have a pretty nifty little
 table that illustrates exactly what they are, where the complaints come in. We aggregate them according to the nature of the complaint. So we have good data on that, and I think that's a great observation. We could easily provide that to you now, but also can remember that for next year's annual report. Yeah, I'd be interested because we're also elected officials, but we're probably all consumers of one kind or another. And I'm
 have from time to time had our own frustrations. So to know what's the community experiencing, and does it ever rise to the level of a concern where we may want to go to Salem or raise our voice. But thank you. Thank you. Other questions, issues to raise here with our commissioners and our not yet departed staff? Thank you all very much. Thank you.
 So let's see who wants to speak on this item, please. We have three people signed up. Mary Eng, Charles Johnson, and artist Laura Vanderling. Come on up. Okay. Hi, Council. I'm here to speak on Measure 702, which is a time certain 945 to approve the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. For the fiscal year 2016...
 2017 budget, the ordinance introduced by Mayor Hales, 10 minutes requested. You know I'm a little bit of a techie. I'm not as smart as my little brother, but I just love this lecture for its educational value. So many of the programs sound so exciting for young people, the Tech Smart program.
 The billing practices, I really like the inquiry on consumer protection and bad behavior. I caught a really great C-SPAN on the cable box rental fees and how the Senate committee or somebody, House committee, was saying, well, we're actually being scammed. You're eventually paying hundreds and hundreds of dollars for this cable box that you could have just gone out and bought one, things like that. So I'm all for consumer safety.
 And I think drawing attention to the fact of the digital divide and how communities that are suffering rural poverty-type issues or even some of the more outer regions of the Portland community can really benefit from these kinds of programs. I do, however, want to throw out a different way of looking at the approach. I had proposed to the Multnomah commissioners that they needed to move into the tents and let the humans move into tents
 the buildings and then approach their government through tents and see how effective they'd be. And you might say that that $288,330 might be better spent buying some kind of warmer blanket
 for the homeless. And I'm not trying to be the devil's advocate because I don't think the homeless are the devil. But as you can imagine, this kind of a blanket is not very warm, but it does look a little bit like a tinfoil hat for a tech generation. I mean, it's kind of glam rock, kind of Andy Warhol. But I want you to start thinking about how we can maximize our technology, but also maximize the public good.
 and not have a humanitarian crisis side by side with what is a tech explosion. And I'm excited about this. I'm excited about underserved communities, about broadband strength. I want us up to the level of Japan or Sweden in terms of our technology. And these people who spoke here were obviously so educated.
 so well spoken and so dedicated to their field that I do want to defer to their experience. But I want you to think about the larger holistic human perspective. And I brought you all a blanket, and somebody can have this used one if you would like it. Counsel. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I am artist Laura Vanderlin, and I yield my time. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners. Charles Johnson for the record. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for looking kind of deeply at this spreadsheet. Unfortunately, as mentioned in my earlier testimony, the way the procedures work here, the materials that you get aren't directly linked for the PDF that we get. We get a simple one that shows the materials.
 I think what Amanda Fritz was talking about with that, the current year is $19 million, and then the future year will be $14 million. And I think it was sort of touched upon that that's largely related to also the effect on the beginning fund balance. One of the presenters mentioned that some people take concern that at one year, there's a beginning fund balance of $12 million. Right.
 and the budget for the following year is for $6.7 million. And, you know, one of the reasons we have public testimony is sort of a testing process, subjecting things to scrutiny so that not only the staff...
 of the city, but the people in the community have an opportunity to do that. And I think that that would be enhanced. It's not that difficult to go to MHCRC, the website for the Cable Regulatory Commission. But I think that even though last week we talked somewhat about the workload for the clerk and preparing the agenda, I think that that would be enhanced.
 as we look to be a leading destination for business and promote the kind of Silicon Forest brand idea, to have better electronic document integration so that everything that's circulated among the commissioners and is viewable up there, there are easy links available for the public that's watching along. So I do think that that's, when you see any budget item change by between 40% and 50%,
 I do think that really the public is entitled to specific breakout comment notes that talk about that. I'm not concerned that there's any kind of fraud or anything. I just think that those are the things that are going to attract the most public attention. And if they're broken out with notes, which they probably are for you all in your more extensive presentation, the public communication can be more efficient and focus on real things. Like we've had this whole presentation without talking about how –
 the process is going, whether Google Fiber is going to become a competitor in this market and whether their franchise agreement is going to affect the budget. Thank you. Thank you. Good points. Appreciate that. Ms. Ng, if you just give those to Ms. Moore-Love, we'll make sure she gets them to us. Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? It's an emergency ordinance, so let's take a vote, please. Well, thank you for an excellent presentation. Thank you, Mary Beth Henry and your staff. Thank you to our commissioners.
 you know there's a lot of great information in the report that we got and one that sort of stood out for me was on the community technology grant awards and there's there's a lot to like and how these this money was distributed but there was about 54 000 for the scanner foundation to support
 a video project to capture the history of Vanport survivors. In the last two years, last year rather, there's been two events, several public events, but two that I've had a chance to go to where survivors have had their stories captured on video or oral. And it seems like the community now has embraced Vanport as a chapter in our history that has not gotten enough attention in the past. And it looks like there'll be an annual event
 where people will come together and talk about the meaning of Vanport. And I think that's exactly what a grant like this, we talk about leverage, this grant leveraged other funding, but what it's also sparked is community-wide interest in a very important piece of our history. And so you can't get any better than that. So thank you for your good work. Thanks to our commissioners for their service. And I'm pleased to accept your budget and your report. Thank you.
 uh thank you for your presentation the community technology grant program is really really impressive and it's really doing great things in our communities thank you for overseeing that and thank you marybeth henry for all your service too hi perfect
 I think that if you did a poll and asked people about the top 10 things they're mad about, the cable companies would probably be in the list for most people. So although I wish that we had more authority, for example, over rates, I'm very proud that we have an energetic, thoughtful, aggressive organization helping consumers engage in digital equity, engaged in student success. So thank you all very, very much.
 and an auditor to have an opportunity to accept the report and to approve the budget. Hi. I really love my cable service. I think it's... The hard part for me is figuring out how to turn the TV on and get to the right station because it's so smart that I can't figure it out. Happily, I have help.
 Thank you very much to the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission for all of your work. This is excellent work and, as I said, I feel very comfortable giving the volunteers who have this authority my blessing and my approval of your budget. Thank you also to Mary Beth Henry for all of your service over the years. It's been an honour to work with you.
 Well, this has been a good discussion and a good presentation. I appreciate it very much. You know, there have been a lot of twists and turns in the technology world and maybe more ahead, as Mr. Johnson alluded. So and obviously the huge change in cable TV subscribers that you show in your report is another twist and turn. And through all that, this commission of volunteers and nationally known, capable professional
 have kept the eye on the big picture, which is why do we do this? Why do we regulate this? Why do we extract fees? It's to make sure that this franchise that we give to private companies to use our right-of-way operates in the public interest.
 And so your job, as you show in this budget, is to try to make that public interest specific and real with how we spend the money. And you're mostly spending the money giving people access to information who otherwise wouldn't have it and kids access to educational opportunities that they wouldn't otherwise have. And if that isn't the public interest, I don't know what is. So great work. Thank you very much. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to our next time certain item, please, which is item 703.
 Adopt the supplemental budget for the fiscal year 2015-16 over expenditure process and make budget adjustments in various funds. Mr. Scott. Good morning. Andrew Scott, City Budget Director, and I will be very brief today. Can I just make a request? Absolutely, Commissioner. Sure.
 Every time we do this exercise, I'm always struck by the week after or a week or two after we've adopted our budget and taken a bow for fiscal stewardship and responsibility, the next thing we take up is an over-expenditures process. And just so that people don't think we've gone mad, could you just explain the relationship between the budget process and the exercise we do at this time of each year? Yeah.
 Yeah, absolutely. And they really are only loosely connected. The overexpenditure ordinance is the last opportunity for bureaus to make adjustments in the current fiscal year budget.
 And so a lot of bureaus make technical adjustments in their budgets. They move money between different spending categories to assure that everything is balanced. This is also an opportunity the last time to carry over funding in the next year's budget, and you'll see that's where that connection to what we just did. What council just approved or adopted was next year's fiscal budget. So it's the difference between the large budget process, the planning process for next year. This is really the cleanup process for the current year.
 oh and i should have had our clerk read item 704 as well so um carla would you go ahead and read 704. authorized temporary operating loans between various funds to provide interim funding to cover lags in federal state and other grant reimbursements and other negative cash and fund balances thank
 so we have very few issues uh in this over expenditure ordinance and i'll just i'll highlight the major issues um there is a request and recommendation for 450 000 from compensation set aside and contingency to go to the fire bureau and this is to address their personal services expenditures they've had a significant number of retirements and retirements of relatively high level employees which with very large payouts
 So $450,000 to the Portland Fire and Rescue Bureau. $200,000 is being returned from the Office of Management and Finance to offset some of the daycare center costs. This is something you've already dealt with. You've already budgeted that $200,000 in next year's budget for the daycare center move related to the Portland building. This is capturing some underspending to help pay for that.
 There are a number of carryover requests. Most of them are relatively small. The one I will highlight, the larger dollar amount, it's about $664,000 for the Portland Housing Bureau. These were funds that were appropriated in the spring for emergency shelter costs, but the Bureau is not able to expend them in the current year. We'll likely incur those costs in 2016-17, which is why they're being carried over. And then finally, a number of technical adjustments are in this ordinance as well.
 I'm happy to answer questions. And maybe I'll talk about the Interfund Loan Ordinance as well. So the second, the resolution you have before you, this is something we've done every year for the last few years.
 A few years ago, it was flagged by our auditors that under both general accepted accounting principles and state budget law, our funds cannot have a negative cash balance at the end of the year. Our grants funds are structured in a way that they almost always have a negative cash balance because we make the expenditures out of those funds, but we don't get reimbursement from the federal or state government until 2020.
 sometimes quite a while after those expenditures have been made. So as a result, it's very much of an accounting issue. We make an interfund loan at the end of the fiscal year to make sure there's not a negative cash balance. We pay it back again in the new fiscal year. So, again, just to assure that we've dealt with all the generally accepted accounting principles. Okay. Questions for our budget director? Yeah.
 Thank you very much. See who signed up to speak on this item. I did not have a sign-up sheet for this item. Anyone want to speak on either of these fiscal items? Come on up.
 Hi, Council. My name is Mary Eng, and I am making a brief commentary on points 703 and 704 regarding the supplemental budget for fiscal year 2015 to 16 over expenditure process and make budget adjustments in various funds, ordinance introduced by Mayor Hales, and then authorized temporary operating loans between various funds to provide interim funding to cover lags in federal, state, and other grant reimbursements and other negative cash and fund balances, resolution introduced by Mayor Hales.
 I just wanted to swing by to you one thing I failed to mention, which is that the police officer, Dr. Effling, wants more funding for police. And when you're pulling with these sort of like, this happens to all of us in our, no matter how poor or rich we are, we all overshoot and miss the mark. And I gather that that's what's going on here. And in terms of balancing the funds, I think,
 I suddenly thought of this. Feel free to shoot this down. A Portland currency. When my grandpa was in Okinawa, he issued something called the Engmark. They did some kind of terrible thing where they confiscated the money of the people in Okinawa. They were studying the Ryukyu people with the anthropologists, somebody Marshall,
 And they issued a currency, but we are in a crisis of poverty. You're in a crisis of your budget. You can't keep the people safe. You don't have enough police there so they can do their jobs effectively. You don't have enough social workers to do the job. The police are asked to wear five different hats all the time. So in terms of your balancing this...
 You guys are the experts currently for what you're doing with your money. But I have suggested you all take a pay gouge, bring it down to the poverty level. My Social Security check has been garnished down to $760 something a month while I get my student loan problem resolved. And so I want you to imagine the amount of incredible poverty there.
 Our citizens are not living on $100,000 salaries. So as you shift this around between your very important things that you cover, try to have a heart for the level of poverty that's going on. And I think we need a little more information on what this is, and I don't know if that came up at an earlier hearing that I missed earlier.
 But to me, I mean, I don't want to say it looks shady, but where is the money going? To whom is it going? Who was that guy who was just up here? What is his role? Maybe you can clear up for me why we have these budget catastrophes like there was something with the potholes in the road and there was something about the parking meter guy doing some shady deal and...
 I mean, I think everyone's just vastly overpaid. I think I'm sort of a redistributionist. I want things a little more equalized. And I think the Khafouri conflict of interest on the Mike Reese appointment will be they will shoot him down in a gigantic million-dollar lawsuit once he resumes his criminal behavior. So I have called out the Khafouris on criminal conflict of interest. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. I think –
 The questioner in back there. Charles Johnson. I think one of the questions Ms. Ang raised was who was the presenter. And according to what's here, black and white, the young gentleman presenting was Andrew Scott, giving us information compiled by Jessica Kennard. And I do think that perhaps Portland Mercury or Willamette Weekend, essentially the Portland Business Alliance, which is suing you,
 may attach some interest to one item that was discussed but doesn't appear in our black and white information. I think there's a $600,000-plus amount that Mr. Scott mentioned that was funds. We just kept sitting around in a bank account while people slept on 5th and 6th Avenue under plastic tarps.
 Now, part of the reason, you know, we did have a beautiful and wonderful donation of space from the Menashe family to operate the peace shelter. And we were able to use some city property in Multnomah Village where not all the neighbors lived up to our best expectations for what Portlanders could be like. But I think it's pretty indisputable from what was said here, what might be researched, that the city had $600,000 in.
 It could have expended during this physical year to put people in shelter, and it did not do it. And it rolled those funds over to next year. The winter was mild. Hopefully, we know there are other homeless activists who have presented in the past about people who have died from exposure and substance abuse while homeless. And I haven't heard any of those horror stories, so I hope that we had a very safe winter. But, yeah.
 I think this is a matter that other people and I, myself, need to take under advisement. We're in a city that has thousands of people sleeping on the streets outside, presents on its budget and says, oh, we budgeted $600,000 for shelter-type services and we didn't expend it, but don't worry, it'll be there at the beginning of the next fiscal year, right?
 It certainly doesn't seem to dovetail with the pronouncements about a homeless state of emergency. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. During the presentation, it sounded like if you run out of money in one fund, you're going to borrow from another one. And 704 speaks to this also, the next item that you're going to deal with, I presume.
 So it's kind of like if I don't have enough money for my mocha or I go to my wife and get some more money. And you're taking it from another fund, but you're going to loan it. And then you're going to pay it back with some kind of federal grant or state grant or Peter Pan grant that you're going to pay this money back. How do you do that legally?
 I mean, that seems a little shady to me. That sounds like long shocking. What are you doing with the money? That's what everybody keeps asking you over and over and over. And then you do something like this. If you run out of money in a fund, stop paying, period. Or come back to the council and do a resolution to pay the fund. Don't do it in a general sense. Yes.
 that you just have a budget. It's not your money. It's the people of Portland's money. You don't just arbitrarily say, well, Parks and Rec ran out of money. So we're going to loan them $200,000. What the hell? Take it out on homeless people. We'll get it from the feds. Am I wrong on this? Am I totally wrong? Because from a...
 A member of the community, that's what you're saying. So either you're saying it wrong or I'm understanding it wrong. And us activists like to be wrong because it's not as bad as we think it is. And this sounds bad. And the next one, 704, sounds worse because you can just arbitrarily move money any way you want it. And I know you're shaking your head, Commissioner Fish, but it sounds fishy. This sounds fishy.
 and we object to it on the record object to it and you can go aye aye aye aye aye but we object to it it's on the record so you can't say mayor nobody objected to it we did okay thank you all right anyone else then let's take vote first please on 703. rich aye salzman aye novic aye i very much appreciate the diligent worker staff to make sure that we are doing this in a public process and getting things done properly
 So to answer a couple of questions that were posed there, one, these actions that we're taking today are required by state law and the Charter?
 They're not creatures of this council. They are built into the structure of how we do our city's finances. So to that question, this is not something that this council dreamed up. It's something that's in state law and the charter that we're required to do, and we're required to do it exactly this way. As to whether there's any misuse of funds here, I just guess I'll cite one of my favorite –
 most boring hearings in this chamber, which is that when the auditor, the independently elected auditor, hired an independent financial firm, Moss Adams, to come review our city budget and make a presentation earlier this year, they dropped a two-and-a-half-inch-thick document on the desk there and said they have no issues to report, no issues to report. Thousands of line items, millions of dollars, no
 No issues to report from a completely independent reviewer. So Mr. Walsh raised legitimate questions of legitimacy here, but I think having an independently elected auditor hire a financial firm and have them review Mr. Scott and his staff and their work and the decisions that this city makes about our finances are one reason why we're one of the few cities in the country with a AAA bond rating, and I hope we always will. Aye. And then item 704, please, roll call. Aye.
 Aye. Helmsman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Britt? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, let's take, we have a series of items here under our next time certain. I think we're going to take item 705 first. Jan, do you want to read these together or just take 705 first and then the rest? We'll read these together, but let's do 705 separately. Okay, let's take 705 first, please.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County to establish the Joint Office for Homeless Services. Well, this is a very important day, and I appreciate the good work that's been done between the city and the county. We have presentations from leaders of both, and I'll start with my colleague, Commissioner Salter. Thank you, Mayor. I'm pleased to be here today, joined by Multnomah County Chair Deborah Caffori, to present this intergovernmental agreement for your consideration. Thank you.
 for the creation of the Joint Office for Homeless Services. I think in the past three years, I've observed the city and the county have had unprecedented levels of collaboration to address crises involving families and individuals experiencing homelessness. And it's time to take this collaboration to the next level by forming the Joint Office for Homeless Services. In the past, the city and the county have each provided services targeted towards different populations.
 The city focused primarily on single adults, while the county focused on families, youth, and survivors of domestic violence. That division simply makes no sense any longer. A joint combined system will be more efficient, more nimble, and most importantly of all, be easier to navigate for those in desperate need of our assistance and services. In working towards completing this agreement, the chair and I have shared four basic principles—
 first and foremost, create a new joint office that would be situated to serve its clients, the men, women, and children who need safe, stable, and affordable housing. Secondly, we had a get-or-done approach. The idea of one single system is not a new one. It's been proposed over the last several decades. We wanted to make sure that we
 We wanted to make sure that we got this one done and that the artificial barriers and silos didn't get in the way of a system innovation that we truly believe will make a difference in the lives of those we serve. Thirdly, we wanted to create a structure that allowed our two teams of great policy staff to be able to work more effectively together. And finally, we wanted to make sure that this joint office also had joint oversight,
 uh strengthened alignment between our bureaus and departments respected each entity's authority and budget processes and i believe we've achieved those goals in this agreement that's before you now today so now i'd like to introduce uh chair kafori uh she'll be followed by mark jolin who is the director of the new joint office
 and he'll review the goals for the office. Marisa Madrigal, the Chief Operating Officer from Willamette County, will give an overview of the intergovernmental agreement, and then Kurt Krieger, Director of the Portland Housing Bureau, will speak about the specific provisions of the intergovernmental agreement that strengthen and deepen our relationship with the county. So we'll start with Chair Khafouri. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you so much. I'm Deborah Kofori. I'm the chairwoman of Multnomah County. And I think Commissioner Salzman's done a wonderful job of outlining what brought us here. I just wanted to highlight a couple of points.
 One is that this is not a new idea, and it has been around for about 30 years, but it hasn't been until this moment when we have, as you said, an unprecedented level of cooperation between the city and the county that we've been able to get this done. And I think that is in large thanks to our mayor, who has made this a top priority for his term here. I want to thank you very much. This would not have happened without your leadership here.
 And Commissioner Saltzman, you and your staff, both your personal staff and your staff in the Housing Bureau, working very closely with our staff to hammer out the details that I will let these other folks go into. But I just am really here to say thank you. Thank all of you. The Multnomah County Commission will be voting tomorrow, and I know that we will be having similar conversation, but we will be having, hopefully, a similar outcome as well. Thanks. Thank you.
 Mayor and commissioners, my name is Mark Jolin. I'm the initiative director for Home for Everyone. And with the creation of this office, I'll have the honor of serving as the interim director. I want to start by thanking all of the city and county staff who put countless hours into creating the vision and the framework and the IGA for this joint office. This was a significant amount of work on top of what is already a high-pressure time for anyone who is working on housing and social safety net issues in our community.
 The IGA you are voting on today implements a vision of deepened city-county collaboration to address homelessness that has existed for years, but started to become even stronger with the creation of a home for everyone two years ago. It represents an important opportunity to deliver on the commitment we have made to people experiencing homelessness, that we will do everything we can to support their efforts to get off the streets and back into permanent housing.
 Just as we know that how our providers deliver services is as important to achieving successful outcomes as the resources that they have available, how we organize the work that we do at the governmental level profoundly affects our ability to achieve the best possible outcomes for people experiencing homelessness. The Joint Office will change how we organize our work in ways that will have significant positive impacts on the effectiveness of our efforts to address homelessness.
 The Joint Office will bring together on one team the city and county staff with the greatest expertise and the deepest commitment to ending homelessness. That team will be guided by the same vision and values that guide the larger Home for Everyone initiative. We will come to work every day committed to creating a community where homelessness is rare, brief, and one time because everyone has access to a safe, affordable, and accessible housing unit. The Joint Office...
 We'll use the existing and unprecedented increased city and county investments in homeless services to build a system of care that helps thousands of people each year escape homelessness. Specifically, once fully implemented, the system will help more than 4,300 people a year move off the streets and out of shelters and back into permanent housing. It will help at least 5,600 people a year avoid homelessness altogether through improved prevention and diversion strategies.
 and we will be able to offer at least 650 additional safety off the streets options, shelter options every night to people who have not yet been able to find permanent housing. This office will focus resources on those who are most vulnerable and prioritize the elimination of the significant overrepresentation of communities of color in the population of people experiencing homelessness. We will continue to strengthen the community-led planning work that occurs within a home for everyone,
 More specifically, we will be expanding the role of people with lived experience of homelessness, the faith, philanthropic, and business communities in helping us realize the creation of a community where everyone has access to safe, affordable, and accessible housing. We will work to create the most efficient and equitable contracting process for our community-based organizations that deliver homeless services.
 and ensure that collectively and individually, we are accountable to the community for the outcomes that we commit to achieving and are continuously engaged in evaluating and improving the quality of services that we deliver. We will strengthen the ongoing collaboration with the other critical government agencies that touch the lives of people who are or are likely to experience homelessness.
 We will work closely with the Portland Housing Bureau and Home Forward to address the need for deeply affordable and permanent supportive housing. We will work daily with the Department of County Human Services to make sure that individuals and families are moving seamlessly between homeless and anti-poverty, aging, disability, and veteran services.
 We will work closely with the Portland Police Bureau, the Park Rangers, the Sheriff's Office, the Department of Community Justice, and other criminal justice partners to address the needs of homeless people who they are coming into contact with. And there will be a close working relationship between the Joint Office and the county's mental health and addiction services, looking for opportunities to better align critical health and housing resources.
 And finally, this office will strengthen our partnerships at the state and federal levels. We want to sustain the tremendous success that we've had with the effort to end veterans homelessness and we will use the Joint Office to pursue opportunities to collaborate on similar upcoming federal initiatives to end family, youth, and chronic homelessness. The success of the Joint Office
 will depend on staying true to the collaborative nature of the office itself. The fact that this is an ongoing shared effort of the City of Portland and Multnomah County. It will also depend on realizing the opportunity for expanded collaboration that it offers at every level with people experiencing homelessness, non-governmental community partners, and the other local, state, and federal government partners we have. Getting to this point has not been easy.
 but I couldn't be more excited that we've arrived here. The Joint Office of Homeless Services will not by itself solve the crisis of homelessness that we are experiencing in our community, but it gives us the best opportunity to maximize the collective impact of our efforts and to take the resources available and help as many people as possible successfully escape homelessness.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Marisa Madrigal. I'm the county's chief operating officer, and I'm just going to give you a brief summary of the highlights of the intergovernmental agreement we're asking you to approve today. The IGA has an initial five-year term. It transfers existing city contracts for homeless services to the Joint Office for Administration.
 It transfers city employees to the Joint Office and Multnomah County employment. And we've done our best to keep employees as whole as possible, knowing that change can be difficult. But we believe that we've created a great landing space for them and look forward to having them on the county team. The IGA establishes baseline funding in the amount of $15 million for both the city and the county.
 If either the city or county funding drops below the baseline in any fiscal year, such a drop would trigger the ability of the other party to initiate a discussion about dissolution. But in practice, we really expect that...
 that provision would simply bring both parties to the table to discuss how we're going to jointly manage what likely is, on either side, if there's budget cuts on the city side, there would likely be budget cuts on the county side and something that we would need to manage together in the spirit of the agreement and the spirit of collaboration. Thank you.
 The baseline is the floor amount of funding, but either party can voluntarily choose to exceed that baseline through their respective budgets.
 And, for example, this year the total funding for the Joint Office is $47 million, well above the combined city-county baseline, which is an achievement in itself. It's an incredible testament to the commitment of both the city council and the county commission through the budget process and dedicating unprecedented resources toward this issue.
 The baseline itself was determined by estimating the amount required to maintain the existing services plus the amount required to expand shelter and meet the safety off the street goals of a home for everyone.
 The IGA can be amended by a vote of the City Council and County Commission, so it's really a living document. We've taken our best shot at it, but we expect that we will adjust in the future as we learn more about how best we work together. So with that, I will turn it over to Kurt. Good morning, Mayor Hales, members of Council, Kurt Krieger, Portland Housing Bureau. Hello.
 The creation of the Joint Office of Homeless Services is the contemporary local government equivalent to the Kennedy Moon Mission. We have a clear and compelling vision, and that clear and compelling vision is to decrease by half the unmet housing need amongst people experiencing homelessness throughout Multnomah County.
 To do so, we have to mobilize and align our resources. And in effect, we are braiding federal, state, and local resources together. As Marissa Madrigal mentioned, a total budget of $47.3 million. That involves a deep commitment on part of both parties, the baseline funding commitment of $15.3 million,
 of $15 million is $3.5 million higher than our current ongoing funding. So it's important that you know that Section 1.1 means that in the next budget cycle, the $3.5 million will either have to be the first new money in to cover that ongoing issue or prioritized with respect to cuts within local government budgets.
 We think that's attainable. We started from very different points on the baseline itself. We arrived at this in a true collaborative manner to create what we think will be a synergistic outcome.
 With respect to mission control, I want to talk a little bit about how this moon mission is going to be guided. First, the Chair Kifori's office will be instrumental to our success, and we're grateful that she is taking ownership of it and not delegating it to a department where it would be submerged within county government, because the real synergy is for public health, alcohol and substance abuse services, domestic violence,
 and mental health to be working in synergy with the Joint Office, and that can best happen at the Chair's office. It's also important to mention that Section 7 creates a policy and budget advisory committee, alignment committee. The PBAC is a carefully crafted group of five to help guide the ongoing targeting of budget resources and policy resources to gain our mutual success.
 The City Council appropriations will run through the Housing Bureau to the Joint Office, so I'll be accountable to you for those outcomes. And of the staff that are being migrated, one is being retained. Jennifer Chang will be essentially our liaison to ensure that the policy outcomes and budget outcomes are achieved. The PHB mission going forward will be different.
 Somewhat narrower, but more impactful, we'll be able to focus on housing production, preservation, tenant services, eviction prevention, and we'll be able to align our resources, capital and operating resources, to focus on our mission, which will include permanent supportive housing. We will also maintain an ongoing commitment for the homeless management information system, because it's braided within our larger policy and program development construct.
 So that staff remains at the Housing Bureau. And I would say that one good example of how this will work is today Commissioner Salzman is announcing that the Housing Bureau has come to an agreement to purchase the Joyce Hotel. The Joyce, as you may know, is the last remaining weekly stay SRO in the city of Port.
 We'll continue to mobilize capital resources to undertake housing preservation and development. The 20 remaining residents within the Joyce will be resettled and relocated through Central City Concern on a contract that is migrating from the Housing Bureau to the Joint Office. So this shows the sort of unitary cohesion and alignment of mission to have the greatest impact possible.
 The other thing I'd like to mention here is to recognize the number of staff that made this possible. There were many, and I will only mention a few. But Shannon Callahan and Commissioner Saltzman's unflagging commitment to make this work was deeply invested. And frankly, for the last six months, we've worked on this every day.
 We worked through the details in an unrelenting manner. The city attorneys, especially Lisa Gramp and Daryl E. Berthold, helped not only structure the business relationship, but to handle the human resource alignment because we have different pay systems, we have different benefit systems, and the staff needed to be honored and respected in this process. Thank you.
 And the other thing I'd like to recognize is the homeless assistance and resource team itself within the Housing Bureau. This was something that they fully subscribed to at the outset. But like change, sometimes when it really comes upon you, that means you'll be working in a different location for a different boss in a different situation.
 system, it raises lots of apprehensions. And I want to applaud them for continuing to do the good work that they do each and every day, while also recognizing that they are stepping into a new role, stepping over the threshold for a brighter future. So with that, I'd be happy to respond to any questions you might have. I have several. Thank you.
 and first thank you all for your work i know this has been a huge undertaking and you got it done and i appreciate that and i do have some questions and concerns particularly about the 15 million dollar baseline and not only that but a guaranteed two percent increase every year if the rest of this we don't have any of the bureaus that have a guaranteed two percent increase um as a floor and if the city is cutting the rest of having to cut our budget and this not being cut at all
 that's going to have huge impacts on police, fire, parks, transportation. So I'm wondering why that choice was made. And as was mentioned, and I appreciate that, this agreement puts the city $3.5 million in the hole before we even start next year's budget. So was that discussed? And why did you get to that we have to have a... Particularly the floor. I'll speak for the city. I think...
 My first week on the job last August was to read all historic documents related to the management of homeless services in the city and in the county, including the Clegg report, which recommended this alignment of resources. I know Judy Clegg pretty well since we both work for King County. And I think from the negotiation that was undertaken, it was that the county did not want the city to divest responsibility for
 They wanted to share responsibility on a going forward basis. And they felt that in order to recognize that this was a realignment of resources for them, that they wanted to be held harmless from any divestiture. And the COLA is the guide. I'm especially sensitive to it since this money routes through the Housing Bureau. I think the first...
 source to balance the budget won't fall to police and fire, it'll actually fall to housing. So I'm especially sensitive to that issue because we have a mission that we need to serve as well. But that $2.5 million you're anticipating would come out of housing next year? No, I think it's going to come out of the general fund, but I think since it's routed through the Housing Bureau, just
 What little I know about how the CBO works here is that they'll be looking at us first for that alignment of resources to make sure that that's mitigating the other line agencies within city government. Okay, as long as that's understood, that's helpful. Can I add just real quick to that? I think that it is important to think –
 in terms of dollars and cents, because that's obviously what we're talking about here today, but to take a step back and think about our shared commitment. And in my opinion, and to the many people out there in the community who I speak to on a daily basis, ending homelessness, getting people off the streets and into housing is the number one priority of the citizens we serve. I'm not saying that they don't want police and fire. I know that they want that as well, but I think that people want us –
 to do our best to help get people off the streets. And that's going to take a little bit. It's going to take a lot of work. This is merely the beginning. And as has been said, the $15 million is less than the city of Portland is contributing this year. And it was my feeling and our feeling as we went through this process that we didn't want to start next year.
 doing much, much less than we're doing this year. We have a goal. We put an unprecedented amount of funding this year, and we're going to have to do it again next year. That's the reality. If we want to make a dent in this issue, if we really want to get people off the streets and into housing, we're going to have to put more money in next year than we put in this year. So that's why this is the floor, because this is the absolute bare minimum. I mean, I...
 I'm going to be talking about the $47 million we jointly put in this year and adding to that next year to be able to address the audacious goals we've set forward. Thank you. And as we all know, the community wants more services than we're currently able to pay for. So I think this should start prompting right now a discussion of where can we get more revenue, which coincidentally we're going to do this afternoon. Okay.
 On page 14 about carryovers, it says any unspent city total funding amount may be retained by the county, but that the county's carryover goes back to this county's general fund. How is that fair? There is a reconciliation process, a quarterly reconciliation process. I think the amount of carryover is discretionary. It will have to be disclosed and delineated, but it's not an automatic carryover.
 But it's not for the county. The county says it will be returned to the county's general fund. So I'm not – our numbers – 11.11 and 11.12. So the intent of the agreement was to, rather than cut a check back to the city, allow there to be a reconciliation where –
 At some point in the year, in the following year, the city could reduce its payment to the county to adjust for the underspending in the previous year. So, in effect, we would not be keeping the underspending or the carryover. But it may be. We may request, just as we could request...
 on the county side to carry over funds, but it's not necessary. We don't have to. And certainly if the city... If that request was made, then our budget office would make a recommendation. Well, presumably we'd have to do this in the bump because it's being reported by August 12th. So I'd just like that to be the legislative intent that any carryover is credited to our...
 to next year's budget rather than just being retained because that doesn't seem like that's equitable and these dates were designed to to coincide exactly with the fall process happily i'll be here next year's hopefully unless something dreadful happens so i'll be able to watch for that um thank you what about right to dream too i don't see any mention of it anywhere
 The costs are funded, so in terms of... No, Dignity Village is mentioned, but it has zero appropriation next to it. But Right to Dream is not mentioned. Certainly the facility will continue to be managed by the Office of Management and Finance per the agreement that...
 whoever owns it is going to continue to manage it. But there's going to be some ongoing operating funds that Right to Dream 2 will have to have, because they're going to not only do what they do now, but they'll have services like laundries and showers and such, which other houseless people who are, wants to get a shower will be able to come. And so their water bill will be much higher than it is now. So it would seem reasonable that Right to Dream 2's operating expenses should be funded by the joint office.
 I think the question is whether those funds were budgeted in the city's budget, because this agreement reflects...
 The budget. They're not. The capital costs. We were intending to and said so when we had the hearing on moving Right to Dream 2 that we would come back with an ask in the bump once we figure out how much their operating expenses are going to be. But it doesn't seem reasonable. We don't expect Right to Dream 2 to be done with its services after five years any more than this agreement does. So it would seem reasonable that the office –
 the joint office would pay for those operating expenses and i just like to get some assurance of that because we are going to be coming back to council with the good neighbor agreement for right to dream 2 and the funding mechanism and it would need to be worked out
 So it isn't a conversation we've had specifically around Right to Dream. The reason Dignity Build shows up is because there's an existing contract with them, and we don't have a services contract with Right to Dream right now, either on the city side or on the county side. So I think coming to a discussion about if there are going to be operating costs for Right to Dream and we need to create some kind of a service agreement with them, a contract for services, then the joint...
 The Joint Office would definitely be in that discussion. We haven't had it yet in terms of the relationship between OMF and this Joint Office with respect specifically to Right to Dream. But I'm happy to commit to that conversation and figure out a solution to the problem you're identifying. Yeah, I'd like to get that.
 I think we have to figure it out soon. Related to that, Commissioner Fritz, Brian Eng with facilities and I have talked about some of the various and sundry activities of facilities that are uncovered in this agreement. And we've talked about an interagency agreement between the two bureaus which would then migrate these services in due time to the Joint Office.
 actually right to dream is only one of the issues. There are some other side issues that are also in OMF that are not in this larger agreement. And I think a
 Well, I think there was a thought within OMF of having a companion IGA, that that was deemed to be unhelpful and not timely for this agreement, so it was set aside. So we have to work out that flow of funds between the two bureaus first before it goes to join office. Okay. I just want to make sure that that is seen as a service for houseless people and therefore likely to be funded or if you could promise for it to be funded, that would be great.
 What about the single points of contact that the mayor's office currently has for people reporting concerns about people living outside or people needing services? How is that going to be handled?
 So, at this point, that is, again, that hasn't been in the category of things that Kurt just mentioned in terms of recognizing that there are a variety of services that are being performed that touch homelessness. Maybe they stay where they are currently located. Maybe they come over to the Joint Office.
 it's on that list of things to talk about. There is the single point of contact in terms of being a place where people can call and raise concerns about camping activities and impact. The city will continue to do the property maintenance side and the
 public safety side of this work. The Joint Office will be on the services side. Where the point of contact fits in on that continuum, again, is something we just have to continue to talk about. Let me address that too. I think I've raised that point. This is a legitimate follow-on issue for the Home for Everyone Consortium and for this structure to take on, which is that there are positions now in OMF, the single point of contact, and in my office that aren't necessarily baked into the city's
 operating budget and that we'll have to figure out. And so I'm glad you raised it.
 It is on the table as one of those issues that has to be addressed through this structure for the fiscal year, for the next fiscal year covered, but the people aren't necessarily all going to be here. Right. So the position in OMF is, but two positions in my office are not. So those are fair questions. We have six months in which to figure out good answers to them, and I'm confident that this structure will give us the ability to do that.
 I also think it's important to remember that this is a joint office, and so the city is not giving up resources.
 responsibility, you're still going to be – this is a joint effort, truly. We have a joint governance structure. So I would assume that the mayor's office is still going to receive the thousands of phone calls that you receive on any type – on these issues just as we will. And that's why the communication has been good to date and will continue to be good as we move forward. And then my final question is the –
 Black Parent Initiative, $100,000, what does that currently pay for and why is that in there? I didn't know that the Black Parent Initiative was providing house of services. I think Javier or Sally Erickson might be able to speak to it particularly, but I think they are a subcontractor as a culturally specific provider of services. We've
 done a lot in the last 12 months to realign our resources to have a greater impact on the African American population since we saw the greatest increase amongst African Americans in the last three years. So they are a vendor that have been selected for that provision of that service. And Mayor, you've been leading the Black Parent Initiative for the city
 Not the Black Parent Initiative. I know, but you've been the lead person to the Black Parent Initiative, and indeed I remember appropriating $100,000 in your budget. Does that raise any concerns for you? Yeah, no, again, I think –
 Some of the work that we're doing, we've said this all along under the state of emergency, we've done quite a bit of experimentation. And one of the successful experiments, in my opinion, has been using community organizations under these kinds of contractual arrangements, rather modest amount of money compared to the overall size of the work.
 to do culturally specific outreach to houseless people. It's not perfect. It still needs work. But as an approach, I think it's fundamentally sound and that we're getting good value from those organizations. Do we have everybody involved that need to be? No. Is every provider operating at the level that we need them to be? Maybe not yet. But as a model, I think it's valid.
 Thank you. Other questions, comments? Thank you, Mayor. First of all, I want to offer an apology. Dan Saltzman gave me a bad head cold. I'm all congested, so bear with me. Let me begin by saying congratulations. And I felt when Kurt said that he read Judy Clegg's report in August, I felt like a stroll down memory lane because I think I was given a copy of her report in 2008 or 2009, and
 And she really had a very bold vision. And I remember at the time, Steve Rudman was the only one who bought into the entire vision because everyone understood how hard it was going to be to move the ball. This is the second major component of her vision that the city and the county have tackled. One was unifying everything under one roof on our side of the river, and now it's this joint office, which...
 finally gets at that resolution A, resolution B question that editorial boards love but most people are confused about. So congratulations for getting to this moment. Kurt, I had one – Dan identified four values, propositions, four filters that he used on this. I had an additional one, which we talked about in April when we were hosted by the chair on the other side of the river,
 and that was making sure that a high-performing team that is currently at the Housing Bureau had a soft landing in this new place. And I say that because Sally and Ryan and Jennifer and everybody involved in the ending homelessness team on our side of the river, in my mind, has always been one of the bright lights of our work on this side of the river. And plus, they're not just focused on ending homelessness. They've provided a values proposition for all of our work.
 So every time we took something up, they were there reminding us that homelessness had to be at the forefront of what we were doing. So for me, it's really important today that they have given the green light to this exercise. And that would not be, I think the case had not all this work gone into the details and to this soft landing. So I want to personally thank you for going the extra mile because we feel very, at the city, we're very proud of their work.
 historically and we're very optimistic about how this new partnership is going to strengthen their hand. But it was very important to us that this work for them. So I appreciate that. To our distinguished chair, I have a question. The April joint session that we had that you hosted where we got an update on this process and we all sat together and had a hearing reminded me that I wish we did that more often.
 There's something very powerful when we're all sitting together and getting the same presentation. May I propose a friendly amendment that we have at least an annual joint session where the home for everyone, including the performance and update on the joint office for homelessness, is addressed? And we do it at a time that's enough upstream so that we can anticipate budget issues ahead of our formal budget process. Thank you.
 and that as part of the protocol, we rotate having it on either side of the river every other year. Great idea. So we would start one place. Can I accept, would you and Dan accept that as a friendly amendment? Yes, I think that sounds like a great idea. To work out when you want to do it. But I think it would be enormously valuable, and I thought that session was particularly helpful in getting issues on the table. To Mark Jolin, I appreciate that on the questions of,
 that are not addressed in this agreement about what happens to the services that OMF is providing and are being handled out of the Mayor's office. We have an additional complication, which is we have a Mayor-elect who's going to have a voice on this. So my understanding is that the Mayor-elect, the Mayor, and the Home for Everyone team will work these issues through over the next six months. My strong preference
 is that if we're going to create a joint office and we're going to set audacious goals for the joint office, I would like to see as much consolidation under the joint office. That may ultimately cause us to reevaluate some things that are currently being done or move things around. That's for the leadership to decide. But my preference is, in order to give you the strongest hand, going forward, is that we consolidate as much as possible.
 I appreciate that discussion. I haven't talked to the mayor-elect about this, but I suspect this is true that neither I nor the mayor-elect, I imagine, think that the functions that are now being performed in the mayor's office by the mayor's staff should remain there. We've done that because they needed to be done and people stepped up. But now that we have this model,
 That makes less sense than it did before. Well, and I think the mayor has also did a little technology fix. All those complaints that are now coming to the mayor's office will, in fact, be forwarded to Debra's office. I appreciate that. That will bring some greater accountability. I want to just close with a comment about the $15 million commitment. As I understand it,
 We're making an aspirational commitment. We cannot bind future councils. You cannot bind future councils. Every council gets to decide its own budget. But we're setting an aspirational goal, and the hook is that if we don't reach that goal, it allows either party to reevaluate the relationship. In other words, if we're not willing to commit the adequate resources, either party can say this is probably not going to work. And I think that's actually the adult way to do it. You can't force us to do it, but you're saying that it's unlikely it will work.
 For me, and you're stuck with me at least for another two and a half years, I view the $15 million as a floor. It is under the mayor's leadership and Dan's leadership on our side of the river. It has reached number one on our priority list. It is the number one issue that we've committed to this year, and we have to get the job done. So I appreciate that you have set a floor, and you've been very honest with us that that's the minimum resources you're going to need to do the job, because we should not ask you to do this job unless we're making that commitment.
 And I would just note, because there's a precedent for this, in 2012, this council, without an identified source of resources, converted all the one-time money for homelessness to ongoing. In fact, it was one of the presents that was handed to Mayor Pales when he came into office. He had a budget deficit that was caused in part by the library district.
 in part by converting economic development money at PDC from one time to ongoing. But a big chunk of it was taking all the serial one-time money that Andrew Scott used to admonish us about, that serial one-time budget, and we converted it to ongoing, and we did not know whether we had the resources to do it.
 But the council said we're going to do this, and in the next budget, we're going to make the choices to honor that commitment. So we have done that in the past, and I think in this instance, because this, I believe, is our most urgent priority,
 I'm comfortable setting the floor. My guess is that the floor will be inadequate to do the job, and we'll have to be looking at additional resources, but that uniquely is for the budget process. And I think that joint hearing will help tee that up for both bodies ahead of our budget cycle. So congratulations to all of you.
 Other questions for or comments to this panel? I have a question for Director Krieger. It's my understanding that one of the fundamental elements of any moon mission is that if there's a problem, you call Houston. So I want to know, do we have an IGA with somebody in Houston? Is there a ? Well, I do rather like the Apollo 13 movie of Tom Hanks where everything did go wrong but he still landed safely. So yeah, this is in government. This is about...
 transformational change. And I've done homeless services and housing development for over 35 years. Not often do you see one branch of government giving up authority, giving up budget authority. So the Housing Bureau will be represented, the housing director and the
 Commission in charge of housing will both be represented in the P back the P back is really that sort of governing body That is necessary to hue to a mission and ensure that we achieve success. Thank you and my comment is I
 As some people know, Commissioner Fritz and I are the designated fiscal scolds of the council, and I too am concerned about the fact that we are making an ongoing commitment that's $3.5 million more than the ongoing money we're spending this year.
 And I recognize that it's a commitment. It's not like a contractual commitment that we're bound to as if in a union contract, but we are establishing an expectation. And obviously, I hope that we will have more one-time money next year, even if we don't have a bunch more ongoing money. And I appreciate the fact that one-time money could be used to help meet the commitment. But, and also, I recognize that this is an emergency ordinance, and we have to be
 we need to conclude this agreement quickly in order to have it effective in the next fiscal year. But I would like us as a council to make a commitment to come back, um,
 to do a work session possibly in early September to at least bring forward ideas as to how we would get the revenue to meet this ongoing commitment if we don't get lucky in the next budget. So I want to ask my colleagues, are you open to that possibility? Yeah, I think the session that Commissioner Fish suggested, you know, it would be wise for us to do that at least once a year and maybe do the first one in the fall before we get into our budget process. So, yeah.
 I think Commissioner Novick is saying this council start thinking about revenue sources in September and not wait until the budget. MR. Or this afternoon or both. MR. Yes, I mean I don't think that we're going to this afternoon convert the marijuana tip tax to housing. MR. No, I didn't mean to imply that. MR. I promise I will come forward with at least one idea in September if we can get something on the schedule. MR. I know we can count on that.
 Other questions? No, no, no, please. No, no, no, no, no, no. You have to wait. He'll give you a chance, Barry, but not now. He'll give you a chance, but not now. We've got a panel here. Well, I think Commissioner Novick's suggestion fits well with Commissioner Fish's friendly amendment to have a joint session at the right time, and September sounds like the right time. That would be a further be it resolved.
 I don't know if we have to do that by a change of language. I think we've got the last letter just for you. We can start our good communication now with this partnership. Yeah, I think basically just a letter from the chair acknowledging that, that is communicate obviously to the Board of County Commissioners would more than suffice. Good plan. We'll do that.
 So I don't have a question, but I guess I just want to make a couple of comments to this panel. One, as Kurt pointed out, this is the detail-infested work of governmental reform, a thankless job if there ever was one. And therefore, it's time for me to – I've cited it before, but to recite my favorite 500-year-old quote about government –
 which Nicola Machiavelli wrote in 1512, in which she said there's nothing more difficult to plan, more doubtful of success, or more dangerous to manage than the creation of a new system, because the innovator has all the entity of those who are invested in the old order, and only lukewarm approval from all that will benefit from the new. I wish there were new ideas under the sun, but he got it right in 1512. It's still hard. It still awaits innovation.
 results that aren't here yet for people to say, oh, that was a good idea, but it is a good idea. And then I guess the other thing I want to stress, and it applies to all these four people, but Chair Kofori most of all, that this is not some bloodless exercise of bureaucratic reform. This is a work of passionate belief. And that's why we made those budget commitments together. That's why we've kept them. That's why I've seen this woman at
 shelters more times than any other chair has ever been at a shelter and why we're making the progress that we're making so this and it applies to the rest of this team too Mark Jolin may be a quiet guy but I know how much passion there is for him in housing and same with Marisa and same with Kurt
 So the folks that have been leading this work in both the city and the county are putting a lot of heart into this, as well as a lot of money and a lot of line items of detail. And I think all that is really important to note that I appreciate the commitment to this, not just that we've done something logical and good here, but that we're doing it because people care so much. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Do you have any other invited testimony? No, that's it. Okay. Thank you. And let's move, please, to public testimony. We have three people signed up. Mary Eng, artist Laura Vanderlin, and Joe Walsh. Okay, come on up.
 And then Barry, you can be after that. Yes, Barry, you can speak after that. Could I allow him to get his word in now? Sure, that's fine. And then I'll just refrain. Thank you, Barry. Come on up, Barry. Barry, just sit down and give us your name, Barry, and tell us what's on your mind. Barry Sutton. I'm homeless also, and there are two blocks.
 that have remained vacant for years in back of the old Washington High School, and they'd make an excellent encampment for most probably all, all of the people that are camping on the sidewalk. And I have never, never, I have never been given a reason precisely why not use those. Please answer me. Okay, we will get you that answer. No, no, you can say something right now. They're designated as a park.
 Well, no, no, but there are homeless people, and that's an emergency. And it's possible to – Commissioner Salzman, you said something. You would take care of this, zone it for emergency zoning. I think the fact that it's a park is the issue, Barry. Well, no, there are homeless people, though, Mayor Hales. But they take priority, I would say, I'm sure.
 And this would cost less than a million dollars. It would cost maybe $40,000, $40,000, $50,000. That was the first dignity village, but they were told to move because the Department of Transportation owned the land. This would be very inexpensive. Okay? Okay.
 Can you discuss that for a moment? Well, I think Commissioner Fritch just did that this is parkland. We're trying to site these facilities on other land than parkland. No, it isn't yet. The use of it can be changed for an encampment, Commissioner Saltzman. You could do that.
 We appreciate the suggestion, Barry. Thank you. I hope it's more than a suggestion. Please. Thank you very much. Thank you for the time. Do I still have a minute? Keep talking. Well, I don't know that there's much else that I could say. You don't have to talk for the three minutes if you don't want to. I know I don't, but I understand that this is very possible. There are people all over the sidewalk that could
 move into an encampment there, and there's nothing standing in the way except something that I'm not aware of. Please, please do something about this. Homelessness doesn't need to be commodified as the people are charging you so much money for this. You said something in the first Willamette Weekly article. You wanted to do something with a lot of things that would cost less.
 that this would work, and no one has told me why not. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, Ms. Eng, thank you for yielding time, and now yours. Let's see. Hello, City Council. My name is Mary Rose Lenore Eng. I am speaking on this measure. I believe it's 705 here. It's to authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County to establish the Joint Office for Homeless Services for
 the ordinance introduced by Commissioner Saltzman, which, interestingly enough, you can actually convert that amazing emergency blanket into a superhero cape. It really looks fabulous. We pulled that off at the last co-op. I threw it on Keith's back. He was just ranting and speaking his truth. And it just added kind of a majestic cloak-like experience to what was a very spiritual concept.
 regarding our co-op. So the co-op is a police brutality euphemism. So there are some terms I want to bring into this discussion that I have trouble with. I was a philosophy major at one time, so we would discuss and discuss language and words. And I keep hearing them over and over again. It was psychic driving propaganda. I'm hearing social cleansing and this really unfortunate term, poverty pimps.
 And what you've got to, I don't like this language, it's not sophisticated, it's gritty. But when you hear that, you've got to hear the pain that's in that. I don't know, that well-spoken gentleman back there, well, there were a few of them, you too, but the other one, they, I don't know what's his salary, 35 years and we're not through this homeless epidemic. I'm 38, so...
 this is, to me, it seems like we're keeping the poverty going because of the poverty industry. And the whole notion of social cleansing, when you bring up your favorite philosopher, what was his name, Niccolo Machiavelli? I wouldn't say he's my favorite philosopher. I mean, you are aware he's proto-fascist, and when you quote him... A lot.
 We could have a very interesting philosophy lecture that would go on for hours and hours discussing that, but it comes as a slap in the face to the community that has seen your draconian regime of Stalinist arrests of activists, arrests of homeless activists, as an attempt to gag our participation in the process. So you guys probably never wanted to be a camp leader of a sort of a camp vibe, and...
 As a consumer of poverty services, I can say sometimes they're not working well and that I'm frustrated by the socialism of the Northwest. We don't seem to have a vibrant capitalism that's actually doing anything. We need people in the Oregon State Legislature making brilliant laws that California has to provide relocation services and rent control services.
 And the police have said they need any help they can get to have a police astrologer sort out their personnel problems. So I will volunteer and I can consult experts. Thank you. Who would like to be next? Good morning. My name is artist Laura Vanderlin. And, yeah, I just want to make comments on budgets and about putting –
 these departments together. One thing I heard at the very beginning is accolades and thanking a number of staff members, and I'll quote, there were many, that concerns me, that we have to thank them and give them accolades when this is just the beginning. We thank people that work with a paycheck.
 We don't need to come and go on and take time from the citizens and hear the many, many thanks and we're wonderful and it's offensive. You get paid. You committed to this job. That's your job, period. You're thanked by your paycheck.
 And the other thing that I'm concerned about is the word constantly heard over and over and over is collaborate, collaborate, collaborate. It's a collaboration. And I just want to understand, and I want everybody to understand, what collaboration means. It means it's something produced or conducted by two or more parties working together. Okay.
 It is a kind of concern in Portland because when you have people collaborating together, nobody watches what the other one is doing. And you all just kind of depend on somebody else to put procedures in place and put protocols in place. And when you have too many people working together, nothing gets done.
 So I like the word that Ms. Khafre used, and I think you should implement that word and take away collaboration and use the word shared commitment. And remember, what you do is a commitment to the people that are paying you with public funds, with federal funds, public money. And you're working for people that... And this is for people that are poor and displaced...
 So before you thank yourself, remember you're getting money, you have a home, you're getting food, and you're getting money from criminalizing people also.
 So those people that you're sweeping away is, and you're giving yourself accolades for that. You're making those sweeps, and now you're creating this. For us to be thanking ourselves because we're helping the homeless is shameful. We need to be ashamed of ourselves that we're even speaking about people that are homeless. Not thanking ourselves for something that hasn't even happened yet. Okay.
 Let's see. I just want to be careful with budgets. Can I please have a little bit more time? Thank you. I'm going to just make that fast. I'm concerned about budgets. I just want to ensure that this shared commitment will ensure that the resources go where they need to go. COAB, I just want to make that really clear, has money allocated for child care, and they have not used that for child care.
 I want money to go where it needs to go. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. These are exciting times. When we heard that the county was going to be the lead on this, we got really excited about it because we trust the county. We don't trust you. We think you screwed up for 12 years. You had a 10-year plan? No.
 You did nothing except buy things. And that's what we worry about now. You have $15 million that you're going to donate and $15 million coming from the county. And then there's some extra money, so it could go to $40 or $50 million. That sounds like a lot of money unless you start buying stuff like buildings and trucks and people making $100,000 salaries.
 It infuriates us when we hear that. The man that you had sitting here makes $250,000 a year. That's what I was told. Could be wrong. Could be not as bad as I think. But if it's over $100,000, he is making the money on the backs of the poverty people. You lose 50 people a year on your streets.
 And the ten years of failure on your part, that's 500 people that died alone on the streets, and you pat yourselves on the back? Who do you think you are? Don't pat yourselves on the back. Those people died alone.
 You see this picture? I wear this to every city council meeting and every county. And you've never asked me who this person is because you walked over him. His name is Hasey. You walked over him. So don't you sit there and tell us how goddamn wonderful you are. Because you're not. You're shit. All five of you. Next, please.
 And that's from Hacey, who died out there. That's all he signed up for. So, pack your bills out of that, you jackasses. And you, take your goddamn 30 pieces of paper. Okay, Mr. Walsh, you need to sit down. Go ahead, Lightning. That was not okay. It's our wage. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 IGA joint bringing together. This is supposed to be happening many years before. I think due to Chair Kifori being the new chair at Multnomah County, I think it will happen in a more aggressive manner. Again, I didn't hear anything about any FTEs being reduced because normally when you do consolidate, you also have room to reduce FTEs.
 full-time employees. I did not hear any numbers and projections on the savings on that issue alone. My understanding that a lot of people will be moving from the City of Portland over to Multnomah County on a permanent basis, that's fine. A couple of issues I have is that I'm beginning to see Commissioner Salzman aggressively buy properties from the Oak Leaf Mobile Home Park proposed to the Joyce Hotel proposed to
 Again, as we all know, when you start buying these type of properties, it will begin to deplete your resources very fast. Again, what has happened in the past, we've seen that they can't seem to maintain the current properties they're purchasing in a reasonable manner. We need to watch this very close because are you adding, and Commissioner Saltzman, and I might say, as far as a developer, you know more than probably anybody sitting up there right now.
 you know how to develop properties. But I'm not hearing you talk about developing more properties. I want more inventory added. If you think rent control is just buying current properties out there and paying a little bit higher, and then just holding the rents at their current level,
 is really that beneficial. I'd have to disagree with you on that issue because another way to look at it also is you're competing against the private sector for certain properties, which in turn will push the values of properties up, which in turn the landlords will have to adjust with higher rents to continue to make their payments if they compete against you on the purchases. So
 I'm kind of at a disagreement with you on thinking purchasing properties for the city is the answer to decreasing homelessness. Adding more inventory is going to be the answer so you don't keep driving up the rents. We need more inventory in the marketplace. And by the way, that's what you know what to do.
 That's what you're the best at. That's what I want to hear, how many units you're putting out there in the marketplace, not just buying and competing against the private sector, but how many more units you're getting developed. That's why, again, I want to start seeing more talks with people like Homer Williams, Dyke Dames, certain investors from the private sector willing to step up, do homeless campuses, devote a tremendous amount of money,
 And that's the direction we really need to focus on. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Anyone else? I think it's on. Good morning, Commissioners. It's now. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I don't know about 30 pieces of silver. Well, I know the biblical context, but I don't know if it's applicable to this environment. I do know about $90,600 worth,
 and about $86,926, and about $78,768 for program managers and program specialists. These aren't new positions, of course. Those just happen to be included in the 50 pages of PDF that explains this, I think audacious is a neutral term, this audacious undertaking of,
 what we have not heard here is either those salary numbers and i don't know if those salary numbers are actually gross pay or other actual costs that include benefits and such so um and that's why i'm not naming names because uh but um it does raise a question i saw mr jolin came and presented to the naacp monthly meeting and his net i think he mentioned is a little bit less than that but my main point is that um
 What we haven't had here are any metrics. When the 10-year plan for homelessness started way more than 10 years ago, I don't know if it had any metrics in it either. If it didn't and we don't now, we would be repeating the same mistake. So...
 It's good that we can talk about how many people have been assisted by whichever program, whether it's Mr. Devendorf, George Devendorf running transition projects. And I'm not opposed to fair payment. For example, in that situation, over the last two years, we increased the workload of transition projects by making them manage shelters. And I don't know if Mr. Devendorf or his senior staff of seven other directors got –
 compensatory pay increases to handle that increased workload of managing the Multnomah Village shelter or the peace shelter. They're good people. They may have done it for the same pay and had that money channeled to additional frontline people making less than $15 an hour. But when you start a project, it's great to have a goal of ending homelessness. But when you're going to pay people
 $78,000 salaries for people who've been on the payroll since 2005, $86,000 salaries for people who've been on the payroll since 2008. It's good to have metrics towards those results as a proportion of the overall picture. And it's very difficult here in Portland because we have a growing population. It's hard to find accurate data about how –
 homeless populations are impacted in areas that are experiencing an economic boom. But I hope that the next time that one of these confabs happen, there will be greater specifics and hopefully some success numbers where we can actually talk about hundreds of people reduced in the number of people sleeping outside and more people in permanent supportive housing that aren't rent burdened. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay, any further council questions or discussion before we take action? I want to take a vote, please. Yes, sir.
 Mayor, I'll be brief. To you, to Chair Khafre and to Commissioner Saltzman, congratulations and thank you for bringing this IGA forward and thank you for all the hard work behind the scenes. To Shannon, to Mark, to Marisa, to Kurt, to Sally and her team and to all the folks at the table working out the details, thank you for keeping at it and bringing us forward this agreement. There's two voices that are not here today.
 that i want to acknowledge the first is deborah's mother and this is usually the moment in our proceedings where deborah's mother would come forward and say i've heard a lot about resolution a and b and i've heard a lot about this and that but i want you to do more and i want you to remember that it's all in service of people so let's let's be clear-eyed today this is a this is a landmark achievement
 but we will be judged on whether we impact positively the lives of people. And the people that we serve are not generally here today. The thousands of people that have a stake in the success of this joint office and what we are doing, and we owe them nothing less than our best effort. So thank you for all of your hard work, and I pledge to do my part to translate this achievement into tangible success.
 gains for the people who need our services the most aye well i want to thank my colleagues and i'd also like to thank chair kifori for her unwavering commitment to this joint office and the people that will serve and to the entire city and county team who worked out this intergovernmental agreement uh always at the risk of calling up particular names but i do want to recognize of course shannon callahan in my office for her tireless energy and making this happen
 the city attorney's office, Lisa Gramp in particular, at the county, Marisa Madrigal, and Mark Jolin, and Leslie Goodloe in our housing bureau. And I especially want to thank our homeless assistance and resource team, or otherwise known as HART, the HART team. I read yesterday where the new mayor of Rome, Italy, has to deal with one problem, or many problems, but one of the problems is that
 On any given day, 25% of city employees in Rome don't show up for work. That's a problem. But I guarantee you, this heart team, every one of them, they show up for work every day. Their dedication, their professionalism, and their passion for their work.
 is what's going to make this joint office successful. That combined with the good talent we have at Multnomah County as well. So I particularly want to recognize people who show up and work hard every day. Sally Erickson, Ryan Divert, Don Martin, and Jennifer Chang. I look forward to your continued solid contributions to this new office. Aye. No, thank you.
 This is the kind of idea that sounds really simple. Why don't we combine city and county efforts on homelessness? But it's the kind of thing that in practice is incredibly difficult. It requires enormous commitment from a large number of people. And it is really impressive that city and county have managed to work together to come to this agreement. And I think it will be really good for the people of Portland.
 I also would like to thank briefly Chair Ghaffouri, Marisa Madrigal, Mark Jolin, Director Krieger, Shannon Callahan and Commissioner Saltzman. And I think, again, it's hard for folks to realize what this kind of bureaucratic and organizational change means and how hard it is.
 It is incredibly hard. I mean, obviously, I think that Jack Afuri said that this idea has been kicked around for 30 years, and there's a reason it wasn't accomplished till now, which is that it requires a lot of work. So thank you all very, very much. Aye.
 Well, it is appropriate to thank everybody who's worked so hard on this way above and beyond the call of duty. I was visiting with Chair Kofor yesterday afternoon on various subjects, including this. And our meeting got done a little late at 10 after 5 and exited from the chair's private office and everybody else on that floor was still hard at work.
 So it's very impressive the dedication of our public servants here in Portland, Oregon, in Multnomah County is outstanding. I basically want to thank Sally Erickson, who has been helping me understand these issues since I was not even elected back in 2005. And I appreciate very much everybody who cares so much and works so hard.
 I also appreciate the commitment to discuss ongoing expenses for Right to Dream 2. And I appreciate artist Laura's
 comment that we're actually talking about a shared commitment. I do think that's a better frame than collaboration because that says that we're both going to work as hard as we can to do it. I also appreciate the clarification that the $15 million and the 2% guaranteed increase will be factored into calculations on the Portland Housing Bureau budget when we come to that. And thank you again, Commissioner
 Commissioner Saltzman, I won't, as I said, thank everybody else, but thank you to everybody who's been part of this. It's truly a momentous occasion, and I'm honored to vote aye. Thank you. Well, Dan, Deborah, all of you, thank you again. Let me make a couple of contextual comments here at the end. One is that I think it's important to remember that this action is of a piece with our larger effort here on housing and homelessness, and it's also of a piece with what's happening nationally.
 and first think back to what we've done together over the last year to show our commitment to this issue. One, we declared a state of emergency. Two, we increased our commitment of tax increment resources to affordable housing to something that,
 I don't think any other city has done. That is 45% of all remaining TIF funds, some $340 million dedicated to affordable housing projects that are now starting to happen. Again, good work. The Home for Everyone model that has led to this collaboration today and the budget commitments that the city and the county and the Housing Authority and others have been making. So there's a local effort here that this is consistent with,
 It's also consistent with the national dialogue, and I want to let you know that my commitment for the remaining six months that I'm serving in this office will be to continue to both support that local effort and to continue the national dialogue, because we have a homelessness problem, and I think it's important to remember that so do a lot of other cities. And that's why we gathered the West Coast mayors here back in December to talk among our colleagues about what are they doing, what's working. And in fact, Chair Khafre and you, Dan, and I flew down and looked at
 another model of how homelessness can be addressed in San Francisco. That hunger continues on my part of where can we find another good idea, where can we share a best practice, and obviously the Veterans Challenge that we successfully met together is one example of where cities around the country are trying to do similar good work. So tomorrow I'm going to go to the U.S. Conference of Mayors meeting and
 be at the Housing and Homelessness Task Force meeting and once again try to find more tools that we can put to work here. But I think that national discussion among cities that are all trying to do this work at a time where the national homelessness challenge is huge.
 is a good idea. So you've got my commitment both to keep this progress going locally and to keep that constructive dialogue going nationally that I think has served us well. And every now and then we learn something new from some other city, and that's a good thing. So I look forward to continuing in this work together on both of those levels, and I want to commend this good piece of work here today. Thank you all very much. Bye. Thank you.
 Thank you. All right. Now let's move on to we have some other housing items here this morning. Do you want to take them individually? Then we'll do 707 through 714 together. Let's take 706 first and then the rest is a package. 706, authorize the purchase of property located at 5020 North Interstate Avenue at a price not to exceed $2 million to support the development of affordable housing. Commissioner Salsman. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 A key element of the community-led North and Northeast Neighborhood Strategy is the acquisition of land or land banking for the purposes of developing much-needed affordable housing in the interstate urban renewal area. Before Council today is the first step in fulfilling this promise to the community by the acquisition of this parcel on North Interstate, which will support the development of at least 50 new units of affordable housing, housing which,
 under our newly adopted preference policy, will give former displaced residents and those at risk of displacement priority access to housing. Here to talk more about this is our Assistant Housing Director, Javier Mena, and Carl Nicholsville, I guess. Good morning. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I'll be very, very brief. Commissioner Salzman pretty much took everything that I was going to say. It is part of the first step in terms of the North Northeast Initiative and the $3 million that was set aside for land banking, and what you have in front of you is –
 worked a final product of the work, well, one of the final products of the work that we, the staff has been doing in regard to land acquisition. And so we hope that once we acquire this parcel that we will make it available as soon as possible for development. And Carl is going to speak very briefly in terms of what's there right now and what are next steps. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Carl Tinklespiel, Senior Program Manager at the Portland Housing Bureau. As Xavier said, I will be brief. Property, as you know, is located at 5020 North Interstate Avenue. It's about 20,000 square feet. Currently zoned, EXD. We have done some site investigation on it. Obviously not owning it. We don't know everything about the parcel yet.
 We do know that there are three buildings there with various commercial businesses. Two of them we know for sure will be out fairly soon after we acquire the property. And the third, a convenience store, we'll continue to negotiate with that tenant to have them vacate the property as soon as possible. Thank you.
 There are some environmental concerns which we already know about. We've had an environmental site assessment that was done in 2015. We know that it used to be a gas station on at least some of the site. A number of the tanks have been cleaned up. However, we feel that there are still some additional soil contamination we'll have to address. And we also know that there's some lead and asbestos in the existing buildings that we'll have to address. None of those we feel are major issues, something that's well within the realm of our capacity to clean up and address and have –
 affordable housing development on the site. I'm happy to take questions if you have any. So your assumption is that this site will be fully redeveloped, that none of the existing buildings are going to remain? Absolutely, yes. We intend to tear them all down. Okay. Questions? Easy. Thank you. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this purchase? Okay. Is that a yes? Yes.
 Good morning, City Council. My name is Mary Rose Lenore Ng. I'm speaking on Measure No. 706 to authorize the purchase of the property located at 5020 North Interstate Avenue at a price not to exceed $2 million to support the development of affordable housing. The ordinance is introduced by Commissioner Saltzman, who I suggested wear a superhero cape. One thing I don't understand is how we missed...
 the Victorian housing movement to put humans in shelters. I think this happened 100 years ago or more. I don't know what happened to the Americans. Maybe they didn't know about that. They had workhouses. They weren't always humane. They weren't always...
 warm and lovely places, but I'm confused why our American culture cannot develop into sheltering. And another thing I'm confused about is why we miss the Cold War. Because all over Europe, if you're a student of architecture, you can see these sometimes hideous, sometimes referred to as brutalist Cold War housing institutions, which were sometimes demolished, sometimes not properly built. But with this kind of potential development,
 This kind of potential development, I want adherence to the principle that all human beings need housing.
 We don't need five units when we really need 5,000. We really do need to start crunching numbers and statistics about what is our expected population boom, how many people are going to be falling prey to this development speculation market, which is raising rents and pushing people into cramped conditions. And so with this purchase, I do want to echo what the lightning watchdog said
 Think Tank has uttered regarding concerns about property speculation, whether or not that is the best allocation of funds. I don't at this time have a judgment as to whether it is. But if those $2 million could be used to pay for humanitarian aid expenses,
 style tents that would be suitable for a United Nations humanitarian aid type catastrophe, that might be a better emergency implementation of the budget. And what I'm concerned with is when is the outcome of this going to happen? When are we going to see fruition in the housing? When are we going to have a human in a building? And then furthermore, of course, you know I care about social structure. But this
 term land banking I do find fascinating because I'm willing to stay optimistic and I'm willing to see that we have a bright new future ahead where we are not going to have this intense, devastating, catastrophic crisis. So I hope you give it the seriousness we need because I think we are going to need to move to bodies on a more international level to get some investigation of the appalling humanitarian crisis. Thank you very much. Okay, let's take a vote, please. Saltzman.
 well i want to thank javier mena and carl dinglesville for being on the lookout for opportunities like this property presents and this will be much needed housing that will help prevent displacement and provide people the ability to return to north and northeast portland hi novick hi great good work thank you aye good work all right okay and now let's take 707 through 714. yes you can read them all
 707, approve and terminate limited tax exemptions for properties under the Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program. 708, approve application under the multi-unit limited tax exemption program for Cathedral Flats located at 7220 North Burlington Avenue. 709, approve application for under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program
 For Powell Apartments located at 3730 Southeast Powell Boulevard, 710, approve application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program for Redwood Apartments located at 233 Northwest 16th Avenue.
 711. Approve application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program for K-OZ-216X, Southwest Yamhill, located at 2161 Southwest Yamhill Street. 712. Approve application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program for Block 290, KOTI, located at 1417 Northwest 20th Avenue.
 713, approve application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program for 14th and Gleason located at 1402 through 1430 N. Gleason Street. And 714, approve amended application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program for Vancouver Avenue Apartments located at North Vancouver Avenue and North Shaver Street. Thank you, colleagues.
 i'll let dory van bachel walk through this in more detail i'll just say 707 provides for 59 units of affordable home ownership and it also removes 18 homes that are are violating their tax exemption status and then 708 through 714 approved six projects located in southeast southwest north and northwest portland which will bring it bring in a total of 105 units of affordable housing to low and moderate income portlanders
 With that, I'll turn it over to Doreen Embaugh. Unless, Javier, did you want to say something? I thought we had some slides, but that's okay. Okay. So, actually, you've said it there pretty well. I was going to bring up some totals. But, yes, so the first measure, the resolution is to introduce or approve, as we do quarterly, for the single-family program.
 homeownership tax exemption program as well as remove then any of the properties that we've identified have not met the owner occupancy requirement or has sold over the price limit in the first sale from the builder to the homeowner and then we've also been very busy with applications for
 the multi-program in order to, which is the only program we have functioning right now with private developers in order for them to include any affordable housing within the
 extreme amount of development that's happening across the city. And so with this, these are units that are going to be built anyway, but by being able to offset the cost of their reduced rents with this tax exemption, we're able to have 10 years of affordability. And by providing this program ongoing each year with a continued amount of
 expected foregone revenue, we're able to maintain a portfolio of this number of affordable units, even as others expire and new ones would get approved. So even though it's not a program that's able to serve the lowest income people, up to 30% median family income, as we've talked about with the homeless issues today, or people transitioning out of homelessness, this is part of the continuum to...
 do work for the community in the spectrum of housing outside of what the Housing Bureau is able to affect through direct funding. So with that, I'm really excited to see the participation in the program expand this year. After we made changes last fall, we have these six great new applications, and then one that we just had to change a little bit to make it work financially.
 And we've got a pipeline still of additional applications competing, or not competing anymore, but in the works to get approved for additional applications this year, which is great to see. So I'm happy to answer any questions about any of the specific projects or anything else about our application process.
 Thank you. Questions? I have one question for Javier. Yes. Who are you picking in the COPA final? I want to ask you a housing-related question. Javier and Dory kind of previewed my question, and I had a sidebar conversation with Kurt. So we have these different tools, TIF that allows us to go deep into affordability, federal funds that have strings, the general fund component,
 The multi-program is one of our tools, and under Dan's leadership, we've got it unstuck. So today we're celebrating the fact that we've got all these projects coming through the pipeline because the truth is developers were not using this much before. So I guess this is a pretty significant example of the success of the changes that we adopted under Dan's leadership to make it more attractive to developers. Thank you.
 And regardless of what kind of housing we're developing, it's in high opportunity areas. So that meets our overall goals of having some measure of affordability in desirable parts of the city. So I support all of that. I just want to ask you a structural question.
 Is it just the case, even under the new rules, that the primary benefit we're going to see under the multi-program is between 60% and 80% MFI? Is that a structural reality? We should just measure success accordingly? Yes. We're taking the AZ as an example. We are –
 engaging with private developers that are looking to benefit from a program. At the same time, we are looking to benefit from their development. And the only way that we have seen this work is at that income level, unless the Bureau is willing or able to invest money
 capital into developments, then that's a different issue. But as it is, that's why it's so superfluous, because that's the shallow level that they'll be able to make an option. And I think what you've just done then is given the answer to the question, if you had $6.5 million to spend, because that's essentially the foregone revenue,
 and it was limited to what you could accomplish under this program, then this is a pretty good outcome, recognizing that, sure, we'd like to have more units 60 and below, but the way this is structured, it's unlikely we're going to get them through a voluntary mechanism. Correct. So, Dan, as you come forward with the IZ proposal, where the legislature has given us the flexibility to buy down, what I'll be looking for is how do we use those tools to mandate that we get below 80%.
 This is a voluntary program, and no one has to participate. I think my preference would be to see more units at the 60 percent, but it is a market-driven process. And so I appreciate your answer. Other questions? Thank you both. Sign-up sheet on this item. Thank you.
 Okay. Mary, on this topic, we're running late, so if you could give us some help here, it would be appreciated. Yes. Counsel, thank you so much for your service to the community. The sacrifice that you offer. My name is Mary Eng, but the sacrifice that you offer is beyond heroic. I have no idea how you handle these meetings every single week. I...
 I can only imagine if you have sore backs or headaches and that sort of thing. But I do find this very concerning. And as a citizen, I would like to invoke my right to have three minutes to commentate on this. And more generally speaking, I want to note that sometimes the legalese, the fiscal economic information, can be very confusing in these agendas.
 If I ever have an insight, I may be trying to translate that to a 14-year-old level. I might be trying to bridge the gap between your esoteric knowledge. We've got a few law degrees up here. We've got an engineer, a nurse. We have very highly skilled professionals with highly skilled educations. But sometimes I feel like one communication error we have is that assuming the public even knows what's going on. This is very complicated. So what I'm gathering is we've got a tax cut for developers
 to help them develop these properties that are listed in these several ordinances, down from 708 down to what looks to be 713. And that this tax break is – there was some kind of note that this is sort of the beginning, but there might be some other kind of benefit towards this development. And what I'm concerned about –
 as I'm sure you know or can intuit with your intuition, is that I'm concerned about... I'm just concerned who's benefiting.
 If there is any conflict of interest, which evidently conflict of interest is normal in Oregon. We don't talk about it because we're such a small state with such a low population. But I want to know how... And when you say projects, are you meaning projects in an old-fashioned sense where low-income people live in projects? Are you talking about development projects for high... Excuse me. I'm speaking. High-income people. What kind of projects do you mean? Do you mean...
 rent gouging, Silicon Forest style $3,000, a one bedroom style rents? Or do you... Wow. You guys, I like you both. So you can show me some respect. I tried to show you some. But I do have questions and I do want answers. What does this all mean? Translate it into just a bullet point for me in 30 seconds and let me know if it means what I think it means, which is some kind of cashola for developers. Okay.
 And I've got 13 seconds. I'll yield to Ms. Artist. Go ahead, please. My name is Artist Laura Vanderlin, and I just wanted to make a comment about developing these properties. There's a lot of properties here and a lot of tax exemptions, and that to me just means renovations, and renovations means no-cause evictions.
 And that's what I am concerned about. These are new construction. These are brand new construction. All of it's new. Okay. All of it's designed to sprinkle a little bit of affordability for people sort of who are priced out of the market in areas that have high opportunity, good schools, good transportation. And it's a very small part of our overall strategy. It's not renovations. It's all new. Okay. Thank you for the clarity. Thank you.
 I like that one. Sprinkles. Anyone else? Portability sprinkle. Okay. Anything else from the council before we act on these? Then let's take them in turn, please. 707. 707. Yes. Okay.
 707 is a little different than the others because it's the report from the Housing Bureau that ensures that the investments we've already made under the Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program continue to meet the goals of the program. Once upon a time, this was administered by the Portland Development Commission. It is now ably administered by the Portland Housing Bureau.
 And while none of us like to celebrate people essentially being kicked off the program, from an accountability point of view, the reasons that a number of exemptions are being removed
 and in the largest instance it's because the property is no longer qualified, means that there is adequate oversight of this program, ensuring that the public tax dollars are going to people that are eligible for the program. So it is not our favorite exercise to remove an exemption that someone originally qualified for, but it is an example of the kind of oversight that's being done to make sure the programs are working as intended. Aye. Oaksman. Aye.
 Well, I want to thank the builders, many of them who are individual small infill builders who participate in this program to produce the 59 new units of affordable homeownership opportunities that are embodied in this resolution. Aye. Milvik? Aye. Fritz? Here we are doing good things and spending taxpayers' money wisely to help people. Aye. Thank you. Aye. Okay, next item, please, 7-0-8-1.
 The rest are all non-emergencies.
 authorize contracts with five firms for on-call environmental site investigation services not to exceed $250,000 for each contract. Mr. Krish. Mayor, this was originally on consent, and I moved it to the regular agenda simply because if you aggregate each of the contracts, it exceeds $500,000. But it otherwise would be eligible for consent because each of the contracts doesn't exceed $250,000. Okay.
 This ordinance would assist the Bureau of Environmental Services' coordinated site analysis program in providing on-call environmental services for BES and other city bureaus. These contracts serve BES and other bureaus by providing environmental investigations for construction and maintenance of infrastructure, construction and maintenance of city facilities, environmental due diligence for acquisition of property, management of contaminated media,
 to different media, and hazardous waste and investigations for the remediation of contaminated sites. And the principal reason I asked our team to come here, Mayor and colleagues, is that the MWESB participation on these contracts is estimated at 52.6 percent of the total dollars. And because we frequently challenge our friends in procurement and VES to raise the bar, this one is conspicuous, and I want to introduce Taryn Meyer. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Karen Meyer, and I work for the Coordinated Site Analysis Program for BES. We're in the Pollution Prevention Group. These contracts serve primarily BES and all other city bureaus.
 As Commissioner Fish explained, the contracts will be awarded to Cascadia Associates, Hart-Crowser, GSI, Parametrics, and Northwest Geotech. Two of the firms are certified. Each contract is $250,000. That total $1,250,000. These contracts will serve BES and other bureaus in helping with contaminated –
 investigations through all whenever we have like a sewer project or a street improvement project we'll be using these contracts to collect soil surface water groundwater sediment and other materials to determine if there's contaminants of concern and will help the construction of
 help people handle this material. They also identify health and safety issues related to the work exposure. And the reason we were able to get such a high participation, the 52.6%, we've worked over the years to adjust these contracts and to encourage more participation by breaking the contracts up into smaller service categories.
 and we were able to give more firms access. They have less resources. We were also able to achieve a high participation through our outreach. We do pre-bid meetings and work with primes and subs for networking purposes, and then we also encourage students.
 participation through reviewing our proposals that have been chosen in the past so they can improve their skills. Karen, I'm going to stop you there because I think that's the essential information, and I wanted you to take a bow for the good work, and you've laid it out. So thank you, and I'm going to turn it over and see if my colleagues have questions. All right. Thank you both very much. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this item? Okay. Come on up. Okay. Thank you. Kindly.
 Hello, City Council. My name is Mary Rosalind Norang, and I would like to speak on Commissioner Nick Fish's Bureau of Environmental Services. Measure 721 to authorize contracts with five firms for on-call environmental site investigation services, not to exceed $2,500. How do you say that? A quarter million for each contract. So this is going to be $1 million.
 to 50,000. And it's very exciting that you're voting on this. One issue I would like to ask is, what kind of contracts are going on? Are they no bid? Are these previous? Do we have a previous history with these companies? Are they new? Are they emerging? Are they well-reputed?
 It doesn't really flesh that out. Maybe somebody in your office could send me more facts or more details or background vetting of how these people came on the job. There was a really fabulous C-SPAN thing about the EPA with Flint and the water crisis. And, I mean, soil and water are two different things, but they are obviously interrelated from an environmental angle. Yeah.
 I sat through like a three-hour hearing in Astoria on contamination zone, immensely expensive. Could you hold my minutes? So, Mr. Fish, can you tell me –
 Which sites, what sites, are these just any sites or are these generalized sites or is this kind of like a slush fund for an emerging site or an emerging environmental catastrophe or are these specific sites that are already...
 I think we should get those answers after the hearing. Mary, we're compiling a list of all your questions, and we'll get your answers. Oh, I'm so sorry. Well, then I will just be more general if there are no answers. So in terms of the Measure 721 to authorize these five firms, since the public is not allowed to know what the contamination is, much as we were not allowed to know the water in our children's,
 or the teachers would be exposed to. We don't know, so we probably won't have an opinion because the wool might be over our eyes. But I'm going to just continue to be optimistic and suggest that you guys know what you're talking about, that you're as passionate about the environment as I am. But you must understand, we the citizens are becoming very educated due to the Internet and our literacy and our social networking.
 So we're going to have more and more questions like this. And so I'm thrilled that I can be here and that I can utilize my three minutes allocated per item to ask these questions. And I can be patient, and I enjoyed the presentation, and I find it much more exciting if we had more scientific data about what is actually being cleaned up and from what sources and contaminants and any liability issues with toxic dumping in the Portland area.
 area and thank you very much. Hello, I'm artist Laura Vanderlyn and I just don't know about this company that's doing the cleanup and where they're from but I really would suggest that any company that does any type of environmental cleanup that they be local.
 that they be local because if they're not doing their job, it's very difficult to protest in front of their house and try to get answers because they're not from here. And when you don't have local businesses, they don't really care about the local issues
 the issues in our local area or the people or the environment, please, I beg you to keep it local. We have too many outsiders in the city of Portland like Rosenbaum and Watson that are hurting people here in the city. Thank you. I will yield my time. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 If I heard correctly, you stated that there were two firms out of the five that are certified. So are you stating that three of the firms are not certified? And I have a – MBEs, as minority women are emerging small businesses, not certified technically to do the work. The reason that's relevant, Lightning, and you're a close watcher of this, is that there are not enough firms that are certified in the pool. Okay.
 So in this case, we're pleased and proud that there were two certified firms that were actually selected, and that's the best way that we can create opportunity. They're all technically certified in the engineering stuff. Very good. I just wanted a clear understanding on that. Another issue I have is such as on this property on 5020 North Interstate Avenue that's being purchased not to exceed $2 million, and it's possibly going to have some environmental issues, so why?
 If we call one of these companies and they go out there and they come back with a price tag that is, let's just say, more than the property is even valued, I'd like to have in these purchase agreements some stipulation that states that if, do the environmental audit, if it exceeds, say, $500,000, we will not proceed forward with the sale. Because a lot of times, once we get into these sales, it seems like, well,
 Let's say the environmental audit comes back at about a million plus, then it's just thrown on to the public. We're going to take care of it. That will be part of the expenses on the environmental cleanup. Somehow we'll defer that off and end up taking care of that. I want stipulations in these purchase agreements because a lot of properties out there that people want to unload and they can't seem to do it are because the environmental concerns are.
 So if the city steps in position, I want them also to have a cap on that cleanup to where they say, if we exceed that amount, we're going to step away from this deal. And that's what our people that we have brought in have stated. There is no purchase. That's the end of discussion. I want to make sure it's contingent upon that. And you understand where I'm at because sometimes these properties –
 The environmental cleanup will cost more than what the original purchase price is, and that's why they can't move the inventory out in the marketplace. Thank you. That's a good point. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Okay, let's take action on this item. I want to thank and congratulate the team at BES for a splendid job and for meeting a very high bar on this contract. Hi. Helpsman.
 Yeah, good work. This is a very impressive number on minority women and emergency small business contractors. Great. Aye. Novick? Good work. Aye. Gritz? Agreed. Aye. Ailes? Aye. Okay, let's move to the regular agenda. And because it's 1220 and we're still trying to complete the morning calendar, other than invited testimony, I know you've got some on 724, I want to reduce testimony time to two minutes so we can make it through. So let's take 724, please. Yes.
 Megan McGeorge's Piano Push Play Summer Program. Colleagues, first an apology. This should have been filed as a presentation sponsored by Commissioner Fritz, the mayor, and me, and that would be in recognition of the fact that Commissioner Fritz personally and through the Parks Bureau has been a champion of this innovative idea. And closer to home, I think all of us,
 recognize the joy that comes from someone sitting down at a randomly placed piano and playing because we have one in City Hall. Yeah, it's wonderful. And there are typically on a Friday afternoon some virtuoso performer comes in and starts playing, and the music reverberates throughout the building, and it's beautiful. This is Megan's second presentation to Council. She's the founder of Piano Push Play.
 They take older pianos, restore them, and put them in locations around town, and then they donate the pianos to local institutions. This year they will be distributing 20 pianos around the city, everywhere from Powell Butte to the Youth Music Project in West Lynn to here in City Hall. Megan, thanks for joining us again and giving us an update. You hit the button on that. Hit the button. All right. Thank you.
 First of all, I wanted to say thank you so much for having me again. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. You guys have all supported this program in the last couple of years, and we couldn't do it without you. I wrote a little statement because I'm a little nervous if I just speak off the cuff. So I love changing people's perspectives. It's what I enjoy most about running my project.
 People are used to seeing pianos looking a certain way in a certain environment and played by a certain type of performer. When I get to put these pianos throughout the streets of Portland, it allows people to see and experience each other differently. And they also experience our city differently when these pianos are around. And I believe it's really magical, and I know many folks who agree with that. Most folks think that they can...
 Most folks think that they know what they can expect from their friends, their co-workers, even strangers. You may think you know by the look of someone whether or not they could be a musician, a pianist, or an artist. But what we found year after year is how people can be friends or work alongside each other for years and not know how much that person loved music and can play the piano.
 We've seen year after year of people without a home or much of anything to their name sit down and play Mozart or the entire Beatles catalog or create something beautiful using this instrument and this tool that can express the things inside that can't always be spoken. When these situations happen on the street corner, that street corner is no longer just a street corner
 It's a living room where you can enjoy spontaneous music right in front of you, and you're seeing a side to someone you wouldn't be able to experience otherwise. The courtyard of the art museum isn't just a courtyard. It's now a community space where people living in the park and living in the high-rises interact and see each other differently. Those are the beautiful and ethereal moments that make all the hard work totally worth it.
 And the other things that make me work so hard to continue growing this program is the potential for collaborations. Every year brings new communities, new businesses, technologies, and programs to this project that inject it with new energy and more supporters and players.
 I believe that the art and design community has taken this project full force because they love to see people of every kind interact with their art and their piano. And they love to see the piano interact with its environment, whether it's a busy street corner or the top of Mount Tabor.
 The technology community, companies like Urban Airship and Gimbal and multiple code schools have supported us, given us programming, software, hardware, and helped us to develop our map app, which is in the Apple Store. And I know it's because they love the integration of technology with a community-minded music and art installation.
 So instead of using iBeacons to sell you products in your store, they're just telling you, hey, I'm a piano and I'm over on the street corner, so come play me. It continues to amaze me how many folks are out there that can play this instrument. I hear each year from so many locations, businesses, park managers, that they can't believe how many folks can play and play well, and from folks you would look at and never think they could sit down at the piano and play Chopin.
 I remember that no sooner had we placed a piano on the bus mall last year, but a group of young boys went skateboarding down the street, and one of them stopped and walked over and sat down and started playing for a lease. In three short seconds, my perspective on who this kid was flipped 180 degrees, and I try to remember that same feeling whenever I interact with people as I go about my everyday life in Portland, that you never know what's lying underneath the person.
 And if my project can help people reach, communicate, and understand each other a little bit better, then I feel like I've succeeded. So I invite everybody here and everybody here and out there to come to our kickoff concert at the Art Museum this Friday to see...
 the amazing art and the amazing performances on our pianos. And it's 7 p.m. outside on the courtyard. It's free for all. We'll even have spaces for anybody in the audience to put their name in a hat and win a chance to perform with us. And then on Monday, they'll be out around the city. So there you go.
 Questions for Megan? I have a question. I just have a comment. It's beautiful, and thank you for what you do. It's really important. Thank you so much. I know so many people who love that we can put them in the most beautiful spaces in our city. What we do when we hear great music is we applaud. So let's suspend the rules and applaud you and this great program. Thank you.
 Thank you. It's wonderful having the piano here in City Hall. I mean, the acoustics in this building are cool. And when somebody sits down there at that piano, it fills up the whole building. It's just wonderful for everybody. Thank you. There's going to be a new one that's painted beautifully on Monday. Oh, cool. For a little visit.
 kind of diy thing and it's it's your brainchild and against all odds it keeps it keeps growing and i know that um the only ask you make of us and commissioner fritz has stepped up time and time again is that we consider venues where a piano can be placed and the public can enjoy it and that that's something i hope we continue to take advantage of because the reaction we're getting from the public is so positive and another amazing thing is that the pianos are left outside
 And the pianos have been protected. The public understands that these are cherished musical instruments. And so they have not been tagged or vandalized or other things, which really says something about your program. So congratulations and thank you. Well, thank you. Thank you for letting me speak. Thank you. Keep up the good work. You're welcome. I look forward to hearing the music all over the city.
 It was just a presentation. No, thank you. Thanks, Megan. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Have a great day. Okay. All right. Let's move back to ordinance items and go to item 725, please. Amend regulation of lobbying entities and city officials to improve administration, clarify requirements, and auditor duties. Mr. Bish. Mr. Bish.
 thank you mayor in the interest of time i'm going to turn this over to the auditor to tee this up and and the election officer for the city and hopefully we can work through any technical issues adam auditor welcome thank you good afternoon um i am city auditor mary hall caballero and with me today is deborah scroggen from my office
 And we are back with a revised proposal to amend City Code Chapter 2.12, which covers lobbyist registration and related activities. We think today's proposal addresses concerns that were raised at the April 13th Council meeting and incorporates ideas that emerged in subsequent meetings with you and your staff members. I think we can agree that strengthening the existing code by making it more transparent and easier to follow and enforce is a net benefit for the public.
 Before I turn it over to Deborah, who's going to walk us through the proposal and highlight any changes, since we were last before you, I'd like to thank you for your willingness to try to achieve consensus on these changes and also to Commissioner Fish for joining our proposal as a co-sponsor. Deborah, welcome. Thank you.
 For the record, my name is Deborah Scroggin with the City Auditor's Office. I'm going to very briefly review the package of amendments and then highlight the two changes that we've made since last time we were here with this proposal. As a quick reminder, the purpose of these regulations as passed by Council is to preserve the integrity of the decision-making process. We think these amendments, as Mary stated, will help serve the purpose by creating more and higher quality disclosures while providing clarity to the people who are subject to this
 So just to jump in to summarize the amendments. The first one is to close the lobbying registration loophole. So currently there's only a time-based trigger for the lobbying registration requirements, and this change just adds a financial trigger to that. So if $1,000 or more is spent in a quarter, that would require lobbyist registration and reporting.
 Secondly, we're proposing to standardize the calendar disclosures. This is part of that check where we have lobbying activity reported by lobbyists and by city officials through their calendars. Unfortunately, there's no information in the code about what the calendars are, what they include or retention information. So we're providing some basic details about that. So next we're going to clarify and strengthen the post-employment prohibition section.
 Instead of applying this to all employees like it currently does, we are narrowing this to high-level city officials and breaking this out into categories and making it very clear that we have one- and two-year cooling-off periods. Finally, and probably most importantly, we want to create meaningful enforcement mechanisms. This section increases the...
 maximum penalty from $500 to $3,000, which is closer in line with other jurisdictions that have similar programs. It also allows us to cover costs related to enforcement and seek attorney's fees if that's appropriate. So I'll just jump into what we've done since the last time we were here, the very specific changes. And those all focus on the city official side. So everything else remained the same from the last time that we were here.
 The first one is with 2.12.070D, which is the calendar disclosure section. So after some additional discussions with you all and your staff, we did tweak this section a bit by paring down extraneous details of the calendar and just focusing on the who and the when. So unless otherwise exempted, if business includes city officials or outside parties, the focus is on when the activity occurred and who those primary participants were.
 The next thing we focused on is this post-employment prohibition section, and we honed in on the staff section that seemed to be the most concerned. That's 2.12.080B. So in this section, we revised the elected officials' staff down to a one-year prohibition, and we made it applicable to salaried staff only, so hourly staff would be exempted. The other sections under this for elected officials and city directors will remain at two years under our proposal.
 So that's all I have for the summary, but if you have any questions, we can go into those details. I have a question and a comment. I appreciate the work you're trying to do to standardize the calendar requirements, but
 We're a notoriously independent group of people, and we have different approaches to how we do our calendars. The effective date of this, I believe, is September? Yes. Coinciding with the other changes the Council has adopted. And perhaps, and I'm not trying to create more work, but perhaps we could have an informal consultation process between now and then with each office just to sort of create, with the hope of creating either a template or some sort of baseline expectations. We've begun that conversation in our office recently,
 Obviously, with the existing technology, there are different ways you could do it. And I think having sort of, to the extent possible, a template or sort of just a baseline understanding as we roll this out would be helpful to everybody. And I would hope that we could take advantage of July and August to have those conversations. Great idea. Also, I just want to say that on the changes that you've made, these reflect
 and respond to comments that you had from my colleagues at the last hearing and follow-up discussion. And I appreciate very much the collaborative way in which you've come back with a revised proposal for our consideration. Okay. Thank you. Who wants to speak on this item? Four people signed up. Mary Ng, Charles Johnson, and artist Laura Vanderlind. Okay. Again, thanks, folks. I understand that because of time, we're going to limit people now to two minutes in order to get through the agenda.
 So please take no more than two minutes each.
 Hi, City Council. My name is Mary Eng, and I'm here to speak on Measure 725, the lobbying measure. Just for the public who may not understand what's going on, we have a revolving door to the lobbying world. You can profiteer off your government job as if your $100,000 a year isn't enough. You will be ushered into all kinds of wonderful, lucrative opportunities in lobbying. And thanks to our good city auditor...
 Ms. Caballero, I am so thrilled that we're trying to reign this in a little and kind of tighten it up a bit because it does give an appearance of impropriety.
 and we wouldn't want to have an appearance of impropriety in Portland. And my suggestion regarding limiting citizen speech is that if you don't like your job of being the mayor or hiding up squirrel shooting, human shooting controversies with your police chief, if you don't like that job, resign. We're perfectly happy and content with you resigning. We can find a mayor who wants to hear from the citizens and who wants to give us our full three minutes.
 you probably don't agree because you might have some special jobs to move on to in the lobbying circuit, which we know about some of your predecessors and what kinds of incredibly lucrative gigs they got. I wish you guys all the greatest financial success in the world. If money is what turns you on.
 Maybe it's justice. Maybe you're ideological. Maybe it's not about the money. Maybe you'll do some fabulous things. I don't think money and justice are incompatible. I think we do have to preserve ourself and our self-worth. But I find this personally morally compromising to be sitting at this table where such an uncritical gaze is given to this kind of scenario. I would expect more of my governance if I were to be electing
 service persons to provide the service of leadership in this society. Thank you very much. Good morning. My name is artist Laura Vanderlin and I yield my time. Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm glad to see us taking some steps that will – oh, Charles Johnson, thanks. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson and
 I think that it's good that we're taking that. Even though I've been closely connected with some people who have been very concerned about how money went through CH2M Hill and through Joe Glicker, I think for the most part there's only really one notorious former elected person. There's been some changes under Mr. Fish at the Water Bureau. But I haven't really heard a lot of public outrage about that.
 about individuals profiteering from a revolving door. And I think that that's because Portland is such a wonderful place that we mostly attract people who want to do real long-term public service rather than go just to cash out in the private sector. And even Mr. Hales, who is one of the people who's come in and out of public life, I don't really think that his work with... It escapes me now. But anyway, that...
 Things do cross-pollinate, and we just want to make sure that we have a way to discourage people who take advantage of a procedure that's sometimes more there in the federal and especially in the defense industry of working a few years in public service and then getting a tenfold increased paycheck based on the connections they've made. So hopefully this will discourage people of that sort and keep quality public servants. Thanks. Thank you. Anyone else? Cedric Wilkins. Come on up, please.
 I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I'm thinking about next year becoming a lobbyist and going to Salem. And I think there are bad lobbyists in Salem like Mark Nelson, who is the number one gun lobbyist and cigarette lobbyist. And I'd like to be a lobbyist for good things like food stamps. For example, food stamps are rationed in some states for farm subsidies. John Kitzhofer in 2014 said,
 widen food stamps. This isn't guaranteed. I have a food stamp card, and there are people on food stamps in Oregon that wouldn't be covered if they were in another state. And so I want to do good things. I also believe I'd like to be a lobbyist for free community colleges. So it's one thing to be homeless and just have shelter, but it's another thing to be fed and also to use your mind and train for some other kind of job.
 And these are good things. So one shouldn't say that all lobbyists are bad. Some lobbyists are good, and that's all I'm going to say. And I need to study the rules. Like, for example, maybe because I'm a recipient of food stamps, I can't lobby for food stamps. So I don't know about that sort of thing. So that's what I want to look into. And I have learned a lot here at City Council, particularly,
 Contrary to Joel Walsh, I don't bash you people. I mean, Mayoral Hales, next year you have to find another job. I mean, it's hard to get elected to be a public official.
 i mean there are people who have lost uh deborah kafori was here but she uh fran sconey lost the election and it cost people who supported him a bunch of money it's hard to get an elected official i don't bash you people at all i mean if i was an elected official i'd have alters all the time you know and i'd want to get out of it and i applaud you people here for making million dollar decisions for people you know and it's hard to balance a budget
 So, thank you very much. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Again, pertaining to the at-will staff, it appears as though you've focused on the salaried staff on your timing. And it's my understanding you're at two years after termination. Yes.
 I also want to have the out by the hour staff also included in that. It's one year for the salaried staff. It's been scaled back. So it's been amended from two to one? The hourly staff is exempt, and on the salaried staff, it will be a one-year prohibition. Okay, that's the amendment, and I'm reading off the – Two years applies to elected officials and bureau directors. Okay. My position, like I say, is on the hour staff. I wanted them also to be –
 have that amended for one year, my understanding. I honestly didn't have any issues with the commissioners and the mayor on even falling under this lobbying agreement. I think you should have been excluded from it myself. Now, that may catch you off guard, but my position is that more of a concern that I have with the intellectual property that could be obtained through
 working here and transferred for profit, I'm really not that concerned about any of you there. I'm concerned about people coming in on a short-term basis for one reason only, and that's to access information to be utilized at another location or from other individuals. That is my biggest concern, and I think that's being left a little bit open on the people working by the hour staff
 to have that opportunity would they do that to benefit them and make more money in other areas that has been proven that that does happen so again my position is to try to tighten that up a little bit and monitor this to where that does not happen even if they have to sign agreements we will not transfer intellectual property rights from the city of portland
 upon us leaving. And I think it's left open right now, so I do have concerns. Thank you very much. All right. Anyone else? And this passes to second reading next week.
 And now let's move on to item 726. Authorized application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $465,810 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, fiscal year 2016, local solicitation to assist the Portland Metropolitan Area Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Association
 community to prevent and reduce crime and violence. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Catherine Ryland. I'm the Fiscal Manager of the Police Bureau. And with me is... Lieutenant David Meyer, Royal Police Bureau Detective Division. We are here to talk about Item 726...
 The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, also known as JAG, was established by the Department of Justice, which directs funding to local law enforcement agencies, with the primary concept being to enhance officers' safety via equipment, technology, and training.
 The grant honors Edward Eddie R. Byrne, a New York City Police Department officer who was killed while on duty in 1988.
 The ordinance authorizes the City of Portland to submit an application to the U.S. Department of Justice, DOJ, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistant Grant Program Fiscal Year 2016 Local Solicitation.
 The JAG solicitation requires the City to submit a joint application for the aggregate eligible allocation to all disparate municipalities and to act as fiscal agent for the grant. The 2016 JAG funds will be made under disparate certification to the City of Portland, Multnomah County and the City of Gresham.
 As part of the required solicitation review process, the Police Bureau posted the grant solicitation and bureau contact information on the City's Police Bureau webpage on May 17, 2016. Visitors to the site were able to view a description of the grant program, the solicitation, and contact information.
 The solicitation was removed and the draft application posted on June 18, 2016. Visitors to the site were encouraged to contact police fiscal if they had any questions or concerns about the application or the application process. Thank you.
 DOJ has notified the City that it will award a grant in the amount of $465,810 with no match requirement. The award is allocated based on a statutory formula provided by the Bureau of Justice Statistics. The City of Portland will receive $220,291.
 Multnomah County will receive $173,088, and the City of Gresham will receive $72,431. The Police Bureau will use $220,291 in JAG funding for the following items. To hire one...
 crime analyst for the Police Bureau Detective Division for approximately 15 months at a cost of $110,291. And Dave is going to talk a little bit more about that. Good afternoon. We will purchase this crime analyst for 15 months. They will compile, maintain, integrate, analyze, and report findings on criminal intelligence as well as statistical data information.
 This information we use to support criminal investigations by providing crime trends or links within the investigation with the overall goal to reduce criminal activity impacting the community. So the best example really is serial robbers. The vast majority of our convenience store robbers are done by the same people. So we'll be able to take all this information, put it into a computer. The crime analyst will spit it out and tell us who the robber is and where he's going to hit next, and then we'll be there to foil the crime. That's a good theory. I hope it works. Yeah.
 So that's the kind of situation that we'll use the analyst capability for is when we've got a pattern or there's a parent pattern to do the work to actually make it real, accumulate video evidence or whatever else might be out there. Help us identify links between multiple crimes, multiple suspects, and try to find where they intersect. Yeah. Yeah.
 Other particular crimes that you'd focus on, side robbery? We do not currently have a crime analyst. So, I mean, whatever goal. I mean, if you had a crime with multiple suspects or – A big issue with bike theft, for example, and a pattern there. Yeah. I mean, we just got Regent on board, so I'm not sure exactly how those two programs would talk. Yeah, okay. Questions. Questions for these folks on this good idea. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you both. Anything else, Catherine, before you want to? Yes, we have a few more pieces of information here. The second thing we're going to use funding for is to contract with LifeWorks Northwest to coordinate treatment, temporary housing, counseling, and training opportunities for individuals involved in prostitution-related offenses at a cost of $110,000 for the New Options for Women program for approximately 11 months.
 Multnomah County agencies decided individually to use $173,000 in JAG funding
 to retain a .43 FTE North Neighborhood Deputy District Attorney for 12 months, to retain a .44 FTE Parole and Probation Officer at the Department of Community Justice for 12 months, and to purchase signage and equipment for the Sheriff's Office at a total cost of $57,696.
 The City of Gresham Police Department will use their allocated portion of JAG funding to purchase equipment for their investigations unit.
 Intergovernmental agreements must and will be executed by July 22, 2016, with Multnomah County and the City of Gresham in order to obligate agency roles and responsibilities. A grant agreement will be executed with LifeWorks Northwest in order to obligate agency roles and responsibilities once the grant is awarded in September 2016.
 This public governing body review of the grant application document and the related intergovernmental agreements provide an opportunity for public comment and involvement, which satisfies a requirement of the JAG grant solicitation process. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you very much. Thank you both. Further questions? Thank you very much. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 Good afternoon, counsel. My name is Mary Eng. I want to thank you very much. I found that very informative and very interesting. I wanted to speak on Measure 726 regarding the United States Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $465,810 for the
 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistant Grant Program. I want to reaffirm the information that Edward Byrne was a New York officer who died in the line of duty in 1988. And this is the Memorial Justice Assistant Grant Program for the fiscal year 2016, the local solicitation to assist the Portland metropolitan area law enforcement and criminal justice community to prevent and reduce crime and violence.
 I want to affirm what the officer said this morning at Starbucks. They need almost double policing. I said, if this was Beverly Hills, how many cops would you want on the ground proportionate to our population? They said double. So they'd want 2,000. I'm not too sure how my anarchist friends would feel about that. But in a dream world,
 we would have complete peace and harmony, and they want more time to talk to people. And I think we also need 2,000 social workers on the ground doing the job that we asked the police to do. So I realize this is limited in its scope, and I want to keep my discussion germane to your assiduous desire for pertinence.
 The larger issues with this are that LifeWorks is critical. It's cutting edge to be helping women in human trafficking. That doesn't look like enough for me. And I want to thank Ms. Ryland, I believe her name was, for her fiscal management, because I think preventative legal assessments could root out...
 egregious lawsuits such as may arise from the O'Day shooting, from Kruger, the neo-Nazi on the force, from the sexual harassment in the previous cases I mentioned with Lindsay Hunt and Rachel Andrew, and that preventative legal management, much as Richard Susskind's book, The End of Lawyers, could help tailor our response towards protecting our precious finances. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I'm artist Laura Vanderlin. I just wanted to make a commentary about the use of hiring a crime analysis or purchase. The term was purchase of a crime analysis. That translates to me as...
 as profiling. You're hiring somebody to profile. That's crazy to me. We don't need to hire a crime analysis. We could see where the crime, I think the other words that was used are crime trends. There's a trend here in Portland. It's called hiding and abetting. We have four police officials, Donna Henderson, Mike Krebs, Bob Day, Kevin Modica,
 Chief O'Day and also you, Mayor Hales, because you were hiding that information. There's the trend right there. It's with our officials. You are setting the examples for criminals, and the criminals are the officials, and it trickles down to the police, and the police...
 work with criminals all the time. They like snitches and they like informants. And those usually are criminals. And they teach the police how to commit crimes. And then they go and they teach the community and they take it into schools and they take it into our communities and they commit crimes there and they rape women. We don't need crime analysis. It's easy. All we need to do is look on the Internet
 Come here and listen to you. Read the paper. The trends are there. You guys are the criminals. You're setting the trend. Thank you for your time. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the studies, I guess, that was brought up was on the serial robbers at different stores. Again...
 The real issue, I guess, to really, again, focus on is make sure we don't have recidivism from the jails itself on people just going in and going out. And one of the things that I guess I want a little more focus on is that on the LEAD program they're doing in Seattle, is I want an emphasis on, I noticed that from Multnomah County, they're looking at a deputy district attorney, parole officers,
 And I understand that's what they need to be able to implement that program. So I want to make sure that those studies are in place to maybe do that program, start focusing on additional funding for that program. And, again, just pertaining, like you say, to the serial robbers, the hot spots of the city, what I guess your studies will be looking at is what are we going to do for those people to reduce –
 their need to have to rob these type of stores and that's what i want to focus on and that's kind of what the lead program is focused on is to educate people that no it's not going to be necessary to do that and this is what we're going to be able to show you some other options thank you thank you okay thank you all very much uh this is a non-emergency ordinance so pass the second reading 727
 Authorize a contract with Brown and Caldwell, Inc. for professional services for the Force Avenue pump station remodel for $1,074,370, project number E10611. Mr. Fish. Mayor, we can do this in less than five minutes. I'm pleased to welcome Scott Gibson and Dan Hebert. Portland's wastewater collection system includes nearly 100 sewage pump stations that help move wastewater to the treatment plant.
 Just as many miles of pipe in the collection system are aging and in need of replacement, several of our pump stations need to be upgraded. This ordinance would authorize a contract with Brown and Caldwell for the remodeling of the Force Avenue pump station, which pumps sewage from Hayden Island to our treatment plant on Columbia Boulevard. Scott, take it away. Thank you, Chief.
 If you don't mind, we have a presentation, which we can give. Otherwise, I'm here just to answer questions. Would you like me to go ahead with the presentation? I think we can do it quickly. Okay. Let's go ahead and do it quickly then. Sure. I'll turn it over to Dan Heber. He's in charge of our pump station engineering program. He's also the project manager for this effort. Welcome, Dan. Morning, Councilman and Mayor Hales. I'm Dan Heber, again, project manager. Forest Avenue Pump Station is one that's in North Portland. It was constructed in 1974.
 sewage pumps and mechanical support systems. They have not been upgraded since that time, so they've well exceeded their normal service life, which would be 25 years for raw sewage pumping equipment normally. And our modeling, the systems analysis group has done BES, indicates that we're going to need a farm pumping capacity somewhere in the range of 1,500 gallons per minute in the future to meet future demand. And the second slide is a depiction of the service area of this pump station
 services and also notice there are six other pump stations on Hayden Island and Tomahawk Island that deliver flows to the Forest Avenue pump station which in turn delivers flow to the Columbia Boulevard treatment plant
 Back to that slide for a second because I have a question which you may be addressing, and that is are we sizing these pump stations now based on the comp plan that the council adopted last week? I hope so because we upzoned that area of Hayden Island to be a pump station.
 to be not low-density strip mall retail, which is what it is now, which generates very little sewer demand, but to be mixed-use, mid-rise development, which will generate quite a bit more. It's not just in that spot, but citywide. Are we now sizing our pump stations for the anticipated scale of the city?
 Yeah, I would say typically we do size them based on the comp plan. The work done to identify this project was done on the old comp plan. We're just getting started, though, so there's plenty of time for us to update our estimates. Yeah, there are going to be a lot more people living there and not just shopping there.
 We'll make sure we do some estimating on, to use the euphemism, the additional flow that is. That will be a lot more flow than, say, Bed Bath & Beyond would generate or target. Well, as Scott indicated, we'll have plenty of opportunity in the pre-design phase of this project to revisit the flow modeling aspect of it.
 And again, just very briefly, the proposed upgrades to this station are to improve the site layout for better operation and maintenance access. The photo on this slide shows the site as it exists right now, which is very constricted. It's bounded by some fairly sensitive environmental areas that are going to be hard to deal with. And then the scope of the project was replace the entire pump station with new pumping system, electrical control systems, and provide standby generator service for the station. Thank you.
 and a new electrical control building. Just very briefly, the cost overview of the life budget for this project is $5.127 million. The contract we're proposing today and requesting authorization for with Brown and Caldwell is $1,074,370, and the balance of that project to cover all the other costs, project administration, permitting,
 regulatory compliance, construction contract, and construction management is $4,052,630. So that $5 million is the all-in, assuming construction. But again, you may have to just fine. If you have to up the budget to build a bigger pump station, please do. We'll certainly be looking at that in the preliminary design phase. Just some environmental and regulatory issues. I briefly...
 I mentioned we'll deal with the Bureau of Development Services on land use and conditional issues and construction permits. The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality has approval to construct authority. We'll be dealing with the Bureau of Transportation, the City for street opening permits and traffic control, and Department of State lands and U.S. Corps of Engineers because there's wetland areas on two boundaries at this pump station site that are going to be dealt with.
 project schedule briefly again we recognize we may need to revisit the sizing of the pump station during preliminary design it's a complete to design in April of 2018 and start construction in August 2018 complete to construction in October 2019 and complete startup closeout phase in December 2019 and go into routine operations at this new pump station thank you thank you very much other questions
 Thank you both. Testimony? Okay. Let's see if this is a second reading. Second reading. Move to second reading. Okay. Item 728. Establish a construction excise tax to fund affordable housing initiatives from an inclusionary housing fund. Mr. Zaltzman, any comments before we vote? Or do you want to wait until? Mayor, I have an amendment. I understand we're putting an emergency on it. Okay. So let's take up the amendment, please. So, colleagues, let me hand down.
 the amendment which has been discussed with your offices. We've had testimony and interest on the council looking at the question of brownfields and whether there should be an appropriate exemption. It became clear to us in our review of this matter that,
 It's too complicated an issue to resolve at this stage of the proceeding. As we learned, there are good brownfields and bad brownfields. There's all kinds of geographical issues and other concerns. So in lieu of proposing an outright exemption or a flexible process to determine whether an exemption is warranted,
 My amendment would simply direct the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, working with the Bureau of Development Services, to monitor this tax and to effectively come back to Council within a year with any recommendations. To the extent we've identified that the tax is a barrier to our rather ambitious brownfield remediation program, then the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability would give Council options for how to mitigate that, which would include an exemption.
 And so I offer this as an amendment. Is there a second? Further discussion of the amendment? Roll call on amending the item. Oh, can I have one more question? So your last sentence says the Bureau shall present council with options to mitigate those impacts. Do you mean the Housing Bureau or? I'm sorry, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Good call. The original Bureau mentioned in the amendment. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you, colleagues. I know there are some that want us to go much further and others that are skeptical of us even putting our big toe in the water on this one. But I think in light of the substantial reliance that we've placed on brownfield remediation as part of our comp plan and the economic opportunity analysis, I think it is important that we make sure that this does not become a further barrier to achieving the rather ambitious goal we have for converting brownfields to productive use.
 And this gives us an opportunity to revisit this later when we have some historical experience with this particular CET. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Aye. Ritz. Yes, thank you for working out that compromise. Aye. Aye. Okay, and now on the item as amended. Roll call.
 Did you want to add some kind of an emergency? But before we do that, Commissioner, I remember if we did it as an emergency, it would go into effect like right now, so we'd have to call the permit center to have them do it right now. So I'm wondering if we want a second amendment to say that the implementation date is July 1st so that you have a time to give your staff time to figure it, to get it down. Yeah, well, the effective date is intended to be August. It still is?
 Mayor? Yes, Ben. This is a revenue-raising measure, and it cannot be adopted as an emergency. So it needs to pass the second reading. But it will still be going into effect on August 1st, right? Was that your intent? If we pass it as is, it goes into effect August 1st, right? If you pass it as is next week, it would go into effect before August 1st, yes. It's on second reading today? Yes.
 We can't pass it today? You just amended it. Because we amended it? Because it's been amended, now it needs to pass again. If it goes to a second reading tomorrow, it still meets the August 1st deadline? You would need to pass it to next week because the charter requires you to pass it over, and then it would still go into effect before August 1st. Okay. All right. So then this is carried forward for second reading next week.
 thank you okay item 729 vacate a portion of southwest florida street west of southwest 45th avenue subject to certain conditions and reservations
 I defer to Lance Lindahl. Thank you, Commissioner. Good afternoon. Lance Lindahl, PBOT Right-of-Way Acquisition. Before you today is a proposal to vacate Southwest Florida Street west of Southwest 45th Avenue. This right-of-way provides secondary access for the adjacent property owners. It does not connect to any other public rights-of-way. The portions of Southwest Florida Street and Southwest 46th Avenue to the immediate west were vacated at the request of St. Luke Lutheran Church in March of last year.
 the area proposed for vacation currently has no transportation improvements and records indicate that it has never been open to vehicular traffic the street vacation is proposed in order for the petitioner to accommodate future high higher density development of the adjacent residentially zoned properties the easternmost one foot of southwest florida is being retained to accommodate a new sidewalk that's being constructed through the local improvement district process a temporary construction easement is also being reserved over the easterly 10 feet of vacation area into support
 construction of that project if you have any questions I as well as other members of city staff are here to answer those for you I just want to say I've never heard a more thorough presentation I cannot imagine any question I aim for being concise any other questions for Lance I know there are some folks here waited very patiently for this item so did you want to speak on this item folks folks that are affected by it or you just want to get it done
 Okay, I think they just want to get it done. All right, anyone else? My understanding is the Maplewood Neighborhood Association has no objection. That's correct.
 They were neutral on it. They've now voiced some concerns about it, but the heart of their concerns has to do with the future zoning for this area and the density of use. In my opinion, it doesn't seem to be directly related to the vacation proposal itself. All right. Thanks for your work and PBOT's work to get this done with the cooperation of the property owners, and this will come back for final action on second meeting next week. 7.30. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation.
 so P bot Steve anything you just want to turn it over to the team here all right welcome group afternoon I'm sharing Matias from the auditor's office I'm Mike Zeller I'm a sidewalk inspector with maintenance operations I'm Chris Rollins public works supervisor for sidewalk repair this ordinance is for a sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city and your remonstrances have been pulled from this assessment and not in this ordinance
 That may be the most succinct presentation yet. Anything else you want to add? No questions? Anyone here want to remonstrate on this item? If not, it passes the second reading next week. Thank you very much. We're recessed for 55 minutes until 2 p.m. Mr. Fritz, the afternoon is listed as a three-hour hearing. Do you have a sense of how much time we'll be consuming? From my perspective, there was not going to be a lot of testimony, but I think others have invited a lot of people to come. Okay.
 Is the mayor joining us? No. Council, will you please come to order? Welcome, everybody, for the afternoon session. Carla, would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Fish? Here. Okay. We have a single time certain. Carla, would you please read it?
 Item 731, refer a measure to city voters for the November 8, 2016 election establishing a 3% tax on recreational marijuana sales in the city of Portland with revenues allocated to drug and alcohol treatment, public safety investments, and support for innovative neighborhood businesses by amending City Code Chapter 6.0. 7 and 5.04.
 Thank you very much. Commissioner Amanda Fritz. Thank you, President Fish. And if I could have my staff and those coming up, please. What we have before us today is a proposal to refer a ballot measure to voters in November that would establish a 3% local tax on sales of recreational marijuana for businesses operating inside the city of Portland. Thank you.
 The State Legislature currently taxes recreational marijuana sales at dispensaries at 25 percent. That will be lowered to 17 percent in 2017, meaning that a 3 percent local tax will set a new tax base rate of 20 percent for Portland businesses for recreational sales. Of course, this Council has previously decided not to tax medical sales. Medical sales will continue to be tax-free under this proposal.
 It's important to note that even a 20% tax is significantly less than what businesses play in Washington, which is 37%, or Colorado, where the tax is nearly 28%.
 Note that earlier this month, the city of Beaverton voted to refer a 3% tax to voters in November, with revenues dedicated to expenses related to impaired driving resulted from recreational marijuana use. And many other cities around the state are determining whether or not to refer a tax to the voters. The reason that we're all thinking about the 3% tax and referring it to the voters is because that's the maximum the state allows us to ask for, and it required that we refer it to the voters at a general election in an even year.
 So that's why a number of jurisdictions are proposing a 3% tax. The 17% tax that the state will be charging starting in January, of that the city only gets 10% or 1.7% of the state tax will supplement the police budget for enforcement.
 Council will remember that we have chosen to set permits for recreational marijuana businesses on a cost recovery basis, which will be reviewed annually and make sure that we continue to pay costs for service no more, no less. Our colleagues in the Revenue Bureau anticipate that a 3% tax could yield around $3 million a year.
 We are proposing that council should identify and allocate this money to three dedicated areas in the annual public budget process. So there will be a fund in which the money would go to, and it could be used for specific purposes identified in the code and in the ballot measure. The ballot measure is much more likely to pass if there's a nexus between the source of the revenue and its dedicated uses. Okay.
 This also meets my long-term value of looking at who pays, who benefits, and considering whether that is fair. In closing with my remarks, I'd just like to read from Mayor Hales' speech in October of 2014, when the council unanimously passed a 10% tax on recreational sales without referring it to the people. We were hoping to get in before Measure 91 passed.
 but we've never enacted that tax. And I will have to mention today that I'm wearing green and gold, not because of the timbers, which is my usual reason for wearing green and gold, but because, of course, green for marijuana, but also the proponents of Measure 91 promised that there would be taxes that would help support services, and that was one of the reasons that many people supported the ballot measure.
 and mayor hale said when we were doing the last tax in 2014 we've been down this road before in long long ago alcohol was illegal then it was legal and regulated through the state through the oregon liquor control commission in theory that wouldn't necessarily put any more costs on local government in reality what we found is that the intersection between liquor and neighborhoods means there are costs for the city
 There are costs in negotiating friction between loud bars and neighborhoods. There are costs associated with people who drink too much and get in the car and cause an accident. So we've been here in that sense before, in that we do know that no matter what the state legislation says, in this case in a form of initiative, we will end up having to pay some of the community costs. This time around, it may be possible for us to be...
 This doesn't make sense. In the script from the... This time around, it may be possible for us to say that we intend to collect a reasonable tax in order to pay for some of those costs and probably only some of those costs. So that was very prophetic on behalf of the mayor. Yeah.
 To discuss the allocations and projected revenues, Claire Adamsick, a senior policy advisor on my staff, and Thomas Lannan, the director of the Revenue Division, will now provide us with the proposal, which we developed and amended based on input from industry representatives and every member of the council. Welcome. Good afternoon, commissioners. My name is Claire Adamsick. I'm a senior policy advisor for Commissioner Fritz, and I'm also her liaison to the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. Claire, please take the full two minutes.
 Thank you. I will. As the Commissioner mentioned, in October 2014, just before the passage of Measure 91, which legalized the sale and consumption of recreational marijuana, Council unanimously adopted a 10% tax on local sales. This city code was never enacted, but it forms the basis for the code, which will be amended as shown in Exhibit A1 in your packets. Thank you.
 Can I just, Commissioner Fritz, can I just take a clarification? My understanding was we put a placeholder for a 10 percent tax in because we have been told that legally it would strengthen our position. I don't remember us taking an official position on the tax or how it would be spent.
 But we were encouraged that strategically this would give us, put our foot in the door to allow us to make that decision. We actually adopted code to how we were going to collect that tax. And that's why this proposal is an amendment of that code. So it's currently in city code. We never moved to collect it because of the things that the legislature did. That's not quite my recollection, but go ahead.
 So the two primary areas are Chapters 6.07 and 5.04. So sort of the key points in 6.07 that will be amended are reducing the tax from 10% to 3%, updating definitions of terms to reflect language that's currently being used in state statute, clarifying the exemption on the sales to medical marijuana cardholders,
 and allowing for the option of the city to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the state department of revenue to administer the tax if that makes sense once the state's program has been established and thomas lanham can speak to that in further detail in a few moments and finally the new code language in chapter 6.07 identifies primary city services to which the funds may be allocated chosen on an annual basis in through the city's public budget process
 And the Second Code Amendment adds a new section to Chapter 5.04 funds, and it establishes a recreational marijuana tax fund to manage revenues. When late last fall, in late September, the Council adopted the City's marijuana policy and established the marijuana policy program, there was public acknowledgment that the City's constraints in addressing anticipated public health and safety impacts of drug and alcohol consumption.
 Stakeholders that were involved in the policy development since the summer from the marijuana industry, public health field, and the community at large shared their desire to address emergent issues such as education on wise use, reducing access for minors, support for first-time business owners, and programs to support drug and alcohol abuse prevention and treatment.
 As the Commissioner mentioned, the Marijuana Policy Program itself is a cost recovery-based program. Licensing and application fees cover a small but robust customer service permitting and compliance enforcement team. And just for current reference, the current numbers on marijuana businesses are
 In Portland, who are selling or have applied to sell marijuana to recreational customers is 111, and 94 are currently in operation. Many of those are recreational dispensaries who met the distance requirement exception and were in operation and are selling recreationally.
 So the Oregon State statute, this is for reference also for members of the public, that allows cities and counties to refer a 3% tax on recreational marijuana sales to voters in the upcoming general election. So this is not verbatim the language, but it's essentially the summary of...
 of that language that gives that directive to cities and counties. And this is the city's first opportunity in the general election to address gaps in key city services linked to the impacts of drug and alcohol consumption, while at the same time collaborating with members of the marijuana industry who will shoulder that administrative burden. So with input from the industry and from the community, we've determined three primary areas to which potential tax revenues could be allocated.
 So the first area is drug and alcohol education and treatment programs. This could include the service for things like the service coordination team under the Police Bureau's Behavioral Health Unit. The city, in the upcoming fiscal year, has dedicated $1.7 million toward those services in addition to two full-time staff, one of whom is an officer. Okay.
 And it provides housing, as you are aware, I'm sure, provides housing and treatment services for chronic drug property crimes offenders and offers 60 places for low barrier and alcohol and drug-free housing. Other funding could be directed to partnerships with service providers to support rehabilitation and employment readiness training. And we will hear from some of those service providers during testimony today.
 The second priority area is public safety, things like support for police drug recognition experts who identify drivers under the influence of alcohol and marijuana, as well as other police resources.
 support for firefighter paramedics, as well as for transportation safety infrastructure projects with a focus potentially on support for Vision Zero priorities, which include speeding, disobeying traffic laws, impairment, and traffic design.
 The third and final priority area that we've identified is support for innovative neighborhood small businesses, specifically women and minority-owned businesses. This could include, just as examples, big business incubator and training programs, such as PCC Climb or PDC business development programs, economic opportunities, as well for people impacted by,
 Cannabis prohibition, one of the issues that folks are facing in terms of a barrier to market entry or to a job is the expungement of their past records, which typically costs around $1,000. So a possibility could be something like grants to organizations that would help with that process. Okay.
 So allocation of the funds will be based on actual revenues, and as the Commissioner mentioned, Council will determine how and where to dedicate funds in the annual budget process each year. So now Thomas Lanham will share some of the specifics on the revenue estimates and how the tax may be administered. Actually, Claire, can I ask a question? Of course.
 The assistance to small businesses, it wouldn't just be to businesses that are in the cannabis industry, right? It could be other small businesses as well? Right. So, I mean, there are a number of sort of emerging industries. You could look at areas that consider themselves craft industries. We heard last year a robust discussion from makers. So that's something that council could determine.
 Thomas Lanham, Revenue Division Director, Good afternoon. I'm Thomas Lanham, the Director of the Revenue Division. And I'll just speak briefly to two points, the revenue estimate and the administration of the tax. Regarding that revenue estimate, a number of governments and even private research firms have attempted to model revenues of proposed legalization and sales tax regarding marijuana and have largely failed to accurately project that revenue. So we're very mindful of that. Most of them have been quite low
 That said, we chose to model our most recent estimate on the city of Denver, Colorado, because of the similar size and because of the longevity of the tax that they've had in place. Of course, we made adjustments for population and for the differences in the tax rates. And so we believe the low end of the revenue yield, and that's the gross yield, would be about $3 million. It could range up to $5 million, potentially more. But $3 million should be a pretty comfortable floor in terms of the revenues. And that's the numbers that you see reflected in the fiscal impact statement. Thank you.
 With respect to administration of the tax, basically it would be comprised of two components. There's the collection expenses themselves and then the fund administration expenses. So I'll talk about each of those separately. With regard to the collection expenses, the hotel-motel tax currently administered by the Revenue Division is the program that we have. It is most similar, in fact it's very similar, to the proposed marijuana tax in terms of size and complexity and structure.
 The marijuana sales tax could therefore be collected with a similar level of effort, about 1-2 FTE, and related materials and services expenses in the range of $150,000 to $250,000 annually. This includes part-time on-site security for the large cash remittances that we would anticipate receiving in the month following the close of each quarter.
 As you know, it's an all-cash business. A number of efforts are being made at the state level, and there are some cottage industries springing up to try to assist with those sort of financial transactions and getting out of the cash arena, but they're not up and running yet, so that sort of security would be necessary. And there's also a one-time startup cost of between $1,500 and $100,000 just to get up and running with a database platform and some necessary back office functions. Okay.
 So as Claire said, while the Revenue Division can and will collect this tax if necessary, we believe the first best option for collection may very well be the state of Oregon under authority of ORS 305. Centralized collection should, in theory, allow for the least administrative burden for both marijuana businesses and government as a whole across the state.
 The League of Oregon Cities is in ongoing negotiations with the Oregon Department of Revenue on behalf of Oregon cities, but it remains unclear what terms the state will offer the League and, by extension, all cities in Oregon. Obviously, the primary points of consideration include the costs and the terms and conditions of collection, administration, and enforcement. It is likely the state will want to substantially adopt a single uniform set of regulations and rules,
 So the ability of individual cities to request customized treatment is expected to be quite limited. Ultimately, a go-no-go decision on state collections will entail a cost-benefit analysis of the city versus state costs, risks, details of administration, and enforcement. If the resolution to refer this measure to voters is passed by the council, Revenue will take a more assertive position in negotiations both with the League and with the Oregon Department of Revenue.
 The other expense, that's one of the expenses related to the administration of the tax, the collection, that was that piece. And the other expense is related to the administration of the fund itself. So the fund administration expenses include fixed city overhead, such as general fund and EBS charges, which amount to about $33,000 per year for similar funds that revenue manages, and these are required by city financial policy.
 Fund accounting and audit services, disbursements and transfers, preparing the annual report on fund revenues and uses, possible contract administration if external agencies contract for some of the funds, annual budget requests and related public and partner involvement if that's desired.
 The total cost for all fund administration would be about $50,000. It could be less, but it wouldn't be less than $33,000, which is the floor for any new fund in the city. And those fund-level administrative expenses would exist whether or not we contracted with the state to collect, because the state's collection fees would be a separate matter. So that concludes my remarks with respect to revenue projection and expenses, and I'd be happy to answer any questions you have.
 Claire, to what extent do we have to resolve these questions now, and to what extent do they impact sort of commitments we make to the public about the overhead and the cost of collection? So when you're talking about commitments, you're talking about commitments to funding allocations? Yes.
 specific things that Thomas just went through about whether we go with the state or we have the different questions about how we administer and collect the tax. To what extent do those issues have to be resolved before we make a vote on a referral?
 My understanding from conversations with the city attorney and with Thomas and his team is that, and basically the language that's provided currently in the code, and I can find the section for you, is that it allows for that opportunity to enter into that relationship with the state, but it doesn't bind the city to doing so. So the answer is no. Questions, colleagues? Yes.
 so do you have another panel we do we also have andrew scott the city budget um director budget office director who has to leave it in a little while so if anybody has any questions for the city budget office andrew why don't you come forward i don't have any prepared remarks but i'm happy to answer any questions we've worked with the commissioner's office um on some of the issues and budget related issues in here so i guess that the primary issue here is the the current language
 gives us broad latitude to allocate the funds into sort of general categories and then makes the council through the budget process the final decider. So, yeah.
 the independent budget office. Is there anything in that mechanism that gives you any heartburn? Yeah, I think that mechanism will work as we go through this. It won't surprise any of you that as the city budget director, I always advocate for broader flexibility. I think it's since we don't know what future priorities will be, I think it's better for revenues that come into the city
 that council will have more discretion in the future about how to spend those. And that's always my position, I think, on all the revenues we bring in. That said, the allocations here, it's worth noting these would not be general fund resources. They will go into the recreational marijuana tax fund. And so they will essentially be – it will be a separate fund. But it will go through the normal budget process. I think the idea is that –
 decision packages would come forward in terms of how the money that's in that fund gets allocated into these categories. And I think the categories that are there, although they are limiting, they are broad enough to include some existing programs, some new city programs, and so it does allow some flexibility. And just to be clear, as I read the text, you've been –
 clear in your statement that this doesn't go into the general fund. It goes into a separate dedicated fund. But let's take a potential example. If this passes and the funds are generated, and at some point the council chooses to use the funds to invest in the service coordination team or an existing program, it might end up that it frees up general fund money for other purposes, correct? I think that's correct, yeah. Thank you very much. I appreciate you being here.
 So we have two panels. First, industry representatives. We have Jesse Horton from the Minority Cannabis Business Association and Jeff Sugarman from the Oregon Cannabis Association. Could you come up, please? Welcome. Thank you for being here. Thank you for partnering with us and figuring out the language on this. Commissioner, actually, I'm not here on behalf of the Oregon Cannabis Council. Thank you for that. Hal Falstetter is here on behalf of the council. Thank you.
 Chair, if you'd like to clarify that, anybody, just call up whoever you'd like to come up. Jesse, I know that you're here representing your organization. Yes, thank you very much. And I'm also on the side representing just being a business owner in the cannabis community here in Portland. My name is Jesse Horton.
 I'm here as a business owner, as I mentioned, a cultivation and a dispensary business owner in Portland, but also here as a chairman of the Minority Cannabis Business Association. I think as a business owner, I can't say that I'm necessarily a fan of any taxes per se. However...
 I am all for paying my share, especially if the taxes are imposed in a fair and responsible manner. We're embarking on a new and unique industry, and so understanding what fair and responsible really means takes a lot of thought and a lot of input from different perspectives, both different perspectives within the industry and within the general community.
 And so as a result, you know, therefore I would like to really thank Commissioner Fritz, as well as her office and her staff, ONI, doing just that and making sure that we had different perspectives in crafting this language together.
 Cannabis legalization affects so many aspects of business and community, many of which have been addressed in this tax. For example, public safety and health, child care, economic prosperity. This tax is even allocated for things that aren't very worthy causes that aren't directly tied to cannabis legalization, including general education, firefighting, as well as innovative business assistance programs.
 which I think are all very, very important things within this allocation. However, one issue that
 is directly related to cannabis reform that not one city in the United States of America has addressed yet, is the fact that everywhere across the country, including our great city of Portland, Oregon, cannabis prohibition enforcement has disproportionately affected communities of color, playing a major role in mass incarceration and the multitude of criminal charges resulting from the failed war on drugs.
 I think this has left so many communities in our city and so many families with unjust hardships, many that are struggling, that we're still struggling to overcome. And I share some of these hardships myself, economic hardships directly relating to having difficulty getting a job with cannabis-related charges. I've had that myself. I have cannabis-related charges. Luckily now I'm in an industry where, you know, it's not that much of a problem. But before it definitely was.
 Educational hardships. I actually, unfortunately, as related to one of my cannabis charges, I had a scholarship that was taken away from me. I had to sit out of school for a year and work in order to get those funds back. That's happening all over the country. Of course, overall disenfranchisement, voting rights, just really feeling like you're under the gun as it relates to criminal justice enforcement. I think that by voting on this
 that, amongst other things, will assist with record expungement, criminal record expungement as it relates to cannabis, will assist with job assistance, as well as economic opportunity and education for communities most disproportionately affected by cannabis prohibition enforcement. I think our city has...
 an unbelievable opportunity to make a historic step and continue to be a model for fair cannabis legislation not just in our state but across our nation and really across the world. So I just really am all in favor of this language and thank you again for taking in so many different perspectives to craft something that I think again will be very historic and beneficial for the community. Thank you so much.
 there hails members of the council my name is jeff sugarman i am here today representing my employer groundworks operations i'm happy to report that this week we received our first city of portland business license for our medical dispensary at 2519 southeast belmont we are also applying for processor and production licenses and hope to open a second retail store uh in in the downtown area in the next few weeks
 Before discussing the ordinance, I do want to say that my frequent experiences with the staff at ONI have actually been very positive. I've found the staff there to be professional and responsive and very courteous. They have a very difficult job, and they are working hard to do it well. We as applicants also have a difficult job, and we are working hard to do it well. The licensure process here is more demanding and significantly more expensive than the licensure process.
 and other jurisdictions where GroundWorks is operating, including the cities of Eugene and Washington County. The program and process is working here, but we think it can be improved.
 To the ordinance itself, I think Commissioner Fritz did a nice job of outlining where the tax is at present. With the overall tax rate going down a total of 5 percent when the OLCC recreational shops come online, I think you will see little opposition from cannabis consumers or cannabis businesses about the implementation of the tax.
 This was a well-discussed issue at the legislature over the last two sessions, and we all came to a broad agreement on the structure going forward.
 and frankly, we've heard little mention of the tax rate in the shops that we now have open right now. Additionally, we did pass legislation last session to ensure that no medical patients ever pay a tax, either in a recreational OLCC store or in a medical marijuana dispensary. So we think it's most appropriate for the council to ask voters if they want this tax.
 As far as the allocation of those resources, you've heard about the three broad areas. We think that the language in this ordinance is sufficiently broad so that these tax dollars can be used for a wide range of items. A number of us do intend to participate in the ONI budget process, and we will be glad to work with all of you as you make decisions moving forward on how to spend these dollars. Thank you.
 If we are going to use some of those dollars, cannabis dollars, in areas that we think will help those who have been disproportionately affected by cannabis prohibition, I have a couple of areas I'd like to outline quickly. One is, as Jesse mentioned, expungement and job training. We still have far too many people who have felony convictions from marijuana charges that are today would be considered expungement.
 legal. Helping these citizens expunge their record will free them to find housing, get jobs, and rid their lives of the stigma of felony convictions. So this approach will help in a number of areas, and I think it can be done pretty cheaply.
 On the area of drug treatment, if the city can use cannabis tax dollars to aid in preventing drunk driving or assisting the county or local nonprofits in attacking alcoholism or opioid abuse, we think those are cannabis dollars that are well spent. Using these tax dollars to fund police services may be a difficult issue for some of the constituencies who will be voting on this.
 Rather than debate the merits of that, which I think we will do over time, I do want to ask you to consider that these legal marijuana shops are already offsetting public safety costs considerably.
 not having to cite or arrest adult marijuana users, freeze up time and resources for other needs. Additionally, we are seeing that about $15 million is being spent each month right now by recreational cannabis consumers buying at seven grams at a time, and that's a significant amount of money. And in fact, it means that these pot shops have become our front line of defense against black market sales.
 Portlanders have willingly come into the shops and I think they are very glad to have a safe and legal place to go. I have heard of very few situations where police were called out to any of the dispensaries and I think it will be very interesting to see trends in arrests and citation reports on marijuana related charges.
 If we do want to use these cannabis tax dollars for police services, let's please at least recognize that these businesses are a growing part of the solution and that they are really not much of a public safety problem at all. As you said, Jeff, you'll be participating in the extensive and robust Office of Neighborhood Involvement budget.
 process. So that's an argument or a discussion we can have then. Absolutely. The fourth area is jobs and job training. We are already seeing strong growth in jobs in this emerging cannabis industry, and that will accelerate as more facilities come online. Any funds we can use to make sure these small, often family-owned craft businesses are successful will represent huge wins for our neighborhoods and downtown and for the people that we are directly impacting.
 Additionally, I want to mention that we are gratified that we have opened up an ongoing dialogue with Commissioner Fritz and the marijuana industry over the last month, and with an eye towards looking at how we can improve the licensing program as we move forward. We think that's going to be a very valuable process. And finally, just to say our cannabis businesses are already paying dividends in jobs.
 and public safety. Now cannabis consumers are going to be paying a tax directly to the city, and I think we can accomplish a lot of positive goals if we use these tax dollars wisely, and we're more than happy to help in those discussions. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 Mayor Hales, members of the council, my name is Matt Wallstatter. I'm filling in for Amy Margolis, who's traveling for work. I'm a member of the Oregon Cannabis Association and a co-owner of a dispensary in the Hollywood District with my wife, Megan. We live in northeast Portland with our son. I'm here to testify on the marijuana tax on behalf of the Oregon Cannabis Association, which is Oregon's leading professional association for the cannabis business community.
 The City of Portland proposed tax referral to the November ballot coincides with the reduction of state taxes so that the timing should not put more pressure on the legal market to compete with the illegal market. The OCA applauds the City for being thoughtful about the timing in that regard. As the Council knows, the most effective way to combat the illegal market is to support the legal market, and price sensitivity is a key factor. However, I would like to take a moment to reflect on the history of the ability to enact a local tax on campus. Yes.
 The Oregon Cannabis Association worked during the 2015 legislative session to balance the interests of local governments to enact up to a 3% tax on cannabis with the interests of cannabis businesses in creating a limited framework for time, place, and manner regulations.
 This was seen as a compromise to meet the needs of local governments to generate specific local revenues, and to meet the needs of the cannabis business community in avoiding excessive or punitive taxing and regulation, as well as to provide incentive for local jurisdictions to allow cannabis businesses. The City of Portland has adopted one of the most extensive regulatory frameworks for cannabis businesses in the state. Many of our members, including me, have found it difficult to successfully navigate the process.
 While some of these difficulties are growing pains, other challenges are based on the hyperintensive regulatory process that ONI has developed. This process far exceeds what any other business needs to go through in this city in order to be allowed to operate. While I have never applied for a liquor license, I did look on the web at the requirements, and I've attached a comparison of what it takes to get a liquor license versus a cannabis license.
 The OCA has appreciated the recent outreach from Commissioner Fritz's office to discuss how the marijuana program has been going, what is working, and what is challenging. We have requested greater transparency in the marijuana management program. Specifically, we were hopeful that the city website would begin posting regular updates, including the number of marijuana business applications filed, the number of marijuana applications processed, the length of time to obtain intake appointment from the time of request,
 the number of licenses granted, the number of licenses denied, the revenue generated from licensing fees, the cost of administering a license, and the cost of the overall program, and the number and nature of complaints filed with the city against cannabis businesses. In addition, the OCA has requested a specific and immediate change, which is to remove the unnecessary and unworkable requirement for off-site video storage.
 The OLCC originally had this as a requirement, but then dropped it after working with stakeholders to assess the needs and feasibility of this requirement. In some cases, businesses are located in buildings where there is simply not the technology to meet this requirement at all or in a reasonably affordable way.
 The OTA has also requested that cannabis businesses be given a regulatory framework for adult use public engagement, similar to other craft products such as breweries, wineries, and distilleries. It is time to integrate cannabis into the larger craft business community that makes Portland and Oregon so unique. We also hope that if there are necessary changes to state law in order to allow for greater flexibility in the types of events cannabis business can participate in, we can count on the city to be a good partner in advocating for these fixes with the legislature.
 The OCA understands that the City is under time constraints regarding a referral to voters for the fall election. However, the quick turnaround from when we learned about the tax proposal to the deadlines the City must work within were simply too quick for us to take a formal position on the tax at this time, although I will say it seems very unlikely that we would come out in opposition of the tax.
 Again, we appreciate and acknowledge Commissioner Fritz taking the time to meet with us and her good faith efforts to incorporate language into Section 3 of the tax proposal to create some funding to potentially support cannabis businesses or criminal justice reform and social service organizations trying to address the aftermath of cannabis prohibition. Hopefully, some of the meetings and discussions we have had over the last week and a half will lead to more open lines of communication between the city and cannabis businesses and result in greater partnership moving forward.
 Thank you for the opportunity to testify. Thank you very much. And on the record, yes, we will continue to collaborate and to address the issues that you're concerned about. We really appreciate that. So, Matt and Commissioner Fritz, I just have a question off of your testimony. So let's put aside the question of the tax and let's just go to the regulatory side. So we've adopted a regulatory framework.
 We're test-driving it. As I read your testimony, you have some concerns about the balance we struck and perhaps some suggestions for how we could streamline that. What is our mechanism under this framework?
 for doing that, Commissioner Fritz. What's the recap process, if you will, that applies to this? And what's the earliest time the council might be engaged in a conversation about how is the regulatory framework working? Do we need to streamline it or make any changes? And how would we get the information to make that judgment?
 Thank you for the question. It would be the same as any of the other bureaus that we all are in charge of, that the Commissioner in charge will work with the people who are concerned. And as you will remember, when we did the initial regulations last fall, I ran out of five different hearings that we had and a number of different. As soon as we have something forward, we won't wait for a recap-type package, which for the
 For those who are not land use geeks, that's for the development code, and it comes to us once a year. We won't wait for a once a year. If we have something that needs to be amended, I'm committed to getting it in front of council as quickly as possible.
 just a food for thought it seems to me particularly since we're we're this is an experiment that's unfolding that we may want to consider in the fall work session talk about what what has where are we how is this working and then if there are suggestions that are coming to all of us either to you or through us for improvements we could have a group discussion about that
 We certainly could. There's also the marijuana policy oversight team that meets regularly, that if you'd like to sit in on any of their deliberations, that's a mixture of industry and neighborhood folks who are going to be forwarding suggestions to me, like other advisory committees that we have.
 I just want to second that. I would appreciate a work session because, for example, I wasn't aware until recently that Eugene has no regulations of marijuana whatsoever other than regulations that apply to businesses in general. So I'd be curious to hear from people in Eugene about whether that's caused any problems or whether it's working pretty well. We can certainly do that. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Thank you.
 I was just reflecting that if we did that in the fall, if after this tax that hopefully is referred, we're not allowed to campaign on it on city time with city equipment like this video. But if we were to have an unrelated work session, that might be an opportunity for people in the public to learn more about the program without...
 talking about the ballot measure. So, yes, we have one final panel, and that is Rachel Banks, the Director of Equity Planning and Strategy at Multnomah County Health Department, and Mary Wacker, the Chief Executive Officer of DePaul Treatment Centers. Thank you very much, both of you, for joining us today. You're welcome.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hills and members of the council. For the record, my name is Rachel Banks. I'm the Director of Equity Planning and Strategy for the Multnomah County Health Department. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for the opportunity to be here today to provide testimony on Portland's marijuana tax resolution. Multnomah County Health Department supports the City of Portland in its inclusive process.
 and consideration of the marijuana tax resolution. We appreciate the opportunity to speak from the perspective of public health and your consideration of equity impacts and opportunities. Over the past year, Multnomah County Health Department staff have been working closely with the City of Portland's Office of Neighborhood Involvement to promote a safe transition to marijuana legalization.
 We're eager to continue this partnership with the City of Portland to determine effective strategies for protecting the public's health. Last fall, you may remember our Health Officer, Dr. Jennifer Vines, addressed you all regarding Portland's Marijuana Time, Place, and Manner Ordinance.
 At that time, Dr. Vine shared our public health priorities for marijuana legalization, which include public safety, youth prevention, and individuals' health, including things like treatment for addictions, health harms due to smoking, and accidental poisoning. Some of the public health issues that we've been tracking post-legalization include emerging science regarding driving under the influence of marijuana,
 accidental poisoning, and the youth's use of marijuana and their perceptions about its health impacts. Though there's still a lot we don't know about marijuana health impacts, we do know that driving under the influence of marijuana increases the risk of crashes. In a driving simulation study, drivers who had ingested both marijuana and alcohol were particularly impaired.
 We also recognize the challenges that law enforcement faces in the field when testing for driving under the influence of marijuana. We believe this highlights the need for outreach and education as a strategy. In Multnomah County, 9% of 8th graders and 21% of 11th graders reported using marijuana in the past month. This is slightly higher than the state of Oregon and in the nation overall. Two-thirds of 11th graders said it would be easy to get marijuana if they wanted to, and this was prior to marijuana legalization.
 We know that teens think that more of their peers are using marijuana than actually are, and clearly there's much work to be done to reach youth. We've also been in close contact with our colleagues in Colorado, Washington, and Alaska as best practices for protecting the public's health in light of marijuana legalization are rapidly being developed.
 We would welcome the opportunity to share what we have learned from our colleagues in the scientific literature. And given more time, we would also welcome the opportunity to share challenges and gaps that we've seen in folks getting the treatment that they need.
 Once again, we compliment the City of Portland in selecting mental health as an area that needs more resources. We know that advertising and media campaigns are effective platforms for marijuana education, and we welcome the opportunity to work with you as the local public health authority with the City of Portland as you refine your considerations. Again, I appreciate the opportunity to provide testimony, and would be happy to follow up with any questions you may have. Thank you. We really appreciate your partnership and your shared commitment. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. My name is Marie Wacker. I am the chief executive officer for DePaul Treatment Centers. At DePaul, we serve about 2,400 individuals a year and their families with comprehensive substance use treatment and mental health treatment. In fact, 20% of our 2,400 people are the city's homeless.
 We offer the full continuum of care from medical detox to residential to day treatment and outpatient services. We believe that addiction is a disease and treatable like any other, and in fact, treatment works like treatment does for any other disease. We employ about 170 people, and our budget is about $13 million.
 We have three locations, two of which are in the city. Our adult location is located at 13th and Southwest Washington downtown, and our youth facility is located at 42nd and Northeast Killingsworth. I am here to support the council's vote to refer a ballot. Ninety percent of adults addicted today first began using under the age of 18 and half under the age of 15, according to the Partnership for Drug-Free Kids.
 At DePaul's youth facility, we serve kids 12 to 17 years old. Sixty-one percent of those kids coming into treatment have a primary drug of choice of marijuana. We anticipate, although it's too early to tell, there's a slight uptick in vaccines legislation, about one to two percentage points.
 that this percentage will rise due to the legalization of marijuana and the resulting declining belief among youth regarding the risks associated with marijuana use. Anybody can tell you if you look at examinations of the human brain after years of marijuana use, there are changes in the physical brain itself.
 The cost of providing youth treatment for us is substantial due to the high regulatory requirements for child-caring facilities. Currently, DePaul loses $102 a night for every child in our care, which amounts to over $770,000 a year. Consequently,
 We work actively to cover this gap because we believe in treating kids, and we want to keep them from entering addiction as they become adults. So, therefore, we are in support of this tax and its use toward helping to treat kids and adults who have substance use addiction. Thank you. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you. Thanks. That completes our presentation. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 So let's turn to the sign-up sheet, please. I show 10 people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Stacy Ballas, Mary Pavito, and Chris Winter. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Are you ready? Go ahead. Or Stacey, whichever. Well, I can start. My name is Mary Pivoto. I'm a Northwest Portland resident and I appreciate the opportunity today to speak to this proposal. And I can understand why.
 you know, I come to speak to you, and you probably know I'm going to talk about air quality and why that may seem a little off topic in today's discussion. But I will tell you that right now, I think the urgency on clean air initiatives and the public health and safety that this issue of air pollution in our city and community
 are urgent and need us to be incredibly creative to find the resources to address the problem. You received testimony today from Oregon Environmental Council, and just to double down a bit on the public safety and health issue of diesel pollution specifically, it's putting 90 percent of Oregonians at risk, and pretty much 100 percent of Portland residents are at risk of from 40 to 100 times
 healthy levels, cancer-causing levels due to diesel pollution.
 The problem with diesel pollution is that it's a very fixable problem, except that it costs money. Our neighbors, both to the south and the north, have invested significantly more money at the same time over the last 15 years while Oregon has de-invested in this problem. So while we've seen significant investments from California, also Washington state, $58 million have been invested to change over 14,000 engine upgrades
 In that same period of time, Oregon has only invested $4.3 million for 369 engine upgrades. And so it's critical that I think we always look for funding opportunities to address this problem. And I think it's critical, especially in this moment right now, that we consider the barriers on this –
 these funding. And in the past, we have the opportunity today to support the state legislature to more aggressively address diesel pollution, which they are doing. But in the history, the City of Portland has not necessarily stepped up and said that it's going to help lead by example on the diesel initiatives through public contracting and clean diesel requirements.
 and specifically with regards to minority and women-owned businesses. These are the folks that operate probably the dirtiest trucks in our city. They're driving in our neighborhoods, and it's the area where we need the most funding opportunities because oftentimes they can't meet the capital requirements that the federal money requires of them to put up $60,000 towards the cost of a $120,000 truck there.
 So we really need the city to look at funding opportunities for these small businesses, minority and women-owned contractors. And I see this as an excellent opportunity with a new tax proposal at the city to do just that. Thank you very much. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Hi, my name is Stacy Vallis, and I live in northwest Portland. And I'm here as a concerned citizen. I want to back Mary up on this notion that I would like to advocate that a portion of the revenues from the marijuana tax be devoted to dealing with a very serious air quality problem that our city and state have. I got involved with this issue in 1999.
 My sons then were three and one, and I thought of Oregon and Portland in particular as sort of on the cutting edge environmentally. I saw flyers in the neighborhood about the work that the local neighborhood association health and advisory committee had been doing supporting.
 to monitor the air in northwest Portland, which, as you know, is right on the edge of the industrial sanctuary and close to freeways. Thank you.
 And I was just stunned by the hundreds of toxics in the air at relatively high levels. And I went to some neighborhood meetings and I got involved. My background is higher education, English and American literature. I have really no expertise in this except for what I got from going to meetings with DEQ and the Health and Environment Committee.
 And I was really so disheartened to learn how the system worked or didn't work that DEQ relies on self-reporting by industry. And there was an air pollution monitor at the post office in northwest Portland that showed a suite of metals that
 that was a signature for a steel factory. And there was a steel factory, ESCO, a few blocks away. But we were really, I mean, amazingly unsuccessful at getting anyone to think of having a fence line monitor. It was impossible to move on that. Oh, the pollution could be coming from any number of sources. And...
 The DEQ can use its muscle with sometimes, I have experience with this, with smaller organizations that they actually don't even have regulatory discretion over. But I thought it was really scandalous how little was done
 to monitor and regulate, have oversight over larger polluters. And I think we've seen repeatedly, oh my, that local action can really drive larger statewide change, say with minimum wage, paid sick leave. And local activists like Mary and her group and neighborhood groups have really moved this issue. And without this local activism,
 We wouldn't have much change, and I just want to encourage local government to be a partner in this. And I think that can have enormous leverage, and I hope you'll consider using some of the revenues for this serious problem. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, for the record, my name is Chris Winter. I am the co-executive director of the Craig Law Center, public interest environmental law firm based here in Portland. We provide legal aid for the environment for communities across the Pacific Northwest. Thank you for the opportunity to address you this afternoon. I'll try to be brief.
 In February of this year, our collective consciousness here in Portland changed overnight with the release of information from the U.S. Forest Service about dangerous levels of toxics in the air that we breathe day in and day out here in our city. But for many of us, this was not new information. We had known for years that communities were struggling with dangerous air quality in Portland. And in fact, most often, it is our communities of color and low-income communities that suffer the worst. Thank you.
 And for years, when those communities went to DEQ to complain about headaches and nausea, breathing problems, sleep problems, DEQ would say to them, we don't collect air quality data in a way that might point the finger at an individual facility. But, of course, now we know one bad actor can cause serious problems for its neighbors.
 So what was it that changed so dramatically in February for all of us? It was data, data collected by a different agency that finally shed light on what was really going on here in Portland. So the state is now slowly starting to collect more data, and virtually every place it looks, it finds more dirty air within our city boundaries. So decades of regulatory neglect have left us with a very serious health threat that
 affecting the most vulnerable members of our community. So these experiences should be a lesson for all of us that we cannot let these responsibilities fall on any one agency. We are very concerned that the state is moving too slowly and that we are seeing the same patterns of behavior recurring already. But no matter what efforts the state makes now, we must build the capacity of local and regional entities to protect our air quality and the welfare of the citizens who live in Portland.
 So this new source of revenue can help to address an urgent and persistent public health threat in our city. And of course, the cannabis industry also produces its own waste streams, air pollution from glassmaking, water use and water pollution and pesticides. And so it makes perfect sense for a portion of the cannabis tax to be dedicated to the intersection of environmental protection and human health.
 So in conclusion, the health and safety of our children, our elders, and our most vulnerable depend on our efforts. And in a city that prides itself on sustainability, we desperately need our city government committed to ensuring that our air is safe to breathe for everyone. Thank you. Next three are Pam Ali, Mary Ann Schwab, and Doug Carson. Afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 My name is Pamela Lee. I hope the voters pass this tax in the fall if you indeed choose to put it on the ballot. You've been considering today a wide range of social concerns, and I too hope that you consider some physical environmental concerns. I live in North Portland, where I've been in the same house since 1995.
 What I've handed you is a current copy of some of the times I know that I've complained to the DEQ about strong industrial odors inside my house, even in the winter, by the way. And summer's coming when we want to keep our windows open. It doesn't represent all the times I was awakened and sickened by strong odors, but it's fairly complete. I fill this log out when I contact the DEQ at the same time.
 My pleas to the DEQ at least tell me what faceless enterprise is inundating my house with asphalt odors making me ill have gotten only three responses since 2012. And I believe that the log begins in 2012, but I was complaining before that. The last one was the most extensive. A DEQ employee in Bend asked me quite a few questions.
 but offered no information. I don't know how somebody in Bend could possibly be informed about what's going on in Portland. The longer this goes on, the madder I get. I'm amazed at the patience of my neighbors who are dealing with the very arrogant and rude people at Daimler. Many of these neighbors have young children, and I cannot imagine how they must worry about their children's future. And if any of you folks...
 smelled what you can smell when Daimler releases this awful paint, you would know. I mean, you wouldn't just want to sit there. You'd want to do something. One more thing. What is in our air also assaults our soil and river. Anyone who is serious about being a clean or green community must begin with the air. And the air is something that we, it's the first thing we do when we come out of our mother is we take a breath of air. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mary Ann. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. For the record, my name is Mary Ann Schwab, community advocate. Yes, Commissioner Fritz has worked with the cannabis industry, representatives, neighbors, city staff, and other members of council to shape a proposal for how the projected revenue will be spent. It is important to me that there is a nexus between the purpose of the tax and the benefit to those who will be paying it.
 The city doesn't have enough money to address the public health and safety impacts of the drug and alcohol consumption. This tax would provide revenues for those purposes as well as support new businesses and job training. I think it's really important that we erase so many of our young people who are in jail just for smoking and marijuana, and I'm so pleased that you've already started to address that.
 So please do not take money from these purposes. I believe doing so would take away the nexus and make the ballot measure harder to pass, so I'm asking council to stick to the uses as proposed. In my humble opinion, the 3% tax on revenue marijuana as well as cannabis product sales is unthinkably insufficient. Thank you.
 It will not pencil out the taxpayer's total cost to pay for the office of neighborhood noise control officer, police officers, 911 responders who respond to those individual and businesses who find loopholes and work on the shady side of life. For starters, maybe accepting free plans in exchange for whatever.
 And once this is set, it's utterly impossible to change. You all know I've been down here trying to raise the beer malt beverage fee frozen since 1977 at a penny a pint.
 Once this is in law, it may take another 40 years, about the time that our PDC-URAC's South Waterfront and Clinton Street Triangle expires in 2056. If we don't do it right now, we'll lose those votes in November. The public doesn't like tap dancing with their dollars. Now that I am happy to hear Mary and others work for the quality of air,
 And whether it be escrow, you've known about escrow, we've known about bullseye, we've known about for years and years precision cast parks. DEQ needs to be dealt with. Our governor's done her best. Some people are no longer there. But they can do more. That is a state issue. Multnomah County's right in addressing the public health issues, especially addressed to our children. So I thank you for reconsidering this and setting up a collaborative effort.
 Commissioner Fritz is right. We really need to work together with Metro, with Multnomah County, OLCC. There's a lot of factors here. There's a lot of work yet to be done. Don't change the focus that Commissioner Fritz has put in front of us. Thank you. Thank you, Marianne. I'm Doug Larson. I'm chairman of the Cathedral Park Neighborhood Association, and I'm also a member of the Portland Harbor CAG.
 I remember seeing most of you participate in the St. John's parade this year. So I know that you sometimes share the same air we're breathing in North Portland. Given that you're raising revenue from smoking, I think it's appropriate to talk about what else goes into our lungs. In the short term, I would like to see you
 advocate for the clean diesel. Tina Kotek did a town hall meeting in North Portland on Monday night, and she indicated one of her legislative priorities this year will be achieving parity with California and Washington on diesel emissions. That's something the city can lobby for in the short term. I'd also like to see the city spend money on monitoring emissions
 At that same meeting, DEQ made a presentation about monitoring around Swan Island and Daimler, and the university professors that rebutted the DEQ arguments pointed out that all of their monitoring was in a place where they weren't directly monitoring what was coming from Swan Island, so they weren't getting useful results.
 Additionally, they put up a heavy metals detector up by Columbia Steel. It didn't report any heavy metals. It reported arsenic. But Columbia Steel self-reports something like 38,000 pounds of manganese into the atmosphere. George Middle School is...
 One of the 1% worst air quality in the entire country, the USA Today smokestack report that's been redacted is back online. So they report that the middle school, 93% of their air pollution is manganese.
 and they report that most of that they attribute to Columbia Steel. But there's a huge blanket of silence about industrial pollution in North Portland. We would like to get some air monitoring so we know exactly what we're dealing with. Long term, I would love to see the city take responsibility for air quality away from DEQ. DEQ has completely betrayed the public trust. They're
 show evidence of being too willing to compromise public health to promote corporate profit thank you for your consideration thank you thank you all very much next three are Mary a artist Laura Vanderlinde and Cedric Wilkins hi good afternoon City Council I want to think all the wonderful citizens who are coming up to offer their testimony I'm very
 in agreement with their issues about air quality and think that it's kind of inspiring to know that the people who are cannabis activists are also cross-disciplinary environmental activists. And I think that's just a beautiful, symbolic thing about how Portland thinks. And I had run into Nick Caleb on the way in, and I was like, how should I take this? And he's like, well, we're going to try to put an environmental twist on it and move it towards some kind of allocation of the tax revenue into the environment.
 But I just wanted to share with you something I find really fascinating, which is an international law enforcement organization called LEAP, and it's Law Enforcement Against Prohibition. And I found out from a former MI5 animation, or spelled M-A-C-H-O-N, but she is very proud of this and promoting it. And I think we really have to think about how what we are doing is important.
 of worldwide importance. It's being looked at from an international basis. There are very frustrated activists in other countries who are not to this point. So it's maybe a great time to pat ourselves on the back after a long day and a long year of how hard our community is working on these issues and how many people are gaining relief from social...
 suffering and chronic pain and anxiety. And I thank all the great people like David Keith Davis's mother, Miss Pamela Snow White Davis, who was an early pioneer of the marijuana reform movement. And we've got a lot of people in our community who think along these lines, like Barry Joe Stull. And I also want to recognize an officer who fell in the line of duty in a Portland police marijuana raid back in the day.
 Barry Stoll knows all about it, and he really should look at his Department of Justice fairness hearing in Judge Simon's court testimony, because he refers to his deep insider knowledge of Colleen's death. And her last name is escaping me. I'm thinking it was like a...
 It began with an H. But we have to see that when law enforcement internationally are uniting to try to shift the focus onto other things, I don't know so much about them, but I would suggest some people get involved with them and look at them and see how we can reach out possibly even to our own federal government, see if they can see things through our eyes, and then move towards a future where we can deal with –
 serious drug addiction as a disease and not a crime, so we can have a more humane society. Thank you so much for your work on this measure, Ms. Fritz, and I support and approve it. Thank you very much. And I'd like to recognize the work of the future activists who I've just met
 And I'm very excited to hear their testimony. And I really appreciate the reallocation of three minutes instead of the previously curtailed two minutes, which was a disrespect to the citizens' voice. But I think the citizens will be resilient and spring back and be here to hold that space. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm artist Laura Vanderlin. Yeah, I...
 I know that in January there was a 25% tax on marijuana. Is that correct? Right now. So, yes, right now there's a 25% tax on marijuana. So I'm just against the whole 3%. You cite, or I've heard, that we want this marijuana tax for...
 for police, to pay for more police, for... what was it again? Where did I see it? Anyways, for the health and safety of our children.
 We have a cigarette tax that should be taking care of that. We have insurance that should be taking care of a lot of things that you're asking the 3% to pay for. I don't understand why we need to pay 3% when we are already paying 25%. There's a lot of – I don't go into a liquor store and sign my name and have to, like –
 say who I am and get a picture of my ID. I just go into a liquor store and buy liquor. So there's a lot of, how do I say it, like gatekeeping in the marijuana industry, and I'm not exactly sure why that is. I just know that 3% is not necessary. We don't need more policing on marijuana. We just need to let people...
 enjoy their recreational marijuana or their medicinal marijuana without any more tax. 3%. Who's going to allocate this money as this 3%, where that money goes? And who's going to regulate the person that's supposed to be allocating it? Because we have businesses, we have...
 other areas where we allocate money to help the community, and then that money is not, those resources are not given to the community. So I really am against a 3% tax, because you here in this city are not trustworthy to allocate that money, to not give it to the people. You tend to keep it, to hold on to it, and not share it with the community. I don't believe that we should do...
 Any more than 25%, 25% is already excessive. It's already excessive. And you all just kind of line your pockets or your friends' pockets or your cronies' pockets. I am against the 3% tax. Thank you very much. So just to clarify, Ms. Artis, the 25% tax goes down to 17 starting the next January. 17 is excessive. I think that would be reasonable. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. Go ahead. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I support the 3% tax on marijuana, recreational marijuana. I think marijuana is a good way to get people off of cigarettes. Cigarettes are carcinogenic, and I don't particularly think marijuana is. I knew a person one time who smoked while she was pregnant, and her son was three months premature of
 The little thing was like this big, and she smoked. Any attempt to make people like that stop smoking, like hypnosis or something like the positive hypnosis, is a good thing. I think it costs $250,000 to keep a premature child on an incubator. And the cost of hypnosis is probably, what, $1,000 for that person?
 I will vote yes for this, but if you start watering it down and say it has to pay for DEQ or a bunch of other things, I may vote no. Just keep it exclusively for drug and alcohol programs, exclusively, as some sort of way to take some recreal marijuana and turn it into a way to stop people from abusing cigarettes and alcohol. Thank you. Okay. The last person who signed up is Penny Miners. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Okay. Good afternoon. My name is Penny Miners. I live in North Portland. I'm neither a competent nor a comfortable public speaker, but I am here today to speak for my North Portland neighbors, the mothers and fathers who cannot be here in the middle of the work week, the mothers and fathers who are terrified of the air their children are breathing and tired of being on the DEQ merry-go-round.
 I am here to ask that you consider using some of these new revenues to fund the establishment of a local air quality authority. We live in a neighborhood of the good, the bad, and the ugly. We are fortunate to have an industrial neighbor, Vigor, who stepped forward and took responsibility for the pollutants they were putting into our air and cleaned them up.
 We are unfortunate to have another industrial neighbor, Daimler, who denies any responsibility for the paint fumes that assault our neighborhood on a regular basis, and they continue to spew what appears to be neurotoxins into our air. We are a neighborhood which has been truly and miserably let down time and time and time again by the agencies whose job it is to protect the air we breathe.
 We have a long four- or five-year history of working, waiting, and being let down by DEQ, starting with Daimler's Title V permit, waiting for DEQ to develop its nuisance strategy, waiting through the Swan Island forum process, then waiting again through DEQ's nuisance investigation of Daimler, and most recently let down and stunned by the inadequacy of their year-long monitoring program in North Portland.
 DEQ does not know its science. It does not do peer review. As Professor Ekman of UP said of DEQ's nuisance investigation, if this were a study done by one of his students, even an undergraduate would receive a failing grade. Nor does DEQ engage with the neighborhood. We neighbors are left feeling as if we are all alone out there and there is no one in our corner.
 We need, or rather I hope we don't need, a local air authority. I hope this nightmarish ride on DEQ's Marigold Round ends with the state adopting new health-based air quality regulations because I know the industry does not need another layer of regulatory control. However, we need to be ready to take local control if the state's efforts fail. So we need to start doing our homework now. The dollars spent preparing...
 for local control will not be wasted dollars if the state succeeds. Rather, the homework we do can be used as peer review for DEQ's proposed regulatory changes. For, as our neighborhood experience can attest, DEQ needs a lot of peer review. Please, we need health-based air quality regulations. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I don't smoke marijuana.
 but I was there for the people that wanted to legalize it when you denied them a permit down at the waterfront park for educational purposes. I want to see more with this tax applied toward more educational purposes, again, drug and alcohol treatment. And one of the issues I have, it's interesting here today, on people talking about air pollution, which I did not think that would be happening at this particular meeting, but...
 With that in mind, it's given me an opportunity to say something that has really concerned me for quite a long time. Next door at the Portland building, you have a daycare center. Along that daycare center, you leave that open for the young children that are a lot of the children of the people in this building and also the Portland building. But when you look at the location of that daycare center and the open area they have the young kids out there, if you notice...
 The buses stop right on that corner every 20 minutes. And when you look at their exhaust going up and the wind blowing toward that daycare center, I look at that with a lot of concern because these are the young kids of the city employees where you have the buses stopping at the proximity of only 30 feet across the street with the exhaust going up high in the air.
 knowing that those fumes float over to that daycare center. And it's always upset me that something hasn't been done to stop that from happening, at the very least, and close that facility so that air isn't just...
 there are every 20 minutes from those TriMet buses affecting the young kids of the employees of City Hall. And that is a fact. If you were to test that air right next door to that daycare center, those young kids are breathing that probably right now as we're speaking. And something needs to be done. Something.
 Something needs to be done. It needs to be tested to protect those young kids in daycare centers which are breathing that currently as we speak. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? All right. Thank you all.
 Further discussion before we move this on to second reading? It's a resolution. Sorry, it's a resolution. But if council wants to move it to next week, we could do it next week. We have the other referral next week, too, so I'm trying to avoid that. So is there some interest in delaying until next week? There is, at least on my part. I want to address the air quality issues that folks here have raised.
 And I think that their suggestions are very much worth considering. I was talking with Mary Pivoto about various air pollution initiatives that the city might want to invest in on Friday. And it occurred to me that this might provide a vehicle. And I talked to Commissioner Fritz about it, and she told me that basically it's too late. We're too far along in this process now to add such provision, among other things. But...
 I think that we – I hope everybody reads the Oregon Environmental Council's testimony, and I'll cite from a fact sheet that they have online. Diesel pollution causes up to 460 premature deaths in Oregon each year. That's the headline. And Oregon is a dumping ground for dirty diesel engines because the state does not have the kind of regulation on diesel engines that California and Washington do.
 And what the Oregon Environmental Council says is that, I mean, obviously they support simply adopting California or Washington-style regulations on diesel, but they also say that the oldest and most polluting engines also tend to be the ones that work in greatest proximity to our neighborhoods, running local routes or work on local construction projects. These older engines are the workhorses of small business owners for whom the cost of a new engine is prohibitive.
 By investing our dollars and offsetting the cost of new engines, we can gain public health benefits in supporting these local operators. Now, it's my hope that we adopt...
 for our next legislative agenda as one of our priorities, asking the legislature to, as Speaker Kotak has suggested, adopt California or Washington-style diesel regulations. We would hope, of course, that the state would step up with some money for small and particularly women minority-owned businesses with dirty diesel engines to help them retrofit them.
 But I think that our advocacy would be stronger and we'd have more credibility with the state if we said there was at least a possibility that we'd be able to step up and provide some matching funds for those kind of conversions.
 Now, I understand Commissioner Fritz's concern that she's got a package that she is quite confident would pass at the ballot and she's reluctant to tamper with it. So I think it might be appropriate to think about any changes for a week or so. But just looking at the resolution, I think that, I mean, there's some folks here, I think, who would want to have a more general statement that the money could be used for air quality programs.
 But given my particular concern about diesel and the particular concern about small businesses, I think actually we could fit that in simply by making a modification to the third bullet. I don't know if businesses with diesel engines are innovative neighborhood small businesses, but they are businesses. So to be safe, to allow that for use, we might not have to knock out innovative businesses.
 and maybe even neighborhood. But I would just add one more, perhaps after job training opportunities, add retrofitting equipment and vehicles to reduce air pollution as one of the kind of assistance to small business in addition to business incubator programs that we might spend some of this money on. Okay, other comments? So I guess...
 I had a question of the sponsor. How will this money, assuming the measure passes, how will this allocation...
 be made? Who makes the decisions? Who makes the recommendations to the council? That's the more important part. The budget process. So it will go through the office-enabled involvement budget process, which as you remember is once a week for several months. We'll have also involved the marijuana policy oversight team, so there'll be a separate consideration, including industry reps and neighborhood reps. Anybody who shows up gets to participate in the office-enabled budget session, and then their recommendation will come to council for a final decision.
 So we're relying on neighborhood activists to make decisions about drug treatment programs and the efficacy of them? It's just like any other, everything else in the budget process. We listen to our community members, and it comes as a recommendation to the council. Yeah, I guess my concern, frankly, you know, to be quite blunt, is I'm just concerned that the only committee is so inclusive that we're going to get recommendations that
 Counting everything under the sun is eligible for funding under this. Well, I think you'll find from the industry reps that they are very also able to participate, and I would just respectfully ask you to— But there's 50 already on the only committee. No, there's zero right now. Well, historically there's 50.
 You made a point of that throughout the budget process. Anybody who wants to can participate. And we've had a very robust set of discussions on marijuana, so anybody who wants to can come and participate. Okay, well, I mean, I'm not going to oppose this effort here, but I do want to just raise the flag that I think putting it under the only budget advisory committee process is going to produce skewed recommendations for the funding. Okay, thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor, could you just give us where we're at with the clean, with the district and the discussions with the council? I want to comment on this, and I am very interested in the air quality issue. But, frankly, I regard that as a completely severable matter from the approval of this tax. First of all, we've got to decide, as a city and a county, if we want to take on a function which is now a state function. We've heard today...
 serious concerns about the competence of that state effort. I understand those concerns. But there's a threshold question for the city and the county, and that is do we want to use the authority we have to create a local air quality regulatory body? I am still open to that possibility, and I believe the county chair is as well. Then the question is what does that effort look like and how do you pay for it?
 I think, frankly, we would be getting way ahead of ourselves to earmark this revenue source for that good purpose, even if I ultimately believe we should spend a lot of money on that good purpose.
 First of all, my first choice would be to have polluters pay for how we deal with air quality rather than have some other revenue source earmarked for that purpose. So again, I'm being a little fussy here about revenue, but this ought to go into the council budget process. I won't be here to decide how these monies are spent, so let me put that aside.
 put that on the table right now. I don't have a special interest myself in how these monies are spent. But the council ought to have the flexibility, as the current language provides, to have it go into a variety of legitimate purposes that have something to do with marijuana, public safety, drug treatment, neighborhood business preservation.
 all things that are affected by the new arrival of this industry in our neighborhoods, including competing for real estate with neighborhood businesses. So I see a reasonable connection with all the purposes that you, Commissioner Fritz, have listed in the resolution. And, again, I have a great deal of interest in this air quality issue. But, frankly, to just opportunistically say, oh, here's a new revenue source, let's earmark that now for air quality, not knowing if we're going to cross the threshold and say we're going to have an air quality district,
 not knowing how much that effort would cost to do either what DEQ isn't doing or more of what they're doing, and then not taking an opportunity to, say, have people who contribute X tons of pollutants to pay by the ton for the cost of that effort,
 You know, I think those are all important discussions that the council ought to have and the county board as well. But I do think it's getting the cart before the horse to earmark this for air quality now. So I wouldn't support that as much as I'm interested in seeing the air quality issue addressed.
 Thank you. MR. Mayor, this does not earmark any specific money for anything. It makes it possible to spend the money on a variety of broad categories. MR. Fair enough. Fair enough. MR. And I think that there is a nexus in that a large number of people who consume marijuana do so by smoking, and smoking, whatever the other benefits of marijuana, is bad for your lungs. So to use some of the money to protect people's lungs from other pollutants I think is reasonable. MR. Well, fair enough. MR. I mean, this is – I mean, in terms of nexus, alcohol is not marijuana.
 And this language would allow money to be spent on alcohol treatment, not just marijuana treatment. This language would also authorize money to be spent on generic small business incubator programs. And Claire Adams made it quite clear that those don't have to be marijuana businesses. So I fail to see that the greater nexus between marijuana taxes and generic undefined small business incubator programs than there is between marijuana and air pollutions.
 And I also think that we've had a strong community concern of air quality issues, and I frankly have not heard a hue and cry from the citizenry about the need for generic business incubator programs recently. Well, let me put it a little differently, Steve, because those are all true points. But the things that are listed here now are all things the city does now. The city does not now regulate air polluters.
 Again, I'm very interested in the question of whether the city should regulate air polluters. But the city actually funds picking people up off the street who are inebriated and taking them to Hooper. The city now funds innovative neighborhood business development through PDC, and the city now funds public safety. So, again...
 This thing is in bounds with what is in our charter and what is in our code and what is in our body of work today. Again, I'm not close to the possibility that we might be in the air quality business in some future day, but to say that these revenues are available for a purpose that the city does not now provide is a stretch as far as I'm concerned.
 I'd just like to remind my colleagues that we don't actually have this money yet, so we're arguing about how it's going to be spent. And one of my goals is to pass the ballot measure. And I think by showing the clear nexus with a fairly broad range, and as you clarified at the beginning, Commissioner Novick, that neighborhood small businesses could include other businesses other than cannabis businesses. By doing that, I think it helps us pass the ballot measure, which is...
 I think more what I said when you and I discussed it on the weekend rather than that we're too late, because I do appreciate people who come in at the very last moment to give their say. There's no point in having a public hearing if it doesn't matter what the public says when they show up. And we have consistently on this council, and I have consistently, supported measures that put diesel issues on the legislative agenda and looking at clean air and making sure that we are looking after the people in the neighbourhoods.
 So what I said was that I believe that this package is what will help us pass the ballot measure, and that if we are able to pass the ballot measure, as the mayor just said, all of these things are things that we already do. So to the extent that we don't have to argue about whether we're going to fund cheers, which has been the – except for this year, Mayor, has been the argument that has turned up seven times –
 If we don't have to argue about are we going to continue to do the service coordination team, then there will be money that could go to future other uses. Let's pass it first. May I jump in for a second? Please. Good discussion. And I think the public expects us to have these discussions in public, so I appreciate we're having this discussion. So there's three or four different points which have been raised. I'll just address them.
 I will defer to the sense of the body as to whether we vote today or next week. I would like to avoid a situation where, since Commissioner Saltzman is bringing forward a revenue measure for referral next week, I want to make sure that they don't trespass. Perhaps we have a Wednesday and Thursday. Carla, do we have a Wednesday and Thursday next week? I'm sorry.
 Yes, we do. You have a time certain on Thursday, Dan? We do. That's the affordable housing bond referral. On Thursday? On Thursday the 30th, yes. So, I mean, if the council wants another week to discuss this, I'm fine with that. I want to make sure we don't have votes on the same day on this matter because I'd like them to be staged. Number two, my primary interest in –
 in creating a legislative history on this is to make sure that there's maximum flexibility granted to the council to make the judgments within the categories that commissioner fritz has set forth and i know these categories were carefully conceived i want to make sure that council has maximum flexibility there are two things that concern me about that one is um at the low end we're talking about three million dollars now
 $3 million probably doesn't move the needle much generally, and if we divide it into 10 different kinds of programs, probably has virtually no impact. And so my expectation, and tell me if I'm barking up the wrong tree, is that we would treat this fund like any other budget-related matter. We would begin with a budget guidance memo from the mayor saying, this year we have said that these are our priorities.
 To the extent a mayor wants to give specific guidance on this fund, that this is the year that public safety should go to the top or small business goes to the top, whatever. And in terms of feedback, the different categories cross many bureau lines.
 Small business is really just as much a province of Venture Portland and their advisory body as PDC and others. Public safety comes at us through a number of different committees. So I would want to make sure that the broadest possible cross-section of public had a chance to weigh in on priorities. But again, for me, the most important thing is that the council has the maximum flexibility to make this judgment, and we're clear with the voters about that.
 that we have a rational system for prioritizing things. And I think, frankly, in the last couple of years, Mayor, you've done a good job through the budget guidance memo setting kind of a framework. And I think that is the mayor's prerogative. That is one of your unique prerogatives. And number three, I want to make sure that whatever we're investing, assuming this passes and we have the money, I want to make sure we're moving the needle on something and this doesn't just become a small grant program where we fritter it around and say, well, that's wonderful, we've given money to 20 different groups, but we have nothing to show for it.
 Those are really good points, Commissioner. Thank you. And maybe one way to include what you just said with Commissioner Saltspoon's concern about the recommendation process, that it could be a completely separate Budget Advisory Committee for this particular fund, maybe through the mayor's office. It'll be a different mayor that I'll be pointing to, or through the city budget office.
 I'd be happy it's not specified in the code. It just says that it'll be considered in the budget process So I'm very open to doing that. Yeah to me. That was kind of a curveball Danny in that maybe I'm Misreading this but I'm assuming that if this tax passes these funds flow to the city of Portland and they are in
 basically allocated to the general fund. No, they're in a separate fund. They are in a separate fund. Yeah, it's a recreational marijuana tax fund. But again, given the purposes that these funds cover, they are a whole bunch of general fund purposes. Correct. So it would just be a color of money question after that as to what purposes got funded by how much of this revenue source and how much of the other general fund revenue sources. Mayor, I think
 I'm not speaking for Dan, but he caught my attention with the comment and I
 I think we can reasonably assume that wherever the money flows for purposes of recommendation to counsel, it will be shaped and colored by the primary consideration of that advisory group. And so let's say we said it was going to flow through the police advisory group. Well, we won't be surprised to see that there's a recommendation for $3 million to backfill cuts that we'd otherwise lose or to invest in new programs. I think we want to make sure that, again, going back to what I said earlier, I want the counsel to have the maximum flexibility –
 within the criteria that Commissioner Fritz has very thoughtfully laid out, to expend these monies in furtherance of what the voters, assuming they vote on it, direct us to do. And I would prefer not to get waylaid in some place where you might have a particular view of how it's been, coloring the recommendations coming to council. I hear that. You know what? Something we could do which would be interesting would be to ask the citizen budget advisors to be the budget group that decides about this stuff, the people who come to all of our work sessions. Yes.
 But anyway, the code is silent on how that process works. So I'm very happy to work with you all on figuring out how do we get the advice on how to spend it. As I said, my main concern right now is getting it referred and getting it referred in such a manner that I hope it will pass. Mr. Chair, I think my sense is you have the votes to refer this. Do you believe that an additional week of conversations –
 time certain for a vote would be beneficial or not, and I think the council would benefit from your view on that. I've worked on this really hard, so I think there's enough flexibility to help small businesses in general and would then free up other money. So if you're ready to vote. I'd prefer to do that as well, but again, if the assurances that you've made are sufficient to...
 address the concerns that you have, that's important because now I understand the concern you have better. And then an additional measure is that I concur with both the testifiers and Commissioner Novick that we do need to potentially do more on clean air if the state doesn't, and so I'll definitely be supportive of that effort. Thank you.
 So I guess I'm hearing in terms of assurances, Commissioner Fritz, you're saying that, in fact, we will not use the only budget advisory committee to be the decider. We will put together a hybrid committee. I'd be happy to do that, yes. Thank you for suggesting that. No pun intended. This new tax was first voted in public on, according to Alignment Week, May 16th.
 And I think it's rather unusual for us to pass a brand-new tax based on five weeks of deliberation and one hearing. The argument made against my rather minor amendment is that it might doom the ballot measure. I would like to have a week, or actually I'd like to have a couple of weeks, to try to gather some evidence that a small change in the language of the third bullet would not doom the ballot measure.
 Well, Steve, actually, I've got to disagree with that. We voted on a marijuana tax on this council before the measure was ever considered by the voters in 2014. As a preemptive measure, not anything substantive. And we're voting on the bond measure next week with you.
 I'd really rather not have both these tax measures on next week, so I'd prefer to take a vote today. If it fails, it fails, and then there'll be more time. Okay. I've stated an amendment before, eliminate the words innovative neighborhood for small businesses and add after job training opportunities.
 and just retrofitting equipment in vehicles to reduce air pollution, semicolon. So I move that amendment. Okay, is there a second for that? I'll second. Okay. Further discussion of the amendments. I'd like to speak against the amendment. The Wards Innovated Neighborhood Businesses was worked out with the industry, with Commissioner Fish's input, and I believe that adding the vehicle emissions makes –
 It just doesn't go in with what the rest of the package says. Mayor, a question to you. What you said earlier was you see these potentially as separate issues that can be addressed through separate approaches. Absolutely. There's a proposal being discussed about whether there should be a local regulatory agency with
 In connection with that, there could be a discussion about how you fund those activities or other kinds of things. And your view is that they can be dealt with separately? I do think they have to be dealt with separately because first we've got to decide what the city is going to do and what the county is going to do under the state law about forming an air quality district.
 So one could make the argument that it's a county public health function and that the county should take the lead. Obviously, we demonstrated earlier today that we're capable of having an adult discussion with Multnomah County about who's better at doing what. So we should have that discussion, decide what we want to do about a local air quality effort.
 once we've decided that we have to do that. My first choice is DEQ does an excellent job, and we have much better assurances about the air quality in our city provided by our state that has the regulatory authority today to do that job. If they fail in that, in our opinion, we do have the authority to proceed, and I'm still interested in doing that, but my first choice is for the state to do it well. Mayor, just the other question I want to ask is,
 The net effect is to open the door so that something could be funded in this category. It doesn't compel the council to fund it. The council may choose at some point. It's not the appropriate mechanism. So just help me understand that nuance. Well, the council has almost infinite discretion about how the general fund is spent. So if we took on an air quality function.
 we could first of all allocate general fund to that purpose. Secondly, we could enact some other revenue source, not even a tax but a permit for air quality, for air pollution, and those kinds of systems already exist. And you go through our city business license tax system to deal with those businesses that generate air pollutants. I mean, there are lots of ways and means by which the city could add funding to cover that new function, that new department that we have
 But before the city creates a new department at a time where we're already worried about funding, having enough police officers taking care of our parks and other basic city functions, I would urge the council to be very cautious about that question, even while being very resolute about making sure that the air quality issue is handled. I don't see that really being Commissioner Novick's amendment. Even though we heard testimony about creating our own regulatory authority, I don't think that's the intent of his amendment. I think the intent is to simply say –
 Shouldn't these grants be eligible? I thought it was a very good example for minority and women, emerging small businesses who often can't afford the cleaner diesel heavy equipment. Couldn't that be an eligible purpose of the grants under this revenue? Exactly, Commissioner Saltzman. The city does fund construction. I think they could ask for it under the current language. The current language is quite broad. Well, colleagues,
 We're referring a tax measure, and I think the tradition has been to try to get consensus when possible on these things. This is the council referring something, and the council has to stand on the back end. I want to make sure I understand what Commissioner Fritz just said. Is it your view that without the amendment, that particular –
 challenge could be funded with these dollars? Yes, I think if there's a women-owned or minority-owned business, they could say we're being very innovative. We're not. We're going to convert our trucks to cleaner diesel. So are we now arguing form over substance if it's covered? I think so. That's why I don't support the amendment. Steve, you now have legislative history that supports a concept you've raised that
 Again, my tendency is to defer to the sponsor if it gets really to a close call. You do seem to have legislative history that supports an issue that you have put on the table. Are you satisfied with that? Well, I'm a little worried that somebody might argue that – by the way, I just have to respond to what the mayor said about –
 We're only talking about things that we don't do and the city doesn't do this. The city does pay for a lot of construction, and the city tries to hire minority and women-owned and emerging small businesses. And this proposal would assist some of those businesses to continue to participate in construction.
 I am a little concerned that if we keep the word innovative in, and if there is a legal requirement that all engines be converted to clean diesel, complying with that requirement might not be seen as particularly innovative. So I'm a bit concerned by just saying that, believe the language as it is, when I cannot imagine that it's going to doom the measure to change a word or two. So I would accept as a friendly amendment the deletion of the word innovative, but not the rest of your proposed change.
 There's not objection. I'll accept that friendly amendment. Now, do you still want to vote on yours, Steve?
 Steve, I think that there's a legislative history. You have built a record. You have made a strong case. And you have your council colleagues agreeing that that is within a reasonable interpretation of the language. Okay. I appreciate that. Thank you. All right, Mayor. Can you withdraw your amendment, Steve? Yes, replacing it with the friendly amendment to the legal agreement. Okay, the friendly amendment's adopted. Further?
 Further discussion? I don't want the public to think we're backtracking from innovation. We'll go to our default position on innovation, which is whenever possible. And, Mayor, I move to vote. Okay. Let's take a vote, please. Just to put a little texture around this, I came to this hearing today not knowing what the outcome would be.
 not being clear about where we would land, whether we would vote today and what the final product would look like. So I really appreciate the collegial conversation. I appreciate the testimony. I appreciate the kind of public sausage making. And I think we've gotten to a place where it's likely we're going to have five votes in support of an action, which I think on a referral is important. It's particularly important where we're asking a single member of council take the lead in moving forward and seeking public support.
 I think this is a well-crafted resolution, and I think the priorities that are set forth in the Resolve in terms of where the money can be allocated make a lot of sense. And I'm also pleased that we are all in agreement that the Council will have maximum flexibility in deciding how to allocate the money. And Commissioner Fritz, based on the conversation we've had today,
 Excuse me, Mayor, if we can – Sorry, let him go on. Commissioner Fisher, would you yield for just one second? Thank you. In Exhibit B, we also have the word innovative. So we're going to need to change that as well as in the actual code language. And that gives us an extra word for the question. So instead of – in the question that we're going to be putting towards the voters, we said support innovative neighbourhood businesses. So since we don't need innovative anymore, we could put small instead.
 Small neighborhood businesses. That was my original suggestion. So I would – why don't we just move that as an amendment? Let's move both of those as an amendment, and let's backtrack, please. Call that the Fritz Amendment. We're going to amend the text of the first paragraph. Counsel, do we have that? Yeah. The Fritz Amendment has both. Everywhere – Let me –
 Let me restate it. We're going to amend the first paragraph of the resolution itself by removing the word innovative. We could at that point add the word small if you wish, but most importantly, in the impact statement under Exhibit B, we're going to delete in the legislative title the word innovative and replace it with the word small. Have I got that right? Yes, thank you.
 So that's the amendment. I second the amendment. Okay. Further discussion of that amendment. I'm voting on the second amendment. There's two wording changes. Amendment section. Okay. Roll call on the amendment. Fish. Good catch. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. I usually have mixed feelings about the second amendment, but I'm very happy to do this one. Aye. Aye.
 Aye. Not that Second Amendment. Commissioner Fritz, before I continue, would you like me to yield on any other matter? I'll let you know if I find anything else. Thank you. So, colleagues, in sum, I appreciate the work that Commissioner Fritz and her staff and the City team have put into crafting this resolution. I appreciate the thoughtfulness in creating the categories which would be eligible expenditures.
 I appreciate the council discussion, which has made clear that the council will have maximum flexibility. It will create a unique mechanism for seeking recommendations for how to spend the money, in addition to what we would expect in the ordinary course, which is guidance from the mayor.
 And I want to put in a plug for us not viewing this as a small grants program, but looking for ways to maximize the impact of whatever revenues that we invest. Thank you all. Hi. No, thank you.
 I really appreciate all the work Commissioner Fritz has put into this proposal, along with the members of the industry for working with her. I thank Commissioner Fritz and my colleagues for considering an issue which I and community activists raised at somewhat the last minute, and I really appreciate the efforts of Mary Pivoto and the Oregon Environmental Council and all of the neighborhood activists who came here today to discuss
 ask us to make it clear that we care about clean air.
 Indeed, we do care about clean air and we care about wise use of substances like this. It's kind of with mixed feelings that I vote on this because I'm condemning myself to do dozens of neighborhood meetings in September and October to get it passed. I think I went to 100 for the Parks Bond measure. I'm not going to be campaigning over the summer because my son is getting married and that's important. And I'm going to visit my mother. But certainly you
 You can expect invitations to me for me. Expect me to try to invite myself to a lot of different community events to explain about this tax. Because if the voters were to pass it, the total tax would go down from 25% to 20%. And I believe that we've allocated its uses to good uses that the people of Portland will hopefully support. So thank you very much, colleagues. I appreciate this robust discussion and the compromise we've gotten to. Aye. Aye.
 Biddo to that, and thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for crafting a responsible, thoughtful measure that I believe the voters should smile on because this is a way to have a modest tax on a new part of our local economy that does have an impact on what we do. So I think this is the right and reasonable thing to do. I want to return to our debate for just a moment.
 maybe explain a little better where I'm coming from. One of the reasons I ran for this office was to try to put the city into better financial condition, and I take seriously what you said, Commissioner Fish, that that's one of my core responsibilities, and it does say on my door, Commissioner of Finance and Administration.
 And I want to make sure that this council and that the next mayor are in a position of financial strength, like the one that we're in now, to deal with a lot of big challenges. We do have more parks to maintain and more parks to build. We do have responsibilities that all of you and that I, while I'm here, are going to need to shoulder. And at some point quite soon, the city council of the city of Portland is going to have to get to a conclusion, which I have tried to.
 highlight that we're going to have to spend more money to have the number of police officers that we have today. That's not welcome news. I understand that. It wasn't welcome during the budget process, and it might not still be welcome today. But I've reached the hard and unfortunate conclusion that we're going to have to spend more money to have the police bureau that we've already budgeted for. And I want this council to...
 to have the dollars available to meet that first responsibility of city government when the council is ready to do so. Because we have now 63 less officers than we have in our budget, and I can unfortunately predict that perhaps by the end of my service as mayor that number will be 100 down.
 At some point, the community is going to say, wait a minute, there was an attempted abduction on my street today, a 22-year-old woman. Those kinds of crimes need a 911 response. There are other things that the police bureau does that they will have to sacrifice in order to meet those 911 calls.
 We will have to have enough police officers to do that work. I want this council to have the dollars in the till to pay for what it's going to require to have the police bureau that you want. And therefore, having more funding available for public safety is a good idea.
 Before you gavel us out, I neglected to refer to my notes, and there are several people that I really would like to thank on this, starting with Claire Adams, who did a fantastic job in her first presentation to Council, Tim Crail, Christina Nieves, and Goldan Salazar in my office, Thomas Lanham and Scott Carter from the Revenue Bureau, Andrew Scott in the City Budget Office, Ben Walters, our City Attorney, and Teresa Marchetti and the whole Marijuana Policy Program staff, as well as the Policy Oversight Team. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Thank you all. We're adjourned until next week.