All right. Good morning, everybody. This is the... Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, June 21st morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, could you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and give due consideration to matters before the council...
 We must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope makes everybody feel comfortable, safe, welcome, and respected.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. The first is an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subjects they wish to address. These items are scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people can sign up for public testimony on first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need anybody's full address. If you're a lobbyist, we do need to know that.
 If you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light goes on when your time is up. The red light goes on. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting, interrupting others' testimony, or interrupting during council deliberations, will not be allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. Okay.
 If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass. Personal attacks and insults levied against City and Council staff, many of whom are required to be here as a condition of their employment, will not be tolerated.
 If you would like to show your support for something, simple thumbs up is good. If you don't like it, thumbs down is good, too. We encourage people not to act out. Thank you. And with that long preamble, please call the first communications item. Item 696, request of Douglas Peterson to address council regarding being told by the Portland Development Commission to vacate Peterson's on Morrison business location of 32 1⁄2 years.
 My employees are all signed up to appear. Can they appear first and I'll appear later? If you'd prefer. Yeah, so we have one, two, three, four, five individuals signed up to speak on the same subject. It looks like we have Douglas Peterson, Claudia Brubaker, Sean Eidlin, and Gino Helene. Very good. So we'll take the first three in order and...
 Yeah. I want to go ahead. Sure. Charles Wilcoxson. And Charles, thank you. Good morning. Hi. Whoever wants to go. Okay, I'll go first. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning. And city council members. Thank you for having us this morning. My name is Claudia Brubaker, and I work at Peterson's Convenience Store at 922 Southwest Morrison. In the three years I've worked at Peterson's Convenience Store, I've talked to a lot of people. Okay.
 People that use public transportation like Max, it stops in front of our store, and the streetcar, it stops around the corner. At Peterson's store, there's a sense of community and camaraderie that I've never seen anywhere else. The amount of appreciation for our store from local Oregonians is incredible. They love how we're always there when they need us. We provide coffee and other essentials at reasonable prices. People from out of town come in for directions, souvenirs, or just to chat.
 One of those local customers is Dolores. Dolores is an Oregonian who lives at the Admiral Apartments on Park and Taylor. Dolores has had numerous hip surgeries on her hips and cannot walk without a walker. Dolores has been coming to Peterson's store at Morrison since 1985. That's 32 years, about as long as we've been open.
 For Dolores to even attempt to travel to another store would be a great hardship for her. Dolores is just one of the many elderly and disabled downtown residents affected by the closure of Peterson's convenience store. The closure of Peterson's store would not only affect elderly and disabled downtown residents, but would cause a loss of many jobs for people like myself.
 I heard that there was going to be some stalls put in that area where our convenience store is and that you were going to have women and minorities. And there are a lot of women and minorities working with us now, and I would hate to see them lose their jobs. I don't want to lose my job. So we rely on Petersons to survive. Thank you.
 I'm asking you to please consider keeping Peterson's Convenience Store at 922 Southwest Morrison open for business during upcoming construction and after construction. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Sean Eidlin. I'm the morning manager at Peterson's on 922 Southwest Morrison. So I work there in the morning, 530 to 230, Monday through Friday, Monday.
 In those hours, I deal with a lot of locals. You know, I have police officers, tri-met construction workers, you name it. They come through there and they get their soda, you know, their candy bar, their snacks, whatever it is. Yeah.
 And they rely on it. We sell a lot of lottery, and we are also about to sell the new TriMet Pass once they begin not selling tickets anymore. So basically, to give you an idea, last week there was a power outage, and we lost power for about 24 hours where we had absolutely no power left.
 And the next day when people came back, they said, I couldn't believe that you guys were closed. I didn't know what to do. I mean, literally, these people the next day told me they were banging on the windows when it was pitch black inside trying to – they wanted to get in. And I said, well, I couldn't sell you anything without any power.
 They come to us. We're open until 2.30 in the morning. People stand there and wait for the max when it gets dark and it's a little bit of a seedier area at night.
 And it's a safe place to stay. Half the time I'm playing tour guide. I'm born and raised in Portland. I've seen the MAX be developed. I used to ride the 20 bus downtown in high school until the MAX was developed. And I remember going to Peterson's when I would go down to the waterfront and watch the fireworks and stuff when I was just a kid.
 And I feel like the Development Commission is so out of touch with what they're trying to do that they're forcing out a local business that's been there 32 years to put into a new business.
 I get what they're trying to do, but it doesn't seem right to push out a local business in order to achieve what they want. There's plenty of other open vacancies in downtown Portland, along with the new Max line, the orange and the green line, that will be developing that they could put in those businesses there instead of taking away from a business. You know, we have 20, 30 employees that are full-time that rely, you know –
 I live downtown, and my income all comes from work there. So a lot of people would be affected. Not only that, it's our, you know, we have fruit. You know, we have Milita's beverage. We have other local companies. It's a trickle-down effect. You know, the store at 922 Southwest Morrison makes the majority of the money for the company. So taking away that one store and not letting us return, not only are they taking away eight months, but if they don't let us return –
 You know, it seems like it just doesn't make sense. Why would they take away a local business to put new businesses in when we've already established roots there? You know, it's like telling the silver guy to just stop being in downtown anymore. You know, it's a Portland icon. People know Peterson's. And, you know, we'd hope that you guys would consider that when you make a decision, or at least the development committee.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. And I won't interrupt the testimony because it's a good testimony, but have you been informed why you're being asked to leave? We understand that it's a remodeling of the parking garage, and we understand we may have to get out for a while, but the concern is not being able to come back in once it's been set back up. And just to be very clear, that decision has not been made.
 The Portland Development Commission will be restacking and determining who comes back in. The renovation itself is a major overhaul of the parking garage and the retail level. Interior, exterior, utilities, seismic upgrades. So there is no way to keep the store or any of the other businesses operational.
 And so a year ago, all of the businesses were notified they would have to vacate during the renovation. No, that's fine, but not giving us a right to return is what we're concerned about. You're making the pitch to come back at the end, right? Yeah, absolutely. Very good. Excellent. I just wanted to make that clear because it sounds like the city is ganging up on Petersons and asking you to varmose. I want to be clear, at least personally, I am a huge fan of Petersons. I think it's a great institution, and it's all you're saying in terms of the community value.
 I just want to make sure you understood why you were being asked to leave. Great, thank you. And could I just clarify from you, who makes the decision about who comes back? Is it the Development Commission or is it us? So the asset is managed and maintained by PBOT, but it's the Portland Development Commission that will actually be authorized to do the restack, and certainly they'd be interested in –
 everybody's participation in that, I'm sure. Thank you. Great. Thank you. I think we're trying to find friends in high places and try to make our point that we have been there for a long time since the building was being built before Max. The downtown institution, no question about it. Thank you. My name is Charles Wilcox, and I work the night shift at Peterson's. I don't work at the 922 store too much.
 We call that the mothership because it feeds everybody and it's often kind of crazy around the edges. But that's part of the charm of Peterson's in a way.
 Personally, like back in 1977, I was kind of a wandering youth trying to figure out what I wanted to do with myself. And we pulled up in front of a plaid pantry, and it said, now hiring. And I looked inside, and there was a girl in a bikini standing at the counter. And the guy was sitting on the counter smoking a cigarette, talking to her. And I thought, you know, I could do that. That got me off the hook in the short term, but I've kind of never stopped doing that. And I like the job.
 And there's probably nothing better for people watching than Petersons because you see absolutely everybody and everything. Sean mentioned being a tour guide. That's what we do most of the time. We don't sell a lot of things people are looking for, but we know where everything is. And we usually, it's like, well, Rite Aid's up two blocks and down around the corner or...
 One of our stores used to be right next to the Greek Cuisine. We could always say, look for the big purple octopus, and then right next to that, that's us. And that store is 24 hours, and we have people that just migrate. And there's all kinds of people. I've had everyone from Shaquille O'Neal or the Secret Service all the way down to –
 crazy Carol who stands and shouts obscenities at the world all night long. She doesn't come in anymore because of her behavior, but she understands, and she's part of our weird little family too. As far as people counting on the store, I can vouch for that. If we lock up to go to the bathroom, we come back and there's five people outside looking lost. What am I going to do? What am I going to do?
 Some of them, it's because they can't go anywhere else. I mentioned Carol, for example. There are people who have seven people living inside their heads, and they get off their medications, and they don't know where to go or what to do. And most of us who work there, if they're not too new, have scabs on the soul, as we call it, and we can deal with just about anybody. And if she can't come in, well, we might be able to walk a cup of coffee over to the door or something like that. But...
 We do a lot of help for the marginal, and we kind of are the marginal. I live in Southeast. It takes four of us. We're buying a house in Lent. We've been there 15 years. I think Fannie made it count on us to actually do it, but we did it.
 I'll be 78 by the time the house is paid off, and I've got about 15 more years before I can retire. I've been there 12, and I'd kind of like to stick it out at this point. 70.5 is in the horizon, and it's an easy enough job that I could do it, and I would really like to continue doing it at Peterson's. The way to do that is to keep the one that feeds everybody open, and that's our 922 store. We're just asking that you let us come back and –
 Mr. Peterson will be very good about taking over the place if he has some assurances that he will be there for more than month to month. Anyway, I think I've said about what I could say. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. Thank you all. Nice. Next three, please. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Councilmembers. My name is Gina Helene. I'm representing Peterson's Convenience Stores. I'm the IT department there. So...
 Even with the ever-increasing challenges business owners face with the economy and watching businesses come and go, Petersons has always weathered the storm. I'm sure many had assumed that once the Target store moved in directly across the street, it would put Petersons out of business because they, too, carry food and beverages. But Petersons continues to thrive. Why? Because Petersons has been on Southwest 10th and Morrison for over 32 years.
 and has built and continues to build on a loyal customer base that has fostered many friendships over the years. Because our customers, the office workers, construction workers, local residents, people heading home on the MAX, know they can come in, grab a quick snack, a sandwich, a beverage, a couple lotto tickets, and be in and out in a few short minutes. The guys working construction on the parking garage would be very happy if Peterson stayed open during the remodel, which I know you just mentioned. Thank you.
 These guys burn calories like nobody's business, and they often don't have 15 minutes to spare to hunt down snacks or bottled water to stay hydrated. Like many have said before, Peterson's is a recognized local icon in much the same way as, say, Voodoo Donuts or Powell's Books. Thirty-two years ago, Mr. Peterson, with true entrepreneurial spirit, utilized his knowledge of the retail grocery business from his time at Fred Meyer and coupled that with his vision of seeing the tremendous potential that the Southwest 10th and Morrison location offered.
 And he was right. Now Prosper Portland has a similar vision and now wants to take away his. By closing down a Southwest 10th and Morrison location, Prosper Portland is going to cause a lot of hardships to Peters employees. These employees are from all backgrounds, races, religions, and sexual orientations. In light of recent world events and a justified call to harmony, it's important not to discard local small businesses and the sense of community that it fosters.
 Personal relationships that local small merchants build with their customers is part of the lifeblood that creates the unique personalities that define a city. And in turn, that sense of community creates an atmosphere of harmony itself. I'll finish with one final thought. An artist named Lucy Sparrow has been in the news recently. She created an art installation of a life-size convenience store bodega out of felt titled Eight Till Late.
 Everything in the store was made of felt, years in the making, over 9,000 items. What would drive an artist to take on such a task? She said the convenience store and bodega is where you would go and see your neighbors and have a chat and see if everything was still okay. The point, she said, was to generate conversation about what is lost when small mom and pop stores fade away. A sense of community is being lost when these places disappear. And that's exactly what's going on right now with Peterson's on Morrison.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm Doug Peterson. I'm the owner of Peterson's. Yeah, we've been there 32 and a half years. It's an icon downtown. It's just Paul's Books and Voodoo Donuts, and everyone knows and shops at Peterson's. Prosper Portland has identified us as not the correct type of business. Apparently they...
 don't think our customers are the right kind. These customers are everyday people, business people. They're men and women, office workers, construction workers, service people, students, tourists, everybody. And yet they think that that's not the right type of business. They want something gentrified. They've taken the spaces where we have approximately 2,000 square feet
 It's about what we need, and they're changing all the spaces to 1,000 square feet, and they've been very firm. That's what it's going to be, and we would require 2,000 square feet to be able to operate well. We have 900 customers a day, and...
 I think we do serve the right kind of people. And I want to mention we want to be there when the remodel is completed and assurances that we can be there. And the second thing is during the major construction, I was with Fred Meyer for 24 years, and part of that time I was the merchandise manager for CXP.
 store setup and such during remodels and construction, and we always worked with the construction people who were able to operate.
 Starbucks down at Pioneer Square, they're operating, even though the entire square is being totally remodeled and much, much construction. We're in the middle of the block. It's not where the major construction will be. The major construction is each corner. Two of the corners will have new elevators and stairwells, and the other two corners, the retail is going to be built out to the street corner. And that's...
 It seems to me that there's not going to be that much construction in the middle of the block. Sure, they're going to change the ceilings and new everything, but it's not a major construction. And we would like to be there during the construction. It's a light rail stop that will be there all through the construction. It's a major transfer station for the streetcar and the library.
 Trymit, starting July 5th, is going to be using the new IHOP card. IHOP, I keep calling it IHOP. It's Hop Fast Pass, not to be confused with pancakes. Anyway, this card will eventually eliminate the ticket machines. People will have to buy a $3 card, which we were selling at the store, an electronic card, which you upload value on, which we upload the value they want. And when they want more...
 They can come back. Now, a person with an iPhone can do it over the phone. There's various ways you can do it. But tourists that are staying in the hotels, there we are. So anyway, I think I will just add one thing. KPTV did a story yesterday, and Facebook, KPTV's site on Facebook,
 It talks about there's 149 people that have left comments on that site. And a couple of comments, they can't get rid of Portland. That's like a Portland landmark, right on the Max Line, convenient for the commuters and a rare grocery store in that part of town. And somebody else said something needs to be grandfathered in. This store is one of them. Another one said the landmark is part of downtown Portland.
 And I just want to finish by, we want to stay, but the vibes I have from Portland Development Commission, in fact, we appeared two weeks ago before the Portland Development Commission, and not anybody from them called me back at all. It's not the Portland Development Commission, is it, anymore? I'm dating myself. It's not Prosper Portland. But I thank you for your time. Yeah, and thank you. And I mislabeled it, too, so I also have to put a dollar into the jar. Yeah, it's Prosper Portland now.
 So I will certainly have my team follow up with you on some of these, because the materials I'm reading aren't necessarily squaring with what I'm hearing here in testimony. So I'd like to sort that out, and we're happy to work with you on that. Thank you very much. Yeah, thank you for being here. Thanks for your whole team for being here. The consent agenda.
 Can you tell me which items have been pulled, please? We have 708, 706, 711, and 714.
 Okay. And 714, is that correct? Yes. Okay. So we can do 708. It's my understanding Commissioner Fritz would like to amend that. So the request has been made to move that to the end of the regular agenda. And I'll remind you on that. We can do 6 and 11.
 this morning. 7-14 we won't have staff until the afternoon session, so I'd like to read that this afternoon with the other Portland Housing Bureau items so that we can accommodate.
 the staffing requirements for that particular item. In the meanwhile, can you call the roll? Mayor, can I ask you a question? Commissioner Fish. We have some prospective appointees to the Home Forward Board. Where is that on our agenda? We are going to put 727-2...
 prior to the time certains, and 7271, we've had a request to move that as close to 1045 as possible. But we're going to take care of 7272 early in the agenda. Does that answer your question, Commissioner? Yes, thank you. Very good. So with that, please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Let's move to, why don't we go ahead and do 727-2. Now, while we've got people here. 727-2, appoint Jenny Kim to the Home Forward Board of Commissioners. From...
 High-tech companies to nonprofit organizations and healthcare institutions, Jenny has proven herself to be a dedicated leader in our community for many years. She has a proven track record of helping organizations grow and meet new challenges. She's very excited to have the opportunity to impact our city's housing affordability crisis and to provide culturally appropriate housing services to the community.
 And it is my understanding, is Jenny actually here this morning? Did you want to come up and just say a few words about yourself and why you're excited about this Home Forward appointment? Good morning. And there are members of the Home Forward team here if you want to come on up too. Don't be shy.
 Good morning, Commissioners and Mayor. Good morning. Good morning. Can you just tell us a little bit about yourself and what you hope to accomplish on the board, please? I don't know where to start. I guess as a Portlander, I feel very passionate about trying to do the right thing to serve the community that's...
 probably requires the most support and advocacy. And I have a lot of experience working with immigrant and refugee population as well as just any marginalized community. And I feel that this issue, as anybody who comes to visit Portland or people who commute can see, you know, we have a lot of housing issue and homelessness and housing affordability issues.
 I get a little emotional. I think it's critical for people to have a safe place to live. And it was heartbreaking for me to hear when there were people who passed away in the last winter storm. And I was a little bit hesitant to join this board because it's such a big...
 role, but at the same time, I wanted to do what it takes to help out and make a difference. And I hope that I'll do right by other commissioners and all the Home Forward staff. I'm very excited about this opportunity because I think it's the right time and one of the most critical issues that our city is facing. So...
 Yeah, it absolutely is, and we're always happy when you're right. It is a significant time commitment, and I can certainly see that dilemma. But we're thrilled to have somebody with your experience and certainly your passion and commitment. Mayor, can I make a point? Yeah, please, Commissioner Fish. Thank you for doing this. I had the honor of serving on the board when it was called the Housing Authority of Portland.
 And as you noted, our work has never been harder. But I want to issue you a friendly challenge. You referred to people who died over the winter. And there was a particular woman who died that captured our attention. She died in a parking lot, parking structure. She actually died in the shadow of a – within a block of a women's shelter that had a bed for her. And so the shelter was not going to work for her.
 Because, you see, she falls into the category of the 72 percent of the folks living on our streets who have now reported in the most recent point-in-time analysis that they have a disabling condition.
 And that means they're struggling with a mental health issue, an addiction issue, HIV, AIDS, a physical or mental disability. 72%. That number has gone from what used to be around 40%, where we assume that was the benchmark, to 72%. And here's my friendly challenge. We will not be successful in moving the most vulnerable people off our streets if we don't put them in a place that has a roof and services. Right?
 And that is expensive. It's called permanent supportive housing. The city and the county are going to have to come up with the resources to handle the service side, and we're going to have to continue to build the units. But without both, we're not going to have successful tenants because these are people with multiple barriers.
 And I want to challenge you as the opportunities come up with the bond money that we passed and that we'll be spending and all the other collaborations we have with Home Forward, is that you have a critical role to play in helping us with Section 8 vouchers.
 and in doing projects where we bring Home Forward's expertise with the nonprofit community. We're not going to get people off the street into healthy places unless we invest heavily in permanent supportive housing units, and Home Forward is critical to our success. So I wish you well. Thank you. Thanks, Jenny and Michael. I don't know if you had anything else to add to that.
 Well, it might be worth adding. I'm sorry, you have to say your name. Oh, forgive me. Michael Bonacore. I'm the executive director of Home Forward. Thanks. And it might be worth noting for the record that Jenny is one of our two appointments through Multnomah County. So she will be representing that jurisdiction. And we always.
 like to work with our jurisdictional partners to identify folks who are known to those bodies. And Jenny comes referred both from the chair and Commissioner Lori Stegman. So in addition to her professional credentials, she's proven herself to other public officials as a good representative. Great. We appreciate the solid appointment. Colleagues, anything?
 further comments. Any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have two people signed up. All right, you can take a seat, Jenny and Michael. Thank you. Mimi German and Star Stauffer. Hi, good morning. I'm Mimi German, and I wanted to say that I feel positive after seeing and listening to, is it
 Jenny had to say. Jenny, we don't know each other, but I would like to know you. And we were working really hard this winter at preventing any deaths on the streets, those of us who are activists in the community. So I would just like to say that my main concern is always that there's only maybe one Jenny and what happens with everybody else who's supposed to be doing their job.
 And it's so critical that everybody gets rid of the bureaucracy to create what it is that you're talking about, Nick, about creating more houses and not allowing...
 bureaucracy to get in the way of all of that. Because that seems to be what happens all the time. And then Karen Batts dies in a parking lot. So I just want to, I guess, just reiterate and put a lot of strength into the reality that this work has to get done. And
 Jenny, if there's anything that I can do and that the community can do to support what it is that you're doing, we're here for you.
 And the other piece of it is with Section 8 housing that's a concern to me is we have so many people coming in, builders coming in, and getting permits to gentrify the city. What is happening with creating more housing that are Section 8 qualified? What is happening in creating spaces in these buildings, making builders do more than 20% of a building for poorer people? Why not 50% of the building? Why can't we do that?
 If people can afford to pay what builders are normally doing to gentrify our city, then let's up the affordability for poor people and let the people who can afford stuff find their way. They're not going to be on the street. Again, I'm here to help, and this has to get done. If we have one more death, if we have a death this summer due to heat, man...
 There's a lot of us who aren't going to tolerate that. I don't know. Is anybody looking into more shelters for the summertime? It's a real concern of mine right now. We're going to have temperatures this summer that are really freaking hot. And people who, again, like the wintertime, aren't going to know where they can go to get cooling shelters. I get that there are cooling shelters. I'm grateful that there are cooling shelters. But how will the people on the street know where to go?
 Good question. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Star Stauffer. My concern is, number one, Home Forward on the surface and through the conversation that we've heard today, it's a great program. However, I've spoken to many residents in a Home Forward building or space that have said that,
 Once you get in, accessing those services that you're talking about, Nick, are extremely difficult to do once they get in. And it often, because of the difficulty, because of the bureaucracy, these people finally get in and then they lose it because they're unable to access many of the resources and services that Home Forward apparently has for them. My other concern in regards to...
 The section 8 is yes, we need more vouchers. We also need a more efficient system to get people into homes.
 I mean, it takes a long time to get approved for Section 8. It is a long, painful road. And many people, while on that road, fall prey to addiction because they lose their housing and they become homeless, to domestic violence because they're in the process of losing everything. And then by the time they get out on the street, they're completely messed up.
 way behind as far as where they need to be, and then they still have to wait and go down this long journey of trying to get into Section 8. So some of the money needs to be invested in making that process more efficient so that people aren't waiting endlessly on this list to try to get into housing, because during that time they're in danger. They need housing now, not a year from now, not a year and a half from now, today.
 The other issue is, like she said, it's going to be really hot this summer, and we do not have enough cooling shelters. It's the same thing in the winter, only opposite.
 We haven't heard anything about what plans are for that. And the employees of that convenience store, that's what we're talking about. That's the gentrification. When you give developers a free license to come run amok in a city, good people like that lose their jobs, can't pay their rent, and end up on the street. And then a list for Section 8 housing.
 And these are good people up here begging you not to do something that's going to have them lose their jobs so they end up in this situation. There's a whole lot of things that take place that land somebody in this type of position where they're extremely vulnerable. The other thing that needs to be considered is more security for women and children who are victims of domestic violence and sexual assault.
 We're not hearing a whole lot of specialty work in regards to resources for them.
 They can't just go to any regular shelter. And there are not enough houses that are safe houses for these women and children while they're waiting for permanent housing. So these are all things that need to be taken into account. Not only that, trying to find housing for children to keep them in their school districts so they're not so traumatized. That's something else where resources need to be opened up for that. All of these things need to be discussed. It's a lot of work to do. Thank you.
 Good morning, everyone. I'm Mary Seip. First of all, I feel validated by Ginny. I'm now not the only person who was brought to tears by public testimony, and I feel a lot bitter about that. Mental illness runs deep in my family. Okay.
 In fact, when my son was 40 years old, five years ago, he went back to school and became a psychiatric nurse, and I'm sure Commissioner Fritz knows the kind of pride I have in that. But what Star and Mimi are talking about is,
 is a really valid issue, but there's something that we often overlook, and that is no matter how close to a shelter someone with mental illness is, we can't force them to go into that shelter unless they're an imminent danger to themselves or others. And that is the most ludicrous, arbitrary thing that we've ever done in this country is to –
 We used to throw them in institutions. Now we either throw them out on the streets, and now we throw them into jails. And we have to figure out a way.
 to, I hate the word force, but we have to find a way to recognize that people with serious mental illness do not have the capacity to make decisions. They have barriers. I have a brother who is 75 years old who has battled schizophrenia for 50 years.
 Ten years ago, when he was in a crisis, I tried to get him into housing, into treatment, to get him food stamps, and he fought me every step of the way. I became his enemy. In fact, the last words he ever said to me is, if it's the last thing I do, I will effing kill you.
 So this is what we're dealing with. These people, here I go again, we have to, it doesn't matter how many permanent support housing facilities we have, we have to figure out a way to channel them into help in spite of resistance.
 And, you know, we have to figure that. And we can't sit up here and scream and yell and point our fingers at individual people and calling them murderers because someone who we could not help died on our streets. We've got to all come together, and we've got to figure this out. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor, can I just say one thing to you, which is there's a system in Philadelphia called Code Blue, and it addresses, it's run by the police and it's run by the city, and it addresses that very thing, and no one is allowed to stay out in the weather, in inclement weather in Philadelphia, and it's been working really well. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Is there any further public testimony? One more individual. Great. Thank you.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. One of the concerns I still have throughout this city is that when we're talking people with drug addictions or mental health conditions, we need to start understanding that they need to be in housing first. They need to be the ones being offered the unit to move into, again, with more services provided.
 We have to understand that, unfortunately, a lot of times what we see is that somebody, let's just say, with a serious drug addiction, let's say heroin, meth, opiates, they are the ones that are out on the sidewalks. And the reason is it's not the addiction. It's being excluded from certain shelters, certain places to go because of the addiction itself itself.
 It's the mentality of saying you need to stop your drug use immediately when they've been doing drugs for 10 plus years. This is a reality in our society that we have to understand. There must be places they can still go and move into provided from the city so they're not on the sidewalks. And we can visibly see a tremendous amount of people that are heroin users.
 Meth users, opiates, you can visually see that.
 They should be the first ones into housing, the first ones getting services, the first ones for their addictions, not the ones being excluded from the public subsidies that the city seems to do and think that somehow that's part of a treatment plan to have people scattered out on the sidewalks. That's going to help them with their addictions, with their mental health conditions. It's torture. It's torture.
 The city needs to understand it's torture, and they need to step up and understand, get them into housing, get the services provided, and quit torturing and excluding the mentally ill, people with drug addictions, people that need to have housing first. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fish, did you have a comment? No, Mayor. Very good. Last one, and we are closing the record.
 As a former homeless person, I think that homeless people sometimes are trying to commit suicide, and a person should be forced to go to a shelter and be dropped off there and be fed and get some help. If they want to walk out, that's okay, but there should be an attempt. Like Mimi Gurman says, some sort of Philadelphia cold blue. You take them there because they're actually trying to kill themselves, and it's actually against the law to kill yourself. Very good. Please call the roll.
 Ms. Kim, thank you for stepping up and agreeing to serve, and I hope you find your tenure at Home Forward or now at Home Forward as rewarding as I did, and there could not be a more important time for you to serve. So thank you. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you, Ms. Kim, for your prospective service. Thank you. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Thank you. Aye. Prince. Thank you so much for your willingness to spend a lot of time and obviously putting a lot of passion into this commitment. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Excellent nominee. I appreciate it. I look forward to your continued excellent results on behalf of the community. Thanks. The resolution is adopted. Thank you. Next item, let's go to Time Certain 701, please.
 adopt the supplemental budget for the fiscal year 2016-17 over-expenditure process, and make budget adjustments in various funds. All right. The over-expenditure ordinance, otherwise known as OEO, is the last of three supplemental budget processes. The OEO is primarily used to make certain that each bureau and fund ends the year without a negative balance in the major objective categories. Okay.
 This year's OEO is relatively straightforward. There are no requests for additional funding from contingency or compensation set-asides.
 There are a limited number of carryovers into fiscal 17-18 that include the following. There is $750,000 in the Housing Bureau to further support the Joint Office of Homeless Services, $689,252 to complete the third and final phase of the Columbia program,
 River Levy Project, $27,000 at the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence that will expand support for elderly and disabled adults. There's $100,000 at the Bureau of Human Resources for a records management project in preparation for the Portland building move.
 And there's $20,000 in Commissioner Udaly's office to finish some of the maintenance that has been started there. There's $32,000 in underspending on campsite cleanup on the Springwater Corridor, which is being reprogrammed towards similar efforts next year. Lastly, a number of technical adjustments to align resources with expenditures within the bureaus and the funds. Director Scott, good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor. Andrew Scott, City Budget Director. And you have capably covered everything that is in the overexpenditure ordinance. I'm happy to answer any questions. The other thing I will note is there is a companion resolution that goes along with this for inter-fund loans. And as we have done for a number of years now, based on some accounting rules and principles, we need to make sure that our funds don't end the year with any negative balances associated
 And because of the nature of the grants fund, they're always getting reimbursed later. And so we do this at the end of the year. There will be a temporary loan from Transportation Operating Fund to the grants fund of about $9.7 million. It will be paid back early next fiscal year. So this is just so we end the year with the books.
 straightened out. And then the same thing with the recreational marijuana tax fund. They've incurred some very small administrative fees of about $10,000. So the arts and education fund will make a temporary loan of $10,000 to the marijuana fund. I'm happy to answer any questions about the inter-fund loans or the overexpenditure ordinance in general. Any questions, colleagues? Any public testimony on this item? Robert West signed up. Good morning. Good morning.
 My concern is that everyone that's living now has a budget, and I can't just decide, well, hey, I get $700 a month. I'm going to spend $850 a month and then come back to the city and say, well, hey, I spent too much money. I need more money.
 This is the opposite of that. Did you know that? Yeah, I know. This is an over-expenditure or an under-expenditure. So these are actually resources that have not been expended in this year that are being carried over to continue the work. Okay. The other thing that I have, the other issue that I have is that money shouldn't be going from one place to another, especially private organizations, to the city, right?
 The book should be covered so that you don't have to go to someone else to get money just for a short period of time. And that's what I've got to say. Thank you. Appreciate it. Please call the roll. Fish. Andrew, is this the last public appearance you're making before us on the budget until the fall bump? In the current fiscal year.
 So thank you. And, you know, Mayor, there's a lot of detail to this report. One thing I do want to just call out, there's about $7 million in
 of resources that the Bureau of Environmental Services, additional user charges, debt service, reserve savings, and delayed vehicle replacement costs. Those $7 million are going to be transferred to the construction fund and will allow us to delay the next bond sale. So that's good news for our rate payers. I'm pleased to support this ordinance. Hi. Saltzman. Well, thank you for this, and I do want to –
 highlight the carryover of the $37,000 for the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services that will enable us to begin to serve elderly residents who often find themselves in need of restraining orders, which the Gateway Center does right now for survivors of domestic violence. And this will allow us to expand our services to also serve elders who need restraining orders as well. All right.
 Hugh Daly. Aye. Fritz. I need to call out the transfer of savings from the general fund in the Portland Park Bureau to the golf fund. The golf fund has been in the past completely self-sustaining, an enterprise function that we call it. This is the first time that general fund resources have been used for the golf program, and it will be the last. So Director Micah Bartay and the staff and I will be –
 taking an in-detail look at how to make sure that we don't use general fund for this in the future. And all options will be on the table, up to and including suspension of the golf program if necessary. We're exploring options, and obviously there will need to be a full public process to discuss this issue, which we will be starting shortly. And because we recognize that while the weather has been bad,
 With climate disruption, it's not likely to get any better. And nationally, there's a downward trend in golf participation. So thank you to the staff and to the City Budget Office for all of the adjustments here. This is the one that will be my most urgent priority. Wheeler. All right. The ordinance is adopted. Please read 702.
 Authorize temporary operating loans between various funds to provide interim funding to cover lags in federal, state, and other grant reimbursements and other negative cash and fund balances. Director Scott, do you have anything else to add on this? This is the companion. Any further public testimony? I had one sign-up sheet for that. I thought we read them together, Mayor.
 We did not read them together. So who signed up for this? Same two. Mr. West, rather. Sorry. Did you want to testify on the Interfund loan? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted. Let's move to 703, please. Yes.
 Accept the bond phase two project list for the $68 million parks 2014 general obligation bond. And please read 704 with that.
 authorize $39,576,793 of general obligation bonds for parks, projects and refunding bonds. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. First, thank you to the voters who approved the Fix Our Park Bonds measure in November of 2014. Thank you again, Commissioner Fish, for participating in that campaign. I will always remember your diligence and kindness.
 This measure passed because 74% of Portland voters said yes to authorizing 68 million in bonds to fund the most crucial safety and repair needs in our park system. This is not for a lot of shiny new stuff, it's for doing basic services in our parks. And under my direction, Portland Parks and Recreation worked with the community to establish the criteria about what projects should be selected on our first phase one bond measure list.
 That, by necessity, was a fairly short process, and the things that were done in the first part of the bond measure were the most urgent needs to fix things like the 100-year-old heating system at the ground pool and things like that. We now have had a much more thorough public process to gather feedback on the proposed measures.
 phase two project list. And we heard that, again, 73% said the proposed one project list does successfully meet the original critical repair needs and the criteria that we put before the voters.
 And of course we've heard many other concerns and reports of repair needs throughout the community. We know that all of these are important. Not all of these needs can be met with this bond funding. In fact, there's still going to be a $258 million funding gap for major maintenance over the next 10 years.
 As Parks Commissioner during this process, thank you to everybody who took the time to participate. I hope people will participate as we continue to look at how are we going to keep our park system one of the best in the country. If not the best, I may be biased. And thank you again to staff. So Director Mike Abate is going to kick off our team.
 Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor, members of the Council, Mike Abate, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation. We're thrilled to report that all 34 bond projects that were in the Phase 1 list are either completed or are well underway. It includes projects that repair or replace playgrounds, trails, bridges, restrooms, and ADA, Americans with Disabilities Act, improvements at various sites around the city.
 When Council voted in July 2014 to refer this bond measure, we submitted an initial list of those projects. That was the bond phase one list. That accounted for about $48 million of the total, and we said at that time that there would be a public process to address the remaining $20 million, and that's what the process is that the Commissioner just referred to.
 This has been a wonderful opportunity to do an extensive asset management assessment of all of our facilities. And so that and also applying new equity tools has provided us with this as a project list that has great support. The public was deeply engaged in this, as the Commissioner mentioned, and they helped us make those choices.
 Commissioner Fritz mentioned the $258 million of additional work, even after this bond is done, to repair and replace various things in parks. But you also know that our community is growing and that there still are parts of our community that don't have access to parks. Even that is estimated at about, the need there is another $400 or more million. Okay.
 And since this bond is for repair and replacement, it doesn't address that nearly $500 million funding gap in what we call growth, but new things in places that don't have them. So we'll continue to work with the community to further prioritize the many maintenance and growth projects that we fund under other processes like system development charges.
 and also talk with you all about other opportunities for funding to help meet those growing needs. I'm joined today by Lauren McGuire, our Parks Development Program Manager for the bond, and also Eric Johanson from OMF, the Debt Management Division. And at this point, I'll turn it over to Lauren. Thank you.
 Hello, Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. My name is Lauren McGuire. I'm the development program manager for Portland Parks. And we're here today for two reasons. We have two council agenda items. 703 is the report, which we will ask you to accept the bond phase 2 project list. And also 704, which was the ordinance to authorize 38,576,793 of the general obligation bonds for the parks projects.
 As Mike said, we have the $68 million bond, and we're repairing and replacing failing playgrounds, trails, and bridges, our pools, our facilities to protect workers, Pioneer Courthouse Square is underway, and we do accessibility repairs and restroom and other safety repairs. This shows, mapped, it shows that the projects all over the city that we're working on,
 We have currently 34 projects in phase one. And as Mike said, we have eight of them complete by the end of June.
 In order for us to identify the projects on the original bond phase one project list, Portland Parks and Recreation worked with the public to establish a set of criteria to help establish priority projects. And so those original criteria focused on urgent repair or replacement needs. And as we began to look at how we should identify phase two projects, we used that original criteria. We went to the public and said, is this criteria valid? And they substantiated that.
 And then we said, okay, using the criteria then, which focuses primarily on urgent safety concerns and urgent repairs, we said, what are the commitments that we made to the public in the bond language? So the original bond language called out specific projects, and it also called out, for example, in the playground theme category, it said we're going to do 10 to 20 playgrounds.
 So we looked at those items and said, okay, what have we done for Phase 1? So we've done seven projects in the playground category. So that means we have to do at least three more to meet our obligations, right?
 So we went through the entire list and decided what our obligations were. And then, as Mike said, our asset management staff did a pretty thorough analysis of the assets that we have in our system, particularly the playgrounds, the bridges, the pools, and the roofs. And we identified what was most likely to fail and what would have the greatest consequence if it did fail.
 So there's many more replacements and repair needs than we have money for in this fund. So we had this giant list. And in order to...
 shorten that list a little bit, we looked at different equity factors. So we added equity rankings and they were based on diversity, so populations with diverse communities, populations with a high percentage of youth that were under 18, and also incomes less than 25,000. And that helped us develop a shorter list and then that shorter list was vetted with the public.
 This particular document is included in your packet. It's the proposed Phase 2 project list, and we are going to be going through that in some detail but not in great detail. So if you have additional questions at the end, be happy to answer those.
 This is a brief overview of our intensive public engagement process. We initiated to gather the input on the proposed project list. We had numerous community outreach meetings with neighborhood coalitions. We also did town hall meetings, two of those, and community meetings, web postings, and informational publications. The efforts helped to ensure that the improvements proposed for the list meet the needs and expectations of the community.
 This is a map that's also in your packet. It identifies actually 47 bond phase two projects that are proposed and the relative locations. You can see they're spread out all over the city.
 The criteria, our commitments to the public, our remaining obligations, and then our analysis in the public process resulted in our list. And so in each of the categories, we identified projects. And we've done some scoping on those projects to give us an initial cost estimate on what those would cost.
 We have three projects that are playground renovations, total renovations, and Gabriel Park is one. Gilbert Primary Park is another one, which is on Southeast 134th and Foster. And then Glen Haven Park, which is in Northeast Portland.
 In this category, we're calling playpiece replacements. We're going into playgrounds where we've removed playground equipment for lead-based paint issues, and we're going back and replacing them all over the city. We have 20 different sites we're replacing here. We're also doing 10 sites that are drainage issues and other issues in playgrounds. So we'll be touching 30 different playground locations there.
 In the trails and bridges category, we have three bridges. The Foley-Volmer Bridge, which this is a picture of where it used to be. It's gone now. The Marshall Park Bridge, which you can see is closed. And the Springwater Trail Bridge, which needs redecking. On our pools, we promised the public that we would do Peninsula Pool, and we've done a report on that for Phase 1, and now we know what our costs are going to be on that. And so we'll be repairing that pool.
 We have three specific accessibility projects that we're including. Multnomah Arts Center is one of them. Mount Tabor Handrails is another one. And East Portland Community Center, there are several ADA issues we're addressing there. Please note that in all of our bond projects, whenever we are touching a particular area, we're repairing any ADA issues that we have in those particular project scope areas.
 In the restroom and other categories, we're doing three roofs and four other urgent repairs, including Fern Hill, Matt Dishman. We're going to be replacing the roof and doing electrical upgrades. We're replacing the roof at Montevilla, and we're also replacing the tin shed restroom at Pier Park. We're also replacing the Selwood Park kitchen roof, and at Fern Hill Park we'll be addressing the lead in the water supply.
 The Bond Oversight Committee oversees and reviews the operations of the bond expenditures, and they recommended a contingency in order for us to ensure that we deliver the projects that we're promising to the community. And so we do have a $2 million contingency that we're also including within the budget.
 So looking forward, Parks is excited to move forward with all these additional projects for bond phase two. We're grateful to the voters for placing their trust in our work, and we're looking forward to celebrating the many reopenings at the playgrounds, the pools, and other bond improvements with the community. The map on the screen shows not only phase one and phase two, but also the SDC and other funded Parks projects that we've been working on. You can see Parks is pretty busy at this time.
 So with that, we'll ask that you accept the bond phase two project list for the $68 million Parks 2014 general obligation bond. And then we'll answer questions now, and then we'll move into the 704 item. Could you provide the testimony to 704 now, please? Because if we have any public testimony, I'd like to combine 703 and 704 since they're on the same subject area. Sure. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, Eric Johanson, City Debt Manager. This ordinance today does authorize the remaining $39.5 million of the 2014 general obligation parks bond measure. As you may recall, in 2015, the city issued the first $28.5 million to fund the initial Phase 1 projects. Thank you.
 Proceeds of that 2015 bond issue are in the process of being drawn down now, and we expect that parks will need additional money to continue the program in the next six months or so. This authorization will provide the authority to go out and sell bonds for those projects.
 Based on the project cash flows that we see now, we expect that there will be either one or more likely two bond issues, one again sometime in the next six months and then another one following perhaps six to eight months after that. It's all being done to comply with tax exempt bond spending regulations. So that's the financing plan going forward from this point. So happy to answer any questions.
 Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Mike, I have one question for you. On the general category of restrooms, and I see I'm very pleased that Pier Park is getting a replacement restroom. Given the Parks Bureau leadership on converting single-stall restrooms,
 restrooms to all user restrooms. And given the experience we've had learning about design issues and other things from the Portland building and also through our stakeholder group, I would ask that on the replacement projects that we have some way of
 of consulting just at the outset on opportunities for getting it right. Because we're learning a lot about how to really design all-user restrooms that are fully accessible, welcoming, and that also address some ADA issues that the city has been slow on. So I would ask that we have some informal consultation process. Jamie Dunphy in my office is leading the one part of this. And I think we can share a lot of information and continue to set a standard.
 Thank you, Commissioner. I'll just mention two. One of the things we've learned is that the Portland Loo is a terrific facility. We are replicating that. And as you know, in parks like Park Lane in the first phase –
 a loo was put in and specifically for Peninsula Park excuse me, Pier Park, that's the replacement model that we're using so, but there's other places like we'll be opening Gateway Discovery Park at the end of the summer and it has a multiple stall, you
 you know, a built restroom that is more traditional. And I just put a plug in, you know, the Water Bureau recently opened the Hannah Mason Pump Station in one of your great parks, and Commissioner Fritz spoke at the dedication. And one of the things I'm very proud of is we have state-of-the-art all-user restrooms in that building. So we're getting it right, and we want to have a chance to continue to collaborate with you. Thanks, Commissioner.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on these items? Yes, we have one person signed up. Very good. Star Stauffer. Good morning. Good morning. This is really just in regards to the loo problem. My question is, with all the money coming into the parks, they're obviously getting enough funding to build endless parking lots and manicure endless amounts of grass, and we've spoken on that before recently.
 My issue is why do I not see loos in the parks in southeast Portland going out towards Gresham anywhere? There are sometimes bathrooms in these parks, and the bathrooms are often closed. Or they are on the complete other side of the park, meaning that any child or person that wants to use it has to walk completely away to the other side of the park from the parking lot, such as Columbia Park in north Portland.
 So I'm curious why we're not putting loos in areas where there's less money in these neighborhoods, less affluent neighborhoods. St. John's is now a very affluent neighborhood. When I grew up there, it was a very poor community, and it's been gentrified into this monster that it is today, which is not the same St. John's.
 So we're putting a loo in there. Well, you know, people of color need to use the bathroom too, and they need to be able to do so safely. And in their neighborhoods where they've been pushed out to, I'm not seeing a whole lot of public access for bathrooms. And stores, business owners, they're not offering that access either. So if we're going to be talking about these loos, I'd like to start seeing some more loos on the northeast and southeast side of this city.
 So that we're catering to all of our citizens and giving them safe access to what everybody needs. A place to safely squat and pee, for goodness sake. So let's get some of the loos out there so that those people have access as well and not just in these white affluent neighborhoods. Chances are they have a safe place to pee. They're white and affluent.
 Thank you. If I might just address, more than happy to give you a list of some of the ones that we've put in already and others that are planned. And if you'd like to know the facts, you're welcome to talk with my parks staff. Director Abate mentioned Park Lane, which is beyond 148th and southeast main. Ventura Park is getting a loo. I think that's coming in.
 fairly shortly. In both of the new parks in Far East Portland, Lewitt View and Gateway Discovery Park, both of those will have restroom facilities. I think it's a loo at Lewittville and as Director Abbasi mentioned multiple single stalls at Gateway Discovery Park. Oh and by the way there's also one at Connemont Park. So I will
 champion my role as loop provider in every single new park. In fact, we have a policy now that new parks need loops. So I share your concern and indeed we have acted on it.
 And if I could just add, Commissioner, the loo, for those of you who are new to this issue, was something that former Commissioner Randy Leonard championed, actually got a patent. And a number of years ago, we spun it off, and actually it is now being manufactured by Madden, a local company, and the city gets a commission on every sale. So we are very pleased when we read it and we hear about cities' fundings.
 across the country that purchase LOOs because the city gets a commission for that, a fee. And we're also pleased that Commissioner Fritz has integrated the LOOs into the East Portland Equity Plan that is bringing unprecedented level of park access to East Portland. Very good. Commissioner Udailey. I was just wondering what the unique elements of the LOO were that warranted a patent application.
 I'd be happy to go into that, Commissioner. We could do it some other time. We're not sure we want our competitors to hear this conversation. Yeah, but again, I'm sure either of us would be happy to brief you on that issue. I need a little briefing, Jamie. Well, there we have it, folks. Could I get a motion, please? I move to accept the report. Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fish, second from Commissioner Fritz on item 703 to accept the report. Please call the roll. Fish? Fish?
 Again, I think we should thank Commissioner Fritz for championing the bond effort, which I think got 72% of the vote. A smidge more, but who's counting? A smidge more, which... 74. It was 74, yeah. 74, I'm sorry, which is really extraordinary. And it's clear the money is being spent wisely, and I'm very pleased to support this report. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz and the Parks Bureau. This looks like an outstanding list of investments that are long needed and many more hopefully to come. Aye. Hugh Daly. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, and thank you, Commissioner Fish. Every week with you is a history lesson. Aye. Fritz. I'm delighted to see the commissioner in the seat number four is also a champion for loose and interested in.
 You're following in some giant footsteps and doing so very well. Thank you very much to everybody who's been associated with this project, from the Pioneer Courthouse Square board members who helped fundraise to pass the bond measure. I also already mentioned some of the other folks in that. But now, after Mary-Anne Cassin did such a good job on Phase 1, we've got Lauren McGuire, who's doing a similarly wonderful job on Phase 2, ably partnering with Maya Spencer, Josie Costillo,
 and Jennifer Yochum in parks. The Bond Oversight Committee, which you heard, said we should have a $2 million contingency. If we don't have to spend all that, then we will do more projects in the areas that are specified in the bond.
 It's really important when you pass a bond measure or any kind of ballot measure that you do what you promised you would do, and I'm committed to continuing to do so. It's going to be really exciting because a lot of the projects in Phase 1 are finally ready for the grand openings, and so I hope to see many people in our wonderful new parks and renovated spaces over the summer. Thanks also to Christine Inievitz in my office and to Director Macabarte.
 It always brings happy tears to my eyes to talk about bonds. So thank you. This is great. Commissioner Fritz, thanks for your great leadership on this. And I want to thank your team for the diligent issuance of bonds. And I think that having read into the details that the strategies here in terms of flexibility and pricing make a ton of sense. So I'm really appreciative of your pragmatic approach. I, the ordinance is adopted.
 Let's move to 720. Could you call 704? That's the bond issuance that we have. I'm sorry, correct. Please call the roll on item 704. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Well, thanks very much to Eric Johansson, who has been doing a similarly meticulous job of making sure that the bond measure money gets borrowed and used.
 attained and then spent. I would venture to say that even fewer people are quite so interested in that aspect of it than it turns out my colleagues are about the loos. So there we are. Thank you very much. Aye. Wheeler. Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Had I moved on and forgotten item 704, we had a great conversation about loos and bonding structure, but we wouldn't actually have authorized anything. So.
 So that would have been a complete waste of a day as far as I'm concerned. So thank you for that reminder. Aye, the ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Let's do item 727-1 next, please. Proclaim June 25, 2017 to be Portland Sunday Parkways Day in Portland.
 Colleagues, today we're celebrating 10 years of bringing the Portland Sunday Parkways to the community, averaging 10,000 to 31,000 participants each month, May through September.
 Portland Sunday Parkways has been a vehicle to show off parts of Portland that are hidden gems of our Portland landscape, including new parks, newly built biking and walking infrastructure, community gardens, and beautiful residential neighborhoods. Over this first decade, Sunday Parkways has catalyzed new open streets events across the region, the state, and the nation, and even has served as a model for the world.
 Cities come to visit Portland to learn about how they can open their streets to bicycling, walking, rolling, and strolling. Sunday Parkways has a strong partnership and support across the diverse community that make up Portland with volunteerism, participation, and community organization and business support and attendance. From the parks...
 From the Parks for New Portlanders, Community Cycling Center, AARP of Oregon, Anando and Bicyclitis and Cully, in our collaboration with Northwest Tribes on the Salmon Celebration, Sunday Parkways connects our communities. I will go ahead and read the proclamation, and then we're going to hear from some invited testimony. Thank you.
 Whereas, for 10 years, the City of Portland Sunday Parkways, presented by Kaiser Permanente, has promoted healthy, active living through a series of free events, opening the city's largest public space, its streets, to walk, bike, roll, and discover active transportation, fostering civic pride, stimulating economic development, and representing the community, business, and government investments in Portland's vitality, livability, and diversity.
 And whereas Sunday Parkways is about opening streets, connecting neighborhoods and people, people on bikes, walking, running, rolling, and strolling to enjoy Portland's neighborhoods and family-friendly bicycle walking routes called Neighborhood Greenways. And whereas Sunday Parkways showcases Portland's wonderful park system and encourages people to play and gather in parks,
 Whereas, the first Sunday Parkways held on June 22, 2008 saw 15,000 participants launching one of the first successful and enduring open streets programs across the nation.
 And whereas the community has embraced Sunday Parkways, including 691,815 participants, over 39 events, hundreds of community organizations, places of worship, agencies, local, regional, and national businesses and vendors, more than 734 individual donors, and dozens of sponsors through its 10-year history,
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim June 25th,
 2017 to be Portland Sunday Parkways Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. I love reading parkways. It's a lot of fun. My name is Margie Bradway. I'm the Active Transportation and Safety Division Manager. Thank you.
 for PBOT. And to my left, I have the honor of introducing Lyndon Gidenthal, who is the Programs Manager in Active Transportation and Safety. And to my right, Rich Cassidy, who's a Senior Planner. You might have seen me insisting that Rich comes up to the table with me. And I just want to note that Rich has been an employee for the City of Portland for 33 years. Okay.
 I think that's quite incredible. And Linda for 23 years. So I want to thank them on the record for their service to the city. Not only have they served the city both over 20 years, but they have been key in moving Sunday Parkways forward since the beginning in our 10-year celebration. So I will keep it very short. I think the proclamation covered a lot of things.
 I obviously I think Sunday Parkways has become synonymous with a lot of things that we treasure here in Portland our parks, our bikeway system, our food our small businesses who provide that food our bike network and the people who come out the magic of Sunday Parkways doesn't happen
 without a lot of effort. So there's a list of people that I want to thank. First and foremost, our sponsor and our primary sponsor, Kaiser Permanente, has been with us since the beginning. For 10 years, they've provided stable funding for the program. Molly Haynes is here from Kaiser Permanente, and she's going to speak in a minute. We also have countless of other partners.
 sponsors everyone from IKEA to New Relic to individual donations. Secondly, I wanted to thank all of the volunteers. It's a massive volunteer effort. Hundreds of volunteers come out. It's quite a sophisticated system of the volunteers. I want to thank Phil Barber, Neil Armstrong, and Alexis Gabriel. Do you guys want to wave here in the foreground?
 for managing the amazing staff that makes, again, the Sunday Parkways seem seamless when you're a participant, managing the volunteers and the flaggers and everyone involved. Third, I want to thank our vendors. We have over 100 vendors for each event, most of them small businesses. Rich manages those vendors, has got to know them. Many of them have been with us for 10 years.
 Many of them have come to rely on the income that Sunday Parkways provides, as provided a stable source of income for their carts. And last but not least, the hardworking staff. As I mentioned, Linda Ginthal has championed Sunday Parkways from the beginning. When Mayor Adams was here, it was her vision, her stubbornness, if you know Linda, and her resolve to make it happen and to get people in the streets out,
 being active and enjoying Sunday Parkways. And again, Rich has been with us from the beginning. He has never missed a Sunday Parkways. There's been 40 Sunday Parkways. That's a lot of summer Sundays. And you should see how hard this team works during the weekend and leading up to those weekends before Sunday Parkways. It's quite incredible. So I am very, very fortunate to work with
 with both Linda and Rich, and I want to thank them again for their service to the city and their hard work over the past 10 years. And from here, I'll hand it off to Linda. Thank you. Well, that's lovely. Thank you. So my name is Linda Ginnenthal. I live in southeast Portland. And I wanted to thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Saltzman,
 Commissioners Udailey, Fish, and Fritz. I can hardly believe it's been 10 years since we first launched Sunday Parkways. I am so proud to have been the lead and the architect, along with my colleague, Rich Cassidy, on this amazing program. Together, our team from PBOT and park staff, volunteers, community groups, and
 and businesses, we've really built something pretty special. So I wanted to take a moment to read a little bit of the Oregonian editorial that came out the Tuesday after the very first Sunday Parkways. It sort of touches on the transformative nature of Sunday Parkways, and we were sort of astonished then and are, in reading it again, we're sort of astonished again. So I will read only parts of it.
 So many thousands of citizens had a North Portland date with a different impression. The event called Sunday Parkways was way more than a bicycle ride along six miles of traffic-free streets. It was an astonishing demonstration of just how well the connective tissue of the civic infrastructure can function when cut free from car-centric thinking. As for anyone who has ever been to a block party knows, streets serve as a terrific village greens.
 By noon, it looked to us that much of North Portland had turned into Brigadoon, for those who know what Brigadoon is. And that was before we ran into the choir, the yoga class, the hula hoopers, the Thai food, the reggae band, and the all-female synchronized mini bike dance troupe, complete with fishnets and tattoos.
 The city's role now is to just provide a little food and water and then let Parkways grow organically, sending out its joyous tentacles as demand mounts and the parade gets longer, stronger, sweeter. The idea, after all, is that one day everyone recognizes that parkways in Portland aren't a big deal. Parkways is just the way we live here.
 So that was from the Oregonian, which was pretty fun. So we started with the notion that we needed to get more people cycling to give it a try in some of the safest and most fun ways. And they came out in droves. We had 15,000 strong at the first event, and we really have never looked back.
 Sunday Parkways has become demanded across the city with an average of 100,000 people every year. Our friends and partners with us since the beginning have been Kaiser Permanente. Our regional government, Metro, has helped out since the beginning. The Community Cycling Center. The Parks Bureau has been a tremendous help. And it's a heavy lift for the Parks Department. Thank you.
 Cliff Bar and Bike Gallery have been businesses with us since the beginning, and they really recognize the jewel of Sunday Parkways. So with this list of sponsors and community partners has really grown to represent the full depth and breadth of what it means to live and to thrive in the city of Portland.
 I would like to also acknowledge former Commissioner and Mayor Sam Adams, who sort of jumped in with both feet in the beginning. It was pretty exciting. And subsequently, Mayor Charlie Hales, who put Sunday Parkways support as a regular budget item that catalyzes our broad corporate, nonprofit, community, and individual support for Sunday Parkways. We really couldn't do it without a little bit of city skin in the game.
 And lastly, to thank you, our mayor, Wheeler, and city council for letting Sunday Parkways grow and become stronger and sweeter. This Sunday, I hope you'll join me and the thousands of other Portlanders sweating it out there in the hot Sunday day as we begin our next decade of Sunday Parkways. Thank you.
 So I'd like to also bring up Molly Haynes from Kaiser Permanente. I don't know if she was an actual community benefits lead. She wasn't necessarily the lead, but she was there since the very beginning of Sunday Park Weeks, and she's been our community benefits leader since the beginning, since 2009. So I'm happy to introduce Molly to say a few words.
 Great. Thank you, Linda. And again, my name is Molly Haynes. I'm the Director of Community Health for Kaiser Permanente. And I want to thank you, Mayor Wheeler and the Commission, for allowing me to speak today.
 The city had the vision and Kaiser Permanente joined the ride 10 years ago to make Sunday Parkways a reality. As we proclaim June 25th, Sunday Parkways Day, I want to thank the city for your leadership and commitment to opening our streets and connecting our neighborhoods. And especially thank the PBOT staff, Rich and Linda most notably, as they have just been amazing to work with the past 10 years. I consider them colleagues and dear friends as well.
 One of the reasons that Kaiser Permanente has been along for this 10-year rise is because we know health is more than health care. So we know we need to invest in prevention in our communities, in our neighborhoods, and in our parks in order for our residents to be healthy. Our partnership started with the city around Sunday Parkways as an effort to increase physical activity among our residents to prevent and treat obesity and other chronic diseases.
 Sunday Parkway offers a fun way to be active with friends and family, very different than telling your patients, for example, to go to a gym, which they may not enjoy. People of all backgrounds, ages, and abilities enjoy moving their bodies in this safe and welcoming environment. Thank you.
 And we also know that the health benefits of Sunday Parkways extend beyond physical activity. And this is the part that really has, I think, grown on me a lot, is noticing the social connections and what happens in neighborhoods when neighbors come out and friends come out and meet one another and enjoy the parkways and the parks together.
 We see more smiles on Sunday parkways than any other place in Portland on those days, and I think that's incredibly notable and obviously good for our health as well. Friends and neighbors interact in ways that may not happen otherwise, and that hopefully lead to stronger neighborhood connections and improved safety. Addressing individual and community health in this holistic way is more critical now than ever. So this partnership, again, is really important, and we see it into the future.
 And on a personal note, I've had the privilege again, as Linda said, of being involved in this since the beginning, both through work and also enjoying the routes with my own family who lives in southeast Portland. My own two kids have grown up on the Sunday Parkways routes. They started out in bike trailers and graduated to the tag along and then rode their little boy bikes and now their big boy bikes. So it's a very fun family activity that we enjoy every year as well.
 So I think it's fair to say that we have a pretty special thing going on here, and we look forward to our continued partnership with the city and all the other partners on Sunday Parkways. And, of course, want to invite everyone here to come join us this Sunday for Sunday Parkways Day.
 Very good. And I'd like to ask Commissioner Saltzman, who's been very active on this, and my colleagues to chime in as well since they've all been far more active in the planning and the development of this amazing event than I have.
 Well, I just simply want to underscore how appreciative we, the city, are of Kaiser Permanente's commitment from day one. I want to recognize Dan Field, who's not here today, but I know that Dan was on the phone to all of us in the city council at the time, voicing Kaiser's support, and that really was a cornerstone. As you said, the event really is a cornerstone of the community's health, and it's fun. So thank you for doing that.
 Sorry I won't be there this Sunday. I'm going to be at the Seattle Mariners game up in Seattle.
 appreciate all the work and also Linda, Rich and Margie for all their outstanding work and everybody else in the Bureau of Transportation Parks Bureau who make this magical event occur every year. Thank you. Thank you Mayor and thank you to all of you. This program has indeed grown and grown and grown and I want to mention that you don't have to bicycle. If you're like me and you'd rather walk than ride a bicycle it's also a very walk friendly event to going between parks and
 And on that note, although its title is Sunday Parkways, as the Mayor accurately identified, Commissioner Saltzman is the lead on this being in transportation. And so I appreciate that, Commissioner Saltzman.
 Peabody is also managing the naked bike ride. So, again, Commissioner Swartzman is in charge of that. Any questions or any concerns or kudos would be directed to his office. No comment. And I really appreciated that you read part of the editorial and you talked about the energy and the organic nature the editorial did. It reminded me of last Thursday in kind of in its style, except that it's far more equitable.
 It's in different neighbourhoods. Everybody has an opportunity to be in it because it's during the day. It's not late at night and whatever. And on that note too, one of the pieces, we can't obviously say all of the great things that happen at Sunday Parkways, but one that I was particularly involved in is with the New Portlanders programme and making sure that there are employment opportunities for immigrant youth directing traffic and they're getting their first experience of...
 some of the wonders of Portland and also having a job that they felt good about. And so thank you for incorporating that into your program. Linda, let me just add one word to you and to Margie that we've watched you grow this program over the years. And actually, I'm glad you read the Oregonian editorial because I don't always remember them being supportive of some of these initiatives.
 It took a lot of work to get it to where we are today. And what I really appreciate is the community building aspect. It's being able to stop at a tent and talk to someone from Elders in Action or a bureau or learn about salmon or whatever. I appreciate the emphasis on healthy food. There is some healthy food that you can have. I love the active process.
 things that Parks does where you can go join a long line of people doing, you know, wild dancing. And the thing that for us I think is also kind of special is so much of our lives as commissioners and as bureau leaders is programmed. We're in council. We're in formal events. I love the fact that we're on our bikes mingling with residents and folks. Right.
 And when you're stopped at a light, just talking to folks and getting to know them. It is a wonderful community-building exercise. It's a healthy exercise, and it's really fun. And so we appreciate the work you've done to build this brand. Great. I just have one question, and that is, what's next? How do you top this? How do you continue to grow the brand? What sort of visions do you have for the future? You want to? Yeah. It looks like Linda wants to talk. Okay.
 Have I made a mistake here? No, no. There's a couple of things. Good. We have been working with Oregon Walks, which is a...
 advocacy walking organization. And they have sort of taken the brand of Sunday Parkways and moved it into Oregon Walkways, which are focused on walking routes. And so this August 6th, last year we had our first walking Oregon Walkways event in Cully. It was called Cully Camino, which is Cully Walks. And this year they're doing Lentz Ring Walk. And
 And so looking at expanding these open streets programs and looking at how Portland can be in the streets is where we're going for our next decade. It's really looking at how are we using this amazing infrastructure that we have and bringing it to the people, both in terms of community engagement
 volunteerism and then expanding the active transportation in the city.
 Yeah, I think you hit on it. Where I've seen the growth is there's always a demand for more Sunday Parkways in terms of events. But I think where we have grown is the quality and the type of people that we reach. So we've tried new routes in East Portland. Last year we did the first route with the city of Milwaukee. It was the first time we did a bi-city partnership that was fabulous. They were incredible partners.
 because we could have Sunday Parkways every weekend, and there are certainly advocates who would want us to do that, but I think the quality of the routes, the quality of the engagement would decrease. So it's about where and who we engage and continuing to up our game in that way.
 But I'm curious, Mayor, for your thoughts and ideas on how you think we could grow Sunday Park Place. No, I will send you a certified letter. You know, I think it's...
 I don't have a particular vision for it right now, but I'll tell you, I think it's one of the greatest things we do. And I had nothing, obviously, to do with the vision or the development of this program, except that it's really important to my daughter and I to participate. We love it. We've gone many times abroad.
 You had her at the ice cream truck. Once she realized that we were away from mom and that I was going to let her do whatever she wanted, she was completely sold on the concept. But it is just, as Commissioner Fish said, it's a really fun opportunity to get out and just let loose and –
 and have a ball. But I like your idea of the walking program, because there's so many, even as I'm out and about, I see more groups of people walking together and taking that up as a recreational opportunity. And I think there's a real, the crystal of a great vision there. So I'll look forward to adding to the good work of my predecessors to help you realize the next steps of the vision, and I'll put thought to the question you just posed to me. Commissioner Eudaly.
 I am a fan of any opportunity we have to kind of reclaim the streets, even temporarily, for people rather than cars. And I've had a long-held dream about shutting down a certain section of downtown Portland.
 on a routine basis in the evenings. So who would I talk to about that? Commissioner Saltzman? I'm really glad you asked that question because we're working tangentially right now with the Division of Permitting
 on a livable street strategy to streamlining our permitted process and how we address our policies, how we balance the need for people in the streets with the need for both cars and parking in the streets. And we'll be bringing that to you this fall.
 So I'm happy to give you a briefing on the development. We have a stakeholder advisory committee that's weighing in on the development of that policy. Cool. I'd love that. Thank you. Okay. We will set that up. Thank you. Very good. Do we have public testimony on this item? Proclamation. Proclamation. Oh, very good. Thanks for reminding me once again. Thank you for being here, and thanks for your excellent leadership. Can I get your thinking to your own proclamation? We'll do it later. You bet. Before we do that, let's make sure we adopt it.
 Please call the roll. Oh, it is a proclamation. What's wrong with me today? Carla, what is wrong with me today? We'll send you a certified letter. You know what it is? I ran out of coffee like an hour ago. I think that's the problem. Good, let's sign it. Do we have a...
 Big pen. And you can do bags. We've got little T-shirts. We've got Sunday Parkway T-shirts and maps for you guys. There are HIPAA rules here. We cannot answer them. And I even have a big pen. I don't know if we can accept those. Do you have a good one? Great. Excellent. I've got a big pen. Oh, yours is even better. Green is good. That's a big pen. Very good. I thought we were all good. Sure, yeah. You can all sign it. Great. You should just have a coffee. Thank you.
 That would be awesome. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, team. So, Michael, I'll tee this next up and then we can talk. Okay, good. Thank you. Okay, so we did that. We did that. I'm going to start at the bottom since I'm really.
 Is there anybody here who can testify on 706, the appointments to the Portland Parks Board? Is there anybody here to testify? That was pulled. Who pulled it? Yeah, I'm feeling it. Do we know who pulled it? I don't have a sign-up sheet for that one. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. It was pulled. Mr. Lightning pulled it. Oh. Is he still here? Oh, thank you. Thank you.
 So why don't you read 706? We'll have Mr. Lightning come up and we'll clear him up. 706, appoint Michelle A. DiDio, Joseph A. O'Leary, and Paul D. Grimace. Reappoint Kendall Clausen, Patricia Frobes, Jim Owens, and Gladys Ruiz to the Portland Parks Board. Go ahead. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Okay.
 One of the reasons why I pulled this item on the Portland Parks Board is that you have three attorneys that you're putting on the board. You have two policymakers, and you have an emergency nurse. And it was interesting when we saw that presentation from the Peterson store over by the Target location.
 You saw just a bunch of people that came in that were just what I call your everyday people in Portland fighting for their jobs and to remain there, the locals. But on these boards, you don't put people like that on the boards. And you talk about equity and diversity and having various people on these boards. You have very well-educated people, professionals here.
 overlooking the parks. And let me use one example of an individual from the Disabilities Rights of Oregon. She was out in the park. She stayed out there late. They arrested her for trespassing, took her into Multnomah County Jail, put her in a restraint chair, tortured her. Three days after she left Multnomah County Jail, she was never ever in jail for any crime. Her past history
 Three days later, they found her committing suicide under the Hawthorne Bridge. Imagine that, in a park, written up for trespassing, taken to Multnomah County Jail and committing suicide three days later. What's going on here in a public park to where someone ends up committing suicide? Where someone is put in to Multnomah County Jail and tortured in a restraint chair.
 What is this city about that allows that happen in a park? Who's responsible for that? Who's responsible to say, do not take them to jail for being in a park past the time limit, the time frame? Who's responsible for that? We have a lot of professionals on this board. Again, attorneys, emergency nurses, people in the Justice Department Division.
 juvenile case on the, if you read their past, this is what happens when they're the only ones on the board. Put some people on there so this never happens again. And you know the case I'm talking about, Commissioner Fritz. Disability Rights of Oregon, read the report. It should never happen to people in these parks. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Star Stauffer. I share a lot of the concerns that Lightning just brought about. One of the concerns that I have are police and their presence in the parks any time of day at this point. So, I mean, the people on this board, I mean, he's right. It's disturbing because what we don't see is representation from the community here on this board. And why not? Because the community is...
 They're the ones using the park. You have representation from Justice Department. You have attorneys. You have policymakers. But where is the input from the community or the communities of color, the vulnerable communities or marginalized communities? I'm sorry. You really – can I just say, with all due respect, you should read the backgrounds of these people. Kendall Clausen is a founder of the Q Center Foundation.
 She is one of the great African-American champions for equality in our community. We could go through all these things, but if you're concerned, why don't we get you the bios and have that conversation? I would love that. What we could also get you is a matrix, because we do look at where do people live, what kinds of...
 interest do they represent? Yes, I'm open to that. Absolutely. I would like that information. But seriously, in all seriousness, when it comes to these parks, the people on this board need to be selected with the understanding that part of the consideration for safety in these parks and what Lightning is talking about is law enforcement in these parks.
 These people are not law enforcement. They are thugs. And I worry about the safety of any citizen, especially a citizen from a vulnerable background, being in these parks and being able to utilize them without something like that happening again or without them being killed by a Portland police officer or a Multnomah County sheriff. So the people on this board have a huge responsibility on their hands. Because it was...
 This year, that a young man was killed, shot to death in Holiday Park. We're still not really sure what's going on with that. So the parks are not safe. So if there is somebody on this board that you're so excited about, that is somebody from a community of color, that's great. But we're still not having a real conversation about the safety of people in these parks here in Portland.
 Thank you. Good morning. Yes, my name is Robert Wuss. I'm with Film the Police. And one concern that I have with the parks is that the community centers are not free for low-income and disabled people. A lot of them will cut their prices in half, which is like $400-and-something for a year. The other thing that I wanted to bring up to you guys is...
 I've seen people come in and offer books and stuff, and you say you can't have gifts, but I've just seen an organization come in and give all of you guys gifts. So I just wanted to bring that up, too.
 To be clear, when I receive gifts like whatever is in this bag, I don't keep them personally. They go up to the office. If we get gifts from delegations that come to visit, I don't even touch them. They go to Government Affairs and to the International Division, and they're all log cataloged and stored. We do not accept gifts. Is there any further public testimony? May I move to the portfolio?
 We have a motion. Please call the roll. We have a motion from Fish, a second from Fritz. Fish? I've had the pleasure to work closely with a number of the people that we're either appointing or reappointing. The Portland Parks Board is one of the higher functioning oversight bodies, and they are true partners in guiding the work of the Parks Bureau. I'm grateful that all of these individuals have agreed to take time out of their busy lives to serve our community. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I welcome these members, the reappointments and the new ones, but I particularly wanted to commend Parks for the summaries of the individuals that were prepared here. We have tried time and again to get a consistent...
 resume attached to all appointees, to all bureaus, and we fail in that effort because we're inconsistent across the board. But I really want to call out, I think this is the template that every appointee should have accompanying their form, a brief paragraph summary. We don't need the whole resume, but a paragraph, and then a personal statement about why they're serving on the board. I would like to see that with all people we appoint to all committees. Thank you.
 and boards in the city. But I really do want to give a shout-out to Parks for doing a great job on that. Hi. Dan, is that a motion? I think I've made that motion before, and it's passed. You, Daly? Hi. Fritz? Well, thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. I appreciate the kudos for the staff work. The selection process for Parks board members, I will stand it up against any other appointment process. It's very thorough, and I'm very pleased that these board members
 volunteers are willing to serve on the Parks Board. I also want to thank Ty Schwafferman, who has served one term and asked to not do it again, and one current board member, Sue Van Brocklin, who is term limited out. So thank you very much. This is a long process to get to this point, and I appreciate the service of folks who are continuing and those who are now willing to serve. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye, the report is accepted, and this is an excellent board. I appreciate it very much. Thank you, Commissioner. Item 711, do we have somebody here to testify on that? Mr. Lightning pulled it. Very good. We're going to move public testimony to two minutes due to the number of items we have yet. We are not even on the regular agenda yet. I'll pass on that.
 He passed. He passed. He pulled it, so can we just go to a straight vote then? Okay, 7-11. Authorize grant agreement with the Community Alliance of Tenants for $45,000 to fund community engagement activities that support the Portland and Tigard Southwest Corridor Equitable Housing Strategy. Please call the roll. Fish. I'm so pleased that we're supporting Cat and the work of Katrina Holland, who is really one of the outstanding young leaders in our community. Aye. Aye.
 Seltzman. Well, this is about making sure that we have affordable housing in the southwest corridor light rail line, which we're all hopeful will be built one day. And the key is to make sure that the affordable housing opportunities are there at the outset and not an afterthought. And this is an effort in that direction. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 And so that moves us into the regular agenda, 716, please. Authorize the...
 Bureau of Parks and Recreation to execute agreements that allow the Bureau to provide funding to Multnomah County for the administration of the Sun Community School Initiative in any fiscal year where those payments have previously been authorized by Council in the normal budgeting process. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. In the interest of time, the park staff won't be making a presentation, but they're here and happy to answer any questions regarding the school's united name.
 Uniting Neighborhoods Program or the budget. Eileen Argentina and Jurel Singleton are here and can answer questions. Basically, this ordinance allows the city to pass through $635,628 to Multnomah County as budgeted in the current fiscal year and enables future payments to the county without an ordinance as long as these payments are implementing council's direction and resource allocation through the budget process.
 Schools Uniting Neighborhood Community Schools are the school-based delivery sites for the Sun Service System, a broader system of care that includes the City of Portland, Multnomah County, six school districts, the State Department of Human Services, non-profits, and community members. Portland Parks and Recreation operates 11 out of the 85 Sun Schools in the county, and it's operationalized through an intergovernmental agreement between the city and the county. We're very proud of the program. Thank you for your support.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. No questions from council for staff? Thank you. Very good. Call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? A lot of work goes into this program, and it's so necessary in our neighborhoods. Aye. Thank you.
 Wheeler. I love the SUN program. I think it's a tremendous program. It varies from site to site in terms of the services that are actually provided. It is the classic definition of a community-based partnership. It often includes government partners, school district partners.
 parks personnel, non-profit partners, and at the end of the day, one of the things I like the most about it is it engages families,
 and kids where they are and meets the needs of those families and kids, depending upon their own circumstances. And so it is a hugely effective, hugely uplifting program. I was proud to support it a long time ago as one of the county chair. I'm proud to support it now as a member of the city's coalition of sun schools.
 And I just think it's great. And Commissioner Fritz, I appreciate your leadership and continued support of what I think is a really important program. The ordinance is adopted. Could you read 717, please?
 amend code to allow Green Street stewards to remove sediment from and plant vegetation in public Green Street facilities and to discourage removal of dead plantings. This is a second reading. Please call the roll.
 Well, I'm pleased to support this, and I want to thank my team at BES for their excellent presentation last week. And, colleagues, we have hundreds of these bioswales throughout our city that take runoff from the streets and treat it using Mother Nature, not our pipes. And as a result, it saves us money over the long term.
 This change will allow citizen volunteers to even be more effective in helping us maintain bioswales by authorizing the removal of sediment and, with permission, the planting of vegetation. I also want to report to you that we had some testimony last week from some...
 businesses, and residents along Division Street who had some heartburn about the way the bioswales are being maintained. I got a report this week, and there have, in fact, been some glitches. Part of it has to do with the contract for the work. This is a collaboration between PBOT and BES. We think we've identified the problem that we can avoid in the future. Okay.
 And I'm pleased to report that as we speak, we are going to be doing some plantings this summer to remedy the problem, and I'll be providing a full report to the people who testified about what our future plans are. So I appreciated their testimony. Aye. Saltzman. This is great to have a strategy to actually use volunteers to keep our bioswells functioning. So great program. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Item 718, authorized grant agreements and intergovernmental agreements with 11 community groups and native plant mini-grants related to the community watershed stewardship program up to $100,000 total. This is the second reading. Please call the roll. Fish.
 You know, every year we have some program that touches each of our hearts. Dan gets particularly engaged when we do heritage trees. It's always been one of his favorites. Commissioner Fritz has been a strong supporter of the community watershed stewardship program, which has faced its unfair share of criticism in the past.
 but for a very small amount of money, leverages an enormous amount of community resources, again, which help us divert stormwater from our sewer system, ultimately long-term saving rapier money and making our environment, the city we live in, more friendly and warm and healthy. So I'm very pleased to support this and all the good partners we're going to be supporting.
 awarding grants to. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Well, thank you for your leadership on this, Commissioner Fish, and to Jennifer Devlin for continuing to manage the program. Aye. Wheeler. Yeah, I want to second Commissioner Fritz's thanks to Commissioner Fish. I've learned a lot about this program from you and your team, and I'm greatly appreciative for its existence. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please read item 719. Aye.
 Proclaim June 19, 2017 to be Juneteenth Day in Portland. Colleagues, before I read this proclamation, I want to give a special thanks to the City African American Network, known as CAN, and the diverse and empowered employees of Portland, known as DEEP, for putting together this proclamation on behalf of the City of Portland.
 I will read the proclamation, whereas Juneteenth is the oldest known celebration for commemorating the end of slavery in the United States, and whereas the day brings into national memory historical events that occurred on June 19, 1865, leading to the abolition of slavery in Texas and more generally the emancipation of African American slaves in the South,
 Whereas, more significantly, it's a day for celebrating African American freedom, education, resiliency, and agency. And whereas, on Juneteenth Day, we remember the stories and teachings of black leaders who gave and still give a voice to the daily struggles for freedom, equality, diversity, equity, and inclusion, both past and present.
 And whereas we celebrate the many achievements and contributions made by African Americans, specifically to Oregon's economic, cultural, spiritual, and political development, and whereas the City of Portland continues to work towards becoming an inclusive community in which all citizens are recognized for their contributions to our community.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim June 19th, 2017, to be Juneteenth Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. And I understand we have Tozin and Kim here today, possibly, to say a few words. Kim's here. Kim's here. Kim McCarty. Hi, Kim McCarty. Come on up.
 I am Kim McCarty. I work for the City of Portland Housing Bureau, and I'm a member of DEEP and CAN. Tosin and Sunny from OMF were the lead on this proclamation, so thank you for reading it, and we appreciate you taking this time. It's our pleasure. Thank you. And, Kim, can I give you this proclamation? It doesn't matter.
 Colleagues, any further comments? We're also going to be celebrating Good in the Hood this coming weekend, and I would welcome anybody who wants to join in my parade group because it's always another event that celebrates our African-American history. I'd be honored to join your group. I didn't know you had a group, but I'd be honored to join you. Very welcome. Very good. We will also be there, and we would be happy to join your group as well.
 Colleagues, I will be at the U.S. Conference of Mayors, but Katrina, who has no official role whatsoever with my administration, she and I have been to the event previously, and she will be attending in my stead. And we've reached out to the organizers and have encouraged all people in the community to participate in Good in the Hood.
 We will hopefully have the largest turnout in the history of this city for that event. It's an important event. Thank you. The next item is Commissioner Fritz, if I remember correctly, 708. Is that correct? And I believe you wanted to put an amendment as well. I thought we were going to do that at the end of the session. I don't believe I've got staff here at this point. What number did you say? 708.
 708. 708. I can do it if you... Hang on. Did we get through all of the consent? I think we did. We moved 714 to the afternoon session. I think I can manage to read my notes and probably answer any questions you might have. So shall we just go ahead and do it?
 You know what? I'm sorry. I skipped. I'm jumping ahead, and you are correct and I am wrong. I've missed something. Sorry. So we'll hold on. No, I can do it. No, it's fine. We'll do it at the end. 720, please. 720, authorized memorandum of understanding with the American Red Cross for cooperation in emergency preparedness, response, and recovery. This is a second reading. Please call the roll. Fish.
 Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The memorandum of understanding is approved. Next item, please, 721. Amend contract with TriMet related to operations and maintenance of the Portland streetcar system and increase funding to $7,675,379. Commissioner Saltzman.
 I don't have my talking points, but I do know that Catherine Levine is here who can cover for me. Good morning. I'll just do a few brief statements. In 2012, Council authorized an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet related to operations and maintenance of the Portland streetcar system. The IGA provides funding from TriMet to streetcar as an integral part of Portland's regional transit system.
 Each year, there is an IGA amendment in which TriMet and the city identify the specific amount of funding for the upcoming fiscal year. In 17-18, TriMet will be providing $7.675 million of funding for the operations. In comparison, in fiscal year 16-17, that amount was $7.524 million. If you have any additional questions, just let me know. Thanks, Governor.
 Colleagues, any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have three people signed up. Shedrick Wilkins, Robert West, and Mary Seip. Very good. Two minutes each, please. Okay, I'll try to talk faster. I compliment the streetcar system. It will someday enable Portland, Oregon, to have a county general hospital, like all major cities do, in the southwest, mixed with PSU. Okay, you've got it. I was there at OMSI when...
 Amanda Fritz and Sam Adams dedicated the circular path. And actually, then I started saying, well, this goes to OMSI, right, where kids learn science so they can be a doctor. This is all great. And so it's going to work. And just history classes, to me, there was always a war between,
 trolleys were first made in northwest Portland which was kind of the center of Portland and then they got into a war this real estate scandal with OHSU so there's been this war going on for a long time between actually good Sam wanted to have a university, Good Samaritan Hospital
 And that's where they made the streetcars. And then what happened was this OHSU, and then what happened is people went out in the suburbs and they drive. And in the future you're going to hear me bash the Wells Fargo Bank because they bankrolled suburban houses so people could drive into Portland. But finally we got this answered. It's not relevant. In fact, African Americans in North Portland...
 at the Lloyd Center can get on a, if their kids are sick, go down to this, they should actually make it a county general hospital. People don't know this in Oregon. You do not have surgical residency in this state. Dr. John Kitzhofer had to go to Colorado. All we do here at OHSU is basically dentistry and pharmacy.
 We should have a main medical school here, and it should be right on the waterfront. And you've got it, and you've got OMSI right across the bridge. Everything's set up. So for us to have a major county medical hospital where everybody has access, where they don't have to take a tram right up on a hilltop, that was all part of a railroad scandal in 1907. Thank you. Perfectly timed. Good morning.
 That testimony just really took me by surprise. I worked at OHSU. We do have a...
 medical school and we do have residency programs at the medical school for surgeons and neurosurgeons and all kinds of things and maybe it's not a county hospital or anymore but anybody who Is low income does not have funds can apply for financial assistance and receive their care free there and in fact after I worked there I
 This isn't about the streetcar, but just I had some extensive surgery, and my bills were over $100,000, and I was uninsured at the time. And just like any other citizen in Portland, I was able to receive my care at OHSU, and they accepted what the insurance paid and wrote off the rest of it.
 Just to counteract that, quickly about the streetcar. I support anything that supports funding the streetcar and keeping it going. There was so much controversy about the benefits of the streetcar. And I want to say I lived right on the streetcar line while it was being built, watched it. And until I retired, I rode it downtown every day to work.
 I do not own a vehicle. Many of my neighbors, we do not own vehicles. We can't afford them. I ride here on Wednesdays on the streetcar. That streetcar takes me almost every place I need to go on this side and on the other side of the river. And I just cannot believe what an incredible...
 public service it provides to people like myself and many of my neighbors and I just want to say keep it up. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, my name is Robert West from the police 911 and I find it interesting that we're always finding ways of getting money for all these organizations and stuff which sounds really good like the streetcar. The problem is you still got
 people that are low income, people that just got out of jail, people that can't afford to ride the transit system. And you got these tactical ticket checkers that go around and make sure that they write people tickets and send people to jail for not paying their fare. And I don't... If you're going to pay the fares, then the city really shouldn't...
 be putting that money in. They should be spending more on people that allow people that don't have the money, people that have emergencies and stuff like that. People that just get out of jail to be able to ride for free.
 It just baffles me about how nice the city of Portland is, but if you've got some low-income lady that doesn't have any money, and her daughter's sick, and she wants to catch the bus to the hospital, she could risk a huge fine taking her daughter to the hospital if she doesn't have the money. And to me, that's heartless, and that's cowardliness.
 And the city needs to bring that stuff up too when they start considering all this extra money for TriMet. And TriMet's spending an awful lot of money on transit police. The transit police really are not making anything safer. I'm talking to people that actually are more scared seeing people on board the buses and trains with guns.
 And the little package that was left, my understanding there was officers already on that train, you know, listening to the scanner. Apparently they didn't scare the person off the train. They had to go a couple more stops. Good morning. My first question is where is this funding coming from, the $7 million that's being spoken about? Where is it coming from?
 TriMet. TriMet is providing that money? And how much of that money do we know is going to reinforce this line with transit police? I don't know. We don't know, which means that some money. Which means that this is another back doorway for the Portland police to get yet more money out of the city because...
 They're all ridiculous and don't know how to spend $10 million that was given to them, and they're out of money now. And every single time we come here, and there's another thing for TriMet, and there's another budget discussion with TriMet.
 I know and you know that that is a backdoor method that the Portland police use to get more funding for them so that they can increase law enforcement on the transit lines. Which in turn puts vulnerable communities, especially and specifically people of color, at extreme risk. Terrell Johnson. I mean for real. What? Excuse me. You know what? No, please. That is a disruption. No, he's right though. $2.50. $2.50.
 If you don't have that in your pocket, $2.50 could get you killed. He's right. The King was arrested over 30 times. Continue, sir. We're all elected in terms. I understand that you don't like the interruptions, but he is right. And he is a person of color who's extremely concerned about his safety on these transit lines because of the increasing...
 They don't understand the culture of Portland. Sorry, this is your time. That's what I'm talking about. You can say he's one voice, but really he represents pretty much the majority of people of color in this city who are just absolutely terrorized by the Portland police. We have to – I'm just going to go a couple seconds over –
 We are having to rearrange our schedules and arrange for rides and crowdfund, crowdsource the funds to drive people of color from one area to another because they're too scared to take transit systems. They're too scared to let their children even wait at the bus stop because of the police, because of the police and their relationship with these alt-right hate groups and their relationship in turn with TriMet. Thank you. My name is Mimi Gurman, and I'm...
 I wasn't going to come up here to speak, and I can't not, because one of the things that we have to do, those of us who are white and privileged with our voices, knowing that we're not going to get killed on TriMet by TriMet cops, have to speak up for people who are getting killed. Not people who might get killed, but people who are getting killed. Things didn't start here going downhill with the murders a month ago.
 This has been going on. The terrorizing of community of color in Portland has been going on for decades. And I just wonder when we're going to stand up as the city, the city that works, and say we're going to remove cops from terrorizing positions of people of color. We're not going to add cops to TriMet because we white people think that that's what's necessary to prevent murders. That's a white perspective. Right?
 The reality is that black people are getting killed or thrown off or jailed from TriMet rides because they're black and because the policies are coming from white people. Say his name. So we need to reinstate free rides for poor people. That was awesome. I can't believe we got rid of that. It was one of the worst moves we ever made. Adding more...
 TriMet cops and other cops to TriMet rides, it's a terror campaign. And just because we white people who make white policies for white cities think that it's going to prevent something doesn't make the thought process correct because it's an incorrect thought process. What these cops do is terrorize the black community.
 We are a part of that community. As white people in that community, we get calls to help people get from here to there because, like Star said, they won't ride on the buses anymore. Thank you. Say his name. Thank you. Say his name. Is there any other public testimony on this item? That's all I'm saying. Very good. Please call the roll.
 Fish? Mayor, this ordinance also contains an increase for streetcar operators reflecting the COLA for this year. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? I'd just like to...
 a couple of the issues that were raised, although they're not extremely pertinent to this particular ordinance. I agree we need to have sliding scale fairs. I am concerned about the impact of petty municipal violations like not paying a fair and the disparate impact on low income in communities of color. And I would...
 like some clarity on transit police. I think there's a lot of confusion in the community, and frankly, I'm also confused as far as who's policing TriMet and where the officers who were involved in the Terrell Johnson shooting were employed. My understanding is their transit division.
 But they're not transit police? Does anyone have clarity on that? I would be happy to get you or any other city commissioner a briefing on the TriMet security arrangement. It's a multi-jurisdictional arrangement. I'd be happy to get you that information. It's not pertinent to this ordinance. Aye. It's a separate issue. And I'm...
 I would be happy to get you whatever information you want. If you leave an email address, I will make sure I give you detailed information more than you can stand on the information. Yes. Aye. Fritz. And I believe that that contract does come to Council separately, so there will be options. It is a separate publicly. It's a contract that is voted on publicly. It's been voted on publicly. It's fully disclosed like all the other contracts we've asked.
 Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Item 722, authorized temporary commercial surface parking on Oregon Department of Transportation blocks in the central east side. Commissioner Saltzman. I found my talking points. So thank you, Mayor. At the request of the Oregon Department of Transportation and Prosper Portland, formerly the Portland Development Commission, this ordinance will grant a waiver of Title 33 zoning.
 and the Stormwater Management Manual for three properties in the Central Eastside District, which are currently owned by ODOT. These are located just east of I-5 between the Morrison and Hawthorne Bridges along Water Avenue. PDC Prosper Portland is in the process of purchasing these sites, and the intent of the ordinance is to allow the site to be used as a site for the stormwater management manual.
 to be operated temporarily as surface parking lots to address the high demand for parking in the Central East Side District. In 2015, the Council took action to address this issue via an ordinance that waived Title 33 and stormwater requirements for one of these three sites, but it is scheduled to expire on June 30th. So this emergency ordinance extends the waiver and,
 before it expires and includes the two other sites and extends it until June 30th, 2020.
 providing sufficient time for Prosper Portland to acquire the sites and prepare them for redevelopment while allowing some temporary surface parking to serve the district. Staff is here if the council has any questions, further questions. Mayor, I support this. Can I make a comment? Please, Commissioner Fish. So I'm going to support this, and I just want to make the following comment.
 I've attended two forums in the last week that are relevant to this matter before us. One was a makers forum that Commissioner Udaly and I attended, and a second one was a forum with local business owners.
 And two themes emerge from those conversations. One is that there isn't sufficient parking in that district. So the opportunity to have interim parking on the ODOT blocks before they're developed makes a lot of sense, and that's why I strongly support this. The second issue that came up,
 is the growing unaffordability of creative space in the Central East Side. And it's particularly acute for people who make things, and small entrepreneurs who make things like bikes or furniture or whatever are chasing a dream. Mayor, paragraph 5 of this ordinance says,
 lays out the next steps, which is Prosper Portland, it reports to you, will establish a property disposition strategy, which will include, quote, high-density industrial office. I would like to put a marker down and get a commitment, Mayor,
 that as part of the disposition strategy, we have the makers and the creative community at the table, and I'll volunteer, Commissioner Udaly and me, since we both said we would be involved, to see how we can leverage through this acquisition an opportunity to preserve long-term some affordable creative space.
 And there's a lot of models that PDC has been playing with, which may work. Other cities have tried. But this is a legacy development in the heart of a district where, because of the success of this district, people are being displaced at big numbers. So I wonder, can we get a commitment to have some kind of process to put the creative, affordable space into this development? Yeah, I think it's a great idea. Thank you. Good. Any further public comment on that?
 Do we have any public testimony? We have one person. Very good. Peter Stark. Mr. Stark, good afternoon. Good morning. Yes, good morning, or it could be afternoon. Commissioners, Mayor Wheeler, thank you very much. I'm actually here representing the Central Eastside Industrial Council Board. We had a discussion about this request at the board meeting yesterday. And I'm also here representing the Transportation and Parking Advisory Committee.
 We support PDC's effort to both develop the blocks, and we also support extension of this ordinance to allow them to have temporary parking on the site. As you're aware, the district has grown exponentially, and we have quite a bit of growth in old warehouse buildings that do not have parking. We go from a density of maybe 1,000,
 30 employees to 500. I mean, it's substantial growth. So this temporary parking is to fill an infrastructure need that we lack in the district for parking structures. And we're hoping that this temporary relief will help us as we go through the growth pain of the district.
 So I'm here to say that the CEAC and our Transportation Parking Advisory Committee support the effort. We're also hoping to be able to work with Prosper Portland to make sure that this parking is primarily dedicated to the benefit of the employees in the district and it doesn't become a parking that is used by, let's say, downtown or other areas. We're that desperate for use of the site. Very good. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Also, Commissioner Fish, thank you for your comments on the makerspace. That's great. Thank you, sir. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Well, I want to thank Commissioner Fish for volunteering me for further discussion on this issue. You know, the...
 in that area are not just due to the success of the neighborhood. It's due to zoning changes and our failure to do much to mitigate displacement or preserve or create affordable commercial spaces for makers, artists, nonprofits, etc., who are all being displaced from that neighborhood. So I'm looking forward to that conversation and
 Seeing whether we can do anything about that. Well, thank you, Peter Stark, for your long-time leadership with the Central East Side Industrial Council. I also want to thank Brad Molson, the current president of that organization, for bringing a delegation to my office yesterday to give me a much more in-depth briefing on the parking future in Central East Side. Happy to support this now. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. At the request of Commissioner Fritz, she has staff here now for item 708. Could you please read item 708? Okay.
 Authorize the acquisition of 0.26 acres of real property located at 6732 Southwest 42nd Avenue adjacent to Gabriel Park for $375,000 to be used for park purposes. Commissioner Fruits. Thank you, Mayor. This ordinance will allow parks to close on the purchase of a 0.26 acre property which includes a house adjacent to the maintenance yard at Gabriel Park.
 This purchase will add area and allow for reconfiguration of the maintenance yard so that it can be better used. And the house will provide staff with room for offices, meetings, breaks and storage. I circulated the amendment in the Tuesday memo that makes a correction to the funding source. The funds to pay for this will come from the portion of the fund from the Mount Tabor annex sale from Portland Parks and Recreation to the Portland Housing Bureau. So I move that amendment. Second. Second.
 So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. Please call the roll on the amendment unless there's any further discussion. I don't see any. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. And Zalain then of Portland Parks and Recreation is here if anybody has any questions. Colleagues, any further questions? Any public testimony? I did not have a sign-up sheet for this. Please call the roll. If anyone wants to testify on this. Aye.
 Two minutes, please. Well, we're stuck back in the same situation where we have you guys spending money and low-income people that don't have the money that can't afford to go to community services. You'd be better off offering free scholarships to low-income people than you would be to buy a house.
 And I wanted to bring that up because, like I said, you guys can provide free scholarships for low-income people. We do that in a different section of the budget. This is from the parks budget. So we do provide scholarships in another section of the budget. Well, I know. I'm just saying that you're using all this money to buy a house when you could use this money to help lower-income people. And that's what I wanted to bring up. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Is there any further public testimony? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fitch. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. This has been a long time coming, thanks to Pooja Bhatt and Christina Nieves in my office, as well as Selene Nunn, James Allison, and others in Portland Parks and Recreation. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Back to item 723, please.
 replace code pertaining to private for hire transportation in the city. This is a second reading. Please call the roll. Fish. This is good work. I'm pleased to support it. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank Mark Williams and others in PBOT who helped put together this code and also our Private for Hire Advisory Committee. This does a lot of good things, establishing the wheelchair accessible vehicle subsidy program to incentivize more drivers to participate, to serve those with disabilities, and a lot of other good things as well. So good work. Aye.
 Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thanks to Claire Adams-Dick in my office who continues to follow this process closely. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The code replacement is adopted. Next item, please, 724. Accept report on gender-neutral documents and policies. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Lynn Wu. I'm a deputy city attorney. To my left is Linda Law, a senior deputy city attorney. And this is David Reese, the assistant director of human resources. We wanted to give you an update on the status of the city's gender-neutral language policies. Just by way of background, this was a resolution passed in December of 2015. Okay.
 The first part of the resolution dealt with the conversion of single-user restrooms to all-user restrooms. And that part of the resolution has been accomplished and is still ongoing with different building plans. But what we wanted to report to you on today is the second portion, which is –
 the portion that has tasked the city attorney's office and the Bureau of Human Resources with assisting all the city bureaus with reviewing their policies and documents for any gender-specific language and then revising and replacing them with gender-neutral language where practical.
 As part of that process, our offices developed some guidelines, which is attached to our report as Exhibit A. The guidelines provided a non-exhaustive list of the documents that should be reviewed, along with some methodology for reviewing and replacing any gender-specific language.
 We also ask each of the bureaus to appoint a lead person and then to provide a game plan as to when each bureau would accomplish this. The city or the bureau's responses are attached to our report as exhibits B and C. So you can look to those to see which the game plan for each bureau is.
 Based on those responses from the bureaus and then also from a couple of meetings that we had, our offices came up with some recommendations, which I'll have Linda talk about.
 My name is Linda Law, and I'm a deputy city attorney for the city attorney's office. And so on behalf of the city attorney's office and the Bureau of Human Resources, we compiled the information and are making these particular recommendations to council. We would ask the council to direct staff to develop some recommendations for citywide training
 plan so that whatever is the way to carry out this particular policy, we have education to support that so folks can understand why they're doing whatever we're directed to do.
 In addition, we would ask for direction to direct staff to develop a citywide style guide for gender-neutral language so that we are consistent in the use as a city as a whole versus bureau to bureau to bureau. That's important because we want to have...
 the same respect for people across the board. Finally, we want to get clarification and further instruction to direct us to come back with the resolution, a binding resolution, so that we are all on the same page as to what to do and when in terms of these education and the style guide.
 David? On behalf of Anna Kenworth, Bureau of Human Resources, I'm David Reese, Assistant Director. We wanted to add our support to the work that's gone on and to particularly recognize the City of Tores office for providing the staff and the support. We'll continue to participate in this project as well.
 We're happy to take any questions. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Let me say, as the author of the underlying legislation, I really appreciate the work you've done to bring it forward with the full support of Portland Parks and Recreation. As you've noted, we've converted over 600 single-stall restrooms to all-user restrooms, and now we're actually engaged in a community-wide challenge to engage folks outside of the city.
 The one question that I would have, because you've posed some questions here, is in light of the work we're doing on boards and commissions, which is going to be require some bandwidth, and thank goodness Judy Prosper is coming back soon. But in light of that work and some other things we're doing, at some point there's a bandwidth question about how much we can do and how realistic is it we can do it within a certain timeframe.
 I mean, I would turn around one of the questions here and say that, you know, yes, I think we need uniform standards. I think we need a style guide that everyone can follow so we have consistency. But I also think we should set realistic dates and goals because, ultimately, there's a lot of work to be done on top of a lot of other related work. And I just want to – I don't want to –
 keep adding things to city attorney's office and just expecting that you can do that on top of everything else you're doing. So I think we want to be guided a little bit by what you think is realistic. And setting time limits that give people a chance to appoint staff, folks, to go through all their documents, make changes in a reasonable basis, and at some point be able to declare that across all of our bureaus and platforms we have a consistent way of addressing gender.
 So we may not actually get to that question today, and I know you've made some progress, but I want to be respectful of the bandwidth of the city attorney's office. And if it turns out we need a dedicated person to do this, like what we've done with some other council priorities, like our ADA implementation plan and the like, I think we should then have a serious conversation about whether there's an additional staff person that's needed to get this done.
 It's extremely important. I'm proud of the work, but I also want to make sure we have a realistic plan for getting it done. We appreciate that. And that's why part of the conversation that we need to have would be with the respective bureau liaisons that's been tasked to be the lead for their bureaus on this particular subject. And we want to also engage.
 other important people, such as the equity managers for the bureaus or equity persons or people who have those particular interests, such as the folks in Deep. And also with their help to identify the right members across the city who want to participate and who have the bandwidth to participate. Mayor, can I make a suggestion? Yes. Because this ultimately –
 The city attorney's office reports to you, and, you know, we run into the same challenge here of lots of different folks coming together. Because Tom Reinhart has an important role here as the CAO and because of the interest that I have in our office,
 What I would suggest is that we pull together a meeting of the people who have been designated by offices and bureaus as the person is working on this with the equity managers that we have. And OMF, led by Tom, I would like to participate. And I think we should have a meeting this summer to actually go through these questions and then come back with recommendations to counsel. Thank you.
 I think that will give us a more realistic sense of what we can commit to and also whether we need additional resources to meet the goals. Very good. And did you want to volunteer, Commissioner Udaly, for this?
 Yeah. I think it's a great idea, Nick. We'd be happy to do that. And I would, if it's possible, I would suggest we pull together a meeting in July or early August and just do it over a lunch hour and have that conversation. Yeah, I think that's a good idea. That makes a lot of good common sense, Nick. I'll make sure we take care of that. Wonderful. Very good. Colleagues, any other further questions? Is there any public testimony on this? Yes, we have two people, Mimi German and Star Stauffer. Thanks, Nick. That's a good suggestion. Thank you.
 I agree. Don't come back with a whole. It's good to do it coordinated. Oh, good. Would you like to start? No. Okay. My name is Mimi Gurman, and I was reading the entire agenda item the other day, and I was really surprised that in like 41 pages people still couldn't quite figure out how to just be human. Okay.
 This, to me, it's like the city's looking for these... The bureaus, some of the bureaus, specifically the COPS Bureau, are looking for...
 I'll just read it because it's so much easier to read. The Bureau will need support to include added personnel, training, guidance from experts. Are you serious? Following staff development and guidance provided by the city, we would begin the internal policy development process. To create equality for people who work in the PPB, what this says to me is, first of all, they're completely incompetent as human beings to even...
 function, because they need a whole support team to figure out how to be okay with a trans person or a queer person on the police force. And secondly, this is leeway here. This is the path to coming in to say, we want more money in order to consider if we're going to do this at all. And Amanda, I mean, with you and the bathroom thing, you know, from this past year, Amanda, you did it. You can shake your head, but you did that.
 You created inequality in this building by your comments. And you know what? This is my response, especially to the PPB, regarding inequality and the absolute insanity of not knowing how to be humane as if we would expect anything else from the PPB.
 No one is equal until all are equal. End racism in PDX by dismantling the slave catchers, the KKK, the PPB. If not, your talk, this talk, this agenda is propaganda of the state. Fuck the police. That is why we say that. Thank you. Thank you, Maureen. And you guys, remember, we're not in any way trying to edit what people say, but we do have an FCC license. So just keep that in mind because this is broadcast.
 Hi, my name is Red Hamilton. I identify as a non-binary person. I would like to know if anybody on this panel is from the LGBTQ plus community for the people that can benefit from these bathrooms. No? No? Because I would want somebody to come talk to me about, you know, the bathrooms. Okay.
 Because I'm directly affected when I go into a bathroom that doesn't match my gender. So just saying, you should probably talk to the people that would probably benefit from that. If you want to talk to me, you can. Thank you. I'm here. Appreciate that offer. Thank you. Good afternoon. Star Stauffer. This issue concerns me personally. My partner is transgender. And...
 As well as Red, I am disturbed by the fact that it doesn't seem to be that there's any representation of the LGBTQ plus community behind us in regards to this issue. I also like the idea of, and I know she's very busy, but I like the idea of Chloe taking this over because God forbid Amanda takes it over, she'll be peeking over every bathroom stall in this city. Oh, shit.
 Shame on you. This rings very much like Jim Crow laws against black people. Whites only, coloreds only. Only now we have men only, women only, and trans. You better hope that you choose right, and you better hope that you do so in an area where you might be safe to make a wrong choice, because otherwise it could get you killed, or a politician could peek over the stall and violate you in a sexually exploitive way, or, or, or...
 We need to be talking about this in the sense of humanity. We're talking about this in the sense of policy and how we're going to write this up and expert training. You don't need expert training to treat people like human beings. Right.
 Why are we spending all this money? Why does the PPB need money to treat people like human beings? That's very telling about the PPB. I believe we've been making that complaint about them for a long time now. And they just admitted it right there in what she read. They have no idea how to treat people who are different genders, who do not identify as what you see immediately, or who are not white like human beings. They need expert training on that.
 Well, I think they need expert training on how to pull their heads right out of their butts. It's ridiculous. I'm disturbed. I don't trust this council to do the right thing. I mean, she's sitting on this council and she peeks over stalls and violates people's privacy. She's transphobic. Thank you. Next. Is there any other public testimony? Hearing none, I'll take a motion. Move adoption of the report. Second. Second. Sorry, the record's closed. Record's closed. Please call the roll.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. I learned a lot by the mistake that I made earlier this year. Excuse me. Shh.
 No, the record's closed. You didn't sign up. Please continue, Commissioner. I learned a lot earlier this year by the mistake that I made, and while I regret the harm that I caused, I don't regret the learning that I was able to do, and I particularly appreciate the people who gently and graciously brought issues to my attention so that I was able to learn and understand better. I appreciate the way this... the recognition that...
 Some of us are at different stages and there does need to be education and training and inclusivity. I'm sure that Commissioner Fish has, I know he has included people from many different communities in the planning for the work that he's doing and I appreciate that very much. Fish. Yes.
 We're accepting the report, Mayor? Correct. So thanks to our city attorneys and the team working on this. I appreciate the progress we've made. And as I said, I've committed to participating in a meeting this summer with the various stakeholders and to be convened by Tom Reinhart.
 to address a couple of the questions that you've posed about bandwidth and timelines and consistency, and then I'd be happy to bring those recommendations back to council after I brief the mayor. Thank you. Hi. Wheeler. Hi. The report's accepted. Please read 725 and 26 together.
 $725,000, accept bid of Tech Construction, Inc., for the Greenleaf Pump Station project for $1,286,550. And $726,000, accept bid of Duke Construction and Excavation, LLC, for the Ventura Park Play Area Improvements and Loo project for $764,991. Come on up. You all right? Yeah.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Carla, do you want to go ahead? And you're doing these in order, I assume, Greenleaf and then Ventura Park? No, they're going to end up backwards then. Either way is fine. Go first, Larry.
 Okay. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. Item 725 is the procurement report recommending a contract award to TEK Construction for the Alder Pump Station upgrade for $1,286,550.
 The engineer's estimate for the project was $1,275,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was moderate. The project was advertised to the city's electronic procurement system. Five bids were received, and in response to it, tech construction is the lowest responsible bidder, 1% under the engineer's estimate.
 Portland Water Bureau along with Procurement Service identified an aspirational goal for DMWSB subcontractor supplier utilization of 20%. As per our standard policy, there is a total of $303,380, or 23.6%, of certified firm participation in this project.
 Apportioned as follows, DBE 260-120 doing electrical work, MBE $1,000 with project supplies, and an emerging small business $42,260 supplying CMU walls. Tech Construction is located in Bellingham, Washington. They are not a state-certified DMWSB contractor. They do have a current City of Portland business tax registration and are in compliance with the city's contracting requirements.
 If the Council has any questions, I can answer anything about the bid itself, or Teresa Elliott is here if you have questions about the project. I just have one. What are the implications for not having the MWSB certification? What does that mean in a practical sense? They're not a –
 They're a Washington firm. They are not a certified Oregon firm. They are not, however, certified either in the state of Washington, meaning they're not minority-owned, women-owned, or a disadvantaged company. Okay. I see. But that in no way precludes them then from bidding. But they still have to meet our minimum requirements with regard to MWAs. Oh, yes. Yeah, absolutely, sir. They are fully compliant with all Portland contracting requirements. Okay. You're just saying the firm itself is not. Just the certification piece for them. Okay. I got it. I misunderstood you. Thank you. That's helpful. Thank you. Great.
 And on to Duke. Okay. Do you want me to go ahead? Go ahead. Okay. Hello, Mayor Wheeler and listeners. My name is Lauren McGuire. I'm the Parks Development Program Manager. And we're here today to accept a bid from Duke Construction and Excavation for the Ventura Park player area improvements and loop project for $764,991. Ventura Park is located at Southeast 113th and Southeast Stark.
 It's, again, part of the 2014 bond measure program. This particular project falls into two theme areas, playgrounds and restrooms, that we're going to be repairing. This map shows Ventura Park as a 7.25-acre park in southeast Portland. You can see the Hazelwood neighborhood around it.
 It's bordered mainly by single-family and multifamily housing, and on its northeastern edge you can see Ventura Park Elementary School. The yellow is the school. The park is an active park with two play areas, a pump track, decommissioned wading pool, and we are going to be making renovations to the play area.
 This shows the existing play area. The project will replace this old equipment and the surfacing and increase the overall playable area in the park. The goals are to increase overall safety and fun, to access play for all children, and to address many of the ADA efficiencies. We're also installing a Portland loo here and installing public art. This shows some of the play equipment that we're providing with an emphasis on children from 2 to 5 and 5 to 12-year-olds.
 This particular slide shows that we'll be doing new play equipment surfacing water play, but also we're addressing ADA issues in the parking lot with two compliant ADA stalls and pavement to get us to the playground itself, as well as the loo I described and the drinking fountain. We did have a public process with this project through the bond program. You can see the community involvement that's up on the screen as you see.
 noted. This is bond funded but it's also SDC funded and so the timeline for the project is we're here for the acceptance of the bid now and the project should be under construction this summer with completion by early winter. On the screen are some of the construction projects that are underway with the bond and upcoming construction as well. Larry?
 Thank you, Lauren. That's an excellent description of the project. Skipping down a little bit, there is a total of $192,574, or 25.1 percent, of DMWESB subcontractor participation, apportioned as follows.
 DBE 73688, concrete and paving work. WBE 33,900 doing landscaping. And Emerging Small Business $84,996 doing plumbing and protective surface work. Duke Construction and Excavation is located in Damascus, Oregon. They are a Oregon State certified DMW ESB contractor. They are in compliance with all City of Portland contracting requirements.
 It's just a sideline note that there's a total participation of certified firms for this project, including the general contractor, at 66.1 percent. It's $698,192, which is 91.2 percent total participation. It's another thought process about the intent of the certified firms to spread the work around and subcontract to other certified firms, even for work they could do on their own.
 If there's any other questions pertinent to the project. Very good. Is there any public testimony on these items? No one signed up on either. Mayor, on 725, I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll on 725.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report is accepted. Can I get a motion on 726? So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Fish. Great project. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Just to emphasize, 66.1% engagement of underserved communities. Well done. Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The report is accepted. Thank you very much. Thank you for your hard work on this. Item 727. Provide for up to 36 months of city-paid monthly COBRA continuance coverage for the eligible dependents of Rick Best. Colleagues, this is obviously something we're doing on behalf of the family of Rick Best. As you're all aware, he was a Portland City employee before.
 I just want to speak personally for a minute. It was uplifting to me to have had the privilege of spending time with his family and with his coworkers over the course of the last month. For those who had the privilege of attending his celebration of life, it was very uplifting. Boy, he had just...
 So many admirers meant so much to so many people in this community. It was beautiful to see what his colleagues had done for him here in the city of Portland and the tribute that they were paying to him at his desk. And I know there's lots of conversations ongoing about how to continue this
 to remember him best and how to continue to support his family. And obviously this is one of the perfunctory things that we need to do to ensure that the health care benefits continue to flow. And so that is why we're taking this up today, and I'll turn this over to Human Resources.
 Good morning, Mayor, Council. I'm Kathy Bless with the Benefits Office, and I know that Rebecca's on her way. She's the interim director of BDS, and I know that she has some words that she wants to share with you today as well. The...
 COBRA is a federal requirement that allows participants of the health care plan to continue coverage beyond their employment or for a number of various reasons, family status changes. So even though it's a federal requirement, it's important to acknowledge that this is an incredible opportunity to provide support to the family of Rick Best. So this ordinance grants...
 the authority for BDS to pay for medical dental vision and the employee assistance program for the wife and children of Rick Best.
 The 36-month COBRA period is the longest available under COBRA that would allow BDS to pay for that. The Best Family could then continue coverage with the city beyond that point if they so chose. So we would definitely ensure that they still had access to coverage.
 The other thing that I wanted to acknowledge today too is that PTE Local 17 has been very generous in providing assistance as well to the family in paying for coverage for June. And I know that they had an interest in also paying for July. So we made sure to write the language that allowed for that additional assistance. And that's why the language is up to the 36 months so we could –
 we could ensure that PTE Local 17 had the opportunity to contribute as well.
 As you had stated, Mayor, the ordinance is sponsored, certainly, by Council as a whole, and it's incredibly important. So I ask that you approve it, and then I'll turn it over to Rebecca. First, before we turn it over, can I ask you two questions on this? And I just want to make sure of reading the ordinance. This would guarantee that there will be no diminution of the existing health care coverage, so whatever Mr. Best...
 as an employee, the family would continue to get exactly the same benefits? Yes, medical, dental, vision, and EAP coverage. Okay. And the other question I have is you cost it out at $77,500, and having hired some people in my office recently and knowing what the health care costs, that seems high. So is our family coverage now, we allocate $25,000 a year for family coverage? Yes.
 Or does COBRA require you pay more than 100%? There's a 2% administrative fee that's added on to COBRA, but the coverage is about $1,800, I think, for family. And without having the numbers right in front of me, I can't remember. $1,800 a month? Yeah. I can't remember if that includes dental. But we wanted to ensure that the number that we asked for today covered any increases in
 Okay, that's what I was getting at. Right. The Best Family had Kaiser coverage, and since we don't have the additional information on what increases would be, we wanted to ensure that they had the available coverage. That's a good answer. So you've built in some additional funds. And, of course, if for some reason this falls short over the three years, you'll come back to council and ask for supplementary. Yes. Thank you. Good morning, Rebecca. Rebecca Esau, interim director at BDS. I apologize for being late today.
 I just wanted to say a few things. Rick Best began work with us in January 2015. He was a technician with the Permitting Services Section and a member of PTE 17. He was an Army veteran. His wife and four children meant the world to him, and he was an exceptional person. And I think this is a fabulous way for the city of Portland to honor Rick and what he did on May 26th as well as just how he conducted himself in his life.
 by providing his health insurance to his family for three years. So thank you for considering this ordinance. Thank you. Colleagues, is there anything else before I ask if there's public testimony? Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have four people signed up. Star Stauffer, Mimi Gurman, and Robert West.
 Star Stauffer. Personally, I don't think that the amount of coverage they're receiving is going to quite cover everything that they're going to need, especially as far as mental health counseling goes. They have personal experience with the AAP programs, both federally and locally, and those programs are limited in what they will cover and for how long they will cover it.
 So I'm wondering, there needs to be some way for the city to supplement, and perhaps we can tap into TriMet since they've got so many funds to also allocate money to these families to help them get through what's going to be an extremely difficult and probably very trying mourning process for his wife and children. Also, I mean...
 Is Terrell Johnson's family going to be receiving any of this coverage, this type of coverage, EAP coverage, counseling, medical, anything like that? What about Quanis Hayes' family? I mean, they're struggling as well, and the city needs to accept some responsibility for their demise as well, considering it was city employees that killed them. So those things need to be considered.
 My name is Robert West. I'm with Film the Police 911. And I'm totally against this, and I'll tell you why. I don't think that the city should be covering ex-employees' benefits. People do stuff all the time that's horrible, which saves lives and property and stuff like that and goes out of their way. You guys kicked a guy out that chased down...
 armed suspect and wound up getting stabbed. And then the very next night, the police brutally grabbed him by the stab wound. He's not getting medical care from the city. You got people that have been hurting fires. They're not getting other people out. They're not getting medical care. But you see a white guy.
 That works for the city and all of a sudden, hey, let's provide him medical care because he got killed. And I think that's a shame. You got all these other people that. Robert, it doesn't go to him. It goes to his widow and four minor children. I know that. Who otherwise would not have health care. And I think on this one we can just agree to disagree. But the thing is, the city should not be paying for that unless the city wants to cover other people that did similar things. Right.
 It's not right to give it to one person and not other people that do the same thing. And that's my opinion on it. If you want to provide it to people that go out there and save lives, people that do the right things, then you should provide it to all of them. What about the other two people that were...
 That were injured and killed. They weren't city employees, and they don't have health insurance to extend through COVID. We've only got one second. Your time's up. Good morning. Hi. Thank you. I'd like to give some context to...
 Sorry, frustrated. Almost 30 years of my working career, I worked in health insurance in a number of capacities, and so I'm very familiar with COBRA and how health insurance works. What Star said about EAP...
 EAP is a whole separate thing from your medical insurance benefits. They have mental health coverage through their medical program. They will have benefits for any kind of counseling or mental health care through the medical insurance plan on this program. I also find it... I just think...
 Last week, Mayor, you made an incredible statement at the end of yesterday afternoon's meeting about, and I almost wish you would go take a look at it, transcribe it, and write it down and repeat it before every meeting, about when people come up here and they give testimony, that they do their homework and that they know what they're talking about. It's just very frustrating to...
 to sit through meetings. There have been so many misstatements made this morning, and in this particular instance, I think some of these statements are so disrespectful to someone who gave their life and the remaining surviving family of that person. And any employer – now granted, the city as an employer has some restrictions on how they spend their money – but
 through COBRA, any employer can opt to pay those premiums for a deceased employee or somebody who's being laid off. So I commend the city for stepping up and doing this. And don't forget that there's a lot of money in some GoFundMe accounts that were set up to help all of the victims. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 All right. That completes public testimony on this item. I take it. That's all signed up. Please call the roll. Fish? Kathy, thank you for bringing this forward and for explaining it. Mayor, thank you for your leadership on this. It was a singular honor to join the mayor and a number of my colleagues at the funeral for Mr. Best and have a chance to meet his family.
 This is a terrible tragedy, and I would say that what we're proposing to do today is the very least that we should be contemplating as they try to move beyond this great tragedy. I will say, Ted, that one thing that stood out for me at the celebration for Mr. Best's life was the enormous strength of his children, most of whom actually spoke and spoke at an event where
 I think for those of us as adults, it would be almost unimaginable to be asked to get up and speak. And you saw the great character of that family evidenced through the kids who got up and spoke tributes to their dad. And I was very proud to be there with an extended city family and friends and admirers, to pay my respects. And if the best family is watching...
 I would say that you continue to have our heartfelt sympathies, and we hope that this is some small measure of solace that you won't have to worry about your health care costs as you continue to grieve. Aye. Saltzman. Well, as we laid Rick Best to rest, I think most people view that as the point where we begin to move on. But for Rick Best's family, moving on isn't so easy, and it's going to be years before they move on.
 This is one small gesture we can make to help ease that transition to life without their father. But it is by no means, it's a small but significant gesture that we can make. And I know his family knows that all of us on the city council and all of us in city government are so grateful for his heroism. You daily?
 Well, I certainly hope the Bess family wasn't watching during public testimony because I, for one, am disappointed and disgusted by some of the comments that were made and the way that this tragedy was exploited by some of the people in this room to advance their...
 ill-thought-out ideas and opinions. I want to thank Rebecca Isar, Interim Director of BDS, for guiding our Bureau through this incredibly difficult experience. Thank you to PTE 17, to the Bureau of Human Resources, to City Council for all of your support, and to the City of Portland. Our city is still recovering from this devastating attack.
 the event directly impacted hundreds of lives, from the two teenage girls who were the original targets to the three men who stood up to defend them, to every person who witnessed really an unthinkable act on that train, and to their friends, their family, really our entire community. And as we found out the following day directly,
 directly impacted our city employees because Rick was a very valued and beloved employee of BDS. Our thoughts quickly turned to how we could support his family, his wife, who's been a stay-at-home mom for most of their children's lives and their four children. And I'm
 thankful and grateful that we are able to extend their health benefits. Certainly more help is needed for all of the directly impacted individuals and our community has come together in a really amazing way. This is one thing that the city could do for one of the victims because he happened to be a City of Portland employee. I
 Fritz. Well said, Commissioner Daly. You said many of the things that I was thinking, and I appreciate your gracious framing of them. I also want to thank Rebecca Esaw and all of the family at the Bureau of Development Services for the event held a week later in the Portland State University ballroom, just packed with city employees joining together to recognise this loss to our city family, because as much as we may have disagreements at times, we are.
 people who care about the public, we care about public service, and we will stick together in times like this, a time when what we need now is more love. We need more people acting out. And I read that, as Rick had been stabbed, he said, tell everybody on this train that I love them. So from what I know of Mr Best...
 I think he would most want his family to be taken care of. And so I'm so proud that we're doing this. It is a small gesture in comparison with the challenges that his widow and his children will go through. And you do what you can do. And we can do this, and we are doing this. Thank you to Cathy Bless, to Rebecca Esau, and to the mayor for allowing us all to co-sponsor this. Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. I just want to reiterate that this was a joint effort on behalf of all members of the City Council. And I want to thank my colleagues for their words. I can't possibly do justice. I think they've set exactly the right tone and they've said exactly the right things. This is the beginning of a long process for the Best Family. And we will be there as much as they need us there.
 I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, and we are adjourned. I still have 714. I forgot. 714, I thought we moved to – yeah, we're moving that to the afternoon session so that the Housing Bureau can actually be here to testify on that one. Okay, thank you. They're not available this morning. So we'll move 714 right after 731 this afternoon. We'll take it up as the first Housing Bureau option.
 All right. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, June 21st, 2017 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Udaly? Here. Fritz? Wheeler? Here.
 A statement I usually read, I think most people have heard it multiple times, the bottom line is this. When it's your turn to testify, just state your name for the record. We don't need your address. Typically, you get three minutes to testify. The lights will sort you out on that front. If you're a lobbyist, you must say so. And if you're representing an organization, we'd like to know that as well.
 Disruptions are not tolerated. Any disruptions to people trying to provide their testimony or the council trying to provide deliberation, we'll call it out. And if you don't stop the disruption, you'll be asked to leave. If you're asked to leave and you don't leave, you're subject to arrest for trespassing.
 So we're all very clear on that. We prefer not to have applause, and certainly we prefer not to have people booing or anything like that. Just a simple thumbs up, thumbs down. It's a respectful, good thing to do. Bottom line, we want everybody to feel safe, welcomed, respected, and heard in this chamber. With that, we are going to call item seven. Oh, thank you. I almost forgot. We have some very distinguished guests.
 guests here today. We have the Oregon Summer Fellows here from the Hatfield School of Government. Could you raise your hands, the Summer Fellows from the Hatfield School of Government?
 Phil Kiesling is here. And, Phil, could you raise your hand? We're proud to have you here representing the leadership. He's hiding behind the large novelty clock. Security, would you have me on the phone, please? Very good. Well, thank you and welcome. And we hope we'll provide you a highly informative and entertaining session this afternoon. So with that, Carla, could you please call item 731? 714? 731, please, first. 714.
 731 authorized contracts for information technology on-call services not to exceed $5,500,000.
 Good afternoon, Christine. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you an ordinance recommending the authorization of on-call services contracts for the Bureau of Technology Services in the categories of project management, quality assurance, and information technologies planning, business analysis, professional development, and process facilitation.
 On January 10, 2017, a request for proposals was issued, and on February 7, a total of 48 proposals were received. There were 19 firms submitting proposals, of which nine were certified disadvantaged minority women or emerging small businesses. Each proposal was reviewed, evaluated, and scored by an evaluation committee. Each committee included one minority evaluator.
 Eight contracts are being awarded to certified DMW ESB firms for a total contract value of $3.2 million, which is 58.2% of the total apportioned as follows. Minority businesses, $2,650,000. Women-owned businesses, $550,000. I will turn this back over to counsel if you have any questions.
 So you have these broken down by different service categories and not to exceed values. Is there anything you can tell us with regard to the MWESB participation in those categories? Are there some categories where it is harder for us to find qualified MWESB contractors or subcontractors? So in the three categories for project management,
 Three of the five contracts are being awarded to certified firms. In quality assurance, three out of the five contracts are being awarded to certified firms. And in information technologies, two out of the four contracts are being awarded to certified firms. Excellent. I appreciate that. Colleagues, any further questions? Yes.
 Ms. Moody, is this your last appearance before us as Chief Procurement Officer? Yes, it is. And hopefully my last appearance in front of you. I'm sure you're going to do a wonderful job for the Port-a-Port and just wanted to thank you for your service to the city. Thank you, Commissioner. We will miss you. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Fish? Let me add my voice to my colleagues, what they've said previously. Christine, thank you for your service.
 We had a chance to visit yesterday and went over some work that's still in progress. And it's been an absolute pleasure to work with you over these many years. And I don't think people fully appreciate what a challenging job you have. And in some ways, I think the way you present reminds me a little bit of Andrew Abbey, which is you do your job so well that the public often doesn't understand how much time and work and other things go on behind the scenes.
 And we're very grateful for your service. We will never forgive the port for this action. But thank you very much, and I'm pleased to support this. Bye. You daily?
 Thank you, and good luck on your new adventure. Aye. Fritz. Well, you're always clear, concise, and have answers to my questions, whether I've asked them ahead of time or not. So I really appreciate all your work, and you have moved the ball on engagements of women and minorities in getting the money that the city gives out or puts out in contracts like this one, and I'm always confident that when you bring something to us that it has been scoped out and done properly. So thank you. Aye. Wheeler.
 Well, I certainly want to thank you, Christine, for your very dedicated service to the city. And I did not get to work with you for long. But in the short time period that we've had together, I feel that you've always been extremely detailed in your answers, well prepared for the council sessions, forthright and effective. And so the port's gain is most certainly our loss. And we wish you the very best of luck.
 And I'm with Commissioner Fish. We'll find all means of revenge to repay this travesty. It has been a real pleasure working here. I have learned a lot. And this is just a good opportunity for me. So I thank you very much. It is a great opportunity. We all wish you the very best of luck. Thank you. I, the ordinance, is adopted. Next item, 730, please.
 Authorize a five-year use and occupancy agreement with Atlantic Aviation for hangar space at Portland International Airport through January 31, 2021 for police air support unit. All right. Come on up. And legal counsel, I had an open question from my team this morning as to whether or not we need to use –
 The script or given that we've already had a session on this whether we just have a Presentation update us on any changes So I believe the item Carla just read is actually 730 which is not though. I'm sorry. That's that is correct This is just the ordinance. Sorry get to the land. You're right This is what happens when I don't sleep four days in a row. I'm sorry and who do we have here to Present this We're doing seven three zero
 The item you called was 730. Right. We can do that or we can... Let's do 730 and get it done. Yeah, I think it's pretty straightforward. And then move on to the land use hearing. Okay, very good. Is there somebody here to make a presentation on item 730? They may be thinking these are coming up after the time certain, the way the agenda is set up. Ah, very good. Okay, so we'll go to the 728 then. And then to answer, well, let Carla answer.
 728, appeal of Landon Kroll against design commission's decision of denial for design review of a new 5- to 6-story, approximately 70-foot-tall, 17-unit apartment building in the central east side subdistrict of the central city plan district at 1122 Southeast Ankeny Street, LU16184524DZM. Okay, now back to my original question. Yes.
 So we do not need to run through the whole script. We can start with just a reminder of where we're at. Okay, so this is an open record. So we should reopen the record, continue the hearing. We're continuing the hearing. We're opening the record. And there was some discussion at the end of the last session about the appellant
 meeting with the neighborhood and my understanding was that commissioner fish had been engaged in brokering a resolutions northwest discussion And so I I believe we were going to hear about the results of that discussion If that is the wish of my colleagues, I think it's going to go to commissioner daily commissioner daily. No, no All right. Is there anybody who would like to tell the city council where we are with the appeal?
 Come on up. Yes. Very good. I'm happy to take my vote. Counsel, if I could suggest, it might be good to allow BDS staff to just provide a brief update and a status update, and then they can put some information. Isn't that what I just asked for? Yes, sorry, but the attorney was. Great. I'd like to start with staff. Come on up. Okay.
 Tim Herron, Bureau of Development Services. Good afternoon. Grace Jeffries, Bureau of Development Services as well. Good afternoon, Mayor. Thank you. And you're going to walk us through this afternoon's hearing? I am going to give you a brief update of what's happened since the first and second hearing and a very brief kind of review of the case. Excellent. Thank you. So a quick overview. I'm going to show you a quick overview.
 A recap of the context, show you the quick recap of the proposal, the process, where we are to date, the decision, and the appeal. So if you remember, the site's located in the Central City Plan District and the Central East Side Subdistrict. It's shown there in pink on the diagram. It's located at the far eastern edge of the subdistrict.
 Because the site lies within these district boundaries, the approval criteria for design review are the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines and the Special Design Guidelines for the Design Zone of the Central Eastside District. This aerial image shows the change in texture and density of the nearby built environment from the dense commercial and industrial Central Eastside area shown on the left.
 and the commercial area along Sandy above to the less densely built residential neighborhoods shown to the right, which design guideline C3-2, respect adjacent residential neighborhoods, specifically refers to. Here's the site. It's compromised to two mid-block lots with abutting rear lot lines. Western lot on the left fronts southeast Ankeny to the north.
 Contains a one and a half story house that's proposed to be demolished, shown in red. The eastern lot on the right fronts Southeast 12th Avenue. It currently sits vacant. Shown in orange are the adjacent existing houses. Site wraps two lots to the north, not owned by the applicant. Both contains houses constructed in 1904, and the remaining three lots south of the site contain houses constructed in 1894 and 1895 in the Queen Anne vernacular style.
 All have been identified as having potential historic and architectural significance, and the three to the south are listed on the City of Portland's Historic Resource Inventory, the HRI. And here's an image of the entire southeast 12th frontage, with the three Queen Anne houses to the left, the site in the middle outlined in red, and two early 20th century houses to the right. So in terms of zoning context...
 The site zoned EXD, which is central employment with the design overlay showed in red above. Maximum allowances in the EXD zone are as follows. The FAR base allowance is 3 to 1 with an additional 3 to 1 residential bonus allowance available. Height base allowance is 50 feet max with an additional general bonus allowance of 45 feet maximum. Thank you.
 Across the street are the CS and CG zones shown in yellow. Maximum FAR allowances are 3 to 1, and maximum height allowance is 45 feet. There's not a design overlay on that side of the street. The program's a six-story mixed-use building with 17 market rate units, ground floor retail unit on Ankeny with no parking or loading. The proposed height was approximately 78 feet, and the FAR was 4.93 to 1.00.
 These are the two street elevations of the proposal. Southeast Ankeny Street elevation is at the top, with the adjacent one-and-a-half-story house shown on the left and adjacent one-story commercial structure to the right. The southeast 12th Avenue elevation is below, with adjacent residential structures shown on either side. So with regards to the process, there was a pre-application conference held on April 7, 2016. The Type 3 design review was submitted on June 7, 2016.
 It was deemed complete on August 5th, 2016. The first through fifth design review hearings were held October 6th, 2016 through February 2nd, 2017. And the decision was rendered and appeal of the decision was received March 2nd, 2017. So at the first city council hearing was held on April 12th. The council asked the applicant to have two meetings, one with the neighborhood association and one with the adjacent neighbors.
 The neighborhood association meeting was held on April 20th, 2017. The majority of the attendees encouraged the applicant to consider reducing the height and the massing of the proposal. Second city council hearing was held May 11th, 2017. The hearing was continued to allow the second meeting that had been requested. So the meeting with the adjacent neighbors was then held on May 11th, 2017. Neighbors on both sides of the proposal attended.
 I'll encourage the applicant to consider reducing the height and adding setbacks of at least four feet from their properties, from the property lines. So here we are at the third city council hearing, June 21st. This is just a quick diagram showing the evolution of the design from the first, second, and third design review hearings. No images are provided from the fourth and fifth hearings as the applicant did not submit for the revisions after the third hearing.
 The Design Commission found that the applicable approval criteria were not yet met, therefore the request was denied. As directed in the City of Portland's Planning and Zoning Code, a design review application will be approved if the review body finds the applicant to have shown that the proposal complies with the design guidelines for the area.
 So the following guidelines related to contextual response, coherency, and permanence and quality were found not to be met. A4, A5, C2, C3-1, C3-2, C4, and C5. So the decision of denial is being appealed. That's why we're here. So today the city council has alternatives. The first would be to deny the appeal and uphold the design commission's decision to deny the proposal of
 This needs a minimum of three votes and means a return date to take the final vote and adopt findings. Second option would be to grant the appeal today. Overturn the design commission's decision to deny the proposal, thereby approving the proposal. This needs a minimum of three votes as well and means a return date to take final vote and adopt the findings.
 This requires that the applicant has submitted at the hearing a full set of drawings that illustrate how the proposal meets the design guidelines, so that written findings can be made and the building permit submissions can be fully evaluated for compliance with the design review approval. Third option would be to continue the hearing and request design revisions to be reviewed at a return council hearing. This needs at least one return date to review drawings and then another return date to take final vote and adopt findings.
 This option may require a waiver of the 120-day clock as the 120-day review period for this case expires on August 5, 2017. So I have a question. Thank you. Commissioner Fish and then Commissioner Fritz. So my understanding is that the applicant in conversations with the neighbors said,
 has agreed to make some changes, but we don't have a set of plans in front of us that reflect those changes. That is correct. So the case record was closed on June 8th. On June 9th, the applicant submitted revised findings with a sketch diagram showing what they were thinking of doing, which was some setbacks and a height reduction. However, the record was closed at that time.
 You've opened the record back up, so that will be put into the...
 in terms of what you are now doing. So that may explain why we've set aside an hour and a half for this hearing. Correct. So now that we've reopened the record, can you walk us through what changes the applicant has proposed to make to address the neighbor's concerns? Or do we have to ask the applicant that? It was sent after the record was closed.
 As I understand it, it's a four-foot setback on the south side and a one-and-a-half-foot setback on the north side and a couple-feet reduction in the parapet height of the building. And no drawings have been submitted to BDS, so BDS really can't comment on findings. I understand. I'm not asking you to comment. I'm just asking you to...
 walk us through it. And I understand there's also been a... Have they proposed to change the materials? That's correct. I heard, but I have not seen anything that they've proposed to change the cladding, the metal cladding on the sidewalls to some type of wood cladding. So can I just... Therefore, let me ask you a procedural question. You gave us three options. Can we go back to that slide for a second? Do you mind? Not at all. It should be up. That one. Yeah. So...
 Okay, we can deny the appeal. I understand that. We can grant the appeal contingent on the applicant submitting a full set of drawings and those drawings being reviewed by staff? And counsel and findings being made that show that they meet the guidelines. Okay, so I guess what would be helpful for me is, what is the difference between options two and three on this chart?
 What's the practical difference between granting the appeal with these conditions or continuing the hearing process?
 for the purpose of a further review of the revised proposal. What's the difference? Actually, when you point that out, they're kind of one and the same in this case because we don't have a set of drawings. So we would have to return to look at drawings anyway because no drawings were submitted. So one difference from your chart is that we may bump up against the 120-day clock. So that would require an agreement to extend that. And they both would at that –
 As you pointed out, they're actually one in the same. So, yes, either way, we're going to bump up against that clock because there are no – So under either circumstance, staff would have to be plan submitted, they'd be reviewed by staff, and then we'd have a subsequent date to discuss whether they were sufficient to reach findings that we can adopt. Is that correct? Absolutely. Thank you for summing that up well. Thank you very much. And thank you, Commissioner Fisher. That made it very clear.
 If the applicant doesn't agree to extend the clock, then our choices are fairly stark because if we don't make a decision before August 5th, then it's deemed approved, is that correct? Yes, they could go and obtain approval by going to circuit court if we don't make a decision consistent with the timelines required by statute. Right, so I guess I would like to hear from
 the applicant and neighbors, what's being proposed, what do people think about what's being proposed, what was the result of the neighborhood meeting, because I can't really make a decision based on the options right now of what I know about the proposal at this point. Okay, very good. So we have now heard from the BDS staff. Do we want to hear from the appellant next? And legal counsel, question for you during the first...
 iteration of this hearing. We had supporters. We had a time certain for the appellant. We had time certain for the rebuttal to the appellant. We then had a group of individuals supporting the appellant and a group of individuals not supporting the appellant. Tell me about this second phase, what's required.
 So that pattern is not required in the second phase. I would recommend that you maintain a time frame that everybody has the same time frame that testifies and that they speak to new evidence to the extent possible. So that the time frame is consistent for anybody that testifies. I don't think you need to require them in any specific order. And is that true of the appellant and the rebuttal or no? Ten minutes. Ten minutes.
 What's that? Is it true of the appellant and the rebuttal or just for public testimony in support or opposition? I think the...
 There is nothing that's specified in code in terms of this practice. I was afraid you were going to say that. I'm one step ahead of you. They say they need 10 minutes. Yes. And I would give 10 minutes to the appellant as well. Okay. Good. We're making progress. We are making progress, and we're going to get more of these at the city council. So at some point we need to codify a processor. We'll be breaking for dinner and getting all your orders, and then we'll come back later. That's right. It's Taco Tuesday. Okay.
 All right, go for it. Ten minutes, please. All right, thank you. Names for the record. For the record, representing the applicant, Tim Ramos. My office is at 2 Center Point Drive, Lake Oswego. I am here today with Bob Zimmerman from our architectural side of our team, and I am happy to report that we are here to present to you a compromise amended design.
 and that design is the product of a continuing conversation that took place after your last hearing and has proceeded for some weeks. The product of that has been some changes to the design. While I'm sure we'll find at the hearing whether we all agree to this or not, it is supported by the applicant and it's supported by –
 The property owners to the south, Mary Roberts and Michael Beglin, who you will recall were opponents to this application in the earlier proceeding. We have, with them, entered into a formal settlement agreement, which refers to the design you're going to hear as well as some other issues. We, of course, recognize that that agreement is dependent wholly on whether or not the City Council agrees with the design that we're going to present today.
 we very much appreciate the additional time that the Council granted all of us to continue the conversation. And in particular, I also want to thank you for the encouragement that you gave to all the parties to work towards some sort of resolution of the issues rather than to all face the risks of what the consequences of continuing disagreement might be. I think that was very helpful to all of us.
 I'd like to express thanks to Grace Jeffries for organizing the mediation, to Clark Worth, who was very professional in conducting the mediation, and also to our neighbors who gave very willingly of a great deal of their time, both in the mediation and in the many conversations and exchanges of documents and ideas that followed it. So a great deal of time has been spent on that, and we very much appreciate it.
 Our plan is to first identify the issues as they were discussed at the first hearing, talk about the responses of design to those, and then let our architect present those to you in more detail. The key issues, as you recall, were the massing of the building along 12th, which included questions of height and setback,
 the preservation of a residential streetscape, which has historically existed along 12th, and then the question of materials, where it was vividly pointed out to us that these homes there are made of wood. They're not made of metal and stucco, as our design was. Our key responses have been to reduce the building width from almost 30 feet to about 24 1⁄2 feet in order to accommodate some setbacks.
 Our goal here was to recognize the historic spacing between structures on the street, which was roughly from six to eight feet, and we've accomplished that. Excuse me for just one second, and if you could stop the clock. Do you have a diagram of this? We have submitted that, and we will show some additional drawings today, yes. Because it would be easier for me to have it in front of me. Yes, I think probably. Is it on your screen now? It's quite small on our monitor. Okay.
 Oh, we have some handouts, so you can see it. Thank you. That would be very helpful. It's just easier to reference when you're saying what you're saying. Yes, I also work in the same way. Thank you. That's much better. Thank you. No problem. In terms of the size, I can see. So you will see a redesign of the first floor that we'll talk about in more detail, but the building also includes setbacks, a reduced height along 12th, and –
 In addition, we've shifted the lobby to Ankeny so that the 12th Street frontage is simply a single door accessing an apartment. So it's quite similar to all the other frontages of buildings along that street. And at the lower level, the cladding has been changed to wood to reflect the prevalence of wood in the structures along the street there.
 The net effect is that we are able to preserve this as a net zero building, although we are losing, I believe, two units of housing in making these changes because the building is slightly smaller. So I'm sorry to interrupt. Yes. On the diagram on page 2, the 12th Avenue perspective, June 21st, is everything that's depicted in brown, that is wood, clad, is that correct? That is correct. Okay, very good. Thank you. That's helpful. Thank you.
 And with that, Mr. Zimmerman, please proceed. Chair, so Grace has actually given a pretty good overview of the basic changes that...
 We initially looked at trying to shift some of the mass from the 12th Avenue side over onto the Ankeny side. And after a couple of studies, realized that from above the cost and where we were up against the fire code, it was simply impractical to do this. So this is really a reductive exercise that we've gone through. So on the south side, coming out of the meetings both with the neighborhood as well as meetings with the neighbors, we're going to be doing some of the same things.
 The south face of the building has been pushed up four feet. And, you know, one of those cases where you get lemons and you try and make lemonade. We are now using this as a fire exit, which enabled us really to push the lobby around to the other side. And so at the street level, this really acts like a single-family residence where there's a single door and it goes into a single unit. So at the street level, it will operate quite similarly to the adjacent residences.
 On the north side, the building's been pushed back a foot and a half, so there's a little over seven feet between that and the adjacent building. And so we've essentially maintained the rhythm that there is across, quite frankly, most of Portland for these vintage homes of that kind of minimum shared setback that each residence gives to one another. Could you just give me, on each side, what's the setback? Okay.
 Sure. The setback on the south side is four feet, and on the north side it is one and a half feet. And what about the east and the west? There is no setback on the east or the west. There's no change from Design Review 3, nor were there any concerns with those setbacks that were raised.
 So at the facilitated meeting, one of the issues that was identified that we were unaware of was that to the south that Grace mentioned that was built in the late 1800s, the concrete wasn't as good back that time. So there was more concern about our construction practices. So we have jointly agreed to get recommendations from a structural engineer and have agreed to –
 in principle to change the foundation system from a vibrated ground improvement system to something that would be auger cast and much friendlier to the adjacent buildings. So then going to the second page, this shows the perspective from the 12th Street side.
 On the left was the submission for design review three, and on the right are the changes. So the space between the existing house to the south in the building has increased from four feet to eight feet, which has enabled us to put some windows into that elevation. We were actually able to go over with the neighbor and document the location of their windows and actually coordinate, because everybody has the same common interest.
 You want natural light into your spaces, but you'd also like to maintain privacy. So that actually worked out well for everyone. Is that space consistent then between the other houses? You've got eight feet of space.
 Now, what's on the other side of that? I believe it's seven feet. Our surveyors didn't get onto that property. Okay, so your attempt here, though, is to be consistent in terms of the spacing. Correct. Okay, and it looks like you – okay, I got it. Good. Thank you. What we're trying to do there is recognize that historically it was about six to eight feet of separation, and so we're trying to fall within that, seven or eight feet.
 You know, I realize that design is a very subjective thing, and design by committee is probably a challenging thing. But for what it's worth, looking at page two of your thing, I think the reimagined building on the right is an improvement from my perspective. And the fact that it does seem more contextual – I love the fact you're using wood –
 And, frankly, it's a little less Gary Esch from the left. It seems more integrated in the way that you've done the design. And, frankly, I love the windows on the side, creating a more uniform look in terms of the building. So I congratulate you on this one. Thank you. To me, it seems like a real improvement. We'll hear from everyone else, but it does seem much better. Okay, and then going to the Ankeny side. Okay.
 Here the massing itself has changed very little, but you can see at the street level that there's more glass, which reflects the switch of the lobby to that side. And then the wood wraps around, and we've essentially removed all of the stucco from the building. So as Tim mentioned, we've reduced it by two units and about 1,000 square feet of rentable area. And we've
 We've gone down about 20 PV panels, which is kind of right at the practical edge of being able to meet the net zero. So how many feet are there in the planter strip that's shown with trees in it going back towards the stairs? All right, can you repeat that? I'm looking at the plan now, so. So the one that's, I don't know which way is north, south, east, or west, but the one that's- North is up. North is up, so on the west side, that planter strip which is shown with trees in it, how wide is that?
 On the right side of the red car. Okay, I was looking at a floor plan and you're looking at a perspective. Sorry. She's looking at the elevation with the red Suzuki. Right. So there was a discussion with the neighbor essentially actually on their property. And now let's go to the floor plan on the first page. So we have shown a three-foot wide or probably will in the end be four feet wide
 which actually works well. If you look, there's an existing curb cut on the north side off of Ankeny that goes into a parking area. And so along that west edge, it's not very practical to use it anyway, so it was quite easy to add a planter strip that essentially would provide visual screening to the kind of mass of that building that would be fairly visible as you come down Ankeny Street. So my question is, how wide is that planter strip, please? It's drawn as 4 feet. Okay.
 So, in fact, it's probably going to be quite challenging to put trees in it. Actually, I think with Columner Beach, we wouldn't have that much trouble. And you said you'd reached an agreement with two parties? Yes. And which two parties are they on this? They are the occupants of the home immediately to the south. They are Roberts and Beglin. And their representative is here to testify today. You have a legally binding settlement with them? We do. And so...
 Mr. Ramis, let me ask you, what practically is the difference? We have three options before us. I think we all understand what option one means for purposes of this proceeding. What is the practical difference in your judgment between options two and three, granting the appeal subject to...
 Getting plans and those being reviewed and continuing the hearing. It seems to me that what we've attempted to do is get us into the ability to take option two, which is to get a decision and get your direction to draft findings that support that decision. To that end, we have submitted drawings to the staff yesterday saying,
 a more complete set than you see here. And second, we've submitted a complete set of findings on each and every one of the criteria. So we're in good shape, I think, to develop a set of findings to support a decision should you favor this particular design option. I don't think a continuance is necessary from our point of view, other than for the adoption of findings. Thank you.
 One of the concerns from the Design Commission was the open stairwells with no privacy for the neighbors in their backyard. I'm curious if there's no change in that element. So we explored enclosing the stairs, which was something that needed to be done when we shifted some of the area from the 12th Avenue side to the Ankeny side, and...
 It triggers an additional fire requirement that the stairs be enclosed. So the enclosure of the stairs, though, creates additional mass and reduces floor area. So that was actually part of why that exercise ultimately came to be not financially reasonable to do or impractical. So the stairs are still open.
 They don't seem to have been changed at all, but that was called out by the design commissioners as one of the reasons why it didn't meet the approval criteria. With some of the commissioners, that was true. But they unanimously denied the application. All for different reasons. Okay, thank you. Mr. Ramis, let me come back to another question. So this case is unique, at least during my service, because the design review process apparently left no one satisfied.
 And it comes to us for a decision. And it was our judgment that there should be a further process with the community, knowing that that might result in a deal that still doesn't go back to design review. And so help me with the policy question, because assuming council supported some deal here, assuming, and I have no way of knowing one way or another it,
 Are we, through this process, in effect creating a precedent where someone can refuse to work with the design commission, come to us, opt out, in effect, create a separate process through a community negotiation, and then have the council make the findings? And is that good policy?
 Well, I wouldn't think it was good policy if somebody actually did that. No, no, but I should have said I offer this as a hypothetical. I think the chances of someone making that work are limited because it will be obvious, I think, if someone did that. The record in this case shows, of course, an applicant that made continuous changes in the application and finally received a staff recommendation that was favorable and,
 based on a report that found that each and every one of the criteria were satisfied and then decided to stand on that design and appeal that design here. So it's a different case than someone who simply fails to cooperate. It seems to me what you're raising is a possibility in any land use case in Oregon. We have a system that's essentially in two steps –
 where we typically have hearings officers or planning commissions decide the first step with an appeal to the electeds. And in any case, applicants could, I suppose, choose to be uncooperative. In my experience, which representing clients goes back close to 40 years now, most people that I've talked to don't want to take that risk. So I'm going to try to put it just in plain English for me.
 So the insurance policy that the public interest is being met here ultimately lies with us. If we have sanctioned a community mediation process to see if a deal can be worked out, we still have to be satisfied that that deal is in the public interest. But the fact is, as the reviewing body, we have the discretion to call this however we want.
 I would agree with that and add to it that whether the uncooperative party at the first hearing is an opponent or an applicant, they can't change the criteria. Right. So the case is decided by the appellate body, in this case the council, under criteria which are exactly the same. So those can't get manipulated. Thank you.
 And with the one and a half foot setback to the north, are you confident that you can physically develop the building without going on the neighbor's property? We've discussed that with our contractor, and we think we can make that work. And is the neighbor to the north part of the settlement agreement? Not at this point. We have certainly made clear that we would be happy to enter into an agreement with them. At this point, we don't have that. Okay.
 All right. So in our view, the options are, one, to deny the appeal, which has the consequences we talked about previously of probably creating a new application next year under more intense criteria. Second, you could, I suppose, approve the –
 the original design that we came with based upon the findings of the staff previously, or third, approve this design based upon the findings we have submitted and the drawings we've submitted already. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. So that was about eight minutes. And so who would like to speak as the primary opponent? Name for the record. And they took...
 Little less than eight minutes. So we'll 48 minutes. Well, nobody else will oppose it. I will My name is William Phillips. I live if you'll put that deal back up I'm the one I'm the house directly to the north of the building and the directly to the east of the building in other words, I'm in the middle right here and
 He's not giving... The plans, they said, okay, he wants to give us a foot and a half setback. We have not agreed to any of that. There is no setback on the other section of building to our backyard. How are they going to propose to build that without damaging our yard? We've also heard nothing about compensations for any damages possible to our...
 properties. And as far as talking to us about permissions or anything like that, Mr. Crowell has not done any of this, neither has his people, even though they say they have.
 We haven't been contacted. We didn't even know about these windows on the south side. All we knew is they were planning to give the south side a four-foot setback and one and a half foot for our side. We don't agree with this. And I don't see how they're going to build that building without disturbing our properties and making damages, and they think they don't have to make any compensations for this. I don't agree with this. It is not right for us.
 Sir, were you given an opportunity to participate in the mediation? Yes, we did. And we tried to talk to him about – No, no, in the mediation. In the mediation, yes, we did. And did you attend any of the mediation sessions? Yes, we did. We were there for that. So you were a participant. Yes, we were.
 And did you not feel that your voice was heard through that process? No, we did not feel our voices were heard. It seemed like the only voices they wanted to hear are the ones that were represented by a lawyer. I'm sorry we can't afford a lawyer. We don't have one, so we try to tell them ourselves how we're feeling. The main thing is they're saying they approached us and talked to us about doing some of these things,
 The most we got from Mr. Crowell is when he came over to our front gate and dropped us off this re-proposal and stuff. And as far as talking to us about if we'd agree to this setback and not put anything in, I mean, if they're making changes, why aren't we included in any of the conversation on the changes? We weren't. And I...
 I'm sorry if you did not feel heard in that process, and we have to sort through a lot of things this afternoon. Are you aware that under the comprehensive plan, if this was turned down, a future design could be, as the lawyer said, more intense, meaning a bigger, more dense development? Yes, I do. I do. And I still say that the building as is does not meet the requirements as your team of –
 building commissioners here have been saying it doesn't meet the requirements anyway, even in this new proposal. It does not meet the requirements. It's got too much bulk. It's not giving the right setbacks. There's all kinds of things that are wrong with it.
 How they go past your commission when your commission is supposed to be weeding these out and showing that, no, it doesn't fit the criteria. Like the gentleman over here said, none of us are supposed to be able to change that criteria. It's supposed to meet that criteria because that's the way the law of...
 building was set up. Why are they getting around it? Well, I think one answer is that the code allows them to come to council and we have the right to make a de novo decision. I mean, agree or disagree with that policy, I have some qualms about it myself. So let me ask you this, sir. You've raised concerns about the possibility of damage to your property.
 There's a lot of cranes all over the city right now and a lot of stuff going on. And, you know, we have a legal system that says if there's a damage, then the wrongdoer has to compensate you. Do you have a different view of how to anticipate a potential damage to your property? Well, if they're going to be building on there, they're going to have to cut in and they're going to cut back, you know, to get the walls set up and everything like that.
 How far in are they going to cut? Are they going to knock down our fence when they cut in? You know, they want to come right up to the property line. Our fence is right close to that. If they damage that and knock it over, we're not going to have our fence. All we're going to have is a wall. I mean, do you want to look at a blank wall when you get out in your backyard for a nice barbecue or something? We like having the sunlight. We have – we just ate raspberries out of our backyard.
 With this proposal, we won't have the sunlight to grow raspberries in our backyard. Our strawberries will die. Most of our roses will probably wither away because they won't have the sunlight. I mean, we've been working for the last few years just to give ourselves a little space so that we could live reasonably. This proposal will destroy what we have. Thank you.
 That's about all I have to say. Thank you, sir. I have another question. Commissioner Fritz has a question for you, sir. Sir? Sorry, I have another question. Commissioner Fritz had a question. I'm sorry. I know that you've been through all of the design hearings and such. Can you tell me more about what the concerns of the design commissioners were, particularly with respect to your property? Can you say that again? Sorry. Okay.
 Can you tell me any more about what the design commission focused on in respect for your property? What were some of the things that they were most worried about? What were they most worried about? Yeah.
 Didn't seem like it's mostly the bulk and coming right into the property and the and the possibility of damages to our property and the existing. They are very old homes. Yes. So, you know, they've been there a long time. The vibration, even from the buildings that they've put up across the street, are shaking our house. So.
 The damages, the setbacks, just having to look at a blank wall. We look out our windows. Okay, the neighbors to the south, they worked with them for the new windows on the south side, right? They didn't talk to us about windows on the north side or getting the setback right and, you know, doing something more. That was never – we were never even involved in any kind of discussion for this. And I don't think that that's right. Okay.
 And I know they still had a while to talk to the planning commission to get before this hearing and everything else. But why were we left out of the loop on that? Why weren't we being considered a little bit more for the – we're going to be more invaded than the south side.
 I mean, look at it. It's wrapping around our house. It's not just next to it. So there's... And not giving a setback on the inside of the other building so that it can be done in a way to where it'll look nicer inside...
 That wasn't discussed. So what I'm hearing is that you would have liked to see something similar to what was worked out with the other neighbor, setbacks and windows and more consideration for how to match your house. Yes. Thank you. Not only our house, but the house to our north, which is owned by a doctor. I don't know...
 why he hasn't come to meetings, I guess it doesn't bother him that much. So he just uses it as an office. All right. Thank you very much. Appreciate you being here. Is that all? Yes, thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate your time. So why don't we have...
 I need my two minutes. We'll give you your two minutes. Why don't we do this? Why don't we have supporters of the appellant come up first to do their – how many people want to testify? Let's see how many people there are first. Okay.
 I show at least two people signed up. Okay, so we'll give people a full three minutes this afternoon. So why don't we do supporters first for three minutes and then opponents second for three minutes each. I have Garrett Stevenson and Kristen Malone. To support. Support. Okay, very good. All right.
 Good afternoon. My name is Garrett Stevenson. I'm here with my colleague, Casey Safley. And you might remember us. We previously had been some of the primary opponents of the old iteration of this project. But I'm happy to report that I'm here today to testify in favor of the new iteration of Mr. Crowell's design. Again, we represent Mrs. Roberts. Okay.
 As you know, we've vigorously challenged the past design for a variety of reasons.
 To the extent that that design never comes to the fore again, of course, we would reserve all of the arguments in opposition to it we've submitted so far in writing. However, Mrs. Roberts, as well as her partner, Mr. Beglin, feel that this revised design is a huge improvement, particularly for three reasons. The first and probably the biggest reason is that they now have an additional four-foot setback system
 between their property line and the revised south building wall. The second reason is that there's been a reduction in height. It's going to add a lot of light and air, increasing their long-term quality of life. And then the third, I think it sounds like we all agree that the addition of wood paneling to the exterior makes it a much more...
 makes it a building that's a bit more consistent with the surrounding neighborhood. This was the result of the process that I believe Commissioner Fish sort of spearheaded for us and thought up, and I believe in this case it was successful. And I want to thank...
 for allowing us this time to work with the applicant, but I also want to thank in particular the applicant for being willing to compromise with us as well as Grace Jeffries who handled a very difficult case with aplomb, in my opinion. At this point, I believe you have either in the record or about to be in the record a narrative from Mr. Ramos explaining how this happened
 design meets the applicable criteria. I hope that you will review that, consider it carefully, and ultimately approve this new revised design, which, again, we support. I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions? Very good. Thank you, sir. Those who oppose the appeal now. Was there anybody else who wanted to speak in support of the appellant?
 Very good. Those who oppose? I show four people signed up. Bill Phillips, Joy Lewis, and Priscilla Sturgis. Thank you for your patience. We'll go with Mary Seip. My name is Priscilla. I'm sorry. Could you slide it towards you? Slide it toward me? Yeah, and Mary is her green light on. Can you see? It is. Very good. Thank you. Your light's on. It's good. Oh, okay. Okay.
 Priscilla Sturgis. Joy Lewis has laryngitis right now, so she may be skipping this if you might not be able to hear her. This apartment building, and by the way, I own the place at 113 Southeast 12th where Bill and Joy live. Joy is my daughter. Thank you.
 This apartment building still does not fit the neighborhood. We still have a 78-foot wall without an adequate setback. We're talking about 78 feet and about that between them. That's not sufficient. We still have no privacy or adequate light for our house and yard. We have no enforceable lights.
 assurances in writing that we will not have damage to our house and the local water system from heavy equipment we are not granting access to our property because of mr. Crowell's vandalism in the past I never gave him permission to tear down my legal fence and in reality I have never spoken to him in person or on the telephone he has been very vacant
 Please remember, net zero buildings in a wet climate are a liability to future taxpayers. We have a PCC building that is molding nicely, or not so nicely, in Newburgh because of that. Also, that destabilizing neighborhoods is a blight on Portland's future.
 Please give credence to your own PDC's committee recommendation to deny, otherwise you're undercutting their knowledge and authority. Thank you. Thank you. Mary Seip. Last week I was here and I gave some public testimony on an appeal about a building in my neighborhood in regards to height. And when I gave that testimony,
 I said that there were two key words that popped into my mind, and one of them was money. The bottom line often that we end up talking about is money. And when we talk about height, increased height, we keep hearing about density. Density, so increased height equals density. Density equals more units. More units equals more money.
 And I think we need to keep that in mind when we're looking at the motives behind some of these buildings. The other word that I used was respect. And I think that's one of the things that we need to remember is, and from what I'm hearing here today,
 It sounds like there's not any demonstration of respect for the people that are going to be living in this neighborhood next to this building. And I find that really sad to see that.
 When we speak about things like this, we think, oh, yeah, you know, you're against development. No, development and more housing is all good if it's managed properly. And I think the Design Review Commission is managing this incidence properly, and I hope you'll uphold their decision.
 Commissioner Fish, you mentioned when the gentleman expressed concerns about property damage during this construction phase. You know, there's noise issues, livability issues, as I've talked about here numerous times, the noise queen. You know, there is a legal process, but they shouldn't have to go through it. And it brought up something for me, again, pile driving, but...
 When they did what they call the crossover out at Dundee, the homes out there, a bunch of really nice new big homes, when they did the pile driving, some of those homeowners experienced over $40,000 worth of damage to their property as a result of the pile driving. And they filed a claim with ODOT. They were denied bail.
 It wasn't caused by our work. They sued him. It was denied. So there's a legal process, but that doesn't give you any guarantees at all unless you have some kind of an agreement up front. And so I just want to throw that out there also as a consideration. And so, again. Mayor, let me just say that I used to, before I moved, I used to live in a house in Grant Park. And my next-door neighbor had a little bungalow.
 And she sold it. It was torn down and replaced by kind of a monster house. And it took about a year of that process that we lived across from it. It had a big set of changes, how our house interacted with that house. And there was a lot of noise and other associated impacts. So I'm sensitive to those questions. I'm also, though...
 At the same time, we have an official policy to encourage greater density and more development to accommodate more people. And I think we have to be careful about not necessarily imposing on an ad hoc basis requirements on one developer that doesn't go to another. You're raising broader questions about...
 about how we deal with sound, for example, pile driving. The council has taken up some of those bigger questions. I think it's harder when we look at it as sort of an individual-by-individual case, trying to, for us to craft mitigation measures, particularly anticipating damage.
 Because it's not the typical way our legal system works, even though I agree with your sentiments. So thank you. I totally appreciate that. I think there are things for the developer to think about as they're trying to be, hopefully, a good neighbor through this process. And I understand the criteria is the bottom line. But in any event, there's always two sides to every situation. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. Unless Bill Phillips is here, that's all who I have signed up. May we invite Commissioner Malone to come and give her opinion? I'll just stand at that. Okay. Thank you, sir. May we invite Commissioner Malone from the Design Commission to give her opinion? Come on up. She's from the CRC, I think. I just do CRC. Oh, I'm sorry. I was here for some of the... However, she did stay in Equality Inn last night. Oh, dear. Yeah.
 Actually, you have a very successful track record of persuading this council on hard issues, so I welcome your perspective. Okay. I would say that my perspective is pretty much in line with Commissioner Fish, which is you change the policy for how a neighborhood is going to look, and you do it with this kind of removed 30,000-feet plan.
 about this is what is objectively good for the plan of the city and for how the city goes forward, and it's always going to be really difficult when the rubber meets the road and a neighborhood is changing and those policies are going into effect and they're affecting individual people. So I guess I would just say that the tough thing here is kind of separating sympathy for...
 the difficulty of change and separating that from kind of moving forward with the policy that's been adopted and and kind of sticking sticking to your guns even when it's tough um in my limited experience with the city committee that's something that i certainly learned um so that's all right thank you so american uh commissioner before we have a uh discussion can we have staff come back up yeah i'd appreciate that too commissioner fish did you have specific questions
 So we've reopened the record. We now have – this is now – Tim, this is now before us, right? I'm glad you had a chance to look at it, yes. Yeah. So we now have it, and we're clean on that. It's the mayor reopened the record. We have these plans. I will tell you I'm heartened by the fact that in a mediation that we required, there has been progress. Yes.
 Apparently not everybody is on board, but there's been progress with some of the landowners, and we now have the fruits of this before us in terms of changes, and I think these are substantial changes to the plan. So do you have any further guidance for us based on now what has been placed in the record? No.
 Sure. This kind of feels like a design commission hearing, and this is what I would say when one commissioner asked me, what should we do next? And I think I would say I would like to hear what all the commissioners feel about the proposal before I offer thoughts. I will say I have several concerns that I want to address, starting with staff has not had a chance to review these materials. I understand maybe it was a technical glitch on the part of it getting to us, the size of the files, etc.
 Tim Ramis let me know that they tried to email us yesterday. We haven't reviewed any material. And so I would be very concerned about commissioners, council members, with all due respect, having a led-by-the-nose, page-turner conversation about some of the detailing that's critical to long-term viability of this project. So options two and three on the list that you gave us.
 contemplate that you would, in fact, get the plans, review them, and be able to provide some feedback to us if you felt there was a problem, correct? Right. And the intent was this was kind of a discovery hearing in a way. We typically require 15 days to review information or prior have that information available. So I think that's where I'm a little bit at a loss on how to comment on how we feel about it. Well, and I don't – it's one thing to say we're going to –
 We're going to close the door on design review commission review. It's another thing to say we're going to close the door on staff having a chance to tell us whether this is kosher. So does procedurally, if the council's desire is to have you review the plans and be able to weigh in on them, if that becomes the council, I don't know if that is the council's desire, but if that were...
 Does option two or three make a difference? Is there a difference now between options two and three in terms of a review that you would do at the staff level? I think that entirely depends on...
 the majority opinion of the council on how we move forward. Some of the things that Grace and I were discussing as you were talking is making sure that the revisions don't trigger other zoning code standards, like a plan check. I mean, there's some movement and massing and setbacks. And I mean, my first purview and looking just watching it online or excuse me, on the screen above as it's, it's essentially gotten smaller on one portion of the L. And so I don't necessarily see zoning code issues there,
 It's just more a matter of evaluating what's been proposed. All right. So since you've asked, I'll oblige and we'll go down and we'll do whatever process the mayor wants. I am, based on what I have heard today and this hearing, I'm prepared to accept options two or three, depending on which gives us the clearest path forward with conditions to make sure that what has been proposed satisfies our code.
 And I'd want to know from you how we would structure that to make sure that that all is worked out. And that's where I'd seek your advice if my view is shared by my colleagues. If it isn't, then it's a shorter conversation. Commissioner Fish, let me help to further focus it. So I will not make a decision without staff having thoroughly reviewed this.
 So that also gets me at least to option three. In addition, and I don't know if we have the ability to encourage this, and I'm looking to legal counsel, stop me right away if I'm getting out of the lane, but I heard a couple of the opponents say they don't feel comfortable with
 Given that this is a large construction project in immediate proximity to existing houses, all of which are antique houses.
 And given that there is a likelihood, or at least in my opinion, a reasonable expectation that there could be some damage to the property, and the property owners have said they don't feel like they're protected, could I encourage the appellant to meet with them and try to work out an agreement in advance in the event that there is damage?
 Or is that just too far afield from the narrow band of this particular hearing? That cannot be a basis of the decision. The decision needs to be made based on the criteria. So as policymakers, just as you previously did in terms of encouraging them to work together, you can offer that, but you can't use that as – Good. Well, then I will simply offer that as a decent thing to do.
 And second of all, I will say to staff that my preference, Commissioner Fish, would be that the staff thoroughly review this and give us clear indications of whether they feel the criteria are or are not being met by this new design that the hearing is narrowly focused on.
 And third, I would add that if we go down that road, that constitutes a continuance of the hearing, which then starts triggering the 120-day problem, which means we have to resolve that issue as well should the majority think this is the right thing to do at all. Am I correct in that assumption about issue number three, the 120-day clock? Yes, I think that if...
 We would have to extend that 120 days. Seek agreement. You would have to request an extension. Request, and we are, to be clear, we're requesting that from the appellant. Yes. Under these circumstances, in my nine years on council, maybe Commissioner Fritz will correct me, I don't remember an appellant faced with the kind of Hobbsian choice that we're proposing would decline an invitation to extend the clock if they felt the thing was moving in the right direction. Okay.
 Although I could see, you know, just to argue the point because it's fun, I could see financing becoming problematic in some circumstances when timing is at risk. Can I counterpoint the mayor? Please. Okay.
 Just to be a little more clear. Your name again? I'm just kidding. Josh, kidding. Tim Heron. One R, like the bird. I want to kind of hear or push pressure a little more on your comments. Were some of the changes you've seen today vis-a-vis the setbacks, the wood cladding, moving in the right direction? Definitely an improvement over the original DR3 plan.
 Definitely an improvement in terms of particularly the 12th Avenue, the setbacks, the use of the wood. It is a shorter building that I think bodes better for light. The stairwell still confuses me, to be honest.
 I thought I heard, maybe you could clarify this since I've got you. I thought I heard through the first presentation that there was an opaque enclosure, or did I just make that up?
 there was a screened enclosure, and I think this goes to emphasize the point where staff, it's not just design review staff reviewing this, it's an opportunity to review the changes even against the building code, and some of the concerns have been raised relative to setbacks, and some setbacks might allow windows, some setbacks won't allow windows, and so it's a distinct appearance, and also to be frank, I'm a little averse to renderings representing reality lately, and so that's where the details really matter on some of these projects, and so hearing
 It's moving in the right direction. It's helpful for us in walking back and evaluating the proposal as resubmitted. Very good. Clear as mud.
 Commissioner Fritz, yeah. Thank you. The burden of proof is on the applicant to show that all the approval criteria are met. And if that's not so, then we must deny the appeal. So that to me is clearly an option because I don't think there's clear demonstration that the burden of proof has been met. We've just received this today. Staff have not received it at all.
 We are supposed to have 15 days to be able to look at it carefully, and we've been in this process for a long time, so it's not clear to me why this wasn't given to us ahead of time. I think it would set a very bad precedent for us to do number two of granting the appeal under this circumstance, that it's not been...
 properly vetted by staff and it only takes care of one of the three property owners who are most concerned and the ones who are most impacted are the two who are still getting no relief on the setbacks, the wall issue and they're going to be surrounded on two sides by this. So I think that's good that there's been movement that helps out one property owner to be able to support it but it doesn't
 It doesn't go far enough, I don't think. In terms of the 120-day clock, I hope that the applicant would, the appellant would grant another extension. Of course, as I said up front, they could, if we don't make a decision by August 5th, they could go to court and say and demand that this whatever be approved. So that would be a gamble that they would have to take. And, of course, more time into that.
 Unfortunately, I'd like to continue the hearing again because I'm not comfortable that the approval criteria met on the two sides of the L, the inner two sides.
 I do believe we could put some conditions of approval on it. For instance, I've seen conditions of approval requiring a bond so that if there's any damage to adjacent properties, the property owners don't have to go through the legal system. As was said, they can't afford a lawyer. So there could be a safeguard through the conditions of approval that would make them seem safe.
 know that they would get compensated. Commissioner Fish will remember the discussion we had on accessory dwelling units and how I was opposed to allowing them at zero setbacks. Everybody was horrified that I was doing such an un-Portland-like thing, but I was the only one who voted against that. I was watching a Thorns game at Bazzi pub and a
 minding my own business, watching the game, a woman comes up to me and says, I'm a developer of ADUs and you were right, we cannot do it right onto the property line. It's just not possible to not touch any of the other adjacent properties and certainly we want to be able to allow people to maintain the other side of the property. And she said unfortunately the council did them a disservice because now all the property, the ones who are wanting to build the ADU say, oh it's allowed by rights, of course we should do that. And so it
 Yes, in commercial zones and in areas where everything is built to the property line, that's different. But this isn't. And one of the approval criteria with the design guidelines is about the relationship to adjacent residential properties. So I do agree that there's been some good movement.
 I believe there needs to be more. And I do also believe, as I did last time, it would be in everybody's best interest to get to yes on this proposal. Because if you get to no, what's going to be allowed by right later is going to be bigger and...
 not definitely all of them, but much better. It would still have to meet the design guidelines, but it would be difficult. The owners, the property developers' loans and other things are in jeopardy. The longer it's... If it was a Beeson-Eigenstart again, that would be problematic for them too. So it really would be better for all sides if all sides of this development were considered and not just the two that have had adjustments to them. Can we show you daily if you have a comment? Okay.
 I need some clarity on this because this is the furthest in this process that I've personally gone. So none of these options mean having these plans go back to design review. That would require a new application. That's correct, yeah. So it would be up to staff to determine whether or not...
 the approval criteria that was flagged by design review has now been resolved. Right. So just as we do with the design commission for a type three, staff does a recommendation of approval. So we could give a recommendation, but the decision makers are yourselves. Okay. We do that to advise. And if we go with alternative number two, we can add –
 a contingency. Is that right? Contingent upon approval or recommendation by staff? This is where I'm getting confused. So part of, I think, what makes this seem a little unclear between two and three was this was written before any drawings. Staff had anything. We didn't know what was going to happen today. If the record opened, if all of a sudden some drawings were going to show up. We didn't know. So this was just written to say, look, we...
 we would advise you that a full set of drawings is needed
 to actually, you know, to have findings against it. So this was really just sort of a little heads-up. You need a full set of drawings to write findings, and those full set of drawings are then compared against, you know, for the building permit drawings. So that being the case, as Nick was pointing out, both these options require probably a waiver of the 120-day clock because there is...
 August 5th is imminent. May I just take a crack at that question? Because to me, two is telling the staff, tell us how we can approve this because it's granted the approval. And we're saying, give us findings that validate that we should approve this. Number three is tell us whether to approve it and what else might need to be done before it's approvable.
 Is that a fair characterization? I think that was excellent. Yeah, thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Oh, I'm sorry, Commissioner. I apologize. Not quite done. Sorry. So these seven approval criteria all appear to me to be relatively subjective. There's nothing that I can comfortably say right now. On no point can I say, yes, you have met this criteria, or no, you haven't.
 I do think a lot of progress has been made. I do think that the appellant, is that what we're calling the developer? The appellant, you know, has made a meaningful good faith effort. My main remaining concern is that while, you know, a property owner can...
 develop a building they want to develop on their property given our constraints. I think some of the neighbors may wish that the whole thing would just go away, which is not going to happen. That developer doesn't have the right to infringe on the other properties. So I'm not satisfied that this one and a half foot setback on the
 where are we, the north side, is that, is going to allow them to construct the building as is without entering and possibly damaging the neighbor's property. And that was a question I brought up in the first hearing. It wasn't satisfactorily addressed. So that's my main remaining concern. And I guess I would lean towards three because I really would want these plans adequately addressed
 reviewed by staff and get your findings. Commissioner Fish? So, Mayor, can we ask staff to stay here and invite Mr. Ramos and the architect to come forward for one second? Because I would like to, with your permission, put a proposal on the table for consideration. Happy to hear it. So I would like to propose, and to staff, if I get this wrong, you'll help me address it out, that we continue the hearing.
 That we ask the applicant to extend the 120-day clock by 30 days. That we close the record. Mr. Ramos, how long would you and the architect and your client need to present a full set of plans to the Bureau? We'll need about two weeks. We'll take three. So let's say it takes you three weeks. Mr. Heron, how long, understanding it's the summertime and we don't want you to rush this,
 How much time would you like to review whatever plans are submitted under option three, which gives you the option of reviewing them and then giving us your feedback? Could I answer that question after I ask the appellant? Tim, we haven't had a chance to even look at the drawings that maybe got caught in a digital logjam. How different are those from what you would present in the next three weeks anyway?
 in light of some of the comments? Yeah, there would be no substantive change. What you have, what we tried to get to you, are essentially elevations, so you'll want more detailed drawings. And that's what you need to generate? Yes. So to be clear, and I'll look at it,
 in a little bit. I don't think we could close the record right now because we want to leave it open for the applicant the opportunity to submit the additional information. So we want to set a date for that. I mean, I would say the sooner you can get that to us, the better and set that as a deadline. One clarifying question from legal counsel. Can we keep the record open narrowly? In other words, can we keep the record open for the purpose of receiving these plans from the appellant that close the record to...
 Okay. Yes, but that would be considered new evidence, and so people would have the opportunity to respond to it. Thank you for answering that question. So let me go back because this is very helpful for me. So, Mayor, this is my proposal. Very good. Let's hear it. We continue the hearing. We seek from the appellant.
 A 30-day extension of the 120-day clock, which I assume they will grant. Can I make one suggestion to that? Please. So my understanding is that the applicant has initially waived the 120 days, and so where we're at right now is what we would ask for, what traditionally we would ask for is a waiver of ORS 227 just so that we can accomplish this within all of the statutory timelines that are set out.
 And Mr. Ramos and I can discuss the details. I think he's familiar with what we ask for. We'll be happy to work that out with council. Okay, good. ORS 227. So we would continue the hearing. We would structure a mutually agreeable waiver, as council has just alluded to. We would schedule, we will continue this hearing, Mayor, to date certain dates.
 And I would suggest, since I think we all are probably in the same mindset, we'd like to do one last hearing. Find a day at the end of July or early August where there's enough time has elapsed that we can have a final substantive hearing. That we encourage the applicant to continue to consult with the neighbors. We can't compel that, but we'd encourage that.
 And you've heard, you've had the benefit of hearing from my colleagues today about the remaining concerns. And you've heard the testimony from the opponents. So I think you have a sense of what's still in play. And then, Mayor, the intent would be to come back on a date, on a time certain, to resolve this case, which includes all three options and assuming.
 And if the consensus was options two or three, we may also choose to craft conditions at that point. But it would be our intention to resolve the matter at the final hearing. So Commissioner Daly and I both said that we were not satisfied with the design changes with respect to the two properties within the L.
 So I agree with the gist of the process, but in terms of getting the exact specifications of what you just gave us now to the staff for evaluation, am I correct, Commissioner Daly, that you and I are wanting to see some more changes? I wouldn't say necessarily wanting to see more changes, just wanting to hear from staff, I guess, first.
 as to the feasibility of what they're saying they can do, which is not infringe on the neighbor's neighboring property. Can I speak to that real shortly? Sure. I mean, if you... I would say that the drawings that you were shown today only looked at this proposal from the south, so I would caution a couple things. One is that there were no images shown from the north...
 There will be no windows on that elevation. A one-and-a-half-foot setback is also only proposed there, so they can't put windows on that elevation due to code. So I think it's hard to say that it's meeting the guidelines on that side without some sort of substantive change beyond what's there based on what we've seen. So there's a staff's first go at what we're looking at here.
 Well, I think the beauty of the proposal I put on the table is that everyone understands what the implications are. And maybe it argues for having a slightly later date so that staff can review and have an iterative process with the applicants. Does that make sense, Mr. Herring? Thank you.
 It does. Could I counterpoint? I've been to a lot of design commission hearings, and since this feels like a design commission hearing, I'm still to this day amazed coming away from a room where we thought we were clear in the message and everyone hears it differently, even when it's recorded.
 I think what's important about two of the four voting members on this commission right now is clarity that the North's setback may not be adequate vis-a-vis whether additional windows or other means. I know for a fact that this team has struggled to do any setback because there hasn't been one for five design commission hearings.
 So I'm wondering if that is a fatal flaw, and we hear right now from them with at least two of the four voting members, which is enough to cause a problem if that's not adequate enough. I don't think Dan has recused himself, so he could be back here for the final hearing. He'd have a lot of tapes to listen to. There you go.
 So that's where I'm operating with the four in front of me. It needs a majority vote to pass. So I guess it would be helpful to hear, perhaps from you all, is it critical that this facade be finish rated relative to adding windows or additional masking brakes and or setbacks beyond 18 inches on the north side of the frontage of the L that lands on 12th? Because I think that's very important for this appellant to hear because I think they're extremely squeezed. Thank you.
 Mr. Ramis, you've heard at least two colleagues. Well, in reaction to your proposal, certainly that's a direction that we would be wanting to work with. And so we would work with council on the continuance and whatever is necessary in terms of waivers. With respect to the setback on the north side, the difference between the north and the south is that the
 The building on the south side is built close to the property line, within about two feet, whereas the building on the north is set back quite a bit further. So if the objective we were trying to work with was keeping the separation rhythm about the same, which implies a lesser setback on the north side, and the constraint we're working with is, of course, trying not to lose – trying to keep the livability and workability of that first floor unit.
 We would obviously look at anything, but that's the constraint we're working with. So let me just say that it's a very real constraint. I will tell you my position based on what I've heard so far. First of all, I appreciate the appellant coming back with what I think is a greatly improved approach
 design over what we saw last time. I'm appreciative of the fact that at least with some people who previously opposed the project, you've solicited and secured their support. I think that's a huge step in the right direction. I want to get to yes on this. I really do. And I understand we have this massive conflict in our city between growth and the unique character of our neighborhoods. And that is the
 struggle, and that is the burden of this council having gone through the other iterations in this process. It's landed here, and frankly, we're going to see a lot more of this. And that's why it's important to me that we start figuring out how to codify this and standardize the process, because eventually we will be challenged in terms of this process, because in effect we are becoming the Design Review Commission.
 which is not a good thing. I'll just say that point blank. These things should be resolved long before they come to the Portland City Council, but it didn't. So I'm trying to get to yes. I have said very clearly that I support the need for additional housing in our community and that there is appropriate density and there is inappropriate density, and I'm trying to get this into the box of being appropriate if we can.
 But what I've also heard staff say is they are not convinced that what you have provided meets the criteria. That's a real concern to me. So in essence, Commissioner Fish is giving everybody a golden opportunity, and I support him in this effort, and I will support this effort to continue the hearing for people to hear what is being said. If Commissioner Saltzman doesn't come back,
 you're hearing potentially two of the four commissioners who are present and will potentially be here for the next hearing saying it's a non-starter. And so take that as you may in terms of where that leaves this process.
 So I don't know if we need a formal motion or if we just need a head nod or what's appropriate in this circumstance. There is a clarification in your proposal that I'd like to pursue. You had mentioned at one point closing the record, which doesn't work for us because we have additional information. I've been disabused of that. Tim has admonished every single member of council except the one member of council who actually he reports to.
 Very strategic. But, no, I'm kidding. But I took that. I binged disabuse of that. Thank you. So continue the hearing. Work out a waiver.
 Then I think the only thing left for us to do, Mayor, is to see if there's a date that the four of us are available. And I would look to early August so that there's enough time for this process to play out. Because I share the Mayor's sentiments. There's a path to getting to yes for me. And ultimately, though, we need to decide this case. And so I would like to have your best shot in front of me when we come back for a time certain in August and there is a clear path to yes for me.
 Mayor, should we ask Carla maybe to see if there's a date? Yes. Why don't you do that, Carla? I'm looking at the calendar now. We're looking at early August is when everybody is back in. I have August 3rd, which is Thursday, August 3rd at 3.10 p.m. That works for me? So I show that I need to be in Hermiston, but I'm not clear why, at 5 p.m. So that is tight unless we can do it on Wednesday the 2nd.
 The noise review is holding two hours at 2 p.m. Very good. The night at 2 p.m. is available. The night at 2? And everybody's in right now? I'm here. Colleagues? Mr. Fritz, is this framework okay? Okay.
 Yes, and I hope that by agreeing to extend the clock and to compact the table on this, there is a willingness to move that setback, which as staff has said has been stuck on the property line for now six, seven hearings.
 Commissioner, I want to mention for your record here that this issue of how you build and how you build without unduly impacting people was the first topic, I recall, that we talked about in detail at the mediation meeting.
 And we made clear that we would avoid techniques like driving pilings into the ground. And we also said that we would be willing to develop a process to do an evaluation of the foundations and the construction of our homes nearby so that we would have a baseline for addressing that. And that's worked into the agreement that we've got with Ms. Roberts. So we're sensitive to that and would be happy to work and build on that.
 That wasn't the question. You didn't answer the question that I asked. And that is, is it clear that this setback needs to be increased so that there isn't a 75-foot blank wall right on the property line? I understand your argument. Thank you. Thank you. Because otherwise you could just say no and we could deny the application and start over. But I don't, like my colleagues, I don't think that's in anybody's best interest. All right. So the 9th Wednesday is on the table. Did we have a time certain, Carla? 2 p.m.
 And so for the appellant, does that work? Very good. Yes, we're good with that. Good enough. Okay, I appreciate your flexibility on that. All right, so, sorry, Commissioner Fritz? Thanks, Mayor. I just wanted to say, Commissioner Fish, thank you for guiding the mediation process. I'm assuming that should additional help from Resolutions Northwest be needed for this final piece, that you'd be willing to help with that? Certainly.
 And let me just close by saying we have an imperfect process. And I share the mayor's concern about having this be a regular feature on our agenda. We don't have the bandwidth to do this. And we generally like to play referee to make sure the process below was handled fairly. We're getting more and more into making substantive decisions where there's a conflict or –
 where there's a big disagreement about a recommendation from the Design Review Commission. I don't see that as sustainable, and I agree with the mayor. I don't think that is our best use. However, I will say that we are closer to yes than I ever would have thought on this project. So I want to tip my hat to everybody who's been working on this, because I think my reading of the tea leaves is it might have been going the other way. And so please don't snatch defeat from the jaws of victory.
 Let's work hard to get to a place where the council has an opportunity to say, yes, that's my view. Very good. So we are continuing the hearing to Wednesday, August 9th, 2 p.m., Portland City Hall Chamber. That is where we are currently. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. 729.
 authorize a non-binding term sheet with Paragrine Sports LLC for a proposed expansion of Providence Park. Colleagues, I'm very pleased to be introducing this next item, which takes a big step forward towards implementing Paragrine Sports' proposed expansion of the city's historic stadium.
 This privately funded $50 million expansion will make a positive contribution to our local economy, provide greater access to the Timbers and Thorns games, and hopefully bring some exciting new events to the stadium. This deal, I believe, is a great example of private business stepping up and funding improvements they need that will also benefit the community.
 We are in partnership with them in making co-investments to help provide those services and infrastructure that the city would ordinarily provide with such a project. Tom Reinhart, the city's chief administrative officer, will provide an overview of the deal terms, and then Mike Gallup with Peregrine Sports will provide some additional information. Hello, gentlemen. Tom. Good afternoon, Mayor, council members.
 My name is Tom Reinhart, for the record, City's Chief Administrative Officer. I'm proud to be here with my colleague, Susan Hartnett, who's here, in case any detailed questions come up. But after a short presentation, I'm going to turn it over to Mike, as the Mayor said. I'm going to do two things in my time. I'm going to provide an overview and context of how we got here today so we're all clear, and then I'm going to do a brief overview of the term sheet and the elements within. Thank you.
 As you know, discussions about a possible expansion of the city-owned stadium currently called Providence Park have been happening for about a year. Over the last couple of months, you have taken several actions to bring this proposal to fruition. You approved a resolution expressing support for Peregrine's proposal, which kicked things off in May. And two weeks ago, Council approved an exemption to the competitive bid requirements, which continued the progress. Thank you.
 Over the ensuing weeks since your last action, OMF and Peregrine have negotiated on the terms, and the resolution before you today will authorize a non-binding term sheet that captures the essential elements of the agreement. After today, we will collaboratively develop the formal agreements that lock in the business terms that you authorize, which we expect to bring back for council action before construction begins. So that's the background. Welcome, Commissioner. The term sheet. Thank you.
 It covers a range of items, and I'm going to touch on a few of the key elements, and I'm sure Mike will speak about it as well. Peregrine will be fully responsible for the design and construction of the expansion, which will consist of 3,000 to 4,000 additional seats in a new three- to four-floor building that will extend into the right-of-way on 18th Avenue, creating an arcaded sidewalk with a cantilevered roof covering the new and existing east side seating area. I'm sure you're all familiar with the drawings at this point.
 Peregrine will pay all project costs, currently estimated at $50 million, including any cost overruns, and the city will pay the cost of legal and professional fees needed to oversee the city's interest in the development. Peregrine Sports will be exempted from their ticket tax obligations under the Stadium Operating Agreement through 2021 or 2022 on the existing stadium seats and on the new seats through calendar year 2025. Thank you.
 The length of the exemption on the existing seat tax obligation depends on when the expansion area opens. The existing seat exemption will end in 2021 if the new seats open in 2019. It will end in 2022 if the new seats open in 2020. You may recall that the initial request from Paragon is for a full 10-year exemption on only the new seats, beginning in the year that the expansion opens.
 The overall value of the revised proposal is similar, but the city's foregone revenue occurs sooner and then ends in 2025. This arrangement meets both Peregrine's needs and helps provide greater protection to the Spectator Fund and hence the city's general fund as revenue begins flowing back to the city sooner. Addressing concerns particularly raised by Commissioners Udaly and Commissioners Fritz previously.
 Keeping in mind that projections are just that, and that the further out into the future that we go, the more likely that we are to be wrong, I wanted to provide a few estimates of the overall financial impact of these deals, the deal terms to the spectator venues and visitor activities fund, just so we're clear. As a reminder, and I'm sure longtime council members already know this, OMF uses a conservative approach to our projections for both the fund and the general fund in general to provide a higher level of protection.
 This means that we underestimate revenues and overestimate expenses. Historically, except for years when the unexpected happens, such as strikes or major economic downturns, the fund typically outforms our projections. With that as a preface, the overall value of the tax exemptions included in this term sheet is approximately $3.7 to $5.1 million, depending on performance.
 The overall net increase to the Spectator Fund is estimated between $2 million and $5 million between now and 2038, which is the end of the extended term of the operating agreement. Peregrine is still hoping to start construction this fall and expects the majority of the work to occur between the MLS and NWSL off-seasons.
 And with that, I invite Mike Golub, the president of business for Paragon Sports, to provide some additional information about the project, unless any of you have questions at this time. I have a question. Commissioner Udaly. When was the change made to the agreement around foregoing commission on all seats? My understanding was it was just commission on the new seats.
 The change was made after Council passed the initial resolution when we heard very clearly that protecting the general fund in the future, particularly past 2025, was a priority for at least two members of Council.
 Our team went back to the table with Peregrine, and we worked hard to figure out an arrangement that could both provide what they said they needed and also protected the spectator venues fund in that critical period after 2025 when we have to be assured we can make all debt service payments. So the basics of this is the exemption is basically similar value.
 The way the revenue flows is different. Okay. There's more money exempted up front for Peregrine in the initial few years, and then in the out years, more money flows back to the city. It just seems like a pretty major detail that I somehow did not get. It is a change, yes. Okay. We feel comfortable that it's the same value exemption in terms of it didn't change the dollar figure much. I get it. And it presented us more protection for us, so.
 Apologies if we didn't give you more, you know, the full briefing on it. It is helpful that you pointed out we will eventually see a net increase in revenues. I felt like that was a detail that people were missing.
 We have a stadium that is suitable for a wider range of events, and we're booking it more nights than we're going to bring in more money. But I just think it's really important to lay those things out for the public who might see this as not a gain. Any other questions before I turn it over to Mike? I will stay, and Susan will stay if there are other questions.
 Great. Mr. Golub has the talk. Good afternoon. Mike Golub, President of Business for the Portland Thorns and the Portland Timbers. And thanks very much for having us today. As I've said many times, we believe much of our success that we've had with the Thorns and Timbers has been predicated on the partnership that we've had with the city at every level. And we greatly appreciate it. And we believe that this new chapter in our partnership, or potential new chapter in our partnership, positions all of us, the city,
 our club and also the fans to flourish long into the future. As Mayor Wheeler said in his introductory remarks, this is a win for our fans. It's a good thing for the club to be sure, and we believe it's a good thing for the city both near term and long term. And we appreciate greatly the cooperation we've had from Tom, Susan, Carl, Ken, and the entire team from the city and from all of you. Any further questions for Mike or Tom? Public testimony on this item? No.
 No one signed up. I think Mike is. Oh, I'm sorry, Mike. I did have a, I wanted to take a few moments, if possible, to show you a couple of the images that have been generated on the expansion 2B that you might be interested in. Hopefully they're queued up here. That looks familiar. Mike, you're going to have to work on this. You're going to have to work on the setbacks. Yeah, thanks. Before council goes running from those. Thanks for the memories, Mike. Oops. Okay.
 Thanks, Garth. Thanks. Can you come work for us? Thank you. So this is a rendering. We're looking west, an aerial view from the west of what the expansion, the new roof, and the connectivity to the existing stadium will look like.
 This is the intersection of South West Morrison and 18th Street. The MAX station is to the left. Our main entrance on 18th is to the right, and you see the new section and how it's being imagined and brought to life. I really appreciate that you have thunderclouds and it looks like it's been raining, so it's much more realistic. Cinema verite. This is from Taylor Street looking west.
 And it gives you a sense of the openness and transparency that our architecture team is seeking between the city and the stadium. Thank you.
 This is a view from the southwest corner of the field looking up to the expansion area. And so you notice the roof now covers the entire sideline and the seats are very close to the field. And it gives us, we hope this really takes the energy we already have and amplifies it.
 And lastly, I wanted to show you an image. Recently, this was sent to us by someone who actually had a physical copy. But this is the Oregonian from January 31, 1926.
 an image of what was then referred to as Civic Stadium, of a multi-level east side, much like we're contemplating now. And the headline, if you can read it at the top, is 100,000 fans someday to be seated at Monoma Field, but 35,000 fans to be seated this fall. And so we enjoyed uncovering this, and it's nice that we're, in a sense,
 picking up the baton of the original image 90 years ago. Was it originally 35,000? What happened to all those seats? I don't know what transpired between this image and the ultimate construction. If it was 35,000, we'd be all set, right? We wouldn't be doing this at all. So maybe next time we're in front of you, we're asking for another 75,000 seats. But we thought this was interesting. Tom, just because it's late in the day and we're all a little groggy, can I...
 summarize what you told us and just have you tell me whether it's accurate or not. Yes. So we've retooled the deal in three respects. One is that we're front-loading a little bit more of the deferred revenue. Two is we're changing the timeline with a couple of contingencies. And three is the cost to our funds is roughly the same in the aggregate. I think that's accurate, unless Susan – Susan is nodding. Okay. She hasn't fainted. Susan –
 Is that fair enough? And those changes meet our needs and are acceptable to Peregrine? Yes. We wouldn't be here today promoting this if we didn't think it was acceptable. So, yes, absolutely. Thank you.
 Very good. And that completes your presentation? Yes, thank you. Very good. Any further comments, colleagues? I've got to say this, Mayor. I did go to a Thorn game the other night. I ordered three sodas and a slice of pizza. It was around $29. I feel like I've made my personal contribution to this project, and I just want that noted. Keep it coming. Mr. Mayor. Duly noted. Excellent. Call the roll. Sorry, I can't hear you daily.
 Tom, because I was asked a question about this yesterday by a journalist that estimated $3 to $5 million in administrative costs, where does that money come out of? So I'm not familiar with that number. What I am familiar with is the $800,000 that we are estimating on the legal costs and the owner's rep. Oh, okay. Well, I'm not sure where that number came from either. Well, we've estimated in terms of our costs. I don't know if, Susan, do you want to? I don't know if.
 I mean, I know who said it to me. I don't know where... Yeah, our estimate for the... I'm sorry, Susan Hartnett, Office of Management and Finance. Our estimate for the cost of both legal representation outside counsel and an owner's rep team, which includes an architect and an engineer, cost estimator, as well as a construction project manager, is based on our past expenses.
 I think $800,000 may actually end up being a little bit more than we will spend. But going into this, as Tom said earlier, we tend to overestimate expenses and underestimate revenue. So I'd rather tell you it's $800,000 and come in less than that. We are currently committed through contracts.
 for $600,000. So the number I was given was actually $3.2 million in hard costs, which was legal counsel, representative for project oversight, and property insurance. Is that just false? I think that number would also include our increased costs for property insurance, which is about $1 million, plus our increased costs for repair and replacement expenses, which is close to $2 million.
 So I think if you add all of that up, that's probably a correct number. But again, when you look at the overall impact to the fund, it is a net positive. So when you take the new revenue, take out those expenses, we still end up in that net positive. And I did point that out to them, and hopefully that made it into the paper as well. And I believe I just spoke with the same journalist and did some clarifications. And that comes out of...
 The spectator venue and visitor facilities. It's not general funds. It's not special appropriations. Mr. Mayor, I just want to take a quick minute to thank Susan and Carlisle and Dina and all the great people who worked on this. It's been a lot of work. I pulled them off a lot of other assignments. I'm not angry at Mike, but I did pull them off a lot of other assignments. They did a tremendous job, so I want to recognize them. Thank you for that recognition, Tom. Well deserved. Thank you. Anything else, colleagues?
 Please call the roll. Fish? No, there was no public testimony on the item. Mayor, I'm going to support this resolution. I believe it's a good deal for the city of Portland. It's a good deal for taxpayers, and it's great news for fans of soccer. We own this stadium, and we have a partner willing to invest $50 million to make an addition which will make this an even greater stadium. And I'm particularly appreciative that they've hired a local architect with an international reputation to do so.
 Brad Klofel. The presentation that has been made to us says this is a fiscally responsible deal, and when you look at the private contribution versus the public contribution in the nature of foregone revenue, I think it's a terrific deal. So I'm pleased to support it, and I thank both Peregrine and our team for negotiating this deal. Saltzman.
 Well, our relationship with the Portland Timbers and Thorns has always been a partnership from day one when they first arrived in town and when we undertook some basic renovations in order to accommodate Major League Soccer in our city.
 And it's something that we've not had to look back on and regret since. And this partnership today, moving forward, is only further evidence of both the popularity of the Timbers and Thorns to Portlanders, but also the firm commitment, I believe, that both the Timbers and the Thorns have to the city of Portland, and certainly the city of Portland has to the Timbers and Thorns, and to its many, many fans. I'm pleased to support this deal. Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 Well, spectator venues are one of many things I just didn't anticipate having to devote time to with my new job. So I want to thank Susan and Tom for their patience in explaining the inner workings of this part of the city. And I agree that in the long run, it is a good deal for the city. Hi. Fritz.
 Thank you very much for your work. It's certainly a better deal than the original changeover. This one does have a balance sheet. When you add everything up in 2035, the city should come out with 2 to 5 million more than we were expecting before. So this is a long payback period. I appreciate the changes that were made since the last discussion we had because it does protect the general fund better in 2025 and thereafter when
 We don't know whether the Blazers will still be able to continue to subsidise soccer by the Blazer tickets and also the parking revenue over in the Rose Quarter. So thank you for your hard work on this. Thank you to the Timbers and Thorns and the Peregrine organisation. Certainly you can't put a price on joy, and there is a lot of joy that happens at these games and lots of frustrations that get vented, shall we say. So I think that's a positive thing. Aye. Wheeler.
 So I'm going to save my thanks for Tom Reinhart today. Tom, when we first met with Mike and with Merritt Paulson many, many months ago on this, we came in with more questions than answers, and you flipped that. And I've enjoyed working with you on a whole host of issues, from college savings to retirement savings to bonding projects,
 and now of all things, soccer stadiums. So here we are coming full circle. But thank you and your team for hearing this city council addressing our concerns, going back and negotiating in good faith. And thanks, of course, to the folks at Peregrine for hearing those concerns and being responsive to those concerns and putting together what we think is ultimately going to be a blockbuster deal for the city of Portland. It's a win-win.
 And that's how all such transactions should end. So obviously I support this, and the resolution is passed. Thank you for all your help. Next, item 730. Authorize a five-year use and occupancy agreement with Atlantic Aviation for hangar space at Portland International Airport through January 31, 2021 for Police Air Support Unit.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for your patience. My name is Pauline Goebel. I'm property manager in the Bureau of Internal Business Services, and with me is Officer Sweeney from the Portland Police Bureau. We are here today to request council authorize a five-year use and occupancy agreement with Atlantic Aviation for hangar space at Portland International Airport, and that is related to the police bureau's air support unit.
 They respond to mission requests on a call-out basis. The ASU averages over 200 mission requests each year, with nearly a quarter of those being requests that require an immediate response.
 For background, the ASU moved to the Portland International Airport in July of 2007. Previous to that, they were located at the Pearson Airport in Vancouver, Washington, but they moved for several reasons. One was security. Pearson Airport is not a secure airport, and they needed a space with secure perimeter fencing and pedestrian access to be restricted. The possibility of some tampering with their aircraft was a real concern.
 Also, access. To access Pearson, crew members had to cross one of two interstate bridges. These bridges, in combination with the increased driving distance from Portland, created serious traffic choke points that increased their response times to call-outs by 30 minutes or more, or even more during commute times.
 Regarding the lease renewal, prior to beginning the renewal process, the chief pilot looked at three other nearby airports to find comparable facilities. None of those other airports had any secure office spaces available. Secure airports pose problems with refueling the aircraft after business hours. Some could not guarantee that they would even have access to the aircraft after business hours. So why Atlantic Aviation? Atlantic Aviation is the only fixed-base operation.
 operator at the airport. The chief pilot explored the possibility of other facilities at the airport with the Port of Portland, but none were available. So the budget the police have budgeted for a five-year term with payments funded by existing Bureau General Front appropriation. This agreement is automatically renewed each year but has a termination clause of 60 days prior to the end of the termination. So they're budgeting for five years so this is an automatic renewal agreement. Thank you.
 So, do you have any questions?
 Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Fritz? I remember this from the last time we did it. So could you just tell folks at home and here, why do we have aircraft? What do they do? Just to be clear, I'm assigned to the traffic division. That's my full-time job. I do the air support unit on a part-time basis where this pager goes off and I respond there. So I have a pretty good understanding of what the air support unit does. I'm filling in for the chief pilot who couldn't make it here today. So...
 Can you repeat your question? I'm sorry. What does it do? Why do we need it? How is it helpful? It provides a layer of safety for the community members and for the officers. We have technology that's in the airplane that allows us to...
 See particular things on the ground that the ground officers can't see. If it's a serious crime, we're typically called out all hours of the day to respond to it and try and locate an individual who needs to be taken into custody. So it's kind of a general answer for it, I guess. So the airplane, it's not a helicopter, it's an actual airplane, right? Two aircraft, yeah.
 And so they would be dispatched to fly around and see if they could see the person hiding on the ground or something? Correct. Typically, if we're up, our response times to be on scene are about two minutes. So it's much quicker than a patrol officer...
 responding in a car or an SUV or something like that. So we can get eyes on a location when, say, a community member's called in, say, a burglar, and they saw him run out the back of their yard and they go into a wooded area. That could take a long time for an officer in a car to respond to. Yeah.
 depending on where they're at, if they're on another call, if they're even clear. If we're up and can get there in a quick period of time, we can locate the person usually, set up a perimeter, and then call in resources to take them into custody. So we're fairly efficient. What elevation do they fly at? It depends on the weather. Our goal is to be higher rather than lower. We're cognizant of...
 noise complaints. We don't like to hover over certain areas for long periods of time because some of the members in the community don't like it. It makes them nervous and it's understandable. So our goal when we go out is to be as high as possible. There's limitations on the equipment that's in the airplane. The higher you go, the image deteriorates. So...
 4,000 feet would be the goal. The other factor in that is if there was an engine failure or some sort of emergency, we want to be able to get back to a safe place and land it, preferably not in the city, on the city streets, back at the airport.
 And do they have, like, heat sensors so they can see who's hiding in the bushes or whatever? Or that somebody is? That's essentially kind of what we're looking at is a heat signature with the FLIR. That's located on the left side of both the aircraft that we fly. So, yeah. And it's entirely so that you can then tell the people on the ground what you can see from up there? That's the goal. Yeah.
 Yeah, when we're called out and we're looking for someone who's committed a crime, usually a serious crime, is to find them hiding somewhere quickly. And are they ever used before there's a crime? I mean, they're just basically flying around watching stuff? Yeah.
 We'll be up for patrol support. So, for instance, say there's a call of a crash on 205 at Gleason, and they dispatch a car to it. Usually within a minute or two, we can have our eyes on it and provide information to the officer that's responding. If they even need to go, it may free them up to not go if we can tell they're exchanging, they've moved on. So we try as much...
 as much as we can to be up to facilitate that, yes. But you don't just fly around looking for things that might be happening? Yes and no. Explain that. Well, just what I said, like a patrol support flight, we might go out for four hours. That's typically the length of the time of the flight because of crew fatigue, fuel exhaustion, about four hours. Yeah.
 five and a half, we start running out of fuel. So we don't like to go that long, um, where we can cover on calls. Like I said earlier, our response time's about two minutes anywhere in the city and relieve the officers that are driving the patrol cars around from actually having to go. If we can, that keeps them in their district responding to higher level calls. So if, if I can fly the airplane to a crash, uh, to look for a burglar, um,
 You name it, whatever the emergency call is, that's the goal. On one of those particular flights. On other times we're up for certain specific reasons. You're there so that you can get to the next place you're going quicker. You're not just flying around spying on people, I guess is my question. Correct. So just one other question because I know we've already funded this service and what you're asking us for is just to approve a lease agreement with a hangar. So it's a narrow question. But given what you've described as the mission,
 Why is a fixed-wing Cessna preferable to a helicopter that can hover? Yeah.
 I certainly wouldn't be the one to answer that question. There's a lot of expenses with a helicopter. Probably cost. Yeah, cost might be prohibitive. Don't quote me on any of this. I don't know for sure. I haven't looked into it myself. I mean, I'm not a big fan of helicopters hovering in residential areas. I mean, when they do in my neighborhood, I don't love it. But it just seems like you have more flexibility with a helicopter. If you're in a Cessna, it seems like you have to do a lot of traversing. Yeah.
 That's what I do is I fly the airplane. It's very efficient. Certainly come out and fly with us sometime and be happy to take anybody up and show them what we do. It works out really well. Thank you for the invitation. You should stop causing so much trouble in your neighborhood. I've done a ride-along, but this would take it to a new level. I'd be happy to do it. Thank you, sir. Great. Thank you. Any further questions, colleagues? Yes.
 Public testimony? Yes, we have one person, Star Stauffer. Very good. Thank you. Star, could we keep public testimony two minutes, please? Two minutes? Yes, please. Yeah, I don't think very much time, I don't think. Thank you. Star Stauffer, I have a couple concerns about the claims he made in regards to hovering. They don't hover in Lake Oswego, but I definitely know that they hover in the northeast and outer southeast areas. Yes.
 The one thing that he also didn't cover was these planes' use in protests and targeting protesters and mapping them and reconnaissance in regards to these protesters. And also neighborhoods where there's vulnerable communities because these planes are also used to map and recon with gang violence or suspected areas of gang violence. Why they then don't hover over their own police station is beyond me because that's a gang in itself.
 My problem with this is it makes me wonder if one of these planes was one of the planes that chased Qantas Hayes when that all went down. And when you sit up here and say that you're following people around that have committed a crime, you are not qualified to make that statement because they haven't been convicted in a court of law. So they're still innocent until proven guilty, which unfortunately most of the cops in this city fail to remember that when they're operating under the authority the city gives them.
 I also have questions in regards to the cost. And how much is it costing each time one of these planes go out and they're on one of these four-hour patrol flights? What is the cost to the community? What is the cost to the Portland Police Bureau? Because whatever it costs them, it's costing us.
 We're paying that in marijuana tax and other forms of taxes. So what is that costing the community to have these planes? And why is that more efficient than a patrol car? Because even if he has to respond to a scene and then turn around, it seems to me that's still a more cost-effective way to be operating in a city that struggles with trying to find financing for even things like houseless services.
 I mean, this is, I know that this isn't about approving a budget. This is about approving a lease with this hanger. But I'm thinking that at this rate, with the way that the Portland Police have been operating and the mistrust in the community and the targeting of people of color, you might want to consider not approving this and tabling it for more discussion. Thank you. Any further public testimony? Please call the roll. Fish? Well, thank you for the presentation and the invitation.
 You know, Mayor, listening to the presentation about this previously being located at Pearson Airport, which, by the way, was the airport strip that caused the most havoc in getting to the CRC design because there were some limitations on height for any –
 any new span because of the Pearson. It does seem to me this is a great improvement to go to the Portland Airport rather than to go to Vancouver for people that have to access this plane. So this makes sense, and the presentation, I think, was thorough. Thank you. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, seven, we're now to the Housing Bureau.
 And the next item was 714, which was pulled from this morning's agenda. I don't know who pulled it. Mr. Lightning pulled this. Mr. Lightning is not here. Is there any public testimony on 714?
 Call the roll. Should we read the contract? You have to read it, sorry. Increased contract with Income Property Management Company for operational expenses of the Joyce Hotel by $120,000 for a total value of $310,000. Call the roll, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted, and...
 Are we up to 732? Yes, we are now at 732.
 Authorize intergovernmental agreement with Prosper Portland in support of the ongoing implementation of housing functions at the Portland Housing Bureau and Economic Opportunity Functions at Prosper Portland. And, Kurt, before you start, and I will ask you to say your name again for the record, we have one, two, three, four, five more items. It is now 420. I will ask you to be precise and...
 And thorough, but not lengthy. I'll be very precise. Thank you. Kurt Krieger, Housing Director. This is an annual renewal, an omnibus agreement, if you will, that contains all of the activities between Prosper Portland and the Housing Bureau. So it describes roles and responsibilities. It also embodies all the funds that go from PHB to Prosper and back from Prosper to PHB.
 There are three new elements to this agreement that I want to call to your attention, however. Over and above the 45% of the amount of tax increment financing in each open renewal area that is currently allocated to the Bureau, over and above that amount, Prosper has offered $5 million of the corpus of money that they administer for additional housing programs and resources.
 And they're specifically for households that the Housing Bureau would otherwise be unable to assist. And in the Exhibit A, they are in three categories. One is to provide down payment assistance for households between 80 and 120 percent of median income to the tune of $1.6 million. It's about 20 households.
 The Housing Bureau by itself is not currently authorized to loan at that income level. We are capitated at 80% of median income. So this is workforce housing for people otherwise priced out of, in this instance, the north-northeast area.
 In addition, they are providing $1.6 million to expand the home repair program for the same income group, 80 to 120 percent of median income.
 And we are starting a pilot for accessory dwelling units where the Housing Bureau would underwrite the cost of providing accessory dwelling units for longtime owners within the neighborhood who could then benefit from the earned income from those accessory dwelling units. Those would be secured by a deed of trust in favor of the city.
 And would there be a requirement that they be for affordable housing rather than for Airbnbs? Correct. Thank you. So as you all know from the evidence, the disparity between white household income and black household income is in large part real estate owned.
 that most of the assets that white households enjoy are the properties that they own, not other stocks or bonds or securities. And this is an attempt to try to correct that and ameliorate that problem. So other than that, I would say that we are transmitting from the Housing Bureau to Prosper Portland some $2 million for work –
 Work Systems, Inc. to provide services for chronically unemployed people. That has been going on for the entire six-year history of the Housing Bureau under the migration of housing responsibilities to the Bureau. That amount is slightly down from last year because the federal funds have been slightly reduced. But it's still $2 million.
 Kurt, I think it's clear from the document we have at page three, but just to clarify, the $5 million and the different components you've just put into the record, that's $5 million to be spent in northeast California.
 The interstate corridor urban renewal area specifically. Specifically. Yes. So it's homeownership-related initiatives within that URA. That's correct. And it's over and above the 45% of TIF that the Housing Bureau already administers for that urban renewal area. Right. And why is it so circumscribed? Right.
 Well, I think this did go to the North Northeast Oversight Committee, and Prosper Portland wanted to clearly establish that they were reaching out to the neighborhood to correct some of the historic inequities. They challenged the Housing Bureau to come up with some creative ideas of how those funds might be used, and these were the three areas that passed muster with the Oversight Committee. Thank you.
 That concludes my remarks. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Fish.
 I'm pleased to support this, and the notes that I was given indicate that this is the last step in a rather lengthy process we initiated, I think in 2009, to officially separate the housing functions, take them from PDC, place them in the new Portland Housing Bureau, and consolidate them.
 And as I look back on that action and the subsequent fruits of that action, I think it was a beneficial move for both agencies, both for PDC, focused on economic development, and the Portland Housing Bureau, which focused on the needs of people shut out from the housing market.
 Thank you for your explanation on the $5 million. Kurt, aye. Selfsman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Briggs. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. 733, amend Joint Office of Homeless Services Intergovernmental Agreement with Multnomah County to authorize fiscal year 17-18 budget allocation to the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Very good. Come on back. Thank you.
 You actually don't have to go all the way back to your seat unless you want the exercise. Very good. You make a grand entry. It looks good. Kurt Krieger, Housing Director. This effectuates and implements the budget you adopted on June 8th. There are no further changes. This merely rolls into the IGA, the adopted budget. Director Krieger, do we have a date yet for a work session?
 I don't believe it's been calendared, although we did meet with Burke, Nelson, and everyone wants it to happen before Labor Day, preferably the month of July. Or August.
 July or August. I know we have a tight calendar. Yeah, July has a lot of people on vacation, but it will be held this summer. That's correct. We had a policy budget and alignment committee last week, and we talked about a range of options. Home Forward will be part of that presentation as well as the Housing Bureau and obviously the Joint Office. Thank you. Very good. And Kristen and Mark, are you here for this particular item? Did you want to come up and just say a few words since you're here? Sure.
 Any advice on design review that you want to impart? Okay, thanks. I appreciate it very much. Colleagues, any further questions? Any public testimony? No one signed up. Please call the roll.
 I'm very pleased that we are increasing our allocation to the Joint Office, and I look forward to the work session this summer where we can focus on sustainable funding for the long term. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Aye. Sol Smith. Aye. Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. So this is adding over $26 million from the City General Fund to the work of the Joint Office, and thank you very much for all your work. It also includes $1.8 million of federal funds, and long may that last. Aye.
 Wheeler. So I want to extend my thanks to my colleagues who worked very, very hard.
 alongside me to find additional resources for the Joint Office. And I want to thank Mark Jolin for his excellent leadership of that Joint Office. And Christian, you and your team over at the county have done an outstanding job. And certainly Director Krieger, you continue to do fine work with regard to our efforts on these IGAs.
 I will simply put out the cautionary note that has been put out there several times with regard to the sustainability of this budget. It is not sustainable. I want to be very clear and on the record. The work that the Joint Office does is critically important.
 As the point-in-time count showed on Monday, we're actually making good progress. We've not solved the problem, but it is at least encouraging that here in Portland and Multnomah County, we have been able to reduce the number of unsheltered homeless on the streets. That counters the narrative that's being seen in Alameda County, L.A. County.
 King County, the greater Seattle area. So there is some good news here. There was certainly some bad news as well. We saw people with self-identified disabilities going up markedly.
 And while we will get the disaggregated data later, we are all supposing that there are increased self-reporting of both addiction and mental health issues related to those who find themselves in the situation of homelessness.
 And in addition, the number of chronically homeless also went up. So lots of work to do, but we need to redouble our efforts working with the county and the other partners in the Joint Office at the Home for Everyone Coalition.
 to find a path to sustainable funding going forward. Because as everybody knows, and as our budget office has repeatedly admonished us, the funds we've put in this year hang a lot of hope on a continued growth cycle in the economy and a heavy reliance on one-time only funding. That is not sustainable. But this year, that's not the problem. Aye. Ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Don't go far.
 Item 734, authorize 10 subrecipient contracts totaling $3,386,865 for services in support of providing affordable housing. Good afternoon. Hello. Kirk Krieger, Housing Director. These are –
 Legacy relationships that we have with a variety of nonprofit providers, they are extended for an additional year. And Kim McCarty is here to answer any particular questions you might have about any specific vendors or service providers. So if I could, just for the record, I'd like to read in the organizations that are our partners here. From time to time people wonder, do we actually work with or reach out to communities of color or underserved organizations
 populations. The contracts here are related to NAYA, the Portland Community Reinvestment Initiative, PCRI, the Community Energy Product, Unlimited Choices, Inc.,
 which works on disability access issues, REACH Community Development Corporation, which focuses on low-income elderly and disabled homeowners, the Latino Network.
 The Community Alliance of Tenants, Legal Aid Services of Oregon, Impact Northwest. So these are all very good, strong partners for us, and they work predominantly in communities that are traditionally viewed as underserved in these areas. I'm really proud of the fact that the city continues to take a leadership role working with these community partners. Any further questions, colleagues? Yes.
 Any public testimony? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for taking the time to read that, Mayor. It's important for people to know the kinds of things and the good things that is being done with taxpayers' money. Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. 735, authorized funding in an amount not to exceed $9,700,000 to Stark Street Apartments Limited Partnership for the construction of a new 153-unit affordable housing development. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Director Krieger. And you can take a little more time on this. We've caught up, and this is important. I think we may have – Stephanie Condor may be here by now, too. Oh, she is here. Excellent. Yeah, sure she is. Come on up. And Christian is here as well from the Chair's office. So this is a happy day. We, as you know, undertake annual notice of fund availability, what we call NOFAs. And those NOFAs –
 to real projects after all the real estate due diligence, all the design work, all the necessary funding has been accomplished. So Stephanie is Director of Development for Central City Concern, and the county is a major funder in this project. I would underscore the fact that in the 2016 NOFA,
 The county co-joined the city so that they were provided a site and working capital for multiple projects.
 The site itself is a county-owned property in northeast Portland. And as we originated the projects, we jointly underwrote those projects with the county. So they are a strong financial partner in this effort. So I'll let Stephanie speak for Central City Concern and describe the detail of this specific project. Hi there. Thank you.
 Stark Street Apartments is an apartment complex that we're proposing. It's going to consist of 153 units. The affordability will range between 30% and 60% MFI. That would mean that incomes would range from about $15,690 annually up to around $44,820. Ninety-one bedrooms and 62 two-bedrooms.
 This project itself is delivering low-cost housing. It seeks to maximize units. Successfully, we've been working on this low-cost construction model.
 At present, we anticipate the hard costs coming in at $134,000 per door, which is really competitive. The investment from the city and county will total $9.7 million, but on a per-unit basis, that's $63,000 per unit.
 This housing will provide low-barrier housing for people graduating out of transitional housing. As well, we've worked with the Davis-Douglas School District. We've had several meetings out there. We've met with the Hazelwood Neighborhood Association, was invited to meet with the superintendent out there at David Douglas School District, was invited to further meet with their Title X representative, as well as attend board meetings, all of which have been well-received.
 Title 10, or Chapter 10 representative is somebody that works with the families in the school district that are homeless or at poverty. And they're very excited for this project. They have, I think they said about 3% of their children are currently homeless out there. And this is much needed housing. We also are working with NARA as well.
 CCC has over 40 years of experience working with at-risk populations and homelessness, and we've come to realize that a roof is only part of what needs to occur in approving the long-term resiliency from homelessness, and this requires a collection of services. At Stark, our resident services will focus on housing stability, income advancement,
 connection to wellness services, and long-term life goals. The combination of these things increase long-term stability and resiliency from homelessness. As a note, we are also in pre-development for our Eastside Campus project, which will be located kind of around the corner on 122nd and Burnside.
 Having this proximity will give them further adjacency to services connecting to wellness, employment access center, and other services that we provide. So we think this is well located for them. I also wanted to thank Portland Housing Bureau and the city for investing in this kind of needed housing. It's been excellent to work with them. They've helped us along the way in so many ways. So thank you all. Thank you.
 Christian? Thank you. And Mayor Wheeler and city councillors, I'm Christian Gaston from Multnomah County Chair's Office. And Mayor Wheeler, I want to honor your earlier suggestion to be succinct, but I think it's always worth taking a moment to celebrate the strong partnership between the city of Portland and Multnomah County and our commitment and shared vision to end poverty.
 homelessness and ensure that everybody in our city has a roof over their heads, projects like these that make that possible, along with all the work that you're doing every day around tenant protections and making sure that there's building supply in the pipeline. So thank you for partnering. We're happy to be here. Christian, thank you. And I want to reiterate Chair Khafre's strong engagement and involvement in this process. And I know that you've been leading the efforts on behalf of the chair's office,
 and please don't take my desire for us to be quick.
 for any less enthusiasm. This council has been in session for the better part of the last nine hours. So we're not done yet. So, uh, we're just being efficient, but I, I want to thank you. And there, there were some things I should have said up front that I neglected to do. Uh, in addition to the obvious, um, I want to thank you for the $9.73 million of Multnomah County funding that's going into this project. Uh,
 I want to acknowledge Commissioner Saltzman. The ball really started rolling under his leadership as the housing commissioner during the early stages of this, working in tandem with Chair Khafre and others to make sure that this would come to fruition. It's 153 units, as Kurt said, eight units serving households earning up to 30% of median family income.
 and obviously at high risk of becoming homelessness, particularly in this market.
 40% of the units are family friendly and I know that's something Commissioner Saltzman has certainly been talking about here on this council. 61 of the units are two bedrooms 92 are one bedrooms and as you mentioned this is a model partnership. Multnomah County, Central City Concern the Portland's Housing Bureau the State's Housing and Healthcare Initiative amongst others you've landed
 not only Central City Concern as a key partner here, but Anchor Moisen Architects as well, one of the great local architecture firms here. Colleagues always ask about MWESP participation, over 27% is my understanding for this project, which is a true success. And when I think about the second chance project
 rattle opportunities that go into this for graduates of job training and recovery programs.
 as well as the focus on housing at-risk families from the David Douglas School District. This gets to some of the questions that were raised this morning about what are we specifically doing for lower-income families on the east side of the Willamette River. And this, of course, is a tangible example of when we work with the county and other partners
 we reach farther into East County and more effectively into the east side of the city and the county. So thank you for that. Mayor, I have just two questions. Commissioner Fish. Kurt, how have you addressed the setback issues to the north? Okay.
 I'm sorry. This is not quite as tightly constrained site as the one you were dealing with previously. So I'm looking at the PHB subsidy, which is a total of 9.7. What is the county's contribution? It's 1.5 of the total. So 9.7 in total. Mayor may have been a little generous, but we're grateful for the contribution. And it's worth mentioning that the total development cost of $29.2 million means that that 9.7 is leveraging $2 for every $1 post.
 But the other thing I wanted to comment on is this has HIF money, right, housing investment fund.
 Is this the first one we've done with this kind of contribution from HIF? Well, I think we actually purchased the Parks Bureau site with HIF dollars late last year. So we have used some HIF dollars as we had it available. And so this is the fund we created through dedicated money, then we bonded it, and it can be used in non-urban renewal districts. Mm-hmm.
 So this gives us a more flexible dollar. That's the key. Along with home, which is at risk, Multnomah County, Home for Everyone funds, and then home consortium. So well done. Thank you. Fisher, Fritz. Thank you. So I have a question about the family-sized units. It said that two bedrooms is family-sized. Knowing the demographics of the David Douglas School District, that doesn't seem all that big.
 I mean, is it that they're big two-bedroom? I mean, what's the square footage? Well, I think, you know, at Central City Concern, what we really were trying to focus on is maximizing units. What we're seeing, even in our transitional housing, you know, our goal is to reduce homelessness and work with populations that really are underserved. So what...
 If we were to do bigger units, it would be more costs, and you would get less units. So this way we thought we could serve more families. It's just a matter of maximizing the number of units that we can and trying to place as many two bedrooms as we can. But there's only so much you can do with a finite amount of money. Well, certainly having two bedrooms is very helpful for parents who want to build privacy once in a while. But also there's a lot of families that are doubled up. So I just...
 Obviously it's a great project and I'm very grateful that it's being done. I just would be careful about emphasising the family size piece because I think it's still obviously much better than being outside. Sure. People will be very happy to be in those two-bedroom units. We need to look at more ways to provide reasonable accommodations for larger families. Thank you. Thank you.
 Very good. Any further questions, colleagues? Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have one person signed up, Mary Seip. All right. Why don't we hear from Mary? Let's do a little certifying for other people.
 I know everybody's anxious to end this day, but I wanted – I think it's really important for people like Kurt and everybody to hear from someone who's actually benefiting from this type of program. This is so exciting. You know, I've talked about affordable housing, and it's just – I couldn't be more excited about this.
 In the 80s and 90s, when I was the vice president of the board of directors of a private social service agency in Eugene that provided housing and shelter to homeless families, I never thought that I would be in a position, because I was making a lot of money at the time,
 that I would ever be living in affordable housing. And when I lost my job during the recession and I lost my home and I lost my pension, affordable housing saved me. And, in fact, at your urging, I wrote an email and I copied all of you on a rather lengthy email to Kurt expressing my desire to get involved in these programs and some of my background and experience in this.
 area. And like I say, I never thought when I was on that board of directors that I'd be living in affordable housing.
 As our economy continues in this situation that it's in and people are underemployed and the cost of education is so prohibited, we're going to have more and more people who do not make enough money during their career to set aside money for a 401K or any kind of retirement. And they're never going to be able to buy a home.
 Programs like this are looking to the future to help people that, through no fault of their own,
 cannot afford housing, and so I'm really excited to see this. I will say it's frustrating that the vocal citizens who keep coming up here and demanding to know what you're doing about housing the houseless aren't here to hear these last four agenda items. It's really frustrating and...
 Mary, can I take some of these? Can all, just speaking for myself, I actually find it less frustrating when they're not here. I would just offer that. That's true. I'll offer that observation. That's okay. Six of one, half a dozen of the other. I know. I mean, to say, Mary, if we could have you testify on almost every item, I think that would be an improvement. Well, thank you. But anyhow, it's...
 I just can't say enough kudos. Mary, we're all still laughing up here and smiling. I know. That's the great thing. Well, this will make you laugh. So when I came back from the lunch break for the afternoon session, as I'm walking down the street, I had a little bit of an encounter with Joel Walsh. And so I stood up, or as I'm walking down the street, he's yelling at me with the bullhorn. So, you know, there's no escaping it. Thank you, everybody. I can give you a couple ways.
 And colleagues, any further questions? And did anybody here have anything else to add before we call the roll? Very good. Please call the roll. Chris? Great project. We have a wonderful partnership with Central City Concern. It's in a part of the city that desperately needs...
 affordable housing. And one thing that I've learned over the years is that we often get complaints from people out in these neighborhood associations about the quality of the affordable housing, but almost invariably they're referring to the private market housing, which is very poorly constructed and often not very habitable. These kinds of developments actually are a net plus to the community.
 And they're beautifully designed and built buildings with nonprofit partners that know how to actually manage the buildings in a way that's humane and client-centered. And, of course, the numbers speak for themselves in terms of who we're serving. So thank you, Dan. Thank you, Housing Bureau. I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman. Great project. Great partnership between the county and the city and Central City Concern. Aye. Udaly. How can we do about 20 times more of these? Yes.
 Thank you for your work. This is 153 units in an area of town that needs them. I particularly like the partnership with David Douglas School District, so thank you very much for your good work. Aye. Wheeler. Well structured. Thank you. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item. Last item.
 736, adopt and authorize the submission of the Action Plan Fiscal Year 2017-2018 for the Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partnership, Emergency Solutions Grant, and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
 Good afternoon. Kurt Krieger, Housing Director. And with me is Kim McCarty, who administers the federal programs on behalf of the entire region. We receive these funds from HUD for Multnomah County and the city of Gresham. So we're the lead agency.
 And she has an update that's been distributed to count to the clerk for the council's information. This is required to be filed annually. And to make it timely, i.e., before July 1st, we filed the ordinance with last year's appropriation numbers because HUD had not yet given them to us until, like, last Thursday. Yeah.
 So the new numbers are provided to you for the record. There are some slight changes, nothing dramatic. And Kim is conversing in all the details.
 How many years does this cover, this particular action plan? This is for one year. So this is the second annual action plan of the five-year consolidated plan that started in 2016. And since there's a reference to HOPWA, the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS program, is our submission limited to how we intend to spend our entitlement dollars, or does this anticipate any competitive grant money?
 Our entitlement. Our entitlement money. I assume we're continuing the partnership with Cascade Aid. Yes. Just to clarify, this we've just given is an additional exhibit. This replaces the previous exhibit. Do we need to move to do that amendment? No.
 I believe we do. Yes. Yeah. I move to substitute. Second. Second. So Commissioner Fritz moves to substitute. Commissioner Fish seconds. Any further discussion on the substitute? Call the roll on the substitute. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Uday. Aye. Fritz. Aye. We live. Aye. We're now discussing the substitute. So, Kurt, just a comment. You know, it's 5 o'clock. We're all tired, and we're now going to act on...
 our action plan for fiscal year, and this is a multi-page document. This is a very big deal. This is sort of the roadmap for how we're going to spend. And I know that you get to this point after considerable community consultation and process. What's the next opportunity we have as a council to go a little maybe deeper into this process and help shape maybe the next five-year vision? We have a new council. We have a new set of challenges. Yes.
 and we have obviously the new partnership with the county. Is there an opportunity for the council to become more engaged in this in the future? Well, I think to the extent that you want to, that would be fine. This does constitute about 20% of the Housing Bureau's budget, so it's a big deal in that regard. Okay.
 It is – I would underscore the fact that because it's federal dollars, it comes with a lot of compliance requirements. I would say that half of our administrative burden within the Housing Bureau is dedicated to managing 20 percent of our money. There's definitely a disconnect there. We will advocate for some –
 regulatory relief, given every opportunity we can with the new administration. Block grants for fewer strings. Right, fewer strings, definitely. And this is a budget that is built in consultation with Multnomah County and the city of Gresham. So we are mindful that we have community partners in this effort. But I think perhaps Kim could reflect a little bit on ways in which you could have –
 given your limited time available, an impact on that conversation with the community. We do know that, for example, the home and the CDBG program are slated for not renewal. The HUD secretary and the OMB director both proffered that as part of their 16% cut. So I do think that there could be some conversation with the community about what difference that would make.
 to them as these funds flow directly to subrecipients and that the council does not have the general fund revenue to replace that money with. That's a great example. Now, the Congress has said that the president's budget is – they're not going to pay much attention to it. But to the extent we see some significant changes in federal funding and to the extent that we begin to think about –
 modifying our priorities locally, you know, I would welcome a chance next year to bring the council in for a little scoping project. I know you do an outstanding job with consulting with our partners.
 But if we do see a big drop-off of federal funds, it's going to have ripple effects, and we're going to have to make some forced choices about how we invest the money. And I would encourage you to engage us early on in that conversation if we have the worst-case scenario. Yeah, I'd be very happy to. The first opportunity happens in the fall with our community need hearing. Good. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. So this item was supposed to be 30 minutes, and I appreciate that you're recognizing a certain amount of fatigue on the council. Is there some way that people in the public can go on your website to find out more about this project? Yes, they can go to the Portland Housing Bureau's website and then specifically Consolidated Planning, and then there will be their this year's annual action plan. The action plan...
 priorities, follow the priorities that were already set by the Housing Bureau and this Council and the overall Housing Bureau's budget. Thank you. And I would encourage people to look at the action plan goals, the 16 through 20 action plan goals. I think it's on page two of this handout. It's a very succinct description of what the objectives are and how these streams of funding actually fit into the addressing of each of those objectives. So I thought that was a very helpful template. Thank you.
 Thank you. In fact, I will probably tear it out and put it on my wall. It's very good. Thank you for that. Any further comments, questions, public testimony? No one signed up. No public testimony. Anybody else have anything else for the good of the order on this matter?
 Very good. Please call the roll. Fish. Kim, I know how much work goes into this, into preparing this document every year and your role in helping to bring this about. So thank you very much. Let's keep our fingers crossed that the federal government doesn't decide to get out of the housing business because that would be a shame. Aye. Salter. Thank you, Kim, for your good work. Eudaly. Thank you. I'm sorry this is coming at the end of a very long day, and I'm looking forward to learning more about this.
 this issue and participating in conversations going forward. It is important when we have large amounts of money, especially newer money that's coming into the housing bureau, it's important for people to know specifically what is going to be done with it and that there is a plan. It's not just whoever asks first. So thank you very much for that. I also want to thank all the city staff who are here and who have been here all day with us and we recognize that you also have had, especially Carla, keeping track of everything going on
 Really appreciate it. Thank you. Hi. Wheeler. I think this is a very good plan, and I think it's a great strategy to back the plan, and I'm sure we will be successful as a result. I want to thank the Housing Bureau, and I want to thank you for your hard work and all of our community partners, some of whom are represented here in the room, our county partners and others. Thank you.
 As I look at these projects going forward, I think it's going to be a lot of fun, too. There's a lot of innovative new ideas here, and I'm confident that we'll be successful in implementing those ideas. So with that, I will vote aye, and the ordinance is adopted.
 Carla, if I got this right, we have gotten through all of the items for today. Is that correct? Correct. Very good. So tomorrow we have one time certain item at 2 p.m. I am excused. So Commissioner Udaly will be chairing that hearing. I will be in D.C. lobbying on behalf of the city. So I will not be able to join you for that hearing. But I will certainly be thinking about all of you. We are adjourned.
 Wow, that's hard to do that after such a long day. Thank you.