Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the June 29th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Yes. Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick?
 Here. Rick. Here. Nails. Here. Good morning, everyone. Welcome. We'll get to the agenda in a minute. First, just the ground rules. The purpose of the council's meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business. Preservation of decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before the council. The public is welcome to attend Fort Worth City Council meetings.
 During the meeting there will be time-limited opportunities for public comment on various agenda items. Although citizens can sign up for communications, public testimony on a council calendar item must address the matter being considered on that item. When you testify, if you do, please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you're here representing an organization, ask that you please disclose that as well.
 Unless otherwise informed, each community member will have three minutes to speak in front of the council. At two and a half minutes, you'll hear a beep and a light will flash on the box before you. At three minutes, you'll hear four beeps and the lights will flash. At that time, it's time for you to let the next person speak. I ask that you respect the time limits so that there's time to hear from each person who's here to speak to the council today. Because we have a very busy agenda today, we will only allow testimony for one minute on items that don't have sign-up sheets. Thank you.
 If you have handouts, please give those to the council clerk, and she'll distribute them to the council members. Please testify only on the matter at hand. Oregon law allows the public the opportunity to attend the council meetings. The council's rules direct the presiding officer to preserve order and allow the public the opportunity to offer testimony specifically addressing current pending matters.
 To ensure that the council's deliberations proceed efficiently and that all who want to participate get heard, that's why we have these rules. So conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting during other people's presentations or interrupting testimony to the council, will not be allowed.
 If you want to show your support or opposition to someone else's point of view, feel free to give them a thumbs up or some other polite hand gesture. And if you disagree with them, a polite hand gesture to the contrary is fine. But again, no vocal demonstrations or interruptions, please. This is a warning that anyone disrupting this proceeding may be escorted from the City Council and excluded from City Hall.
 Lastly, if we need to, and I think we will today because we have a very full agenda, the council will be taking a half-hour break somewhere in the neighborhood of 1230, depending on council schedule, and I'll announce where we're going to take that break as we proceed through the agenda. Again, this is the last meeting of the fiscal year, so there's a lot in front of us. Bear with us. We'll get through it all. I'm not quite sure when. Okay.
 Before we start public communications, we have a pre-GAVL recognition for the people that worked very hard on Portland's Smart City Challenge. And I want to call up Leah Treat and Maurice Henderson and turn this over to Commissioner Novick, because we're very proud of PBOT and our team that worked on this application. I have a modest little plaque that the United States Department of Commerce sent. But before that, Commissioner Novick.
 We are very proud of our effort. And actually I have to say that I'm proud of the fact that I'm reliably informed that Columbus did not beat us out by nearly as much as Ohio State beat the Ducks out in the championship game the other year. It was a much closer contest.
 Again, there's a lot of people to thank for how far we came and are going to go. It was a team effort involving numerous city bureaus and also regional government education and nonprofit partners. When Secretary Fox visited last month, I think he left quite impressed with the coalition that was around the table for that meeting. And I was pretty darn impressed, too.
 In addition to thanking our consultants at CH2M Hill, our partners at TriMed and PSU, I want to specifically thank the following individuals for their efforts as part of this project. Leah Treat, Maurice Henderson, Kyle Chizik, Elizabeth Edwards, Ingrid Fish, Jeff Allen, Nils Tilstrom, Tamor Ender, Irene Schwafferman, John Brady, Hannah Schaefer, Dylan Rivera, Angel James, Margie Bradway, Sierra Springfield.
 We believe this process has strategically set us up for success in future funding opportunities and has identified ways for the city to further leverage technology as it relates to transportation investments. And now, for further elucidation, I'll turn it over to Leanne Maurice. Thank you.
 Thank you, commissioners and mayor, for the recognition today. It really means a lot. And, you know, we are sitting up here accepting the recognition of truly the work of our staff and our partners is just as important, if not more. You know, we were in the top five, even though it went to seven different cities. We know we were in the top five, and we heard from USDOT that in the end we were in the top three, and we were Vulcan's number one choice. Thank you.
 Regrettably, they decided to invest in Ohio as well. We were hoping that we might get the $10 million from Vulcan. But I have zero regrets and only praise for the work that we did. And I'm really excited about what these partnerships and ideas mean for us moving forward because we had –
 great ideas, great partnerships. We're going to continue to work with our private sector partners and our sister bureaus to continue to push forward some of the work that was identified in our grant proposal. And we are also going to continue to seek funding sources to get funding for the ideas that we had.
 and USDOT is pushing really hard to get the private sector to continue to invest in the top finalist cities, so I do believe that we're going to get some great consolation prizes out of this. Nothing to the tune of $50 million, but I think the consolation prizes will definitely be worth it. From my perspective, one of the things that has been most rewarding outside of getting better relationships with our partners and
 strengthening those conversations. It's the first time in the three years that I have been here that we actually saw Portland and the region come together and talk about really big transportation ideas, and I thought that was really rewarding and good for us to start thinking about what are the possibilities and what can be and what we want our future to look like.
 Again, thank you so much for supporting us. And Mayor Hales, thank you so much for the pitches that you made, the travel that you made, and the support that you gave us. And the same to you, Commissioner Nova, because we couldn't have done it without your leadership. So thank you very much.
 I'll be very brief and echo everything that Leah just said about the partnerships that have been developed through this process. As a person who's only been in Portland for a year, I was really touched by the equity concerns that were considered in our proposal and the communities that have been engaged in a real way throughout this process that are, as Leah mentioned, while it's a question of equity,
 quote consolation prize I think it's really going to move the needle forward on how we look at transportation and livability in this city in support of the comp plan and other things the team that was was mentioned in Commissioner Novick's opening remarks just did an outstanding job over the last seven months to put together the most comprehensive
 thoughtful proposal i thought in the country and i also want to thank the other five cities that we had had partnered with that gave faith to portland's vision richmond virginia new orleans louisiana detroit michigan los angeles and seattle all of them made a conscious decision to choose portland's vision for transportation future and that's something that you know no small measure of
 a compliment to what Portland has been and what it will be in the coming future. And thank you again, Mr. Mayor and Commissioner, and all the commissioners for your support throughout this process. It means a great deal to us. Well, let's suspend the rules and hear it for the Portland Office of Transportation. Thank you.
 You should talk about the war on the homeless that PBOT does all the time. Yeah, the transportation of homeless camps. What about rape while at the camp? Okay, I issued a warning earlier about interruptions, that the next interruption will recess and you'll be excluded. So, again, I want to thank...
 I said at the next interruption, Mr. Davis, please don't. So I want to say I did have a chance to talk to Mayor Landrieu and Mayor Garcetti, and they both really appreciated the partnership. And I also had a chance to talk to some U.S. DOT staff who said, yes.
 clearly that they believe that the ideas we brought up deserve consideration. So I think your prediction that maybe not specifically a consolation prize, but for USDOT to find ways to support the good ideas that you put together, I think that's going to happen. So, Steve, again, you and your bureau did great work, and I think great things will come from it. So well done. Thank you.
 And, Mayor, I heard so much praise for your presentation in D.C. You were on fire, they said. Well, it was fun. It was fun, and I think it put Portland in a good position, so thank you. All right. Let's move on into communications, please. Item 732. Request of Peter Rink to address council regarding his Eagle Scout project. Good morning. Come on up. Oh, morning. Good morning.
 So, hi, my name's Peter Rink. I'm a Boy Scout from Troop 100 in Portland, Oregon, and I'm here to address about my Boy Eagle Scout project. So, my Eagle Scout project is making care packages for the homeless people of Portland. It has a bit of a personal story to me. You see, when I was a young boy, I've always wanted to help the homeless people out, yet I had no idea how.
 And one day, my mom took me and my brother down to the Blanchet House of Hospitality to serve the homeless people breakfast. And I thought it was really nice seeing the homeless people get an incredibly tasty breakfast. Sorry, sorry, I'm just...
 Now, during this period of me serving at the Blanchet House, I was also part of the Boy Scouts, as you're already aware of. And I became a Life Scout after all my hard work I've done. And when I was a Life Scout, I was told that I had to perform a project which benefits the community.
 So I chose making care packages for the homeless people because I thought of the homeless people and I really want them to get the necessities in order to thrive in the streets of Portland. So how I plan on making these care packages is I'm going to make 500 of them, and I will serve them up on September 24th. And in the care packages, there will be toiletries and basic necessities in order to thrive on the streets.
 It will take about a couple of meetings to make them, and I hope that this project will go very successful. Yeah. Thank you. Well, that's great. Good work. Let's suspend the rules. We always suspend the rules for young people. Mayor Hales, first of all, how old are you? I'm 16 years old. Well, that was a very impressive presentation. It's not easy to get up at a place like this and on TV. The mayor-elect of our city, Ted Wheeler, is a big...
 And I don't know, we can check with the...
 with the records on this, but he may be the first Eagle Scout to serve. And I just also want to note, you mentioned the Blanchet House of Hospitality. Correct. The new home for Blanchet House is a project that the city invested in. And so the apartments on the top floor were paid for by the city and by the taxpayers because that's how much we think of that program. And to the project that you described,
 I would just note that it was students at the University of Portland that originally had the vision, as you know, for serving food to homeless people. And that grew to Blanchet and now to their home. So what it reminds us is the power of an individual to make a difference. And clearly you're going to make a difference, so congratulations. Thank you very much. And I just wanted to thank you for participating in the Boy Scout movement. I'm actually a Queen's Guide, which is the British equivalent of both female and Eagle Scout. So it's...
 It's a program that set me on my way to success throughout my life, and I hope you'll continue to participate and maybe become a leader and then pass on what you've learned to other young people. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Thank you so much for coming, Peter. Appreciate what you're doing. Anytime, Mr. Mayor. Good luck. Keep in touch with us. I will. I will inform you. I will keep in touch. Thank you so much. Thank you for coming today. You too. Thank you.
 All right, that's a hard act to follow, but we're going to ask, yeah, let's hear it again. Let's ask Mr. Peets to come forward, 733. Request of Robert Peets to address council regarding unslightly garbage and growing number of homeless tents. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Robert Peets. I'm not affiliated with any organization other than Portland State. My wife and I have grown up in Portland and lived here all our lives.
 We're among the thousands of Portland citizens that you hear very little from, but pay taxes, vote, and place our trust in the city council. We depend on you to anticipate and solve problems in this great city. We have seen in our city over the past few years a growing problem with homeless people that has resulted in a growing number of homeless tents in unauthorized areas,
 the growth of unsightly garbage along highways, even homeless sleeping downtown Portland and using our sidewalks and streets as their personal toilet. It is the responsibility of our elected officials to have anticipated this problem and find solutions wherever they may be and apply those solutions to the homeless problem before they reach the level that it has in our city.
 The City Council has at its disposal all the resources necessary to identify these solutions and to apply these solutions. We rely on you to take effective action. To date, however, our elected officials have not been able to solve this problem. There are places now in our city, unfortunately, we will not go.
 because we feel it's unsafe due to this problem, and we're very concerned that nothing will ever be done. With all due respect, the citizens of Portland deserve far better than this. I'm an old high school teacher and coach. If the homeless problem was a test to date, you would have received a failing grade. I do want to thank you, however, for the opportunity to address you about these concerns.
 I know I have some time remaining and would like you to provide some assurances that this problem will be solved. And I do appreciate all of your efforts. Thank you for coming. And actually, if you have a couple minutes, I'd urge you to stop up at my office and talk with Lucas or Ben so you can find out what the city's up to now on this subject. So I appreciate you coming down just upstairs on the third floor. This is a – I've got 25 more seconds. This is a wonderful place to live. It is.
 We have a great university, Portland State University, that does many good things for the city. And we know that there's efforts, but we need to see results, you know.
 like they used to tell me when I coached, we're with you, win or tie, right? Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. We do have a plan and we need to be able to fund it. So later today we're going to be voting on a construction excise tax, and then tomorrow looking at a bond measure to pay for affordable housing. So we have the plan, we also need the taxes to be able to pay for it. Just encourage you to get whatever money you need and get the plan that's going to work.
 and apply that plan so that as people drive down 84, I-84, they don't see a bunch of garbage and tents and things like that. There is a proper place for all of this to be done, and we should identify that and get it done. Very, very important. This is too good of a place. It's a great place. Well, thank you. We appreciate you coming down today. Thank you very much. Thank you, sirs. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay, item 734 please request of Jennifer furnace to address council Regarding family and community issues relating to the residential infill project. Good morning. Welcome And a lot of time with planners and getting to know them and talking and I
 The research and the real desire of this city to grow in a really smart and equitable way, I just think it's wonderful, and especially from everything from affordable to design issues and bringing everyone together. There was a small part of the comprehensive plan relating with residential infill, and I know that many of my neighbors have gotten a bit stirred up because there's a lot of mystery, and mystery is always uncertain.
 and recently became public. As a millennial with a family and at the upper edge of the millennials, and there are many millennials following me with families, one thing that we are concerned about is affordable housing for families. And while Portland has seen a smaller increase in family growth currently, I think that there is a...
 Austin, Texas has had a 40% increase in the number of children between 5 and 14 over the last 10 years. Charlotte, North Carolina is similar. And I think that we're in for a large group of family growth. I'm concerned that as the units become too small, what we might end up having is more of a monoculture of one-bedroom or two-bedroom.
 the way the plan that is public now, the units can be as small as 600 square feet, which I think is really well provided for in our centers and corridors commercial districts. So when we move out to the residential infill, I think that
 Really, 800 square feet should really be the minimum that we're looking at so that we know that a three-person family can affordably live there. Because if we see development moving towards smaller, smaller, smaller, we may end up pricing out families. Duplexes, triplexes, wonderful, but when we get to quadplexes and a 2,500 square foot, you're looking at...
 a very small unit. And we have a very strong history of maximizing units per square footage. So I think it's something that we should avoid so that we make sure we have space for small and we have space for large. And we have space for roommates because as a millennial, I've shared many a house with roommates. It's much more affordable than a one-bedroom apartment. I think that'll go forward in the future. We need to have that space. There are other issues involved with
 Families in the residential infill and regarding with streets, open space, access to playgrounds as far as the distance. I know Chicago is having a goal of no more than a quarter mile for two parks. And I think that's important because we want diversity in economic levels and in family diversity.
 And we need to foster smaller members of our society. Appreciate you raising these points. Have you had a chance to go to one of the community meetings yet? Okay, good, good. Glad you had a chance to interact with the planners. Obviously, it's still a work in progress, so your points are well taken. Ms. Furniss, I especially appreciate your mention of being a quarter mile from a park or a playground, and that's something that we are working on. In fact, there's an item coming up soon that's going to be starting the next one.
 If I may, I've been really impressed with London home zones. You mentioned England and a lot of the streets, instead of creating just parking lots, having, I've noticed in Oakland as well, they do this. A lot of times the parking's on one side of the street. We know that children prefer to play on pavement, and we know that children are outside more when there's space closer to their home.
 There's an organization called Kaboom. It's associated with Michelle Obama, and I've been outreaching with them and hope to come back with some input from them as far as urban planning with our streets. Great. Yeah, I'm familiar with Kaboom. It's a great organization. They're really wonderful, and they're with over 200 cities, and Portland is not on their list. Thank you. Well, the transportation director was here listening to your testimony, so your timing was great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, 735, please. Request of Charles Ormsby to address council regarding Bureau of Environmental Services Terwilliger Boulevard Sewer Project. Okay, Mr. Ormsby, come on up, please. Good morning. Take off your glasses.
 good morning mayor and councillors my name is Charles arms Bay live in Clackamas County yet with a Portland address in Lake Oswego urban growth management area I'm here today to discuss and give key items on the city of Portland Bureau of Environmental Services trying to older Boulevard sewer project primary concern as I've said in the set in correspondence is the intersection of highway 43
 a.k.a. Riverside Drive and Brayman Avenue. And what avenue, I'm sorry? Brayman Avenue. It's actually a V intersection to the west. There's Brayman Avenue that vectors off to the northwest and to the west, Greenwood Road. And then to the east is a 222-foot drop vertically into the Willamette River area.
 That will be Birds Hill area in Clackamas County and a good portion of Riverdale area in Dunthorpe. Only access to Lake Oswego southbound. The project, I have not seen project charts and a whole host of other documents. I'd like access to the file transfer protocol site to get these documents. Some of them I've downloaded, and there's really the 30% completion plan circa 2012. The rest of them, I can't find the site so I can't get the rest.
 So this project, citizen involvement is not going well. I am going to ask the city auditor's office to do an audit of this process. We do not have planning charts for this, and I'm familiar with the little housing project about 210 miles above this microphone, the International Space Station. So my expectation is a little bit on the high side, but we need –
 planning charts for, I forget what they're called, Gantt and PERT charts, and we also need process charts so we know what the notifications are and the span times of them are, both in every jurisdiction in the metropolitan area, if not the state of Oregon. There's another of other things here, but about 80 years ago, there were railroad tracks on the west side of this, east side of this building. Those have been removed today.
 that's now created a bridge on the Willamette River since 1925. We need to have a
 given the experience in the Columbia Gorge I want a NLB Tech in the Metro Council at Willamette View Matters tomorrow we need to have a validation of the emergency response I'll put the rest of my things in writing in another email to the council but the Twilliver Boulevard sewer project is going to be seven months and it will be highly impactful for anybody getting from Lewis and Clark College it'll affect your Collins View neighborhood association we just came through the intersection of
 uh tulip boulevard and taylor's ferry that's going to be choked up substantially another issue that just came to the forefront is horse trailer or garden worker trailers and all sorts of clearances thank you thank you thanks for raising these issues
 appreciate you being here today and obviously with the bureau we'll try to get more information out commissioner fish should he check in with your office euro is in regular contact with us okay we'll continue to be all right thank you so much appreciate you being here good day okay uh 7 36 please request of camilla rose waters to address council regarding unsafe sidewalks okay it's waters i need to do this good day mayor good morning good morning welcome
 I've lived in Portland since January 2013 when I gave up a car for my wife, Kane. I came here because of transportation systems, number one, in my viewpoint, across the planet, actually. I've traveled all over the world. You don't know me, so I'll give you a quick thumbnail. I was the first person hired to manage the San Jose Convention Center, managed over 500,000 people events. I've been a code enforcement officer, an ADA specialist.
 I've created social service agencies for the disabled, and now I play concerts around the world. In the last two months, I've been in 23 cities and four states, so I travel a lot, and I walk a lot across Portland. The streets here have now become really bad. In the last week and a half, I'm often hit three times, which brought me here today, and it turns out there's a safety issue already on your agenda.
 the street the sidewalk closures the street closures for the disabled with walkers wheelchairs scooters canes disastrous my fiancee who's a retired judge in england says two words utter disgrace for me i call it appalling because portland cares about people usually but if we took enough care if we do bicyclists for the disabled in this community your cutouts in the sidewalks for the wheelchairs access
 There's drainage spots right in front of them. So when it rains and it floods, the wheels have to go through the water. Or your cane goes down into the pit. See, up in three and a half years ago, I didn't walk with a white cane.
 And so it's been a learning experience. But it's safer for me to walk in the streets in Portland than it is on the sidewalks. Bad sidewalks are upheavaled because of rooting or maintenance problems with trees overhanging and bushes. And the closures, Commission for the Blind has looked at talking signs, which are most incensure that says,
 you know there's a problem here but what i want to know is as a code enforcement person why is the construction agencies and the firms mandated to create walk spaces they put up this the cement barriers to protect their get their their fencing but they don't create walkways they say sidewalks closed so then you get disabled people crisscross and cross the path i live in the southeast section and i walk all over
 And it's just terrible. Even up on 82nd and Washington and Stark, right in the middle of the bus stops.
 I mean, one day the 15 got rerouted twice because of street closures. Anyhow, it's hazardous, and I thought you ought to know about it. Give me my card. There's about as many pages of me on the Internet as Obama. So if you want to walk with a blind person, we'll set you up, and we'll go for a walk, and I'll show you how dangerous it is out there. I think that agencies who are doing closures to sidewalks are to be mandated to create a walk space on that side of the street for pedestrians.
 The elderly, if you're with a walker and you're having to crisscross, it's bad enough for people with walkers to begin with. But having to go through these territories, I mean, and then some of the streets are like 11th, 10th, 12th, they're shut down on both sides of the street.
 and it's rerouting anyhow so thank you for your time thank you hope to see you again thank you very much thank you miss rose actually the next item we're going to take up is requiring um safe walk spaces and construction zones and i would love to take you up on your suggestion of going for a walk with somebody with the vision i'd love to do that thank you so much thank you appreciate you being here thank you very much
 Okay, we have a couple of things to deal with on the consent calendar in terms of pulling them either back or up to the regular calendar. Without objection, I'm going to take 740 back to my office. There's a request to pull 742 and 745 to the regular calendar. And then...
 a request that 749 be referred back to the auditor's office So with those here just any others See we have time certain that are going to take us to about 11 or 11 15. Is it your your
 Would you like to have those consent items heard first or at the end of the meeting? No, I think we should take the time certain first. No, I'm sorry. After the time certain, do you want to take up the consent agenda? Before the regular? I see your point. Yeah, probably. Yes, I think so. I'll have a Water Bureau person here at 11. Okay.
 Yeah, let's do that. That makes sense to everybody. Okay, so if there's no objection, those are the items that are either pulled back to offices in the case of 740 and 749 or pulled to regular in the case of 742 and 745. If there are no other changes, let's vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Aye. Altman? Aye. No vote. Aye. Nails. Aye. Okay, item 737.
 direct the Portland Bureau of Transportation to adopt administrative rules for the safe accommodation of pedestrians and bicyclists in and around work zones Commissioner Novick
 Colleagues, this item addresses the very issue that Ms. Rose just brought up. One of the side effects of the rapid pace of development we've seen recently is that sometimes people biking, walking have been left with closed sidewalks or bike lanes without adequate accommodation. And due to the fact that people have raised concerns about this issue and the fact that this fits in well with our Vision Zero policy, PBOT is developing administrative rules to ensure people walking and biking are kept safe around work zones.
 Under the new guidelines, temporary detours that are out of direction or across the street for people walking, biking, and using mobility devices can be considered only after exhausting other options. In other words, safe passage for vulnerable users will be the default, even if it requires temporarily closing a motor vehicle lane or removing parking temporarily. PBOT expects to fully incorporate the official guidelines for the building permit process for new projects by the 2017 construction season.
 This is Vision Zero in action. This is a response to concerns raised by many citizens. It's one of the ways our Vision Zero policy is translated into safety on the street. And now I'm pleased to turn it over for further elaboration to Leah Treat and Faith Weingart.
 Thank you, Commissioner, and the rest of the council. I'm really excited to be here today to talk about this, and so glad that we have got these administrative rules ready to go for your review and approval. This is the culmination of about three years of work on this, and it's really been supported. So thank you to Oregon Walks, BTA, and a lot of advocacy organizations that have helped us
 shape these policies. You know, as we are looking at unprecedented growth in the city and in development, we have repeatedly heard that pedestrians especially and then cyclists are being negatively impacted. So
 When sidewalks get closed, just as Ms. Camilla Rose Waters told you, people are diverted across traffic. There's not safe passage for them. And this is really a reflection of understanding that we have all different types of users accessing our transportation network. It's not just vehicles. We have pedestrians. We have cyclists. We have pedestrians.
 Lots of people trying to get around in different ways. So we are trying to have safe passage for everyone in the city. And this is also not only a Vision Zero policy, but it's also supported by our comp plan and our hierarchy of how we are looking at the traveling public that we want to prioritize the safety of pedestrians and cyclists along with automotive traffic.
 So I'm going to turn it over to Faith to walk through a PowerPoint that's got more details, and we can answer any questions you have about the policy. Thank you. Thanks. Faith Weingarten. I'm the temporary street use permitting manager. And...
 So the resolution that we're putting before you today states that when work is being performed in the right-of-way, which impacts a sidewalk or a bike route, providing an adjacent walkway or a bike path is the default position. So closures are deemed a last resort in the absence of other practicable routing or accommodation options.
 The problems that we wanted to solve are that closures are leaving people walking and biking with less than ideal conditions to navigate through and around, and detours that involve crossing streets or going out of direction, making the more attractive option the unsafe choice. So Vision Zero recognizes that the safe choice should also be convenience.
 A problem is that sidewalk closures with detours that are inconvenient, then people walking may choose a more dangerous route.
 Detours for people walking, biking, and using mobility devices are undesirable because they result in lower compliance. By forcing people to deviate their path, detours increase the likelihood that people will travel in a way that increases the risk of death or serious injury. Can we keep this slide for a second? Because you've said this is the problem, so we're getting to the solution. I just want to acknowledge two things that I've observed.
 And this is a good picture, but the egregious examples are where the fence actually covers the entire bike lane. And I've seen that all over the city. So you're riding on a protected bike lane. It's blocked. And you've got to now get into traffic. And presumably, and in many of the streets where you have that bike lane,
 They are there because the streets are dangerous, and so we're encouraging people. So that's one thing. The second thing I've noticed, and it's happening all around City Hall, is that we're giving people in construction projects a permit to close a city street.
 for the purpose of the convenience of occasionally doing deliveries. Excuse me. Which, by the way, at rush hour, there's never any deliveries, so you just have traffic jams. And I understand the safety issue there of wanting to occasionally allow someone to go to a construction site and drop something off, but what we're effectively doing on high-frequency streets is shutting down a lane, which at rush hour makes it very difficult for people.
 And almost invariably, there's nothing happening during rush hour. And I just wonder whether – and these are not permanent closures. These have cones, and they're set up so that a truck could theoretically come. I wonder whether those could be restricted to non-rush hour hours. Just a thought. So thank you. We will follow up on that. I mean, it's –
 We can talk further offline if you want, or I can –
 looking at different ways to access. It would be a change in our practices and the way that we do engineering. Also, it was a conversation with a developer, so I've had a couple of conversations with people in downtown projects about taking a travel lane, and for them, in order to get safe passage without closing the entire travel lane would then require them to hire traffic flaggers to come in and do flagging during the time that they would have.
 deliveries done, and so that's an increased cost to them. So that's where we get pushback. So I guess, and I'm not, you're the expert, I'm not going to debate the point. I'll defer to the way your experts look at this, but I think we have to balance that against
 hundreds and hundreds of cars idling in traffic unnecessarily, which does work against our climate action plan, the safety issues. And just three blocks from here, there's a hotel going up, and there's a very difficult intersection with lanes blocked on both sides of that intersection.
 What we've done is we've created a situation that's unsafe for pedestrians who are dodging traffic. You're creating a situation that's unsafe for drivers because everyone's upset, and so they jump the light or they do other reckless things. And I get the question of convenience and cost.
 It needs to be factored, but I hope it's heavily weighted against safety and climate action because I think they're in collision, and I'm not sure requiring someone to have a flagger as such a great inconvenience measured against the fact that they're completely screwing up the circulation for bikers and cars and pedestrians. Just a – I appreciate it. Thank you very much. That would be stronger and more stringent than what we're proposing, and I appreciate the support, so we will definitely look into it.
 And we do restrict hours to non-peak hours in the downtown area. And sometimes they aren't in compliance. So that's one piece of it. Thank you.
 So this is, as you were talking about, Commissioner Fish, you were talking about bicycle lanes, and so the next slide is just kind of demonstrating what you're saying, that the problem is that, you know, disruptions put bikes into traffic lanes without enough advance warning or that the bike lane is compromised. So for a solution...
 I want to go over an example with you that is on Belmont and 21st. So...
 The solution in this example implemented a plan which removed about 300 feet of on-street parking to maintain a travel lane and converted a travel lane to a bike and ped route, leaving the contractor the remaining right-of-way to facilitate their construction. This job site was in the middle of a block. It only had street frontage on Belmont and Belmont,
 So construction sites do have to have access. So this is one of the plans that we have put into action that reflect what our goals are to maintain a travel lane, to maintain safe bike and pedestrian passage.
 can we pause on that photo for a second um yes um so i like the direction you're going but i want to quibble about a detail here and that is if i if i see this if i if i see what i think i see which is okay so we're now we're using the travel lane temporarily for pedestrian and bicycle movement right and there's a fenced off area where the construction staging is taking place right so there are three elements there are vertical plastic
 There's Jersey barriers, I think the kind that you fill with water, right? And there's a fence. Why don't we require that the Jersey barriers be on the outside to protect the pedestrians and bicycles as well as the construction workers instead of having the pedestrians and bicycles protected not much by a little piece of plastic? So I get it that there's a need for a Jersey barrier to prevent mayhem.
 But if we're going to do that, we're not going to spend any more money to put the Jersey barriers where it would protect everybody instead of just their own workers. So I'm sure somebody just didn't think about this. But now those are the typical three elements. You've got to have a fence to secure the construction site and a way to tell the drivers of cars you don't have this lane anymore. And we need some physical protection. Let's arrange those so that we get the maximum benefit. Right.
 maybe even concrete barriers like you have on Jefferson between 2nd and 3rd, that does create a much safer walking environment than plastic or even the fillable water ones. So how do you choose whether you require concrete barriers?
 Well, our traffic engineer will make that determination, but one of the things that's a little tricky about concrete barriers is that they create their own danger if a car was to hit them, where the water-filled barriers are a safer option in some cases. Safer for who? The driver or the pedestrian? For both, for both.
 So explain that. How would the water-filled barriers be safer for the pedestrian? Safer for the driver. Yeah. I don't know exactly how to respond to that. I mean, they're a heavy obstacle, but a car could hit a concrete barrier, and it can push it into the place where people are walking or biking and driving.
 but if they surely hit the water they just go straight into the person walking or biking i i don't know how to respond to that but we will certainly keep that in consideration and you know our goal is certainly to make sure that pedestrians and vehicles are one other thing not to unduly complicate this is that i'm guessing the fire bureau is going to have a voice in this conversation too because if you every time you create a barrier you also have to balance that
 Are you making it harder for an emergency vehicle to get to a scene? And the picture there with the fence and the multiple barriers, you're getting to a point where if something's immovable, it may be impossible to get an emergency vehicle there. So you have to balance a number of things. I particularly like the mayor's idea, though, of the sturdier barrier. They're still movable, but they're sturdier protecting the bike and the walk people rather than the construction site.
 Yeah, they're not going to spend any more money to put them in slightly different places. Hi, I'm Christine Leon with PBOT. So just one of the things about the concrete versus the water-filled barriers is the issue of the end treatment. So the conflict or the danger with the concrete barriers is if a head-on collision happens with a vehicle, then that driver is dead, that car has crashed. The water-filled are...
 something that the crash impact attenuate attenuators will be more forgiving so that that driver and that car is not totaled so that's the difference they both rely on a friction of the surface and they're interlocked but with concrete barriers you need to do this extra length of a protection area put some more barrels in front of it and just takes up more space so
 But I think the idea of putting the barriers between the moving vehicles and the pedestrians certainly is a wise thing. Thank you. Appreciate you letting us dive into the details, but they do matter. Yeah. Thank you.
 I do think it might be – I mean, I think Commissioner Fritz is raising the point. I mean, are we protecting the driver at the expense of the pedestrians? I'd be curious if – are there instances where drivers drive through the Jersey barriers and hit a pedestrian, or do we generally see – find that the Jersey barriers are protective of the pedestrians? Yeah.
 There's a whole science to the temporary traffic control. So, you know, the other thing is we have slower speeds that can also help make construction zones safer, more enforcement, make sure things are visible. I'm sure we have some accident information, Margie, in our active transportation can help.
 share with us later on what's the rate of accidents crashes sorry I keep saying are through construction zones versus non construction zones but you know I would also like to see the data on protection of the pedestrian and cyclist on the Jersey barriers versus the concrete okay going please so
 contractors have been responding by taking the responsibility and providing
 putting in place the requirements that we have already been working with them on. So we started working with them about a year and a half ago before this resolution has come into place, and they have done a really good job of responding and changing the way that they're looking at their work sites, making their plans up front,
 different in the way that they approach a work site, and that sometimes this is going to cost them more, and it's going to maybe take them longer to be able to complete their job. But we found a lot of contractors really willing to try to make sure that they're providing a safe accommodation for bikes and pedestrians.
 This particular location is just demonstrating a worker at a job site making sure that the bike lane is clear of debris. So what the solution is, is to provide walkways adjacent to job sites wherever practicable is.
 So not every job site and not every sidewalk is going to be accommodated. There is a lot of unsafe situations when the construction is happening that...
 we still will need to have some sidewalks closed and that we won't be able to accommodate a pedestrian walkway just because of safety. But we are working with contractors to develop new ways to approach a worksite and working with our temporary traffic control engineers. They review the plans that are submitted by the contractors when they're asking for use of the right-of-way plans.
 There are some cases where we ask a contractor to perform a traffic management study to demonstrate to us why there is not any other way than to close a sidewalk and detour. And the other part of this is that for job sites, we want to make sure that we are providing walkways that have ramps for people with disabilities. Okay.
 This is consistent with the PBOT Vision Zero goals, and we're working together to ensure that people can safely and conveniently walk and bike and use mobility devices through work zones wherever possible. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, questions? Thanks. Further questions? Was there any mention about motion-sensitive audible signs as part of this plan? No.
 So we have talked about that, and it's something that we're investigating. The requirement is that whatever the walkway was before, whatever the condition or the level of quality of the walkway was, that we try to replicate that.
 And many of these situations didn't have any kind of audible control to start with. I mean, we certainly are looking at it, but...
 i don't know exactly what will happen with that i think it is definitely something to pursue and maybe we'll hear more in public testimony about that okay thank you good good questions thank you all very much okay you have a science on this item carla we actually have some invited testimony first okay sorry about that go ahead please um noel and beth and i think we've got one other person come up come on up please good morning good morning
 Hi, I'm Beth Raisman and I've been an early childhood and special education teacher for the past 11 years. Currently I teach Head Start for 3 and 4 year olds in Southeast Portland. Professionally I focus my learning on human behavior, particularly the role of executive function in young children. Executive function is a series of skills the brain must accomplish in order to do things like pay attention, switch focus from one thing to another, remember the rules, and use physical and emotional self-control.
 we can all work on our executive function skills but young children's developing brains and limited experiences and new situations make their limited executive function skills very noticeable here's a story to explain why i'm talking about executive function with you now today it's time for me to take my preschool class for a walk my educational assistant and i walk with our 14 children across the street to visit a community garden
 Even though we cross a lower traffic street, this is by far the most stressful part of our journey. It's not possible to hold each child's hand, so we adults must rely on our children's executive function skills to cross together. The children must walk forward, ignore distractions around them, keep holding hands, keep their emotions together, even if the kid behind them is stepping on their shoes,
 and pay attention to the adult's directions all at the same time. This is a tremendous challenge for a young child. It's stressful for me, too. It taxes my own executive function skills, as I am the eyes, ears, and brain for myself and everyone I'm with.
 My example represents the many daycare, preschool, and field trip groups that walk through our city each day, but it's just as relevant for parents who are walking with their kids. Because of their not-yet-developed executive function skills, kids are easily distracted, they walk without looking where they're going, and they're notorious for not listening carefully the first time. Plus, their physiology makes them slower walkers, and they have a smaller field of vision than adults.
 When we take all these factors into account, it's clear that the safest route is the one that follows the sidewalk, not the one that adds more street crossings. In my story about my class, we're crossing a quieter street. I'm sure you can imagine how this would be magnified if our street had more traffic and a construction zone detour. The barricaded pedestrian corridors I've seen in front of some recent large construction projects, and we saw pictures of them today, are good examples of ways the city can protect school groups and families.
 By making sidewalk closures and construction zones a last resort, the City of Portland shows caring for the safety of some of its most vulnerable residents.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Noelle Mickelberry. I'm the Executive Director of Oregon Walks. We are the state's pedestrian advocacy organization, and I'm here today to support passing the Safe Accommodations for Bicycle and Pedestrians in Work Zones administrative rule. We've been working on this issue for a while, and I don't know how to make – oh, thank you –
 I have some photos. We've been working on this issue for a couple years, and it's been brought to our attention repeatedly as a safety concern from our members. We included a passage of a resolution such as this in our 2015 Vision Zero report that we released with the Bicycle Transportation Alliance in early 2015.
 and we're responding to what we hear from members and people who walk and people who bike that this is a major concern for safety. And we decided that we also wanted to understand how broad this issue was. And so we, in the last couple months, started tracking and mapping closures in the Portland area through a social media campaign that gave us a clearer idea of how prevalent this issue is.
 In just two months, we've collected over 165 unique submissions from members of the public around the barriers that they come across when they're walking and biking in the city around work zones. We saw many examples of places where parking was maintained while the sidewalk and or bike lane were closed.
 We saw sidewalks and bike lanes being used as storage or for signage, usually while parking was still being maintained instead of the walkway or the bikeway.
 We saw examples of two sides of the street blocked at once or all four corners blocked at once. This is an example where ADA facilities are being put in, but while they're being put in, every single corner is entirely blocked off. So if you're using a mobility device, you'd have to go all the way to the other end of the block to get across. And oftentimes the detours will say cross here, and on the other side of the street it'll say cross to the other side of the street.
 We also saw a lot of examples of people being forced to cross in the middle of the block where a detour sign would just appear or there'd be no signage at all. These are all photos submitted from around the region from our members and supporters on social media. This is especially unsafe on places where there's a high density of people walking and on our high-crash corridors. This example is on Northeast Gleason, which is one of the top ten most dangerous streets for pedestrians in the city.
 This is on the left there, Southwest Barber, where there's a 45-mile-per-hour speed limit, and on MLK Boulevard as well, where it drops people into the construction zone or having to walk around into 35-mile-per-hour traffic. One more example of Southeast Sandy and Stark, two very dangerous streets. This is also on a downhill, so if someone in a mobility device reached this, they'd have to go uphill to get back to the safest crossing. Okay.
 We've also started seeing examples of safe accommodations in the last month. I feel like we got more submissions in the last few weeks of positive submissions
 posts, and I really thank the Bureau of Transportation for taking this very seriously, and to the contractors who are implementing it. My favorite one is on the far right. It's very accessible. It's covered. It's wide. It's like the most safe place that I had seen, so thanks to Hoffman Construction for that one.
 That all got a little messed up. But basically, we encourage you to adopt this policy as a simple way to be proactive about Vision Zero and ensure that our streets are safe as growth continues. A couple of final thoughts is we need to ensure that there's funding for inspection, as was mentioned before. We need to make sure that people are compliant with this new policy. So we encourage making sure that we're able to do that.
 And prioritize accessibility, lighting, ramp, signage. I appreciate the comments that have already been made from previous testimony and from council members around this. This needs to be the highest priority for our most vulnerable users. And also holding all city bureaus to the same standard. This applies to how the Bureau of Transportation gives out permits to private contractors. And there's a line in there about that all city bureaus should follow this standard.
 I think the city should be setting an example. It should be all city bureaus shall be following this, and I encourage you all as the leaders of these bureaus to prioritize that whenever there's work going on using the public right-of-way. So thank you so much to the Bureau of Transportation, Commissioner Novick and his team, and everyone who shared photos throughout our campaign prioritizing this issue. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Questions?
 Appreciate you being here. Yeah. Do you have some other invited testimony, Commissioner? I didn't have a name, but we thought somebody from Independent Living Resources was going to be here. I don't know if somebody was able to make it or not. Apparently not. All right. Should we turn the sign-up sheet in, please, Carla? We have eight people signed up. Okay. The first three, please, come on up, are Gwen Luna, Charles Johnson, and Mary Ng. Okay. Come on up, please. Good morning. I think you're first. Oh, my God.
 I just thought this was a good idea when we... You came in the record, but I'm sorry. Just give us your name first. Oh, my name is Gwen Luda, and I live at 3550 Southwest Bond Avenue, where the tram is. That's the general area. And we were a beehive of activity in our building yesterday. I live at Mirabella.
 And there had been a stop sign put out front so that we could cross safely. It was put on Bond going north. And we would cross at Currie to get to the made up, you know, the construction, Hoffman construction has put...
 open two sides here. And this really, I suppose, is for PBOT. This is why I came here, because I saw it in the paper that you were having a hearing. So I just wanted to let PBOT know and you to know that we really would like to have a stop sign put back up there. Somebody put it up, took it down, and now our residents and all, we have charter schools, we have Montessori schools, and we have over 300 schools.
 senior citizens trying to get back and forth across the street. And we just wanted to bring it to your attention that Hoffman Construction and OHSU or whoever needs to put the sign back up. Why was it put up and taken down? And we would like to have it back up to have safe crossing. And I guess basically that's our concern.
 Ms. Leda, I just wanted to say thank you. We actually are looking at that because others at Mirabella have raised this issue. And normally, whether we put a stop sign up depends on certain traffic count data. So we're taking another look at the traffic count. But also, there's some special factors of that location that I think might argue for putting the sign up, even if it doesn't fit quite within our normal traffic count guidelines. So we are looking at that this week. So thank you very much. Well, thank you very much. I just thought it was a good opportunity. Thank you.
 You say you live in the Mirabella? Yes. So just by chance, I was at a reception yesterday, and Congressman Blumenauer mentioned he spoke at the Mirabella yesterday. I was there. He said he was greeted at the door by former Secretary of State Norma Paulus. She is a resident. And he said that the host committee, he thought, resembled the City Club Executive Committee of about 1975 or 1980. He said it was an honor to be with so many city leaders. Right.
 Right. We're proud to have Norma. That's great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Johnson, I think you're next. Ms. Tseng, would you like to go first? I'm glad that this issue, for the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and it's quite fortuitous that we opened up with public comment. I noticed that the speaker for item number 736, Ms. Camilla Rose Waters, is still here and specifically talked about, and this presentation also talked about Belmont
 And I wish they'd gone a little bit further down the street because this has actually been implemented only a few blocks away from the Aging and Disability Services Office, the Jersey Barriers. It's the first time in Portland I've ever seen sane, humane consideration given to pedestrians, except for one thing I just remembered,
 across from the peace shelter where there's no active heavy-duty construction. We have New York-style sidewalks with overhead protection. And I think it's going to be some difficult work for Mr. Novick and the Bureau of Transportation on their current budget as things boom to really be assertive with construction contractors.
 about what their real needs are. I think they've in the past been spoiled with like, oh, oh,
 You want to limit your construction budget now, and it's all good for you to inconvenience every other Portlander because someday we'll collect increased property taxes on your building. I think that the fee structure, obviously I'm no high-salaried expert, but I think that the fee structure and costs that aren't really addressed that much in the five-page PDF that comes with this item, and I
 They won't be unless more citizens engage with you and assertively agitate that these issues are things that people have had a hard time communicating about and that really we hope for improvement to see some of the things that have happened. Ms. Raisman mentioned when you were at the...
 at the corner of Salmon and 10th. I don't know how it happened with the planning of the upgrade for the sidewalk rampage, but it was kind of disastrous. Because what happens, it's not so bad for me. I meant to talk about privilege when I walked up here. It's very easy for me to backtrack a half block or a whole block. It's gross that somebody in a wheelchair or with a vision impairment would...
 go proceed a whole block, get to a place where there's no audible clues, as Ms. Fritz pointed out. We can simply improve the city code so that contractors have to put audible announcers at intersections. We give them the pass of saying they don't have to probably because they're supposed to have it effectively physically blocked, so a blind person would encounter an obstruction, but that never happens. You go a half block, you get to a place where people are...
 able-bodied people cross the street and other people will take risks. And so I hope we can get some progress on this. Thanks for letting me go over 20 seconds. I appreciate it. There's some questions there that I'm going to want staff to respond to, so I appreciate you raising those. So thank you. Okay, Ms. Ng, go ahead, please. Hello. Steve Novick, Commissioner, Amanda Fritz, Commissioner, Charlie Hales, Mayor, Dan Saltzman, Commissioner, and Nick Fish, Commissioner, President of the Council. I want to thank you so much for bringing forward Measure 737-10.
 regarding accommodation of pedestrians and bicyclists in and around work zones. As you do recall, the Portland police brutality victim who suffered left eye blindness and whose left eye was
 ground across the ground by Officer Clunt and Officer Sioeta, was a dear, dear close friend of mine whom I helped on many occasions over the years. And one of the problems we had with that left eye blindness is that it occurred on a person who was 6 foot 3 inches of stature.
 and that tree overhang can often be an issue, as well as awnings which might jut down and protrude into the seeing eye, which the seeing eye was nearly lost in the police brutality, as you do recall, when it was nearly gouged into the chair, which this unfortunate traumatic brain injury victim who had been suffered but was rescued by the good work of the Coast Guard did.
 was very grateful to find out about the Americans with Disabilities Act, and I'm very thrilled that we're working on International Disabilities Act and hope that we can continue to be a model internationally. Unfortunately, not much money or vision gets across the Rocky Mountains, and so we're not quite where we need to be. We know that. We know that these disabled people are suffering, blind people are suffering,
 We know that people in wheelchairs are suffering, indeed sometimes even getting hit. And so with that in mind, I request that you take this Portland Bureau of Transportation to adopt administrative rules for the safe accommodation of pedestrians and bicyclists in and around work zones very, very, very, very, very, very seriously. Because this is truly a matter of life and death.
 And while you cannot curtail the police brutality against disabled persons, clearly you could curtail the egregious abuse of the Americans with Disabilities Act in this Cascadia region, which is hanging on by a thread to the United States of America, or the so-called United States of America, and whether your political opinion is for secession, or...
 or for union, I do request that you put the greater interest of those disabled persons at heart and know how tremendously brave they are every time they walk out of the house
 so confident to go about their business and have an enjoyable time, possibly even at your council, possibly at a library, doing something that they love and celebrate all the resources, such as independent living resources, an excellent nonprofit who did indeed assist my friend with issues surrounding brain injury and visual impairment. And thank you very much. It's lovely to see you all again. Mary Ang, that is. Yeah, thank you very much. Okay. Let's take the next folks, please.
 Next three are David Davis, Reza Farhudi, and Rob Sadowski. Okay, come on up. Good morning. So my name is David Keith Davis with Multnomah County Cop Watch. I wanted to say that
 You know, you guys emphasize safety on the roadways and bike stuff, but it doesn't seem like you really care too much about child sex trafficking. We need to stay on this subject, Mr. Davis. I'm bringing it back. I'm allowed to talk about.
 various things. Yes, I am. Yes, I'm allowed to bring up topics and then talk about PBOT and all this other stuff. Yes. And you can't cut me off. So let's start my testimony over again at three minutes. Sure. And stay on topic, please. Okay. So here we go again. So you guys emphasize that
 All this stuff about bike safety and traffic safety, but do you really care about safety about child sex trafficking? Mr. Davis, I'm going to rule you out of order. Do you care about... We're recessed. We're recessed. Mr. Davis. Mr. Davis. Mr. Davis, the county chamber, please. Yes. Yes.
 Council return to order. Very sorry that you all had to wait through that. So let's proceed, please. Welcome. I forgot what I was going to talk about. I bet. Long delay. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, City Council, members of City Council. My name is Reza Farhudi. I'm a member of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association as well as the city's Bicycle Advisory Committee, both of whom wrote letters in support of this resolution. Thank you.
 Let me just start off by saying this resolution is really a welcome development. As a longtime advocate of safe access around work zones, this is so very much important for people who walk, people who bike, especially those with disabilities. And it's important for Portland. It's important if we want to meet our Vision Zero and climate action goals.
 Up until this point, vulnerable road users have really been treated like second-class citizens. You have pedestrians who are forced to walk in the roadway, pedestrians forced to walk across the street, or even detour around the entire block altogether because of a blocked sidewalk.
 You have bicyclists who have been forced to merge into traffic, and sometimes in high stress situations with cars moving really fast. So this is really great, but there's a few areas that I think can be improved. I'll just start off really generally. There's a lot of language in here that says should. That really makes it seem more of a suggestion as opposed to a requirement, and we would like to see that be more a shall, more of a requirement.
 And then more specifically about the bike detours, we'd like to see some mention about removing parking when accommodating a relocated bike lane. Let's say if a construction zone has to take away an existing bike lane, perhaps removing parking from the other side of the street, like that southeast Belmont and 20th example. They remove parking from both sides of the street. So having parking removed on the other side of the street, shifting traffic leftward, and then allowing cyclists to continue to have their dedicated bike lane would really, really help.
 And it should be considered before considering merging bicyclists with traffic. And then the final point, a bit worried about language that states that pedestrian routes will be given priority over vehicular traffic, quote, except when resulting in excessive congestion in violation of mobility standards. This gives me pause because there is concern that it might give the city broad leeway to not provide a safe,
 and comfortable access routes, especially in areas that receive heavy congestion in the central city, areas around freeway, on-ramps. We have an intersection in our neighborhood, 14th and Gleason, that will soon have two construction sites on both sides of the street that are going to be worked on, and traffic backs up there every day in the p.m. peak. And given the language and the resolution, it seems like,
 keeping a sidewalk or a pedestrian path open would only be an option, it would not be a requirement, and I think that should be strengthened. So, all in all, while we want to make this stronger, this resolution really is a great framework to start upon, and we urge you to move it forward. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Rob Sadowski, representing the Bicycle Transportation Alliance.
 to thank you all for, I think, a cultural shift of how we're starting to look at safety. And this policy is a good example of how we're really looking at the prioritization of our vulnerable users of the road as a first choice and making sure that they are safe and protected.
 This is a new policy for Portland, but it's not a new policy for North America. Montreal has been doing great work. Ever since I can remember, New York City has had pedestrian safety policies around construction zones, so it might seem new for us, but it's not new. So thank you for joining the, in some cases, the 20th century in this type of policy. But I also want to share and give you a little story of how this started.
 In 2012, the BTA said, we really need a policy like this. Why is this going on? And we got an intern, a kid named Ruben Montes from Portland State University, who did the work on researching all these different cities and policies, made a recommendation to the city. It's taken three years to get this policy, but I just want to share that it sometimes takes just a –
 an act of one individual to help out with a little bit of energy and a little passion and the change that can happen. So I want to thank Ruben and thank all the folks that helped, including Oregon Walks and Carl Larson, one of our former employees, who helped make this happen. And thank you for putting this policy into action. Thank you. Thank you both. Okay, others that are signed up on this side? That's all who signed up. Okay. I've got some questions for staff. Yeah, I had a question. Yeah. Would you guys like to start? Steve?
 I guess my question was, and I know somebody testified to this point, but we talk about this only being other city bureaus should follow this policy. I guess why not make that a shall? I mean, I think the council, I know there's the silo mentality about one bureau shall not tell another bureau what to do, but we're the city council. We have the ability to tell all bureaus what to do. So I guess if there's no harm in that, we should make it mandatory.
 So, Faith and Christine, were we just being tactful in dealing with other bureaus, or was there another reason? Being too polite. Well, some of the, in working with PBOT and maintenance and people that are working in the street and doing work on city infrastructure, that sometimes the way that an intersection has to be closed to, like, repave or something like that, that sometimes,
 that it's a different kind of a challenge to the way that the right-of-way is affected is different than when it is a construction project. Can I make a suggestion? Yes. I think that can be easily fixed. Why don't we just put the qualifier to the extent practicable city agencies shall comply with this. And that gives us a little latitude but puts us in the same league with everyone else. Okay. Yeah.
 Yeah, I want to echo that. I think what you're hearing, Commissioner Novick, is obviously strong interest on the rest of the council. I mean, it seems to me that if we're consistent in saying if it's our money and our project, including PDC projects and housing bureau projects, there's a lot of amplification that could come quickly if all city-related projects were following this approach. You've got to enforce it with private shareholders
 but we shouldn't have to break a sweat to enforce it on ourselves so i think what you're hearing from the council pretty strong indication that that regardless of the actual language in the resolution you're going to go adopt rules the rules should say as commissioner fish stated that that it's a shall if you're a city agency or you're involved in city funding a city funded project
 I had one other question, Mayor, if I could. So I would at some point like to know more about the options for flaggers. I think having a person on the site actually makes a big difference, and if they're a trained flagger, and so there's a cost factor. Obviously, there's a number of things to consider. I'm not going to offer a friendly memo because I think it's in the record, but I would like to know more about that, but in the absence of someone who is there with a flag, I think
 I want to make sure that a citizen can register a complaint if there's some problem that needs to be addressed. So do we currently require that a phone number be posted where you can register a complaint if there's a violation of this? We have been working with contractors to develop them posting information about their job site and their contact information.
 At a job site. Commissioner Novick, is there a phone number at the city where someone can call and leave a message if they've identified something so it doesn't create at the front an additional burden?
 on you that we could require that number be posted? It's like Christine's going to tell us that number. So we have two options. We have 823-SAFE that we're trying to expand to cover construction-related questions. And we also have in our division a complaint number. And Faith also has her direct line to address complaints. So that's one of the things that we're sorting out. But for right now, I would recommend people call 823-SAFE, and then we can get that complaint
 targeted to the right person to get back to them. So there's usually a sign at a construction site that says, if you see something unsafe, call OSHA or whatever. I would urge us to have a uniform sign requirement that allows someone to make a complaint. It's probably going to go to a recording somewhere, but at least it puts them in the queue. Yeah, good. Would there be any problem with acquiring that?
 I don't think that there's going to be issues. Right now we have different notification signs and outreach if it's a capital project versus a permit project. And that's something that we're going to work on over the next year to get alignment so that the public knows. They don't know if it's a permit or if it's a city investment project. So signage outreach, I think that will do a lot.
 to get people to understand who's doing the work, who's responsible, and where you go to for complaints. But, yeah, I think if we have one consistent number that can then intake the information, then we can divvy it up internally, then get back to the customer, then I think that will help a lot. It's a great suggestion. Okay. Other questions or guidance before we take action? Okay, then let's vote on the resolution then, please.
 commissioner novick thank you for all of your persistence around the larger vision of vision zero and making uh our city safer for pedestrians for bicyclists and for people in automobiles and thank you for an excellent presentation and all the testimony i
 Thank you, Commissioner Novick and the Bureau of Transportation. I think this policy is going to be – I've already seen it in work, and it's a vast improvement providing more safety for pedestrians and bicyclists when construction is occurring. So thank you. Aye. Novick?
 I really appreciate all the work that Faith and Christine and Leah and the whole team put into this and all the support we've had from the community, Rob and Noel and all of their members. And I really appreciate the rest of the council's continued commitment to pedestrian safety. It means a lot. Thank you very much. Aye. This is another step in the right direction. Aye.
 One more reinforcement that on Portland streets, pedestrians and bicycles are the first class passengers. Thank you for good work. Aye. Thank you all. Okay, let's move on to item 738, please, which is findings.
 Appeal of Keegan Flanderka Works Partnership Architecture against the Design Commission's interpretation and enforcement of Section C-2, promote quality and permanence in development, specifically in regard to the proposed exterior cladding for Jupiter Hotel Expansion, located at 910 East Burnside, LU15276553DZM.
 Okay. Council made a tentative decision in this case. Unless there's any questions or comments, we just simply need a motion to adopt the findings. So moved. Second. And I just want to state for the record that the findings that we have on our council agenda refer to Malarkey asphalt siding, but the decision, which is what the Bureau of Development Services will go by, correctly said that my motion was for Malarkey legacy asphalt siding, which is the more expensive and more durable. And that was one of the reasons that we chose that decision.
 Good catch. Well done, BDS, for getting that right. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Please. I'm pleased to support the findings. I just want to make a brief comment, Mayor. We appoint people to serve on citizen bodies, including commissions, and we ask them to do really hard work. And the Design Commission, the Planning Bureau, we have lots of bureaus involved,
 led by citizens, whose job it is to reconcile sometimes conflicting code and make their best judgment.
 The members of our commissions are not infallible, but they generally get it right, and they are hardworking and deserve our praise. Our process, however, has an opt-out that allows for an appeal to counsel where the counsel makes the final say. And I thought the hearing we had on this matter over two different counsel sessions was
 was very illuminating. And I think the applicant made a very compelling case as to why we should provide a little flexibility in this instance to allow them to innovate with a nontraditional material. And here's my takeaway. We are a city that prides itself on innovation and wants to be noted as a place where design and art and culture flourishes.
 So in an instance like this where a successful owner of a hotel is ready to make a huge investment in expanding their footprint, and they not only want to try something different and innovative, but they want to partner with a local business that makes a product that can be used in a new and different way, I think it's appropriate to give them the latitude to do that. And for those who worry that we're setting a precedent and opening a Pandora's box –
 Every time we allow someone to innovate, we set a potential precedent. But ultimately, we have to see whether this works. And if this doesn't work, then I assume that other developers and architects won't be coming forward with this suggestion of using
 of using what has traditionally been a roofing surface on the exterior walls of a building. But I think it's important that we send a clear signal that we are open to innovation and that we want to give people the chance to experiment. And I think on this instance, we got it right, and I'm pleased to support the findings. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Briggs? I, too, want to thank both staff and the Design Commission for your excellent work on this project. And land use reviews, by definition, are –
 where reasonable people can disagree. And I think that that's what the council did. And for me, one of the swing points was that the malarkey siting is made here in Oregon and that that's supporting a local small business. So I'm very pleased and thank you to the staff and to the whole council for this result. Aye. Niels? Good work. Aye. Okay.
 Let's briefly deal with the items on consent that were pulled to the regular calendar. Item 742. Pay claim of CenturyLink in the sum of $12,476 involving the Water Bureau. Anyone want to speak on this item? Mayor, we'll give you a 30-second presentation. Okay. I'll just tee it up. When we do work with the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services, sometimes in the course of our work,
 We inadvertently damage another utility's line, and for that we compensate them. And the same is true in the reverse. And this is a routine claim where inadvertently through some excavation work, an underground telephone line was disrupted, and this is a settlement of a claim with CenturyLink, and otherwise is a routine matter. Mike, did I miss anything? No, sir. You did great. Thank you.
 we're available for questions and why was it pulled questions i think it was pulled by somebody who was here earlier mr walsh all right anyone else want to speak thank you very much it's an emergency ordinance let's take a roll call vote please hi saltzman hi novick hi right hi hail hi okay uh and then the other item that was pulled to regular is 745.
 Accept a grant in the amount of $3,313,402 from the Oregon Department of Transportation for Foster Road Streetscapes Project, Southeast 50th through 89th Avenue. Commissioner Novick. Thank you.
 Colleagues, this request to Council action to accept a federal grant for design and construction of the Foster Transportation and Streetscape Project followed three previous actions, most important of which in June of 2014, Council passed Resolution 76729, which adopted the design recommendations of the updated Foster Streetscape Plan. The plan was the culmination of a 16-month long public involvement process, which actually was preceded by activism on this issue from people in this neighborhood for many years before that.
 to create a transportation plan that not only supports the commercial revitalization of southeast Foster, but also takes a significant step towards addressing issues associated with the street's overall safety. Foster Road is one of Portland's high-crash corridors, with over 1,200 crashes and 11 fatalities over the past 10 years. The main element of the approved design, which changes Foster Road from a four-lane to a three-lane roadway, is proven both here in Portland as well as nationally to be among the most effective tools we have available to improve safety in situations similar to Foster Road.
 The project will also provide significant upgrades to pedestrian crossing safety and access to transit service, widening of sidewalks east of 82nd Avenue, new bicycle lanes, new street trees, and new pedestrian-scale lighting. And here to elucidate and answer any further questions is Rich Newlands. If you have any questions, that pretty much covered the extent of this cancellation we're requesting. Okay. Questions for Rich?
 Thank you very much. Does anyone want to speak on this item? No, it's pulled from consent. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Yes, we do. Come on up, please. Don't let me get ahead of you. Welcome. Hi, good morning, everybody. It's great to be back here. I just wanted to say – Just give us your name for the record. Oh, I'm sorry. Christian Smith. I've been involved in the Foster Streetscape Plan on behalf of the Foster Pallet Neighborhood Association for about 11 years now.
 It's nice to see it almost going through to the end. So there's been some concerns. I think there were some last-minute, 11th-hour protestations from a handful of business owners who, as best as I can tell, only recently decided to start opening their mail from the city,
 And I wanted to come down here and just take a second to reassure all of you that there remains overwhelming support on behalf of the neighbors through the neighborhood associations, the business association, our partners in Rose CDC and Hacienda on behalf of this project going forward as soon as possible. And if there's questions.
 Any concerns that there wasn't enough of a thorough process? Commissioner Novick mentioned this has been going on for a very long time. Just to provide an anecdote, I have a friend who lives on the Mount Scott-Arleta side of Foster Road who recently found her minutes from the steering committee dated to 1998.
 for Foster Road improvements. So we're pushing two decades here of citizen involvement and process. And having personally participated in a lot of other projects from 82nd Avenue and the Lentz URA, I worked at PBOT for a little while and coordinated the outreach program for the North Macadam URA. And I have never seen a more thorough, extensive outreach and public participation process for any project
 Aside from literally taking a pad and easel and going door to door to every single business owner and stakeholder's house and giving them a private presentation, I don't know what else we could have done. And so we definitely made the right decision, and thank you all very much for your support. And I wonder if I have a second, I just want to give a special thanks to Commissioner Novick. When you took over the Transportation Bureau,
 he made a point to come out you met with us we walked up and down foster road learn about the history of the road the history of the project uh shared our concerns and you've been a really good champion for us ever since then and then last month you came out and did it again to reassure
 all of us that the project was still going forward. And you ended up taking a lot of abuse from some of the angry villagers and some of those businesses. And some of it was really personal, and I feel really awful about that. And I'm really sorry that that happened. And I want to personally just thank you from all of us for taking the time to come out there and help us.
 Well, I thought it was important for me to go out and hear from the folks who were upset about the changes we're making on Foster. But it was very cool that we were able to have a discussion where it wasn't just me going out to hear the concerns of the opponents. We also had supporters like yourself going over and meeting with supporters.
 opponents of what we're doing so everybody could see that this was a you know this is an issue in which people felt passionately on both sides and you were able to remind the folks who opposed we're doing that there had been a lengthy public process and there's a lot of community support so it's obviously perfectly okay for people to protest things they don't like that the government's doing but it was really good to see that kind of back and forth between neighbors thanks thanks very much appreciate that thank you all welcome
 I'm Barbara Carpenter, and I own a building on Foster. I also own the business that is in that building on 54th, 12th.
 on Southeast Foster. My office window looks directly out on Foster. And while we're fairly new to the area, we bought the building about three and a half years ago, I am so supportive of this new plan. My feeling is that you will never make Foster into a true neighborhood that's safe for pedestrians and bicyclists.
 And those of us who drive, every time I come out of my parking lot, it's a little challenging because of the high speed, and it's basically just an exit and entrance road. So once again, I'm very much in support of it. I've been to a few of the meetings. The fact that I truly believe it will not become a neighborhood until the roads are changed. Thank you very much. Good.
 Good morning.
 It's a great plan that had great involvement both for the neighbors and the businesses. And we've continued to actively reach out. And we've even been able to find a couple solutions for specific problems that some of these protesters had. And so I really appreciate PBOT and Rich working with us to, you know, something as simple as moving a crosswalk a half block so heavy trucks could get in and out of a business.
 It's really been a fantastic process, and I really appreciate your continued support of the Foster Corridor and our growing business district.
 We've had now several businesses. One gentleman in particular couldn't be here, but Eliseo owns Nayar Taqueria, and he's in the process of opening a second business on Foster because of the streetscape. So it's bringing private investment. It's going to make it safer. It's going to make it a true neighborhood, and we really appreciate your continued commitment to it. Thank you. Thank you. Back at you all. Appreciate your advocacy. Thanks. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Come on up.
 Good morning. Good morning. Go ahead. Whoever would like to be first. I'll go first. My name is Amanda Doymus. I own Backstory Books on Foster and I actually have a business on Foster because of the streetscape. It was one of the reasons I chose Foster.
 Because I have children's books, I see a lot of families with young children, and a lot of them have expressed concern about what it's like to cross the street, whether it's their kids who are going to be going to school and crossing the street or just every day. And so I'm very excited about the Froster Streetscape. I'm excited about the traffic slowing down. It is very, very fast. And towards the end of May, I saw the aftermath of two accidents happen.
 Within my block, that brought cars onto the sidewalks. So I definitely think we need to make it safer with the bike lanes and the crosswalks and just trying to get traffic to slow down. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Hi there. I'm Seth Gallant. I'm a member of the Foster Powell Neighborhood Association Board.
 And I just wanted to add my voice of support for this Foster Streetscape project. I've been very excited about it since I moved to the neighborhood about six years ago. And I just think it's such a critical thing to really knit the neighborhood back together and create a vibrant main street atmosphere and a pedestrian-friendly streetscape that's good for the businesses and good for the people.
 main street environment, kind of the center of our neighborhood. And I just want to remind the council that there's been near-unanimous support for this project. I've been to a lot of neighborhood association meetings and have been really pretty impressed that
 nearly everyone has been very supportive of this project. That's great. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I just want to thank the council for- Just give us your name for the record. Sure. Cory Solowowitz, and I'm also a board member of the Foster Powell Neighborhood Association. Also to echo Amanda here from Backstory Books,
 We have a family as well, and we go to Backstory Books and talking with Kelsey outside, who's Piper Cafe, and saying, hey, you know, nice to meet you. I wish I could come to your business more often, but you're on the south side of the road, and it's really stressful to travel, to have to cross Foster Powell or cross Foster to come patronize your business. So really excited for the businesses to,
 patronize those businesses that are on the south side of the road, as well as not have to be stressful while crossing Foster. And thank you. I appreciate your support. Thank you. Thank you all. Anyone else? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Hi. Salt Smith. I appreciate you coming today and expressing your support, and I do appreciate the federal government giving us over $3 million to do some of the necessary planning work. Hi. Hi.
 Hildik? So we pulled this from consent partly because we are talking about a significant amount of money, but also because there has been some controversy about this project. We have heard overwhelming support from folks in the neighborhood, but there are some people who are very concerned.
 And I thought it was an opportunity to tell anybody who is watching and who's seen something about this controversy that this is a project that people have thought a lot about. It has a lot of strong supporters. And although it's true there are tradeoffs, some trips will be increased by two to three minutes.
 And that might sound like a small amount, but I know that if you're stuck in traffic, two to three minutes can seem like an eternity. What I've said to people who've raised that concern is that there's Arlita Elementary School and other schools along this route, and this will make it safer for kids to walk and bike to school.
 What I've asked people is, if somebody asked you, would you be willing to volunteer two or three minutes a day or even five minutes a day in order to make it safer for kids to walk and bike school, would you step up to that volunteer opportunity and asking people to look at it in that way? Thank you so much for coming. Bye.
 That's a really great way to look at it, Commissioner. And congratulations to you and your team for getting this grant from the state. $3 million is indeed a very nice chunk of change. Thank you to the six folks who came down to testify. It's really important, and I appreciate it when people come down to support something rather than to oppose something. So thank you very much. Aye. Aye.
 Council knows one of my favorite quotes about planning is Lewis Mumford who said Americans will soon have every means for moving about the city and no reason whatsoever to go there and this is the opposite of that you're creating a place by making a good transportation decision I think the combination of what we're doing here and the way we're doing it is one of the reasons why I'm proud to be a Portlander Thank You Commissioner Novick and P bot and all of you who've worked so hard for this it's just going to be great to go walk down Foster I
 thank you all much great work okay let's move on please to the regular agenda right yes item 750 report on year one implementation of citywide tree project mr. Fritz Thank You mayor and council will remember that on March 30th development services and parks urban forestry staff presented to council a report on the first year of implementation of title 11 the tree code
 There have been many successes in the first year of implementation that PIRCS and BDS, which is the Bureau of Development Services, shared with us in that report, and they're going to share some more today as well as the presentation from March. I personally received many complaints from Portlanders about the tree code or the things that people think should be in the tree code that are not. And people have an...
 spectrum of opinions about it. Some people think that the tree code regulations are too strict. Others say it's too lenient. Some people think that it regulates too many trees. Others say that it does not regulate enough.
 Regardless of where people are on the spectrum, there is consensus that there are portions of the code that should be examined. I asked my staff in my office and in parks to work with other council offices and bureaus to identify the most pressing issues in Title XI that need to be addressed through an amendment package. And you remember that was the task that you sent me away with in March. We have diligently tried to do that.
 And also I appreciate that the Urban Forestry Commission has provided input about their priority amendment list. My hope was that we would be able to tackle a few significant issues this year, especially if there are easy fixes to the most significant issue. Today's council simply asked the council to accept the report from the first year of implementation on the tree code. I'm going to remind my colleagues and the public of that.
 of the several areas of the code that are ripe for amendments and i i believe it's imperative that we act on those amendments soon however we've had insurmountable challenges in reaching consensus on what we should be doing so to tell you more about that i'm going to introduce jen cairo from portland parks and recreation and stephanie beckman they will revisit key information about the challenges they found in the first year of implementation of the tree code
 and provide new information about the types of amendments that they believe and I believe are necessary. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. So, as you all know, Title XI trees became effective on January 1, 2015.
 BDS and Parks Urban Forestry are the implementing bureaus for the city's new tree code, Title 11. And as you also know, a comprehensive written data report and the report of the Tree Code Oversight Advisory Committee were submitted to Council earlier on March 30th. In the presentation today, we will be briefly covering some of the implementation activities and accomplishments from the first year of implementation, some of the challenges that we recognized, and some of the next steps.
 Several challenges with tree regulations have emerged during initial citywide tree project implementation. We've heard about these previously, and I'm happy to expound later if you have any questions about specific challenges that we saw. Thank you.
 Among the challenges are canopy impacts to the city's urban forest. And a key goal of the tree project was to preserve and improve the city's tree canopy. So we evaluated how the first year went in regards to the urban forest. And what we found is that in both development and non-development tree permitting situations, there's a lack of large trees being planted.
 In non-development, for some permit types, more trees are permitted for removal than required to be replanted as replacements, and there's a net loss of large and evergreen trees. Large evergreen and native trees return the greatest services to Portland residents per tree and are therefore preferred for retention and planting wherever feasible. This is something supported by the city's urban forest management plan.
 For next steps, BDS and Urban Forestry continue to work together to smooth and coordinate the permitting process, refine policies, and improve customer service. Parks Urban Forestry is currently conducting a Title XI compliance study. This is timely after we have expended significant outreach efforts that accompanied the initial implementation of the Citywide Tree Project.
 Also, in the next few months, we will be reporting to Council on the trust funds established by the City's New Tree Code. As a preview to that, the Tree Planting and Preservation Fund has a balance, as of the end of April, of over $595,000. And this fund collects tree mitigation payments and may be used to plant new trees and protect properties with significant existing trees.
 To give a further example of how those funds might be used, as of the end of April, at least 587 new street trees could be planted with the fund. And that's significantly more than Urban Forestry has had funds to plant with before. We are planning to work with the Portland State University to create a planting strategy to target tree planting efforts where they are most needed and where they provide the greatest services to the residents of the city.
 All right, so as was mentioned earlier, the Bureau of Development Services and Urban Forestry have been tracking code issues, and those kind of run the gamut from larger policy issues that could be addressed, as well as more technical and clarification issues or things that would make implementation run more smoothly. So there have been some changes.
 issues that have been identified that could be addressed through the RECAP process, which is the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment package or project, which is staffed by Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And then there's also this idea that there could be a future project to address sort of larger policy issues with the code.
 So I wanted to quickly give a few examples of issues that could be addressed through Recap 8, which is the recap that is currently underway. Unfortunately, it was a little bit delayed because of staff turnover at Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, but it is scheduled, it's being worked on now, and is scheduled to come to City Council in February for adoption and would generally go into effect about a month later. Excuse me.
 So currently, Recap 8 has 11 tree code items that have been identified for being addressed in that package. And then we have been working with Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to perhaps add up to another eight items. They're still looking at the feasibility of doing that with their workload, but they're open to adding items if they can address high-priority items that have been identified. A couple of...
 Examples of the types of things we're talking about would be fine-tuning fencing requirements. That would be looking at things like exceptions to allow small projects or projects that aren't anywhere near trees to have some sort of alternative tree protection. That's something that you actually heard testimony on in March was about the idea of the –
 tree in the backyard when you're doing an addition on the front of the house, and why do we have to put up this expensive fencing and so forth, and isn't there some more reasonable way to do that? So that is one thing we'll be looking at. We're also looking at if someone's doing a small ground disturbance like a window well, do they need all the fencing?
 the fencing that would be required and just trying to find more reasonable, practical ways to look at, to look at some of this. On the other side of that is also making sure we're getting adequate tree protection for larger projects that are doing like construction staging that isn't always addressed in the, in the code right now.
 Another thing that I know has been something that's been important is looking at increasing the threshold for pruning permits on street trees. Again, looking at a situation where the code isn't necessarily seen as reasonable and wanting to change that. Stephanie, can I just ask you a philosophical question? I appreciate that we have the recap process, and there are some issues that really require the full process.
 public process before a recommendation comes to council. But my sense is there are some things that the council would like to see fixed here that waiting seven months for a regulatory process to run its course seems like a long time. And what other options do we have to accelerate that process?
 Or the sort of more implementation issues? Take the quarter-inch pruning permit threshold. I'm just using that because it's on your list. We can spend seven months studying it, and we can go through an elaborate process, or we can kind of cut to the chase and bring something to Council. So what other options do we have? My understanding is the Planning Bureau has said they're slammed, so that creates a bottleneck.
 We declared a housing emergency a while ago, and we've made short trip for a lot of things. We've just sort of plowed through it. If there's some things that we think need to be adjusted, what's a quicker and more streamlined process that we can follow if there's a sense of the council we want to go that route? Well, so –
 Unfortunately, recap is kind of a fast process, but it does take a little while. But you could choose to do something like you did with what people called the stopgap amendment, dealing with large trees in California.
 development situations and hold a separate, do a separate code package that could move quicker through the process. Or you could pick out, you know, a couple of items that, you know, if it was Forestry could hold a hearing and bring it here quicker. So if we identified some priority items on the list, Forestry could have a hearing and we could just bring the code changes to council, we could have a public hearing, and we could act on them, right? Yeah.
 Right. Well, so there's – yes, you could. And there's – the way the Title XI is set up, there are two different commissions that recommend to the council. So if it deals with development situations, the Planning and Sustainability Commission would have to hold a hearing, as well as the Urban Forestry Commission would have to hold a hearing. But – So I just want to put a marker down for my colleagues. I might –
 My sense is there are a number of common sense fixes that there's consensus we want to move on. I'm not trying to suggest we short circuit any kind of public process where people have a chance to weigh in. It seems to me.
 There's probably a month there that is required to have duly noticed hearings before the two bodies. But I think we should focus on the things where there's a sense of urgency and see if we can bring that package to council this fall. And I would like to work with my colleagues to make that happen. I think waiting until February and then having further process and amendments is too long. Other questions or comments? I agree with that. I mean, I think that, for example, the –
 quarter you having to get a permit when you prune a branch more than a quarter ranch I think that's kind of an invitation for people to violate the rules and I'd like to come up with some change to that That I don't think should require a seven month process I appreciate Commissioner Fritz meeting with director tree to talk about some of the issues that P bot has with with trees one issue being that I
 for just as an example when pibot maintenance crews are working in the streets with large equipment that hits low-hanging tree branches forestry currently requires people to have a permit to trim the branches in those situations the permit must be requested 60 days in advance which is rather cumbersome when this is well that's that's what that's what i've been told um and that if i may commission that may have been the case in the past but we have issued uh portland
 Bureau of Transportation Maintenance Department, a programmatic permit whereby they can proceed with what tree work they need to do in order to maintain roads. Right.
 I thought that was under discussion. I didn't know that you'd already done that. It's on the books. It's on our website. Yeah, successfully negotiated without many issues. So that's a nice thing in Title XI that we have that tool available. Okay. So if I might suggest that we just finish the presentation because we have some uninvited testimony, and then I very much welcome the discussion with the council as well as the citizen testimony. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you very much. Let's take your invited testimony then. I'm sorry, you hadn't finished. So I don't have a whole lot left to say. This is just a table showing some of the different examples of tree code issues that have been identified. Again...
 Some of them can be processed through the recap process, which is a once-a-year kind of code cleanup type thing. Larger issues like re-looking at some of the bigger policy decisions around tree preservation on private development sites or when you can remove a tree.
 Outside of development from private property that would require a bigger process with larger stakeholder involvement and outreach and really analyzing the pros and cons of that Ideally that such a project is that would be led by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Who led the original citywide tree project and as the long-range planning Bureau is best equipped to manage that type of project? This could be done if it was directed by council and funded in the future. I
 And that's all that we have. And so we would ask that the council accept our report, and then we can answer any questions. Okay. Thank you. Meryl Reddish, who is the outgoing chair of the Urban Forestry Commission, had to leave, but she has sent in a letter to the record. And then we have Jim Labby, who wrote a Street News article that I'd like him to come and go over the main points of, because I thought it was an excellent article. You look like you're not prepared to do that, though, Jim. He is prepared. Okay.
 come up. Street Reads, as we know, does extremely good journalism, and Jim's guest op-ed, I thought, was one of the finest things. You point out the myths of what's true and what's not true. Sure, yeah, and I submitted copies of it here for all of you. Thanks for the opportunity to come speak today, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, Council. Again, my name's Jim Labby. I wanted to
 and comment on this article that really tries to address head-on some of the prevalent myths and I think false choices out there that surround some of these policy issues around trees. And I'll also highlight some of the really reforms that are still needed to kind of address those issues that those, I think, false choices bring up around, you know,
 between trees and the UGP and affordable housing, between reaching the city's development goals.
 I guess I would, but I want to really emphasize from the start that I think the City Council really cannot afford to not continue with refining the code and addressing some of the reforms that have been widely recommended by the Title XI Oversight Committee, the River Forestry Commission, and other groups like Audubon and Southeast Uplift.
 particularly as the city proposes new additional development under the mixed-use zone project and the residential infill project. And I think you'll be getting specific recommendations from the Urban Forestry Commission about those two projects as they come forward to council. We really need to address issues that are integral to these projects.
 address these tree issues as we address these other zoning decisions, or at least parallel to them. It's really at the time...
 The time to address tree preservation and planning is precisely when properties are being upzoned, when the city is allowing new development. Trying to go back afterwards, I know from years of working on natural resource planning issues, doesn't really work. It isn't a workable approach. And so the Urban Forestry Commission is going to take some recommendations specifically from this report around adding flexibility for development in residential zones. These are reforms that a lot of developers support.
 to accommodate trees and both in the residential infill and in the mixed use zone project. So I think I'm going to focus really here on the three critical areas where I think there's a lot of confusion and where I would urge the council to address going forward. And the first one is really preserving and planting large form trees in the public right of way.
 This is really, I think, for multiple reasons, very important, urgent, and really a neglected area of reform. And I know the public right-of-way is a crowded space politically and physically. But I really think there's an emerging consensus that this is a vital area.
 because it's where we're lacking canopy. It's where a number of public values are achieved in terms of air and water quality. There's a clear nexus to environmental justice issues around trees and access to nature in our neighborhoods. And it's also...
 It's really key to achieving the vibrant public complete streets vision that we have in this city that's really emerging. Trees, we've heard a lot about complete streets, but I think what we're missing is the natural resource element, specifically trees. So this is an area we're really going to need, Commissioner Novick, we're really going to need your help on. And I, the Oversight Committee and the Urban Forestry Commission has urged a,
 an inter-rural planning effort around trees in the public right-of-way so we can preserve and plant larger-form trees in the public right-of-way. We're inevitably going to lose more trees to development on private land, and where we're going to make it up is in the public right-of-way. So, Jim, you said you had three plans. Can you make the other two fairly quickly? Yes. The other area is really around the preservation standard
 The need for one, really, one of the myths about Title XI is that trees are preserved. There's really nothing in Title XI that requires any tree to be preserved, no matter how big and healthy. There's been, I think, we need to look at a site review process, and I think that's, again, a number of people have recommended that. And then, yeah.
 And the other thing is removing the barriers, as I mentioned, to preserving large healthy trees in those residential development situations. And the last one is about removing the Title XI exemptions for commercial industrial land. And again, that goes back to the mixed-use zone project where we have oversupply of commercial land. It's time to apply the tree code to those areas so it applies more equitably across the entire city.
 Thanks a lot. I'm sorry if I didn't quite say in the article, but you have it. That's good. Thank you. And I obviously believe that the time is now for doing this, and I share your sense of urgency. So that's what I want to get some, maybe if there's any more public input, but then have some council discussion about how do we move forward and how do we do that expeditiously. We have people around this issue. There's a lot of knowledge built.
 We'd hate to waste it. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Okay, do you have some others here? And anyone else that wants to speak on this item? Yep. Okay, let's make some room, folks, and allow others to testify. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. All righty. Good afternoon, City Council. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I just do want to encourage you to understand
 move as expeditiously as possible. There are processes to adjust any mistakes or I think it's really an issue that's important enough to the majority of citizens of the city that we would be happy to see the city attorney get drug into court if somebody actually finds the tree regulations so onerous that they have to litigate.
 expedite the process. Remember that the most notorious situation we had recently was in East Moreland where people have consumed a lot of city police resources and people's time, media attention, trying to make sure that we move in this direction of keeping one of the things that's really essential. Condos have sold on division. People are moving to areas where
 that have had what I would call excessive tree murder, tree destruction. At 7707 Southeast Alder, we lost some beautiful trees. I think people don't really understand that if people like Vic Remmers get to put in condos doubling over an alley in a block that take out the trees, eventually some of the desirability of the city is going to go, and we risk citizen dissatisfaction and possible real estate bubbles. So...
 There's nobody here saying move slowly, so expedite as best you can, please. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Other questions, comments? I just want to frame the discussion here. I appreciate Commissioner Fish, who also suggested kind of an expedited process to me earlier this week. When I spoke with staff, and maybe I'll have Pooja Bhatt, my parks advisor, come up,
 We said in March that we thought we should have a package that could move forward, and the challenge is each one of us has a bureau or many bureaus that have a package
 stake in this tree issue commissioner fish has the utilities commissioner saltzman has not only development services but also housing the mayor has a bureau of planning commissioner nobick has the transportation and i have parks so we the challenge has been that we haven't been able to one that we haven't been able to agree on a set of to be taken care of i think the quarter inch is perhaps the exception to that but it would seem a lot of staff work to have to have just
 just that go through, and that Title XI does require that it goes through the Urban Forestry Commission and the Planning and Sustainability Commission. So the challenges that we did at Title XI back in 2011
 to make sure that we integrated all of the different codes in many different places. And so if we make any more significant changes to Title 11, we have to make sure that they don't impact issues in Title 33. So, am I summarizing it appropriately, Pooja?
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Yes, I believe so. My name, for the record, is Pooja Bhatt. As you and others have noted, there are a number of opportunities in Title XI to address things that may make more sense with additional community input. I've spoken with staff in other council offices and in parks and in BDS about what an amendment project might look like.
 both in terms of what amendments to tackle and the timeline for doing an amendment project. The reality is, as Commissioner Frentz noted, is that we haven't been able to find consensus other than the quarter-inch pruning requirement. We thought we could look at a small number of amendments and move forward with the impacted bureaus leading the charge. But for example, the Bureau of Development Services and Parks are the two primary implementing bureaus.
 and each have their own role to play, each has their own mission, and they bring their own perspectives to Tree Code. And so my understanding is that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has been looked to as the neutral arbiter of what an amendment project could look like and to do the facilitation for an amendment project. And my understanding is that the capacity in some of the lead bureaus is very limited at this time.
 Let me just, speaking for the utilities, what we'd like to suggest is that we get all the bureaus that have a dog in this fight, and you've identified them, Planning, Bureau of Development Services, Transportation, Parks, the Water Bureau, Bureau of Environmental Services. We schedule a meeting in the next two weeks. I think you're doing, my understanding is you're doing wonderful diplomacy. Yes.
 Secretary Clinton will probably be knocking on your door in a few months. I've already stolen one of my staff. Don't make any suggestions. But there's nothing like putting everyone in one room, locking the door, and banging heads. And here's what's going to happen if we don't do that. Currently, there are some pretty significant disagreements within the family. I'm talking about the family of city bureaus on important issues. And we are facing the prospect –
 of having to go through administrative appeals processes to address those disputes rather than fixing the code issue that may be the trigger for those disputes. And that is not a very, to me, great statement about city government, and it's not what I think is a great use of scarce city resources. So in the spirit of what Commissioner Fritz is thinking here, I would suggest that we direct –
 all those bureaus, and I hope we have the support of every commissioner because unless the commissioner says, you know, I'm sending the right person, this doesn't work.
 we have the first meeting within two weeks we set a goal of of putting the issues on the table and finding consensus if there isn't consensus we require that those issues go to each of us so as commissioners in charge we can weigh in and say do we agree with staff or not and then we set a goal and i'd like to make this in the in the nature if we can commissioner fritz if you open an amendment to this process because i want i wanted to memorialize our commitment
 that we'll have a follow-up report in one month about where we are on that and options. And that doesn't bind anybody here, but with all due respect, I think there's a sense of urgency, and to the extent even some of these right-of-way issues are causing friction within the family and the possibility of having to do appeals, that's not how we solve our problems as a city. And that's the spirit in which I would urge we go forward.
 That sounds terrific. Does anybody object to that process? Sounds helpful. So that's very helpful. I appreciate that because obviously it is the commissioner in charge who has to direct the right people, as Commissioner Fish said. And I'll talk to you later about whether you might be able to help lead that because, anyway, you don't have either of the two lead bureaus, so we need a neutral person. Well, can I speak to that for a moment? I'd love you to. So we're not looking for work at the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 But we are very proud, and we're proud, and this is shared by the prior commissioners in charge, that since 2008-2009,
 Almost 50,000 trees have been planted directly or indirectly by the Bureau of Environmental Services. So we are not technically the implementer, but we're a huge player in the tree strategy of our city. And so the other point that I'd like to just put on the table is you're doing the Title XI Code Revision Project, the more formal process. No, we're doing the recap process. Excuse me, the recap process. Yeah.
 And will BES have a seat at the table through that process? That's run by the Bureau of Planning, and so that's the challenge is that planning is so strapped. So maybe we can figure out the logistics. So let me – here's the second – the first cousin to that. Yeah. The parks and urban forestry are doing an update of the urban forest management plan.
 That's a big project, has lots of implications. BES would like a seat at the table at that to be able to partner on that. Is that acceptable? Yes, absolutely. Thank you very much, colleagues. I appreciate the discussion. I'd like to move the report and vote on that so that we can then come back with a new project rather than this report. May I offer a friendly amendment? Yes. The friendly amendment is that within two weeks of today, all the bureaus that have a stake in the tree code,
 through representatives chosen by commissioners in charge shall meet for the purpose of reviewing
 current code changes under consideration with the direction of trying to find consensus on a package that could then be brought within a month of today, could be brought back to council for further consideration about how that package may be addressed. MS. If we might extend the month a bit because I'm going to be in England, so that would be difficult for me. MR. Two months? MS. I think by – given that there are vacations and such, that certainly they meet for two weeks. MR. No later than August.
 No, later than the end of August, right? Counsel, did we get that right? Okay, we'll accept that. Hearing no objection, thank you. All right, so Commissioner Fritz moves the adoption of the report. Second. And I believe Commissioner Fish seconded it. Any further discussion? Let's take that vote, please. Thank you for this discussion. We still have work to do. This is a very ambitious and complex task, but I think sitting down, working together, we can work out the kinks. Aye. Aye.
 uh thank you to both bureaus for this report and for the commission and uh we look forward to working with all the affected bureaus and trying to get some common sense fixes that need to be
 I appreciate the hard work of all of the bureaus involved in trying to make the tree code work and work better. And I appreciate Commissioner Fish's sense of urgency of resolving issues as quickly as they can be resolved, rather than assuming that we have to wait for months and months. Hi. Hi.
 well i'm very grateful to the mayor for assigning me both development services and parks to begin implementing the tree code and it has been very challenging to coordinate not just the two bureaus but all the others that i mentioned thanks commissioner fish with your usual middle child diplomacy and able to bring us all together to move forward that's what it has explains it and i agree we need to we need to i'm speaking as a fellow middle child so you know there's that
 The key bureaus need to work together and we do recognize that it's going to take some additional funding as Jen Cairo and Jim Labie mentioned. We do have the funds to pay for it. This is not something we're asking for people to do out of the goodness of their heart. We can, for instance, Mayor, we could pay for a new staff person in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability who are the experts in doing outreach and code changes.
 So I hope that we can have that commitment too. Thanks to Jen Cairo and Jeff Ramsey, Stephanie Beckman, Rebecca Esaw, the
 Bureau of Planning Sustainability's recap team, Jim Labby, Meryl Reddish, Mark Bellow, the Urban Forestry Commission, the Tree Code Oversight Advisory Committee, because I just remind everybody that we started off this as the report to say how are we doing, and obviously we're doing some things well and some things not so well. Finally, thank you to Pooja Bhat, my amazing senior policy advisor on this, who I'm sure can help do things in my absence, and I'll come back and it'll all be fixed. Bye.
 Niels. Aye. Okay, let me just take a moment for process here. We are going to take a break at some point around 1230 to 1245. I know there's some items people want to get to in the morning agenda before we take a break. One of them is the Proclamation 752. Those folks had to leave. They're going to come back in a little bit.
 And I know Commissioner Saltzman wants to take action on some things. So – They're in difference to our other elected official. Could we take their actions? I know we're doing that next. We're still doing 751 next. But after that, we're going to dance around a little bit in the agenda to make sure that we get some – Mayor, I would ask that we do 762 since it's a second reading, just in case we don't have the requisite number. Otherwise, my stuff can be put on the –
 Yeah, we might power through a whole bunch of second readings. I filed an absence from 1230 to 2, so I need to be with my family at that point. Okay. All right. Well, we'll go ahead and break at 1230, assuming, or thereabouts. And if you have to leave a couple minutes early, we'll take Ms. Peck and the proclamation as she returns to the council chambers. Okay? Okay. So let's take 751, please.
 I'm in regulation of lobbying entities and city officials to improve administration Clarify requirements and auditor duties second meeting roll call Go ahead, please Mirren colleagues. I'm very pleased that we're now at this point where we are poised to vote on The package reforms before us and I I want to say a few things first I want to
 thank and acknowledge the work of Auditor Mary Hull Caballero, Elections Officer Deborah Scroggins, and Ombudsman, although I keep hearing my dad's voice, Ombudsperson, Margie Sollinger, for their tireless work to open up City Hall and to strengthen public trust in government. And I want to acknowledge, in particular, three significant reforms that have been adopted in the past year.
 The auditor and the ombudsman made it easier for citizens to fight City Hall by eliminating arbitrary fees that often prevented people from getting a hearing on their claims. The auditor and the election officer worked with council to require political consultants to register and disclose their activities. Portland is now the second city in the nation to shine a light on the influential work of consultants.
 And today, we are poised to adopt a package of common-sense reforms developed by the auditor and the elections officer to strengthen transparency and to close the revolving door loophole. The hard work of reform is never finished, but thanks to the work of the auditor, the elections officer, and the ombudsman, and this council, we are poised to make progress. Hi. No, thank you.
 I appreciate all the work that went into this. One thing I think is particularly important is raising the penalty for violations from $500 to a maximum, I mean to potentially $3,000 because rules are not meaningful unless there's meaningful enforcement. So I appreciate that in particular. All right.
 I very much appreciate Commissioner Fish and Auditor Hal Caballero for your excellent work on this and sensible things that will help the public know what we're doing. Okay, let's maybe go ahead and take the construction excise tax now. Any reason to not do that next? Let's do 771 next, please, while everyone's here. Second reading and a roll call vote, please.
 7-71, would you read that and let us vote? Establish a construction excise tax to fund affordable housing initiatives from an inclusionary housing fund. Fish? Commissioner Salzman, under your leadership, we're asking everybody in our community to dig deep to help solve this housing crisis. This is one of a number of initiatives you brought forward.
 I'm pleased to support you on this and later this week on a referral where you'll ask the voters to support an ambitious housing bond. Aye. Saltzman. Well, as my colleagues well know, the lack of affordable housing is the greatest crisis facing our city right now, and the current market conditions are only increasing the crisis. New development, both residential and commercial, is continuing to put more stressors on the need for affordable housing.
 A minimum wage worker in Portland would need to pay 100% of her income to pay the rent on the average newly built apartment in Portland. So quite simply, this construction excise tax is a tax on new development that makes sure growth pays for growth. We've worked hard in this city to ensure that jobs are located close to where people live, and we have been succeeding.
 But we need to also ensure that people can actually afford to live in our city near those jobs. We need to ensure that the people who comprise our workforce have places to live and raise their families. I'd like to thank the Housing Bureau, Shannon Callahan, and the Bureau of Development Services for putting together this policy proposal that we are about to adopt, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Novick.
 I actually had a number of things I wanted to say in this vote, but in the interest of time, I'm going to just talk really fast.
 Colleagues, I'm pleased to support this ordinance today. For years, we've been preempted by the legislature from enacting construction excise taxes, one of a large number of ridiculous preemptions. This has been unfortunate since development has cost. Have pity on the captioners. Thanks to the legislature's action earlier this year, we can now adopt this tax, and I'm glad that's the case. Thank you, Oregon legislature, and thank you, Martha Pellegrino and her team.
 I'm also pleased that all of the revenue raised through this tax will go to build and preserve affordable housing. As some of the commenters said last week, we're keeping it 100. As we know all too well, affordable housing is a dire need in Portland. Housing is becoming more expensive for everyone, middle- and low-income families alike. This is a serious problem that threatens to turn Portland into a place where only the wealthy can afford to live.
 Housing costs are also a serious equity problem. As the Housing Bureau's 2015 State of Housing Report says, housing cost and income disparities have limited housing opportunity for the average black Native American and Alaska Native households in every neighborhood in the state. We need a comprehensive solution to the problem of housing affordability. During the comprehensive plan discussions, I've spoken about the need to build more housing and allow more flexibility in the single-family zone so we can get more diversity of kinds of housing to meet the needs of families.
 Just as important, though, is building subsidized affordable housing units to ensure housing is available for low-income families, especially in our most desirable neighborhoods that are close to jobs and excellent public transit. That's why I'm happy today to support this measure. Through this action today, we're dedicating revenue for this tax to building and preserving affordable housing for people earning below 60 percent of median family income. That's where the biggest need is, and this tax isn't going to solve the whole problem. It's a big step in the right direction.
 I do want to take a minute, though, to talk about a concern this ordinance raises for me. We have received testimony expressing concerns about the cost of this proposal for development. As a standalone proposal, I think this construction excise tax is well calibrated and the need for affordable housing is great.
 However, I think that we do need to take a look comprehensively at all of the fees and taxes that we have in development. There's a good reason we should care about the cumulative effect of all of our taxes and fees in development. Those costs do figure on the balance sheet for a project, and more and more fees will eventually tip the scales against a new building. Thank you.
 Why does this matter? Many might think it's fine and good to stop development, keeping everything the same, but there's a major risk in doing that. If we put the brakes on too many new projects, we'll fossilize this supply of housing, pushing prices for everyone up. There is a balance. The revenues from this construction excise tax proposal will build new affordable housing, and that is a good thing. But if all the city's taxes and fees together stymie the interest in building new projects altogether, we'll increase the cost of housing for everyone.
 we won't get the revenue we need to build new affordable units specifically as we've considered this proposal I reflected in the fact that a year ago when we considered the update of the parks SDC methodology at the time I recalled that the mayor called for a council-wide look at development costs and their effects and affordability the mayor asked how the updated parks SDC fee meshes with other fees to affect the affordability of housing as well as other forms of development to which the fee applies and colleagues we've
 We've been awfully busy, and I'm not sure whether we've taken on this big-picture review of all of our taxes and fees, but I would call on us to do so. The Bureau of Transportation is planning a review of its STCs in the coming months. I expect that the other proposals related to the cost development in the central city and in mixed-use zones may be coming to us. So let us commit to putting the pieces in place for a big look so that we can better understand the implication of all of these fees taken together for housing affordability. Thank you.
 And with that, I'm very pleased to vote aye. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, not only for this measure, but also for the work that you did in Salem to help allow us to pass this measure. And thanks to our government relations team and the legislature for allowing us to help growth pay its way.
 I would have preferred that some of the money might be allocated to some of the mechanisms, some of the operations, and the things that we know are cost-effective in terms of rent assistance and housing
 rapid rehousing. Absolutely sure that it 100% needs to go to housing. I'm concerned that as we start building more and the city starts becoming a property owner, that we're going to need to have the funds to operate those buildings. And as I said, sometimes the cheapest thing to do is...
 or the most cost-effective thing to do is not building a new unit, but rather helping somebody stay in the unit that they have. So that's obviously a conversation that we're going to have. I appreciate Commissioner Salzman providing us with the handout that shows some of the system development charges and other fees that we, our different bureaus, provide and provide.
 We know that these taxes, these fees, pay for services, and that's what we're doing right now is trying to make development pay the true cost of its impacts on our community. Hi. Hi.
 Well, Dan, thank you for your leadership on this. And I think, you know, look at the work that we're going to be doing this week on this issue, and it's just one more illustration of the fact that when we declared a state of housing emergency back in October, we meant it. And I also want to point out the order in which we've taken on these commitments because I think that's –
 proper as well as the level of commitment, and that is we declared an emergency. Then the city dug deep first. We made a big commitment of general fund dollars to housing and made a commitment of tax increment funds that I don't think any other city in the country is equal. Then we're going to ask the development community to dig deep to help, and then finally we're going to ask our citizens to dig deep and help. And that's the right order.
 And I appreciate the fact that we're all lifting this big load together, and we need to do that because it's a really big load. So thank you for your leadership in doing just that. Aye. Okay. Let's return then, please, to our proclamation, which is this.
 Item number 752, because Emily Peck is here. Thank you for waiting. Let's read that item, please. Come on up, Emily. Reclaimed July 5 through 6, 2016, to be happiness day with Cherie Cherie Rabishankar in Portland.
 I want to welcome Emily. I have this wonderful proclamation that says, Whereas Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, a globally renowned humanitarian, spiritual teacher, and ambassador of peace, has inspired millions with his teachings and service projects and focus on the traditions and benefits of yoga and meditation. And whereas Sri Sri Ravi Shankar founded the Art of Living Foundation in 1981,
 and the International Association for Human Values in 1997, nonprofit educational and humanitarian organizations active in over 150 countries, working to create sustainable happiness, achieving peace of mind, improving health, and inclusion.
 enhancing quality of life, and whereas the Art of Living Foundation's Portland Chapter has partnered with local businesses and universities to conduct seminars and master's classes that allow employees and students to achieve a high level of productivity while maintaining a work-life balance, the Art of Living Foundation's Portland Chapter has been actively involved in numerous volunteer-based service projects that benefit local society.
 and create a happy, stress-free, and violence-free city that will set an example for the nation. And so they're hosting Get Happy Portland with Sri Sri Ravi Shankar on July 5th to July 6th at the Oregon Convention Center.
 The event's providing a rare opportunity for attendees to meditate and discover secrets to long-lasting happiness using ancient techniques. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim July 5th to the 6th to be Happiness Day with Sri Sri Ravi Shankar in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. And I would say maybe to add an editorial comment to the formal text of this,
 If you can't be happy in Portland under these conditions, you probably never have or you never will. So thank you very much.
 Thank you very much, Mayor Hales and Commissioners, for your support for the Art of Living Foundation and for declaring July 5th and 6th, Happiness Day, with Sri Sri Ravi Shankar. We're honored to have your proclamation. And personally, I would like to invite you all, not only to the event at the Convention Center on July 5th and 6th, but to meet Sri Sri Ravi Shankar. It's really a very unique opportunity.
 to meet a global peacemaker. You know, just a few days ago, the government of Colombia, the president of Colombia, recognized Sri Sri Ravi Shankar for helping to end a 50-year entrenched civil war by mediating talks with the FARC.
 And earlier this month, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar was in Great Britain meeting with the lords and the ladies in their parliament speaking about social cohesion. And just yesterday, he was in Ohio invited to give a program at Ohio State University.
 where he also met with Congressman Tim Ryan about the good work that the International Association for Human Values is doing to rehabilitate veterans returning from war. So he's a really incredible personality, and we're honored to organize the program for him here at Portland at the Oregon Convention Center.
 We wanted to invite you all to meet him. I'm sure he would be very pleased to meet with you and all the good governance that you have going on here in Portland and all that you do for the city to encourage building peace and resolving conflict and encouraging well-being of everybody in Portland. So thank you so much for the proclamation and for everything that you're doing for the city. Thank you. Thanks for organizing this. We'd love to take a photo with you if you could before Commissioner Fritz has to leave. Sure.
 I should have to go right now. Good work. That's a nice thing for Portland to welcome somebody of that stature here, and we can all use some more happiness. So thank you. Thank you very much.
 So let's see what else we're going to try to accomplish before we take a break. What's your pleasure, folks? You want to stick around for another 10 or 15 minutes? Can we do a second reading on 762?
 We can. Any other requests? We can just take requests and do the ones that we... Why don't we do the Dan's seconds as well, just to knock those out, 764 to 769. Rachel, are you okay with waiting until after the break on your item? Okay, so we'll do 762 and then the series of second readings there, starting with 764. All right, let's do that, please. Let's take 762.
 7.62, authorize a contract with Brown and Caldwell, Inc. for professional services for the Force Avenue pump station remodel for $1,074,370, project number E10611. Roll call, please. Ish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, 7.64. 7.64.
 764, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Cathedral Flats located at 7220 North Burlington Avenue. Roll call, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? I just want to say the following six items, 764 through 770, are all projects that are increasing the supply of affordable housing. Private sector developers.
 have stepped up but it also they've stepped up because the city council and the county commission have increased the amount of tax revenue they're willing to forego in order to have this affordable housing produced so all told we're going to get over 105 over 100 units of new affordable housing from these uh seven six developments hi novick hales hi
 Okay, next. 765, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Powell Apartments located at 3730 Southeast Powell Boulevard. Roll call, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hale? Aye. 766. Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Redwood Apartments located at 233 Northwest 16th Avenue. Roll call.
 Fish Aye Saltzman Aye Novick Aye Hales Aye 767 Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for cause 216X Southwest Yamhill located at 2161 Southwest Yamhill Street Roll call Fish Aye Saltzman Aye Novick Aye Hales Aye And 768
 Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for block 290 KOTI located at 1417 Northwest 20th Avenue. Call call, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. 760, 770. All right, so skip 69, 769.
 Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for 14th and Gleason, located at 1402 to 1430 Northwest Gleason Street. I'll vote. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 770.
 approve amended application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for vancouver avenue apartments located at north vancouver avenue and north shaver street roll call vote please fish hi saltsman hi novick hi hails hi here 757 is the last second reading okay we've got a couple police bureau items that we've got somebody waiting for so let's let's take those and then fire two
 to 760 okay let's let's let's go ahead and go to uh no one's here on 754 right so we'll do 755 and 756 757 okay yes 755 please
 Amend a contract with Cascadia Behavioral Health Care, Inc. to increase the not-to-exceed amount to $1,088,076 and extend the expiration date until June 30, 2018 to provide additional mental health clinician services. Okay. Actually, I thought that Emily Rashawn was going to be here. She's not?
 oh sorry all right oh all right we'll we'll hold this i thought she was i thought she was going to be here okay so should we hold all three of those rachel all right we'll hold sevens 55 to 757. so we do have uh people here on which items 761 seven and 760. 761 is that what you said and 760. yeah
 Sorry, 751 and 760. Okay. All right. Let's do 760 then. Sorry, I got myself screwed up. 760, please. 760. Authorize a purchase order with Pierce Manufacturing, Inc. for two pieces of NH620XT Arrow Tiller Apparatus Trucks for a total not to exceed amount of $2,329,151. Okay. Now we'll talk about trucks. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello, I'm Deputy Chief Marco Benetti, Portland Fire and Rescue, and I'm just here to answer any questions. This is just a standard replacement procedure from our replacement budget for purchasing two of our new tiller apparatus that will be requiring for the next couple decades, actually. Yeah, yeah, okay. Good. Anything else, Dan, from your stamp on this? No. Any questions? No. Are the vehicles they're replacing being donated to our friends in Guadalajara?
 Not these particular ones, sir. The current apparatus that we've been donating, one of them is going to the Oregon Fire Service Museum, and there has not yet been one identified to be replaced or donated to anyone else. We won't see these new apparatus for probably at least 10 to 14 months. You know, I know you're trying to get maximum life out of your vehicles, but it's a little sobering to hear you're donating it to a museum. Yeah.
 Well, that particular apparatus is – That's an encouraging detail. I don't think I would want to receive that and use it for emergency response. All right. Thank you, Marco. Thank you very much. You want to speak on this item? Okay. Motion to adopt a report, please. So moved. Second. Second. Roll call. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. And then item 761.
 Authorize a contract with OTAC, Inc. for architectural and engineering services for new construction and major retrofits for replacement of city-fueled facilities for a total not-to-exceed amount of $1,125,338. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Sharon Remorm, the facilities project manager that's going to be overseeing this project. And I'm here – I thought this was a consent item, but I'm here to speak –
 on behalf of this if there's any questions okay any questions sharing on this thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item it's an emergency ordinance let's take a vote please yes hi healthman hi nobody hi hails hi i think we do have people here on 756 and 757 the other two police items so let's go ahead and read both of those please
 7.56. Authorize intergovernmental agreements with the City of Gresham and Multnomah County for the use of a U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Fiscal Year 2016 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program Funds,
 seventy two thousand four hundred thirty one dollars and one hundred seventy three thousand eighty eight dollars respectively for agency personnel and program expenses okay we have staff here from the police bureau for any questions anyone want to speak on this item if not then let's take a vote please no Vic hi hails hi and some 57 roll call
 Authorized application to the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice Programs Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $465,810 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, fiscal year 2016. Local solicitation to assist the Portland metropolitan area law enforcement and criminal justice community to prevent and reduce crime and violence. Roll call, please. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Aye.
 And we've got Water Bureau staff standing by for the last one. You want to do that now, Nick? Okay. If they're here. Yep. So let's do 763, please. Declare surplus property at four Water Bureau locations and request authorization to dispose of properties. So, Mayor and colleagues, under the new surplus property policy, we have big surplus properties and small properties.
 surplus properties. And the properties in the small category that bypass some of the more robust public process are properties where there may be, we have a small piece, a very small piece of property, or there's a potential cloud on the title or something that needs to be resolved. And I've asked...
 the director to come forward periodically with the ones that are sort of routine things that we can just dispose of and we've aggregated these as for relatively non-controversial might take it away. Good morning, Mr. Mayor commissioners. We're here today to seek permission to dispose of four pieces of property. The rules that we're doing this under is category one of the policy that council just approved.
 It may have one or more of these characteristics, under $50,000, clouded title, as the Commissioner mentioned, size, shape, location, condition, restrictions imposed upon the property are deemed by the Controlling Bureau to be useful only to the adjacent owners.
 sometimes even land use or city own city ordinances may not be able to dispose of so what I quickly want to do is show you a picture of these four pieces of property and I think it will all become clear 31 41 Northeast 148 is that little yellow square you see there it's about oh yeah
 I've been trying very hard to not be the chief engineer anymore. So sorry. It didn't work. I guess it's convincing. So we have this small triangle of property. It's 3,000 square feet roughly. There's deed restrictions and so on. Basically,
 The surrounding property controls our access by an easement. We only get the easement if it's used for water purposes. So the minute it's not used for water purposes, then we lose the easement and nobody can get at it. It really should revert to them.
 The second piece of property is on Northwest Skyline Road. This is what we call a canoe. It's a canoe. I won't call it a box or a triangle. What this really is is the result of multiple –
 I hate to say that surveyors make errors, but somewhere between us and the county highway department and PBOT have all got slightly different surveys of this. And after talking with all of the relevant parties, the simplest way to clean this up is to do what we're going to do, which is basically work with the owner of the bar to give them their property because it sits right in the middle of their driveway. It's really an artifact of...
 small surveying errors over about 50 years. Surveyors do make mistakes. Anybody who's ever been down division would know that. Yes, and there are also datum problems in Multnomah and Clackamas County that sometimes confuse things. On Tomahawk Island Drive,
 It's really hard to see this in the picture, but in this one, there are overlapping easements here. This is a well that we inherited from Hayden Island in the early 90s when we took over the Hayden Island water system. We have never used it. It's in the harbor master's backyard, and we intend to work with the harbor master and just end up with it in his possession.
 The last one is kind of more interesting. That is a box, I think, or at least a parallelogram. You can kind of see where it sits. Here's a little more close-up picture. This property is surrounded on all sides, all four sides, including across the back. You can see our tank over there on the right-hand side, kind of upper right. That kind of blue blob is the top of Willalton Tank.
 And this property is surrounded on all sides by the homeowner that owns the house on the left side of the picture. It really can go to no one else. It's just quite simply the fair and right thing to do. It's about 10,000 square feet, but it's in this gentleman's backyard, and he owns all the surrounding property, including a small slice across the back where it abuts our property.
 Those are the four parcels. We're seeking authorization to make a deal with the parties and dispose of them. And honestly, this process costs more than any of the properties or worse. Okay. All right. Any questions from the Bureau on this disposition? All right. Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, pass us the second reading. We only have a couple things left. You guys want to just get it done and then break?
 I think we've got one we're already holding until this afternoon. Let's set them over. Let's set them over. Okay, we're going to set over the remainder of the agenda until this afternoon and come back at 2 p.m. Thank you. All right, we've got most of it done. Yeah. Despite the interruption. I think we can get back to work. Okay, good afternoon, everyone. The council will come back to order. Would you call the roll?
 Fish? Here. Saltzman? Novick? Here. Ritz? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome everybody. We have half a dozen or actually five items left over from this morning's calendar that we're going to try to address fairly quickly and then we will get to this afternoon's calendar. So let's take item 753 please.
 Establish the Special Appropriations Committee and outline the review process for awarding one-time special appropriations grants. Well, I am very pleased that we are having this discussion this afternoon and that we have this great panel here before us to talk about this. This is an important change that we've made in how we do business here at the city.
 historically during our budget process we've had individual council members or community members come forward with ideas for funding and we've funded some good things that way but when I took office in 2013 I asked our budget office to reassess this system and they believe as I do that we need some objective criteria for when the city council does grant making
 because there's a limited amount of that work that we should do sort of outside of the core functions of city government. There was an audit in January of this year that reinforced that need and highlighted that there's really kind of a lack of competition for these grants. So the new system has groups applying for funding through a competitive process that OMF will manage. We've
 We've budgeted a million dollars in our budget this year for one-time special appropriations grants, and we have a process that's about to begin that we're going to hear about here this afternoon on how that grant application process will work. So I want to thank Rachel and Sheila for talking about this this afternoon and getting ready to take the council's direction on this way of doing business forward. So welcome.
 Great. Thank you. Council, I'm Rachel Wiggins, Mayor Hales's office. As stated before, I'm here today to request that the council approve the establishment of the Special Appropriations Committee and approve the process for which organizations will be reviewed and awarded funding. As the mayor was saying, the aim of this process is to create a more transparent, competitive, and equitable process for awarding funds.
 The committee itself will be comprised of representatives from each of the council offices. We've already had one meeting to review the process for bringing this forward to council. And then it will be staffed by OMF Grants Management, and Sheila will be one of those individuals. Interested organizations will be asked to apply under five different funding categories. They are expanding opportunities for youth, community-based arts and culture, limited-term special events, expanding economic opportunities for Portlanders,
 and community health. Applications are set to be available this Friday, July 1st, and we're requesting that organizations get them back to the OMF Grants Office by August 15th.
 In those applications, and you've got a draft of that application in your packet, organizations are going to be asked to address and will be evaluated on how they meet the city's measures of success, which were established in the Portland plan, and the city's equity goals, which OEHR kindly drafted for us, both of which are listed out in the application, and organizations will be asked to speak to them. Thank you.
 Once the committee has the applications, they will review them in mid-August and early September with the aim of bringing a recommendation to Council for review and approval in mid-September. Right now, we have a tentative plan to come September 21st. Again, ultimately, Council will review the recommendations and award the funding, the recommendations.
 We were trying to strike a balance between what was happening before, where it was an entirely political process, and what could be the other extreme, which is a very strict RFP process. We wanted to make sure that while bringing a recommendation, ultimately the council would be awarding the dollars. So that's sort of the nuts and bolts of the process. What do you have to add to that? I only have anything to add if you have questions. Okay. So, questions. Rachel, I have a couple questions. Of course. Under this process,
 Can anyone apply? Yes. So let's say that as a result we get, I don't know, millions and millions and millions of dollars of asks for essentially a $1 million pot. I mean, I don't know if that's the case, but we'll find out. Do you think that we might want to consider now or in the future a requirement that at least, say, two members of council sponsor
 the grant request in order to discourage people from just putting in millions of dollars of ass for a small pot? I think if the Council thinks that's a good idea, it can definitely be incorporated. At the end of the day, this is really a process to be owned by all five of you, not me. So if that – And I would suggest, Commissioner, that that would go against the – we want this to be open to everybody, not just the people that we happen to know or the organizations that we happen to know.
 So we would certainly, at the end of the process, have to have at least three of us supporting each of the recommendations. So I personally would prefer not to have council members sponsoring particular asks. And I think when we were talking as a committee, we were trying to strike a balance, and I think where we landed was we wanted to be as flexible as possible, and if there needs to be course correction at the end of this process –
 do it for the next year rather than be too prescriptive and miss out on funding opportunities. So the thing that I'll come, when you do your assessment, I'll be looking for is if what this in effect promotes is, you know, hundreds of worthy community organizations putting in a request and creating an enormously complicated and time-consuming process
 out of which we end up awarding a million dollars, which could go to two or three or four applicants. I want to make sure that the process is scaled, the expectations are scaled to the process. We finish our budget process. There's a lot of people disappointed that they didn't get everything they asked for or whatever. This becomes like a safety valve. And at the end of the day, the council makes the final say. So it's going to reflect our values.
 I think we're going to learn that having some kind of quality control at the front end that says it has a fighting chance of competing makes sense because it will reduce the burden on the committee to have to screen potentially hundreds of applications. But anyway, we'll see what ultimately this test drive produces. But the final decision is in the hands of the council, so you're going to have to have three members of council to support it.
 The other question I wanted to ask you is, and it goes to something that the grant programs generally struggle with from a philosophy point of view. Is it your view or is it the Committee's view that we should be looking for chance opportunities to be impactful, or is it likely we're going to end up with lots of small awards to lots of different groups?
 This is something that comes up with a cultural trust where there's an argument that you give a lot of money to some group to really move the needle, and there's other views you want to give smaller grants to people. And they don't necessarily move the needle but support a component of what they're doing. Any thoughts on that? You know, we discussed it as a group, and I think we really want to see what we get before –
 deciding whether or not a bunch of small grants is the way to go, and see what the responses from the community are. Sorry. And I heard from somebody on your committee that you might go back to somebody who asks for half a million and says, well, could you make do with a quarter of a million, or what would you do if we gave you a lesser amount? So it's going to be somewhat of an interactive process this first time around? Absolutely. Any questions? Yeah, I was curious, these are,
 somewhat broad categories, but they're not infinite. And I was just wondering if you'd gone back and looked at some of the special appropriations over the years and found some that would not fit into any of these categories and reflected on whether, well, gosh darn it, that was obviously a stupid decision, so thank goodness it wouldn't fit into any of these categories, or whether there were any special appropriations we made that gave you pause because they didn't seem like they fit into these categories, but they seemed like pretty cool things that you weren't ashamed of that you did.
 Yeah, a request from Commissioner Fritz's office came. I went back to 2010 and compiled a list of all the special appropriations we awarded. And for the most part, they could fit into the categories. I think there were a few that were bureau-specific that were put into special appropriations that wouldn't necessarily fit into these categories, but the outside awards did.
 And this is really an opportunity for individuals to self-identify for organizations. So we're not going to tell them, you fit here, this is where you apply. Rachel, again, could you remind us, once you've compiled all the requests and you've evaluated them, what ultimately comes to council? A list of potential grantees. Is that a report? It'll be a report out to you. Okay.
 And we have a million dollars to spend, but the list could include a multiple of that in options. So we'll be given a suite of options. Right. And if council would like to see the organizations that applied but were not recommended, we're more than happy to provide that as well. I can give you as much information as you'd like. So our decision will be based on the list of recommendations we get or more broadly on everyone who applied? Yes.
 I think it's easier to base it on the recommendation and then suggest amendments or changes rather than working from a larger list. And each of us has a designated person on the committee, right? So I would assume that there may be some back and forth between your huddle, go back to the commissioner, say, do you care about any of these in particular? So that's...
 It will be, you know, just as you suggested, Commissioner Fish, but more on the back end where we already have a slate of opportunities and we're trying to help the committee come to a slate of recommendations. And I hope we see more than a million dollars' worth of recommendations because one thing that could come out of this is,
 What often happens when people seek city money, public funding, is we say, gosh, that's really an interesting idea. We hope they come back next year or a future year and fine-tune their proposal. Here are the four we want to fund this year. And, by the way, to stay with under a million, we're going to suggest that someone take a haircut or whatever. But I hope there are more that come to us than we can fund, A, because I think it makes the process more dynamic of comparing among choices, and B, because
 There may be some that just fall off the list this year that we're going to want to strongly encourage to come back. I have three points. The first is a suggested friendly amendment in the resolution. In the third, whereas, it says, whereas, funding will be awarded in each of the following areas. I believe the intent was maybe awarded that if it just so happens that nobody applies for expanding opportunities, you wouldn't say, well, we didn't get one. So would you accept that as a friendly amendment? Yes, I do. I think that's right. Thank you.
 Secondly, could you say again how people can apply? Where will the opportunity be posted?
 We actually have set up a website within OMF. It's a special appropriations website. So the link will be on that website, but it will also be on each council office's website and the city website. Yeah, if you could put it prominently on the front page and be very clear on when the applications can start and finish and post all the rules, I'm sure you're going to do that. It's all included on the website. We will certainly send it out through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement's information list.
 And that brings me to my last suggestion. We have found in the Office of Enabled Involvement that if we allow people to make their requests in their own native language, that that fosters more inclusion from New Portlanders' communities and puts the onus on us to translate rather than somebody who doesn't speak English. So could we have that as a norm for this? We actually have that as an option. Great. Thank you. Appreciate that. Thank you.
 Rachel, question number three on the application says, have you received city funding before? What was the thinking on that?
 I'm going to turn that over to Sheila. I think maybe it was to get to an earlier question of, you know, have you received special appropriations funding in the past? I think also some of that is kind of in the grant management world of looking, are there any risk factors with any organizations that have received money in the past? Just kind of looking at what their performance was. It's just informational for us, for the city to, you know, if there was an organization that the city had had some issues with in the past,
 Because that's what I was hoping you were going to say. It's quality control not used against you if you have received prior money. It would only be used against you if it turns out you have not been a good custodian of whatever monies you got. That is correct. I thank you, Commissioner, for drawing my attention to the application. It's asking how the project meets 12 goals rather than the five that were listed in what the categories are.
 So how would somebody know that they're supposed to address the categories rather than the 12 goals? The 12 goals are in the Portland plan. Is that? Right. So the application, there's going to be the five categories on the website, and you click on the category that you're applying under of the five funding categories, and then the application itself asks you to address any of the 12 city measures.
 So, it's application specific, and then within the five different applications is the same set of 12. So, I apologize for getting into the details here. It seems like for somebody who's new to grant making, that might be difficult to address, and they might think that they have to address all 12. So, you might want to change it to how, which of these goals will the project address, rather than, oh dear, I don't have anything for reducing carbon emissions because I'm talking about helping children.
 which of course helps i really like that suggestion um because a for another reason too which is a
 A sophisticated grant writer is going to write a lengthy essay about how miraculously all 12 apply as if preordained from heaven. And we really don't want that. A smart person could make those cases. I'd rather see how this goes really deep on supporting prosperous households. And I wouldn't hold it against them if it happened to be a spectacular outcome on that one factor. Yeah, I would suggest that.
 doing away with, unless you had strong feelings about the list of 12, you could maybe list them as a reference, but if you have to pick one of the five categories to start with, just tell us why your project meets that goal. Because otherwise, if I was doing it, besides reaching 200 words, I don't think you'd get all 12 of them in in 200 words. So maybe a little tweak. Thank you, though. It's a lot of good work we've done here. Other comments, suggestions, guidance? Is the timing, Rachel...
 under which we're doing this, decoupled from our budget with a September 15th cycle, that takes it out of our normal budget cycle. Does that present any challenges to grantees?
 I think in that the notification of whether or not they're getting dollars from the city is delayed several months. So there's that impact. At least in the contracts that I have brought forward for the mayor's office for special appropriations items, it's very rare that they're invoicing us or getting funds before the fall, even though the funds are available in July. So I think there's an impact there.
 to budgeting but not necessarily cash on hand. And it's kind of like the innovation fund, which was internal with city bureaus, and we'd get those packages coming through at various times over the year. This is with external partners. Yes. Well, one thing I'd like you to consider as we test drive this is, do we learn in the course of doing this first round that there's a virtue in moving back the date? Because some of the serial –
 one-time special appropriations people are used to being looked on favorably and getting their money on a different calendar. I would be interested to know, after you've done this, whether you think we should move up the date. I think ideally we would have aligned this closer to the approval and the adoption of the budget, but with it being the first year, we're a little bit slower. And it's one-time money, right? Correct. So we don't even know if we're going to be doing it next year? Correct. Okay. Good stuff. I'd really appreciate this.
 Thank you both very much. Stand by in case we have any other questions. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Okay, maybe not. So let's take action on the resolution unless there are any more questions for Sheila or Rachel. I want to thank you both for your work in putting this together for us and carrying out what the council intended in terms of an innovative new way to do this. Thank you. Roll call, please.
 Thank you for your thoughtful work and for bringing our designees together to get to this point. And I'm hopeful that this actually is an enhancement over what we've done in the past. So thank you all. Bye. No problem.
 Thank you very much for your work. And I have to say, as to the earlier discussion, I was in sympathy with Commissioner Fish's desire to limit the number of applications and in sympathy with Commissioner Fritz's desire to open it up. But not being a certified middle child, I had no way to resolve that contradiction. Aye.
 Thank you very much, Eileen Roe, Sheila Craig and Rachel Wiggins. Thanks to the Council staff who will be evaluating the requests, Rachel, Jamie Dunphy, Erica Nebel, Tia Williams and Tim Crail. I'm really pleased to have this for many reasons. I think it is very appropriate that if we have a million dollars, which we've previously experimented with city staff having great ideas, now we're going to ask the community
 given theirs. I've already three times, just since we passed the budget, had people coming into my office asking for money. And I was able to say, great, you can participate in this process rather than I actually don't have large buckets of money to be handing out, sorry, which has been previously my...
 response to that effect. I will say that the Office of Neighborhood Involvement grants are $130,000 for the district coalitions. That's 95 neighborhoods, and there's nothing or very little for small grants for the Diverse Civic Leadership Program. So looking forward, if we find that this works, there might be a way to...
 partner between the neighborhood small grants program and this project if indeed we can fund it next year at all. But in the meantime, everybody who didn't get a neighborhood small grant maybe can participate in this process. So I'm very pleased that it's opening up and we'll all be involved in getting the word out so that we do get a lot of applications. That's what we want is to be able to choose the best of a lot of applications. Thank you very much. Aye. Great work. Thank you very much. Aye.
 Okay, let's take 754 please Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland Community College and a grant agreement with the Portland Community College Foundation providing five hundred and forty five thousand six hundred and sixty two dollars to the future connect scholarship program This is a good thing. I don't think we have a formal presentation on this or any questions by council Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up, please
 Hi, I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I've always advocated here in the last month or so that we have community colleges that are free. This is a half a million dollars for a good cause. Again, I talked to this EMT guy over here.
 It's still a two-year program. I don't believe that you should really, if you're from a poor family, you should try to be a doctor. You don't have the money, but you could at least be an EMT and find out whether you'd really like to deal with people that are in pain or bloody. If you freeze up under pressure, you can learn a lot being an EMT. And then, of course, then you go to medical school. And this idea you have to go eight years to be a doctor is not the right way.
 And community colleges offer things like therapy that's not necessarily surgical, and those skills are from the community colleges, at least in the form of medicine. Also computer chips. Computer programming is something now you can learn with one or two years of the community college because the information can be brought in from a larger computer. And that was impossible before things like Apple Computer came around.
 uh bill gates uh does not have a university degree in computer and paul allen they actually uh are now considered computer scientists even though they don't have a university degree in in computer science interesting thought yeah thanks very much okay um this is an emergency ordinance let's take a roll call vote please well um i'm really pleased that we're continuing to support future connect and
 and its first cousin, which is the Summer Works program. And Mayor, if I can just take one second to embarrass my intern and just acknowledge that Joyce Soraya started today in my office. She's a Summer Works intern. She'll be working on constituent services, the website, and specific projects. She's a graduate from Roosevelt High School. She's currently pursuing a B.A. in communications at Portland State University.
 She's originally from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. She is fluent in four languages, three of which I cannot pronounce. Swahili, Lingala, Nyanja, and English. And during her free time, she likes to take long walks, play soccer, and read. And we're just thrilled that we won the lottery, and Joyce is on our team this summer. Hi. No, thank you.
 I'm really pleased that we, despite budget pressure, still have the resources to support Future Connect, and thanks to everybody associated with that program. Aye. Great. Indeed, Commissioner, through thick and thin or from good times and bad times, we have supported this program, which we initiated thanks to Mayor Sam Adams and Kelly Thornlad. And it has such great results that Billington and Hillsborough and other jurisdictions are now joining the
 And this $545,000 leverage is millions of dollars from the PCC Foundation. It's one of my favorite events of the year to listen to the young people talking, and sometimes older folks talking about why community college meets their needs and that they're able to further their education.
 that this program provides wraparound mentoring services as well as it's not just tuition services, it's our investment in the young people of the future. And so I'm very grateful that you continue to fund it. Aye. Niels? Well, just as it won't take just one housing strategy to deal with our housing crisis, it won't take just one opportunity strategy to deal with the income inequality and the differences in opportunity in our city.
 So this is one piece of that strategy. As it happens, I'm speaking tomorrow morning to a bunch of economic development planners from around the country who are here for a conference about economic development equity, and I think this is one more example of the kinds of things a city can do within a city's own...
 wheelhouse, if you will, of economic opportunity to try to create the community that we want. So I'm very proud of this work. I think it's of a piece with a lot of other things that we're doing and be happy to brag about it tomorrow morning. All right. Okay, let's take 755. Okay.
 amend a contract with Cascadia Behavioral Health Care, Inc. to increase the not-to-exceed amount to $1,088,076 and extend the expiration date until June 30, 2018 to provide additional mental health clinician services. Good afternoon. I hope you weren't waiting around all morning, Sarah. Watching it on video, thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. So this is an extension of the contract that we've...
 It's already been in place. These are the three Project Respond clinicians that are assigned to our behavioral health unit. Okay, questions? That was the most succinct presentation we've had in a long time. My pleasure. This is good work. Thank you. Okay, thanks very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? All right, I'm glad you weren't staying all morning for that then. Roll call, please. Fish. Hi. No, thank you.
 Well, again, I'm very happy to vote on this one. This is required by the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement, so we can be sure that this program is going to continue, and that's a very good thing. Aye.
 Aye. Good work. Thank you. Okay, we have two more from this morning. 758. Accept guaranteed maximum price of $8,401,596 from Stacy and Whitbeck, Inc., for the construction of the Beach Park project. Ritz. Thank you. We're going to turn it over to the Luitville View Park. We're now calling it Luitville View. And I'm going to turn it over to our staff to give us a presentation on this contract. Okay.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hills and members of council. My name is Lauren McGuire. I am the Capital Projects Team Manager for Portland Parks. And with me is Christine Moody, our Chief Procurement Officer, and Britta Herwig, our Capital Projects Manager 3 for the project.
 We're here today to tell you about the exciting new development in East Portland and to request Council to accept the guaranteed maximum price of $3,401,596 from Stacey and Whitbeck, Inc., the Construction Manager General Contractor for the Lewitt View Construction Project. I think it's $8 million, not $3. $8 million? Yeah. Isn't that what's in the title?
 $8,401,596. Oh, yeah. You're panicking now. The map indicates the location of the 16-acre Lewitt View Park in the Argy neighborhood at Northeast 131st Avenue and Beach Road, north of I-84 in East Portland.
 The park is immediately adjacent to Shaver Elementary School and resides in a community with a highly diverse and growing number of children. The development of the park will help address the deficiencies in park facilities in this area according to the 2009 Master Plan. The park is funded by system development charges.
 the park formerly known as beach park as the commissioner said has gone through a community naming process and has the new name of lewitt view park which is a native american name for the iconic mount st helens which is visible from the park
 Park project manager Britta Herwig, working with 2 Ink Studio, has developed an excellent neighborhood design for the parcel. The main features of the park include a children's play area with a fog water feature, a community garden, picnic shelter and community gathering area, youth active play fields and an open lawn area, a skate spot, a restroom.
 walking trails and increased bicycle and pedestrian connectivity a fenced off leash dog park and a parking lot to support the park features The park will help meet the current and future needs of the city of this area of the city by adding 964 households 65 households excuse me to be served by the park within walking distance of a half a mile radius the park also has many attractive landscape features including stormwater natural areas to increase habitat and water quality and
 there's been an extensive community outreach process in the creation of the design including five community benefits plan meetings six project advisory committee meetings three open house community events and one groundbreaking in october of 2014 council approved the use of the alternate construction manager general contracting process this allowed the city to integrate a community benefits plan into the project
 The intent of the plan is to ensure that the benefits of the construction of the park accrue to the community as much as possible. The plan calls for an advisory committee with community representatives, including some from the Metropolitan Alliance of Workforce Equity, also known as MAUI, to review the performance of the general contractor based on the plan objectives and advise when needed.
 The goals include facilitating an increase in utilization of disadvantaged minority women and emerging small businesses as subcontractors and provides funding to assist these businesses to increase their performance and capacity for future projects. The plan also identifies a need for utilization of registered apprentices and minorities and women in the construction trades. This is paired with funding to support outreach and training programs for minorities and women, feeding the pipeline.
 and the diverse workforce. As it calls for strategies that will support a diverse workforce providing cultural competency training for managers and supervisors, as well as training workers how they can report on the job harassment, for example.
 The plan also supports investing in East Portland with a desire for the general contractor to hire East Portland businesses and workers for construction and requiring the tracking of performance. It requires the general contractor to specify how union and non-union and small family-owned businesses located in East Portland are providing contracting and goods and services to the project. This will help invigorate East Portland.
 Our purpose today is to ask council to accept the guaranteed maximum price for the construction of the park by Stacey and Whitbeck Inc. of $8,401,596. Stacey and Whitbeck has a teaming and mentoring agreement with Raymoor Construction. At this time, Christine Moody, our chief procurement officer, will discuss the council procurement item. Thank you.
 Thank you, Lauren. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. As Lauren stated, that council authorized the exemption for the use of the construction manager general contractor solicitation process for the construction of the Lewitt View Beach Park project.
 Through this process, a request for proposal was issued. Among other things, this RFP included specific preference points for a prime contractor to partner or team with a certified DMWESB contractor. Stacey and Wipek is teaming with Rainwater Construction, a minority-owned business on this project.
 Five responses to the RFP were received. The responses were evaluated by a five-person selection committee, which included representatives from Portland Parks, Rose Community Development, and the Minority Evaluator Program. Stacey and Whitbeck is the highest scoring proposal. Thank you.
 As mentioned earlier, there's a community benefits plan associated with this project, and working with the city, Stacey Whitbeck has committed to a 22% DMWESB subcontracting goal and a 25% for East Portland residents and businesses on this project. SWI will comply with the city's 20% apprenticeship requirements and PDC's minority and women workforce goals of 14% women and 29.5% people of color working on this project.
 Questions? I have three quick questions. One of the slides was of a children's play area. So is this going to be to the Harper's playground specifications? So the play, Verdi, you want to answer that? I guess another way of saying it, will this be to the highest existing levels of accessibility? So we're making it an accessible playground, but we're not committing to the same level of the Harper's playground. And why is that?
 I think it was because the department made, or the Bureau made a commitment to have universally accessible Harper's Playgrounds in the quadrants of the city, and Gateway was the one that was chosen.
 But we're still going to try to achieve a high standard of accessibility? Absolutely. In all our new parks, there's a level of accessibility. As Britta said, it's much more expensive to do the full-on, totally accessible, and so the community chose Gateway to have. It also provides different opportunities for different types of children. So there are some things that in the accessibility world –
 prohibit other types of play events like nature play type events, that kind of thing. But there will be a Harper's Playground in Gateway. Exactly. Yes, exactly. Christine, who are the signatories to the CBP? And I'm thinking we went through this discussion recently on a Water Bureau project. So is it the contractor and the city? Yes.
 That's correct. This is an exhibit to the contract with Stacy and Whitbeck. So it's similar to the CBP we arranged for the Water Bureau where the city and the contract are the signatories, but there is an oversight body to make sure that we hit our numbers? That's correct. There's no actual signatories to the plan. Right. So the accountability piece remains with the city.
 It remains with the city and the contractor. And then, as Lauren stated in her presentation, there is an advisory committee that reports to the commissioner. And that's sort of where we landed on Washington Park. And I think that does put the accountability where it belongs, which is with the city. So that makes sense. And the contractor? Well, yeah.
 Well, the city ultimately, right? Right. And the other thing is I remember when we worked on the fields, for the longest time we had a placeholder name called the fields. And when it came time to naming it, the community said we wanted it to be called the fields. I'm old enough to remember this was called Beach, and that actually was Beach when I was the parks commissioner. So what's the evolution in terms of the name?
 so we had a naming process um after we had already started the project actually and that's when the committee the group of people that were involved decided on the naming of the park and you know my my experience was with the fields for example the community was very bought into the existing name they're very proprietary so um how did this name evolve because normally beach has been the placeholder for so long and it's it's also a place-based name right but um
 our community outreach group convened a naming committee because it was very clear from the beginning that beach was sort of the working name and that there would be a naming process that went in tandem with the design process and so from my recollection there wasn't a strong holding on to beach there were a couple of contenders for the final name but and who was on the naming committee
 i am not sure of the exact there were neighborhood representatives mostly but i don't i don't know exactly people from the community yes other questions and just as an ending note we um after we had heard that the name the chosen name was lewitt and then view um i asked why isn't it all one word like helen's view and the explanation was because lewitt is a native word and it wouldn't make sense to add an english word on the end of a
 Native word also that we had spelt it wrong, right? We were saying it was L o and it's actually l u u So we appreciate very much all the community input that went into both the park design and the naming good work Thank you very much. And is there anyone wants to speak on this item? So can I have a motion please to accept the report so move second? Went whence the But this will be completed
 In the fall next year, September 17. Another park delivered in East Portland by Commissioner Fritz. I hope I'm still standing and can join you. I really look forward to seeing the new park. Thank you so much. Bye. Bye. Great. Thanks again to all of the staff and also the community members who are really joining together to make this a wonderful place. I very much appreciate it.
 which appreciate this community benefits plan, and Commissioner Fish has been engaged in that process also. And also the Park Row School District, it is next to Shaver Elementary School. Some of the folks wondering at home might have been wondering why is it the figure of eight shape, and it's because the rest of the property, almost the rest of the property is the school districts. So it's going to be a very seamless...
 park amenity next to Shea Barrel Mansion and again a great partnership with the Parkhurst High School with the Parkhurst School District so thanks to all of their folks too.
 else well i had the privilege of representing commissioner fritz at the groundbreaking ceremony because you were out of town and just got to tell you the excitement there in the neighborhood for this project is really strong and another particularly nice thing about that groundbreaking ceremony is that dr alice blatt was there who's been advocating for parks in east portland even longer than you have
 because she's been at it for decades and she was there dr. gray of course from the school district was there so there's a lot of some old friends of mine who I haven't seen in ten years or more Claire and Sharon Mershon who moved to the neighborhood were there so it was like old home week for me it was a lot of fun
 So, and I think also, you know, when we think about what we've just done on the comprehensive plan, remember that there's significant redevelopment planned for the adjacent property owned by the Rossi family that's going to be done in a very thoughtful, new urbanist manner. A combination of a new park and a lot of new residents along with those that have been waiting for this park for a long time. It's going to be pretty special, I think. Finally, I just, it was...
 Particularly pleasing for me as somebody who's worked with the company involved Stacy and Whitbeck to see them branch out from rail construction into park construction Some of you may or may not have worked with this company. I'll tell you one story I think you'll be pleased with them as a contractor from my experience I was a commissioner in charge of the Transportation Bureau when they were hired as a contractor to do the streetcar project which involved five miles of track construction in the middle of the city and during the entire course of that construction I didn't get a single complaint
 from a property owner or a motorist or anybody else. But I did get a couple of unsolicited letters, one of which was from a storefront merchant on 12th or 10th who said, you know, my delivery truck showed up and the construction was underway right in front of my business and the Stacey Whitbeck crew dropped their tools and unloaded my truck.
 So in terms of customer service and working with the neighborhood, I think you probably have a pretty good company to work with there. So I'm pleased to see that as well. So looking forward to seeing this great addition to the park system. Great work all around. Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, one more procurement report, 759. Okay.
 of Kodiak Pacific Construction for the Road 10 milepost 3.0 to 4.6 and Road 10 milepost 4.6 to 6.2 project for $2,020,202. Not everyone might know where Road 10 is. Laughter
 20 miles from here. Where on earth is Road 10? I'm Darren Kipper with the Portland Water Bureau, and Road 10 is in the Bull Run watershed. Right. I've seen it from the air a few times. We'll turn it over to Darren or whoever's going to start. Who's going to start? I'm Larry Pallatt from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Kodiak Pacific. The engineer's estimate on this project was $1,931,000.
 On May 26, 2016, four bids were received in response to the solicitation. Kodiak is the low bidder at $2,020,202.02, which is 4.6% over the engineer's estimate.
 Part of the project was originally scheduled for last year. However, scheduling issues necessitated delaying that to this year and combining with a similar project for this year into one larger project. The primary reason for the low bid being over the engineer's estimate is a significant change in the price of metal culvert material and generally higher labor rates in Portland market.
 The Portland Water Bureau and Procurement Services identified an aspirational goal of 20% of hard construction costs and subcontracting and supplier utilization for DMW ESB certified firms. There is $179,443, or 8.9% of certified firm subcontracting on this project. Of that, 8.7% is DBE and MBE.
 Kodiak Pacific Construction is a women-owned business, and they are retaining $1,092,240, or 54% of the prime contract work, for a total participation of almost 63% by state-certified DMWESB firms. If the Council has any questions about the bidding process, I can answer those, or Darren Kipper from the Port of Water Bureau is here to answer any technical questions about the project.
 that's a close of my colleagues who have not yet taken the tour of the bull run when this is completed the trip will be even more comfortable it's a new room did this an addition now this is a maintenance of an existing good questions it's an impressive percentage on MWSP that's great thank you both anyone want to speak on this item if not motion to accept the report please okay
 thank you gentlemen for your presentation good work hi thank you indeed I work okay very much that disposes of the remaining items on our morning agenda thanks for your patience everybody we will now move to our afternoon agenda item number 772
 adopt requirements for deconstruction of the city's oldest and most historic houses and duplexes. I'm very pleased to have this item before us following up on the resolution that the council passed some months ago. What deconstruction does is remove materials safely from a place where they have sat for a long time in their first use or original use in a Portland house.
 Doing it this way creates jobs, several jobs created versus the number that would be typical in mechanized demolition. We're taking an approach that prioritizes women and people of color to train to do this work.
 It obviously has a significant effect on taking materials to the landfill versus reusing them. It's making real part of our commitment in our climate action plan. It's viewing older houses as assets, which I think is a good point of view for us to have. And it's part of a broader effort to discourage demolition. I think this will have that effect.
 So this will apply the requirements, as you'll hear from Susan and Sean, to houses over 100 years old. As you may have noticed in my discussions about this issue, and they certainly have, I've been pacing the floor hoping we could do more than the first third of houses in the original effort here at the city, but I've been persuaded that it's smart to walk before you run. And so this approach has us taking on about a third of the typical flow of demolition that we see in the...
 course of a year look focusing on the oldest houses first and and then the council will have the chance as you'll hear to revisit how we're doing and whether we can snap now do more at some point not too far in the future
 so again i want to thank our bureau for doing great work and making this proposal real and bringing it here today and i'll turn it over to susan anderson and sean wood to take it from there thank you good afternoon mayor council susan anderson director of the bureau of planning and sustainability and sean wood with our green building program
 As the mayor mentioned, in February, you all approved a resolution and directed us to look at opportunities to promote deconstruction when, of course, a home has already been decided to tear it down. So today, we are here to review the specific code language and to hear public testimony.
 This code language will make Portland the first city in the United States to require deconstruction. Can I just note that according to this slide, you're already deconstructing the park we just built? It happens. There we go. We're planners. There we go. We're planning ahead. So.
 This ordinance here will actually make Portland the first U.S. city to require deconstruction. Several other cities around the country are looking to us. They're hoping we will move swiftly so that they can copy us. So I really appreciate your leadership on this. In the comprehensive plan, which you remember...
 that you all adopted just a few weeks ago. You provided policy direction for many, many things, and among those things was direction to encourage the salvage and reuse of building materials. It was included because of the significant human health issues, economic benefits, and carbon reduction benefits.
 So as promised, when we adopted that plan, we're trying to turn those policies into action quickly. So we're here to talk about this ordinance today. And Sean will review the ordinance and the details.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Again, I'm Sean Wood with Bureau Planning and Sustainability. And just a little bit of background on how we got here today. It was basically a year and a half ago the council had asked the Bureau to develop an advisory group to look at ways of –
 incentivizing and advancing deconstruction activity within the city. We established a deconstruction advisory group last April and we've met a total of 16 times since then. Last late August, early September, we kicked off a deconstruction grant program with initial seed funding of $50,000 from our solid waste management fund reserves.
 and have since received an additional $50,000 from DEQ to supplement that grant program. And then more recently in February, we were here with a resolution on deconstruction that Council unanimously supported, and there were three major components to that resolution, and that will basically provide the outline for staff's presentation today.
 The first was to develop code language that would require deconstruction for houses and duplexes that are seeking a demolition permit. And we would require deconstruction if those houses were built in 1916 or earlier, or designated as a historic resource regardless of age. So that helps salvage materials from our oldest and most historic buildings. The second component to the resolution was about training and certification.
 And that particular resolution said, we need to ensure that we have adequate training and certification opportunities and place a priority on women, people of color, and other disadvantaged groups or underrepresented groups in the field of construction.
 And then the third major component I call course corrections. So it was taking a look at what we do if for some reason there's unforeseen market or labor conditions out in the field that would make it difficult to keep the resolution or keep the ordinance moving forward.
 And as Mayor Hells mentioned, we are talking about 1916 for a reason. It is tempting to go farther and put other types of buildings or newer buildings into this requirement, but our advisory group, very...
 distinctly landed on 1916 for the reasons that it does represent a third of all demos. That's a reasonable first step so that we can take this first step, succeed, and then move forward with bringing in other building types or other year-built categories.
 So in terms of code development, we worked closely with the Bureau of Development Services, our deconstruction advisory group, the city attorney, and then also sought feedback on draft code language from the public during a four-week public comment period. During that time, staff met with four different neighborhood coalitions, gave briefings at the Historic Landmarks Commission, the Design Commission, the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and then also BDS's –
 Development Review Advisory Committee, or DRAC. And kind of in summary for the code language itself, the nuts and bolts of it are we're relying on the work from certified deconstruction contractors to do the work covered under this new requirement. And that ensures a level of quality of understanding of what we're talking about. It doesn't just let
 anyone come in and say, oh, we're going to deconstruct this, and then it turns out it's demolished in the end. These are going to be folks that have gone through a training and, for sure, a certification component in order to work on these projects. We'll also have
 both pre and post deconstruction forms to help identify what materials would be salvaged and then also report on what materials weren't salvaged and reasons why. And that will be accompanied with documentation like receipts for donation or sale of materials and those mirror requirements that we actually have in our deconstruction grant program so it's not totally new.
 And then a big part of code language is enforcement. It's kind of easy to say what we want. It's the harder part to ensure that you actually get it. So there's a relatively healthy amount of information in the code on enforcement. Site posting is one of the things we'll do to ensure enforcement.
 that things are happening out in the field that we want to. So it'll identify a site as being deconstructed. So if we see neighbors that have concerns about heavy machinery on site and damaging what could otherwise be usable materials, we can go out and respond to that. BPS will conduct random inspections. We do have the ability to leverage penalties and fines.
 And then something unique, I think, to this code language is since we are requiring certified deconstruction contractors, we have the ability to suspend their certification. So if they're found in noncompliance with the requirements, there's an incentive for them to stay on top of their game and not get taken off that list. Okay.
 Training and certifications, the other major part of the resolution. We worked closely with a consultant that BPS hired, Work Systems Inc., which you'll hear from here in a little bit, and also worked with a diverse stakeholder committee to come up with a training and certification plan. And we've chosen the Building Material Reuse Association.
 curriculum and then also their master trainers to play a big role in not only training and certifying contractors, but also workforce development training.
 For the training of contractors, we'll have a pool of both existing deconstruction contractors, demolition contractors, and then a really strong showing from folks that are contractors in our prime development contractor program. And those are all MWESB certified firms, and they'll actually make up a large component of the contract.
 the deconstruction contractors that will be involved with this. Can you hold this slide for a second? Yes. I'm going to have a series of questions later on capacity, but the current date is October 2016? Correct, for implement, right, for effective date. How many certified firms are there today? Zero.
 So how do we expect in the next few months to have a requisite number of firms with 500 hours of experience? So they can report those hours retroactively, so they can point to past experience. The Building Material Reuse Association, or the BMRA, for their credential requires 2,000 hours of experience. We had a conversation in our advisory group that to have 2,000 hours would be a barrier to folks that are new entrants into this field.
 I'm a big believer in taking numbers that don't mean anything and anchoring them to something that does. So, how many projects would you actually work on in order to get 500 hours of experience? If you had zero going in, so a lot.
 We chose 500 because if you have experience in construction, so not even necessarily in deconstruction, but if you have experience in construction, it should be relatively easy to document 500 hours from past experience. So the folks that will be entering the certification are going to be contractors already. They're going to have their CCB license. They're not going to be bakers that are suddenly entering the deconstruction field. How many houses were there?
 So I'll give you a concrete example. Mayor Hales decides to sell his house and they're going to deconstruct it. How many hours would I get towards my credit for deconstructing his house? So it's a little difficult to answer your question because there's a number of different categories of core competencies. Give me the most oversimplified answer you can think of. I would say maybe three houses. Okay.
 About three houses. 500 or 500. Right. It's a number that doesn't mean anything unless it's linked to the experience. So if you did roughly three houses, you might qualify under the $500. Right. But at the same time, there's core competencies that you would have to have experience in to
 in order to get that 500 hours. And a lot of those are things like site preparation and safety aspects that cross the line between whether it's new construction or deconstruction or demolition. So the BMRA actually calls this certification Deconstruction for Demo Contractors. So it provides a pathway for those that are in the field of removing houses to get this type of certification. Okay.
 And so based on – so Commissioner Fish, you asked how many are certified today. So it's zero. So we just set a date for our training time and then also location for the certified deconstruction contractor training, and that will be held July 18th at a city-owned house that's been identified to come down today.
 And we just opened up registration for that yesterday. Based on our existing deconstruction contractor workforce, as well as folks from the prime contractor development program, we're looking at least probably 12 or 15 different companies getting certified between now, actually between now and July, well, after July, the week of July 18th. So if you have 12 or 15 companies that are certified, the next question someone might ask is,
 If you follow historical patterns, how many houses might be subject to this in year one if the market doesn't change? If the market doesn't change, it will be about 100 houses would fall under this requirement. Now, that doesn't mean that other houses can't be deconstructed. It's just they wouldn't be required to. So as far as what would be under this requirement, it would be 100 houses or roughly a third of all demolitions, house and duplex demolitions. There's a fair amount of –
 unrequired deconstruction already going on in the city. That's right. Right. So there's full house. There's also partial, you know, related to remodels, kitchen deconstruction, stuff like that. Sure.
 And then the second component of the training, which can't be understated, is the workforce development. So it's great we'll have contractors identified after the week of July 18th, and we can use that to right-size how much workforce we actually need out there. So part of that is determined by how many contractors are in the field, how many folks from their existing workforce they'll use on these new projects,
 So we can right-size that afterwards. Right now we're estimating around 20 folks that would need to be trained as part of this. And Kelly Haynes from Work Systems, Inc. will describe a little bit more about how the benefits of going through this training role translate into on-the-job training benefits, and then also benefits for the contractors that hire the folks that come out of this training.
 And then the third component to the resolution was, again, what I call course correction. So there's been concerns expressed that we may not have enough workforce available when it comes time October 31st. What if the market is not there for this material? How do we hit the pause button? We've heard those concerns in our advisory group.
 During the four-week public comment period, we also heard kind of the flip side of that coin. How do we move faster? How do we get 1920s houses? How do we get 1960s, 1970s houses in here? What if this is doing really well and we want to advance this as quickly as possible? So what we ended up doing was...
 coming back to City Council at both six months and 12 months after the effective date to report on the status. And at that time, we can look at either modifying, maintaining, or expanding the program.
 We also went a step further and added under the authority of the director to suspend the requirements. So if there are market conditions or labor conditions that warrant that, we've added that. Both of those things, I think, are somewhat, especially in terms of the code, are kind of unprecedented. We don't usually set up the pause here button in code, but...
 There was enough concern, I think, that we are, as Susan mentioned, this is the first city to do this. So we're trailblazers and we're doing our best to make sure this is successful coming out of the gate. But there are going to be folks that have concerns and this is one of the ways to address that.
 Can I just ask about the suspension power for a minute? I mean, this would include suspending because there just isn't the workforce or number of contractors available to do the work that's coming in, right? Right. Do you have any preliminary ideas about...
 what the circumstances would be in which you would decide that it's appropriate to invoke suspension? Like, would you have to get calls saying, we're not going to get anybody to do the work for six months, or we can't get anybody to do the work for three months, or we can't get anybody to do the work right now? Right. So we stopped shy of setting actual thresholds
 But our advisory group will continue to meet certainly between now and October and then after October so we can keep a pulse on this. And certainly one of the most concrete items that's pointed to is what happens if it takes me three months to get somebody out on site.
 We talked about having an actual number in there. If wait time ends up being a certain amount of time, the caveat is there could be another side to that argument. It could be that a contractor is waiting until the 11th hour to call up a deconstruction contractor. I think they'll have to be a little bit of adaptation on both the deconstruction contractors but also the builders when it comes to this.
 You know, it's probably not advisable to call up a deconstruction contractor the week you need a house taken down. And that will just be part of, I think, the learning curve with all of this. But we'll rely on our advisory group for sure to see is this something that really does warrant suspension, like we need to do this right now, or is there something, some kind of log jam that we can work with the industry to correct and move forward. Thank you.
 And then we've also established a –
 that were built before 1941 or a year built 1940 or earlier, by the year 2019. We considered codifying that and actually having a series of steps where we would say, okay, after year 2017, we'll go to 1925.
 Kind of the consensus with our advisory group was let's have clear, defined goals but stop short of codifying that. That allows us to look at a number of things as we look at taking future steps and look at things like the market and the capacity and then make the right step forward.
 And this is the slide I'll finish with. I mean, one of the things that we're really fortunate to have here in Portland is a really robust both demand for the salvage material and an industry to support it. So these are all existing companies. And, you know, six months from the effective date and a year from the effective date, we'll want to come back to this and look how this landscape has changed. But this is kind of a pretty broad overview of the,
 salvage, the Portland area salvage industry ecosystem. Everything from the folks that are taking down the buildings to supplying to retails, non-profits, to the folks that are actually working with this material, the makers and then the supporters. So folks like the Building Material Reuse Association, certainly our bureau, Department of Environmental Quality,
 are all supporting this effort. DEQ is interested in financing part of the workforce training, so they see this as an important potential model for other jurisdictions in the state to see succeed. So it's definitely – there are a lot of eyes watching us in this.
 And we have a step forward when I've been in discussions with folks in Vancouver, B.C. They don't – if we did a slide like this for their industry, it wouldn't look nearly as robust. And so it's a harder lift for other jurisdictions to do something like we're considering today because they would also have to build this infrastructure and demand. We're fortunate enough to have this already in place.
 be poised to see it expand. I mean, the Habitats Restore is opening up a new store here in the next year. There's things you don't see on this slide, which are relationships between these different companies to help move supply of materials and partnerships. So we look forward to seeing that expand in the future. I was really impressed by this when Sean showed me this graphic, just that this isn't
 theoretical. Right. You know, there's a lot of capacity already there, and it just seems like, you know, Portland's in a pretty good place to be the leader on this, since we already have people who know how to do this, who have the skills, who are doing this business already, and we have a very strong interest in preserving houses that can be preserved, or at the very least, preserving the pieces of those houses that can be reused. So a combination of policy interest and actual competency is,
 It really gives us some strength here that not any other city probably at this point would have. I think when we come back with our six-month or 12-month check-in, we'll have job numbers for you a little bit because I think it would be good to really look at how many jobs are actually related to the whole salvage industry because it's probably more than we think.
 I have a few questions, Mayor. Please. You know, there's been – we've received a couple of emails, people just asking questions, and then, of course, there's been some commentary. So I think it would be helpful just to address some of those questions up front, and then we'll take testimony. The task force, what was the ultimate – was there a vote of the task force? Was there a majority opinion? Was there a minority view? How did it end up shakeout?
 So timing would have been back in December. I don't know if I'd characterize it as a vote, but we did. We kind of polled our advisory group and said, okay, how about a requirement looking at 100 years old or older and –
 Looking at that line, I think the discussion was probably more important about where that line is drawn. And so, you know, is it 5% of demos, 10%? Ultimately, we looked at a third of demos. And that was a consensus amongst the group that that would be a reasonable first step to move forward with. In general, since you had a task force, did you reach consensus on the recommendation that's coming before us? Correct. Yes. Well, and the resolution that was brought in February, right?
 And then we worked with our advisory group to draft the code language and get their input on the code language. I forgot the answer to this question from the last time it came before council, and we unanimously said yes, let's move forward. What's the difference in cost between the sort of historical way that houses are demolished and deconstruction?
 So it will range, but let's say a 2,500-square-foot house would cost $10,000 to demolish. The same-size house might cost $16,000, $17,000 to deconstruct. Okay. And is that price – if it turns out that we don't see as many certified contractors in the marketplace as quickly as we would like –
 Is it likely that that will put upward pressure on the cost since there's fewer people competing for more work? It would, and that's exactly why we've tried to figure out a way to inject the industry with additional players. Because right now there are only a few, and so when you don't have competition, you don't have innovation. And so that's one of the things that we're trying to solve for here. And I guess that leads to the…
 the biggest anxiety that we've detected out there, which is you've built in a course correction mechanism. We're hearing from some people that will like you to do a course correction now and not wait. And in a sense, in effect, they're saying that –
 you know, it's laudable to move this as quickly as possible, but unrealistic in three months to have enough firms certified, enough workers trained, and a system up and running. And so why not put that date out a little bit further so that we have more confidence that the system is ready to accommodate the demand? And I'd be the first person to –
 hop on board with that if I thought that was the case. But working closely with our advisory group and the folks that are in this industry now, the folks that are poised to enter the industry, I'm confident that we'll have all of that ready by October 31st. MR. So, Susan, would you entertain a friendly amendment on this in addition to the six-month report at the back end if we ask you to let us know in writing?
 a week or two weeks before the effective date that you believe that we have the capacity. Because the council can always push that date back if it chooses. But you're making a reasonable decision.
 projection that you're going to have in three months this set up. There's some people that are anxious about that. We don't want this system to fail. We don't want people to be backlogged and to be dealing with unreasonable costs, maybe even cost gouging if the market isn't mature enough.
 Seems to me, Mayor, if Susan came back to us a couple weeks before that effective date and gave us an update and put her best foot forward on that, that would give the council a chance to revisit that date if we thought it was still too aggressive. I like that idea. Comfortable with that, Susan? Yep. Okay.
 All right. Other questions, suggestions? I have one more thing that was raised in testimony from the home builders, and that was the suggestion that could a certified deconstructionalist certify that this house is a piece of rubbish and has nothing in it worth saving? Right. So we do have an exemption provision for both unsafe buildings as well as ones that…
 to put it frankly, like really aren't worth deconstructing. And, and there are some that will say all houses are worth deconstructing just because of the limited dust and hazmat exposure. But in our advisory group, for the most part, we agreed that, yeah, there really are some houses that shouldn't be deconstructed. We've,
 purposely left the code vague on exactly what would fall under that exemption. We'll handle that under the administrative rules for procedures. But that's certainly one of the things we've talked about, is having some sort of letter from a certified deconstruction contractor.
 The tricky part ends up becoming, is there a conflict of interest there with the certified deconstruction? It's like an arborist. Should this tree come down here? Well, except that they point out that the deconstructionist is in the business of wanting to deconstruct. Right. So that it is actually the opposite of the arborist. Right. Can I give you an example of one that would, for your administrative rules, it will be very easy, where there's a record of a fire within a period of time.
 and the house is either completely or largely demolished. I'm thinking of the house around the corner from where I live in northeast Portland, which was one of the first fires I went to when I was fire commissioner years ago. I don't think that that house was destroyed. The shell still stood, and it was unsafe. I would think that under those circumstances, and we have fewer fires, thank God, than ever before, but...
 where there's been a residential fire, I would hope there's some mechanism to verify that with the Fire Bureau and determine that that house is not worth deconstructing. Exactly. And so things like fire, rot, or mold that would either make it unsafe or unworthy to be deconstructed would certainly be things to be considered. And the...
 If you look at the exemptions, there's three. One's moving a house. You don't really need to deconstruct a house if it's going to be moved. The second one are ones where BDS has determined that they're unsafe, but that doesn't necessarily mean that a building is unsafe. Those are just ones that they have gone through, usually a nuisance process, and have identified because of complaints. Okay.
 So we want to make sure that there are also other opportunities that folks can point out that, hey, this house is listing to one side. It's in danger of collapse, and we don't want a work crew going in there and disassembling it. Thank you both. Thanks very much. And we have some invited testimony first. We have Kelly Haynes from Work Systems, Stephen Reichardt from Our United Villages and Rebuilding Center, and Jordan Jordan from Earth Advantage. So come on up. Good afternoon and welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Who would like to start? Sure, I'll start. I'm Kelly Haynes with WorkSystems. Thank you for inviting us to talk about the deconstruction work. I can speak specifically to the workforce training and hiring plan. WorkSystems worked with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and a group of stakeholders to develop a plan to ensure some of the work
 to ensure capacity over the next year in the workforce and contracting. So, you know, Sean went over a lot of the details, but I can just say that I think we convened a really broad group of stakeholders, including labor unions. The laborers were involved because they do some trainings related to deconstruction already. Okay.
 a lot of the pre-apprenticeship programs were involved. Oregon Tradeswomen came regularly, Constructing Hope and Portland Youth Builders. Then we also had a lot of the contractors involved. To me, that's the key piece in developing a training program that's responsive to hiring needs.
 in my past worked for clean energy works. And so I sort of borrowed from that model that was pretty successful over now going on six years to hire weatherization workers for energy efficiency. And what we learned and what we're applying to this is to really be in close contact with the employers themselves
 and determine through surveying regularly what workforce needs they have, and then building and planning around those responses directly.
 I think if you train 30 people at once but only five are needed in the next month, those people realistically go find another job because they need to feed their families. As much as we can plan these things so that we have a skilled and capable workforce that's super responsive to the employers and when they're ready to hire and who they want to hire, whether it's a crew lead or an entry-level person, that's the best way to design it to make sure that you have the capacity when it's needed.
 And so that's really how we designed the workforce and training program. And directly working with the pre-apprenticeship programs, because they do have seven- to nine-week programs that already pre-screen people really well, train them in construction programs.
 OSHA 10 and OSHA 30 certifications that will play well into getting a job in deconstruction. So really leveraging those existing resources, I think, is a smart thing. And also, you know, their participants are primarily women and people of color, so that will help to prioritize those populations getting into this. And I think, you know, Amy from Oregon Tradeswoman already is working with the Rebuilding Center quite a bit because it is a really good and
 entry-level position for people who are just getting into the field of construction to gain a lot of hands-on experience So that was my role in it, and I'm I'm glad to be a part and be able to contribute. Thanks So as I mentioned I represent earth advantage I also served on the city's deconstruction advisory group and
 As a member of that group, I saw firsthand a diversity of perspectives that were incorporated in the care and diligence exercise to develop an ordinance that would have a meaningful impact while maintaining achievable goals. And just as much care has been taken in the development of the code language now being considered in the workforce development plan that will build the capacity needed to ensure that the goals of the ordinance are met.
 earth advantage will play a coordinating role in the city's project manager training which will certify the list of contractors approved to deconstruct property subject to the ordinance that takes effect this fall
 In addition to established deconstruction firms like Deconstruction Services at the Rebuilding Center and Levitt Deconstruction, we expect at least 11 additional CCB-licensed contractors to complete the city's training and certification program next month, adding needed capacity to ensure that builders aren't faced with prolonged wait times to have their sites cleared.
 The professionals who represent the bulk of knowledge and experience in the local deconstruction and material reuse industries will be engaged in ensuring that the goals of the ordinance are met. A number of builders have already shown leadership on this issue by voluntarily deconstructing some of their projects, and many others that I've spoken to have expressed an interest in finding opportunities to divert waste from their projects. Thank you.
 In my role as project consultant and materials broker for EarthAdvantage, it's my job to connect builders, developers, and contractors with the resources that they need to efficiently and cost-effectively meet their project's waste diversion goals. And I'll continue to do that while helping them comply with this ordinance.
 I'll serve as a resource to help manage the flow of materials, connecting clients with destinations for their reusable materials, and helping those in search of quality reclaimed materials find what they're looking for. My role is a small part of a growing local material reuse industry, which will both support and benefit from policies like this one. And the benefits of this ordinance will be felt throughout the community.
 Dozens of jobs will be created largely for people from underserved and underrepresented communities. Many local contractors will expand their operations. Local nonprofit and for-profit material resellers will have greater access to quality materials, which will largely be kept here in the community serving local residents. And hundreds of tons of reusable material will be diverted from local waste stream, from our local waste stream each year.
 So I believe that the adopted ordinance is a meaningful step forward, and I appreciate your leadership on this issue. Thanks for your help, Jordan. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you. It's good to be here once again. My name is Stephen Reichert, and I serve as the Executive Director of the Rebuilding Center. The Rebuilding Center deconstructs homes and occasionally commercial structures, salvaging the materials for resale in our warehouse in North Mississippi Avenue and reinvesting our profits, such as they are, back into the community.
 We've been working closely with the Deconstruction Advisory Group and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to develop the training and certification program that we'll be rolling out. And, indeed, I plan to take the management course myself in July, and I'm very much looking forward to that. We are also pleased with the proposed code language that's been developed by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability in consultation with the Deconstruction Advisory Group.
 The historic resolution that was adopted by City Council on February 17th, mandating the deconstruction of all homes older than 100 years, is tremendously exciting for us and for the entire deconstruction industry across the United States. It was a focal point of a national conference that was held by the Building Materials Reuse Association on the East Coast in March and has been the subject of much discussion around the country.
 There is an intimate relationship between the deconstruction industry and the provision of meaningful work with meaningful wages and benefits to individuals who do not traditionally have access to such opportunities, including people of color, women, veterans, criminal justice-involved individuals. And we are looking forward to the opening that this ordinance creates to offer more such opportunities to,
 to individuals such as this in the fall and well into the future as we extend the mandate to newer homes and, with any luck, to commercial structures as well. At the Rebuilding Center, we believe that true sustainability refers not only to the environmental impact but also to the impact
 of economic development. So truly sustainable development must offer real economic opportunity for everyone, while simultaneously protecting the environment for future generations. So we view the deconstruction ordinance through this lens are tremendously gratified by the action of Portland City Council. And if I could just go off script for a moment, sort of address some of the issues that arose earlier
 I was on the phone this morning with a contractor who has served diligently on the Deconstruction Advisory Group for the last year and a half. And he said to me that, you know, it was with some reluctance and trepidation that he participated in this entire process over the last 15 or so months, but that he, in the end,
 went along and supported this because he felt that the process was fair, that there was lots of give and take, and that we reached a reasonable accommodation for everyone involved. And so I just wanted to offer that to you. And thanks a lot. Well, thank you. Well, Steve, you know, you and your business already have a lot of credibility on this issue, but I've got to say that wrist brace takes it to a whole new level. Yeah.
 It's more of a metro issue. I hit one of those street tracks last week. So thanks a lot. All right. Thank you. All right. I think that's it for invited testimony. I know there's some other folks signed up to speak. So let's call those, please. We have six people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Terry Parker, Shedrick Wilkins, and Jay Veronica Bernier. Come on up. Barbara Kerr. All right, Shedrick, you can go ahead, please.
 Go ahead. You go first? Sure. Go ahead. I'm sorry, were you first here? I didn't remember the order. It doesn't matter. Go ahead, please. He's being gracious. I'm going to go first? Yes. Go ahead. Okay. I just want to say briefly that when I think of deconstruction, I think about the tragic death of an actor named Steve McQueen. He was a great actor, a Hollywood actor. He...
 In World War II, he worked in a vestos, around a vestos, and got melathinia, and he died painful. It was in his career. He was like 50, and it was tragic.
 I think he wasn't aware at all that he was dealing with this abyssus material, which is commonly used in houses in the 1940s. But what I'm saying is when you smash up a house and there's little kids walking by in the wind, we need to take into consideration that this could harm him and honor Steve McQueen to kind of say that we are aware of this now and honors his death.
 And it was very tragic. I liked the actor. He was pretty good. And maybe someday, if this is the first city, maybe a Los Angeles, California, where Hollywood will adopt the same deconstruction process and will honor both Portland and Steve McLean. Thank you. Terry, welcome. Thank you. Terry Parker from northeast Portland.
 The preservation of existing affordable single-family homes needs to be one of the city's top priorities. Way too many of Portland's quality-built, viable, and starter homes are being demolished, most of them by using diesel smoke belching excavators that create clouds of lead paint and asbestos dust. That dust then lands on neighboring properties, including homes, yards, and schools.
 If a house is torn down, the sustainability and preservation tools must be found within the deconstruction toolbox. In the 1920s, Portland was in the midst of a new home building boom. These homes are of high-quality construction built with old-growth lumber.
 Another building boom took place after World War II. When one of these homes is slated for demolition, it is a crime not to preserve the reusable materials, irreplaceable lumber, and historical artifacts such as period window frames, interior moldings and trim, and other materials of character that otherwise could not be replaced.
 The proposed deconstruction policy only applies to approximately one-third of the homes that are demolished nearly every year. Extending and amending the deconstruction mandate to include homes built with old growth lumber in the years from 1917 to 1930 and then to full implementation that would include all homes demolished cannot come soon enough.
 These homes must not continue to be crunched up into a pile of debris only to be dumped in a landfill. Deconstruction as opposed to mechanical demolition needs to become the standard and the norm. Finally, instead of accepting delay and claptrap excuses from the development community, grasp the opportunity today to reduce lead paint dust and other hazmat issues, create new jobs, and even add more vibrancy to an already thriving reuse marketplace.
 There is an unmet demand of reusable product for both restoration and repurposing uses. Take the field of dreams approach. Implement a fast-paced track to a full implementation of the deconstruction mandate and then watch sustainability soar to new heights.
 And another thing that I wanted to say, and I didn't really know quite how to write it since I have three minutes, is that some of the air quality monitoring stations have actually detected demolitions that are nearby. There's a spike in their bad air quality. And the lead paint, it was used through the 70s. So it is an important issue. I mean, we're not telling Bullseye, well, go ahead and –
 do what you're doing until you install proper equipment, we're saying, hey, we've got a problem here. We've got a problem here with demolitions, too, and creating this dust. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Barbara, welcome. My name is Barbara Kerr. I am the United Neighborhoods Reform Representative to the Deconstruction Advisory Group.
 UNR is excited that the ordinance begins requiring deconstruction for houses if they must be demolished. However, the ordinance does not include a commitment to move beyond houses built prior to 1917 or that are historic. Neither does it yet address multifamily housing, accessory dwellings, accessory structures, or commercial buildings. In light of our increased awareness of the toxins in our air and the dangers of lead and asbestos, this is no longer acceptable and, in fact, highly irresponsible, with
 Within two years, the cutoff needs to be moved up to 1978, the year lead was banned in consumer products. Houses built prior to 1917 are, as Sean said, one-third of our current demolitions. Requiring the next one-third by fall of 2017 would take us to 1940. From there to 1978, by fall of 2018, would reach a milestone in keeping lead out of our air, along with asbestos and other toxins.
 Builders, like glass manufacturers, need to be responsible for the pollution they produce. Deconstruction is an easy way for them to do it. It is the inconvenience of working deconstruction into a schedule and the possible increased cost at a small fraction of the price of a house, especially if the price is what the market will bear anyway, more important than the learning disabilities that can result for even one child from even a tiny amount of lead.
 Once the deconstruction industry ramps up to meet increased demand this year, they will have met the initial most difficult challenges. If later substantial problems arise, the schedule can be delayed. The impact on public health and the environment, however, cannot be delayed. To make the transition to deconstruction a success, quality standards must be set from the beginning. The training programs will be a major influence, but the code needs to set a higher standard and enforcement needs to be even stronger.
 The certified deconstruction contractor who is assigned to the project needs to visit the job on a daily basis if the work is being done by a crew not trained in deconstruction.
 The ordinance allows exemptions for buildings deemed by BPS to be unsuitable for deconstruction if, quote, more than 50% by weight of otherwise reusable materials in the structures are not suitable for reuse because they are damaged, deteriorated, hazardous, or missing, end quote. To meet the goals of the ordinance, however, the only reason not to deconstruct is potential danger to the deconstruction crew. Thank you.
 Materials being deemed not reusable has nothing to do with their potential to pollute the neighbors if pulverized by mechanical demolition, especially if the materials are damaged or deteriorated by mold or fire. Not having enough materials has nothing to do with keeping what is there in the reuse stream and out of the landfill. Exemption based on missing materials invites further incidences of the current problem of houses being stripped of easily removed valuable parts before demolition permits are granted in order to avoid regulation.
 The fines are too low. Deconstruction doesn't always cost more, but on some jobs, even $10,000 can be less than the difference, which doesn't deter smashing a house. The ordinance recalls for inspections as necessary. There needs to be inspections as there are with electrical, plumbing, etc., with at least one before the job starts, so inspectors will have knowledge of materials and initial condition of the house.
 We are on our way, but the stakes are too high to take our time. We are asking you to set a two-year timeline to a 1978 cutoff, strengthen the enforcement code, and empower Sean and the BPS to support this vital transition. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your help. Okay, others that are signed up? I have two more. Paul Grove and Mike Mitchoff. Come on up, please.
 Mayor Hales, members of council, for the record, Paul Grove with the Portland Home Builders. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today. Submitted written testimony. You can certainly review at your convenience. A number of the issues that we raise in our testimony were discussed in the earlier panel. We noted three issues.
 considerations moving forward around the capacity that we talked about in terms of the firms and the workforce, meeting that need by the October 31st deadline, and certainly appreciate the friendly amendment that was offered by Commissioner Fish on that front. I think it makes sense to check in in advance of that date to make sure that we're progressing accordingly. And secondly, I think,
 We talked about, and that also touched upon the timing considerations as well, the effective date, and if that indeed makes sense. We also talked about the cost considerations as well in the testimony, noting it could be upwards of $8,000 to $10,000 of additional project costs and what that looks like in terms of the cost of housing.
 ultimately being borne out in the cost of a home. I think the last thing we want to see is an unintended consequence to inadvertently raise housing prices if there are delays or other things that accompany this on that front.
 One of the things, though, that we noted and we mentioned back in February, and I want to be very clear, is really commend BPS effort on this front. Sean has been very good and very professional to work with. We've discussed a number of the items in terms of some of the potential considerations for refinement around BPS.
 director discretion and what that looks like in terms of if there is capacity or timing issues, working with the certified firms to look at what that exemption piece looks like. And Sean's been very – and BPS have been very good to work with. The Deconstruction Advisory Group has been very good to work with on this front. We do outline the potential consideration for a sustainable funding source around –
 I know that there is the grant program at some point in time. If that is exhausted, what does that look like moving forward to help mitigate that cost? I also think for potential consideration moving forward, let's reward the grant program
 Those firms that are engaging in a deconstruction and are building at a higher standard, a higher performance standard around energy efficiency. And is there the prospect for a rebate on that front if they exceed code standards and to lessen our residential carbon footprint, presumably build longer, better end product at the end of the day?
 Those are some items outlined in the testimony. I really believe there's a great opportunity, as we noted in February, around the workforce development piece, to partner with the trades, to help the construction industry, the trades, to do this and provide a career pathway for folks that otherwise
 you know, have been disenfranchised in the past. And I think we want to be at the table as part of that conversation and look to help refine the proposal as best possible before it becomes effective. There have been a lot of metaphors out there, and I'll just quote John Wooden and say, I think it's important to be quick, but don't hurry. And the more thoughtful we can be in this approach, the better off it's going to be to ensure its success. Thank you. Paul, can I ask you a question? Yes. I appreciate your testimony. We've had two people testify before you that we should –
 tighten this up to have some kind of certification process around hazardous materials in connection with the deconstruction. As you know, the Multnomah County Health Department tests children – actually, I think we pay for it – to determine whether children have elevated levels of, let's say, lead. And I'm just going off memory, but in the last three years, they've tested about 5,000 children –
 Several hundred children tested elevated levels. They then do what they call investigations. In almost, I believe in 100% of the instances, they traced it back to either lead paint or, in some cases, lead in the toys that children's using. And a couple times it was lead in kitchen utensils.
 notably not a single one so far of lead in the water. But to the extent we've identified lead as a hazard, and we're talking about lead paint, the dust, et cetera, do you have any thoughts about how, as we move to a deconstruction process, we can ensure the highest level of safety with respect to lead?
 I think I appreciate the question, Commissioner Fish, and hopefully I do it justice in my answer. It's certainly an issue and an item for concern for the association industry and its members. And we're very active on this front in terms of our lead-based training courses and other things to get folks engaged.
 up to speed so that we can do the best possible work on that front to, you know, ensure safety for our residents. So I think there is a strong role for the association to enhance that, to partner with others, these firms, to make that a more robust effort. Thank you. Other questions? Yes.
 um question paul for either you or for mike uh how far in advance would a home builder typically know they might be demolishing or deconstructing the home i'll defer to uh to mike on that please and then go ahead and give us the rest of your thoughts too okay um how far in advance i i would say immediately when you know you're you know if you're if you're a builder and you're in the market of building homes i think you know pretty quickly i i i'll speak for myself
 Well, I guess let me clarify. I'm trying to figure out what would the normal lead time be between hiring – I mean if you're going to go out and hire somebody to demolish a home, is it because you decided a week ago that you're going to demolish a home? Oh, no. Or is it months or – I would say months. Okay. I know months, if not more, in advance. Okay. Yeah. So you would – I mean –
 Hopefully that means that you would have months to find somebody to – if you needed to do deconstruction, you would have some time, not just a couple of weeks. I mean across all the trades, I would say most of my subcontractors know well more than a month in advance that they're going to be doing the work, if not two or three. Please, go ahead. Okay.
 First, thank you for the opportunity to say a few words about the proposed mandate. My name is Mike Mitchoff. I'm a fourth-generation Portlander, local builder, remodel of affordable homes, and active member of the Residential Infill Project Stakeholder Advisory Committee. I'd like to share my experience and thoughts regarding deconstruction.
 To be clear, I am in support of deconstruction. In general, I have always and will continue to implement the process of my everyday business practice in some form or another. That said, I've always viewed deconstruction as a choice, part of a voluntary bigger picture solution. I've always tried to be environmentally progressive and conduct myself and my business practices the right way and view deconstruction as a good fit for me.
 Clearly, I'm one of the few that have a real-life experience in deconstructing houses. If you've done one single deconstruction, you know how time-consuming, difficult, expensive, dirty, and challenging it can be.
 There's no doubt that deconstruction in some form or another is a good idea. There are benefits. But in my experience, the yield and unintended consequences from full deconstruction is where I'm conflicted for a few reasons. Number one, in my experience, I would say that around 50% or more of the actual economic value created by deconstructing can be achieved in two working days via a partial deconstruction of a house.
 basically harvesting the cabinets, hardware, millwork, plumbing and electrical fixtures, landscaping, hardscape. Basically, it can all be efficiently and effectively moved quickly. Number two, the cost, as you guys well know. The true cost isn't just mechanical demolition versus labor hours to deconstruct. There's a lot of factors we need to consider. A simple example.
 $350,000 to $400,000 project that gets delayed a couple months, you know, equals $3,000 to $4,000 per month to carry that project. I think we all know who will ultimately bear that expense, renters and homebuyers.
 And how about the reclaimed material itself? Am I supposed to simply give it away as a donation? There are only a handful of companies that accept it or buy it, and oftentimes when their inventories swell, they get considerably pickier with what we give them. I love donating material, but let's be real. We donate out of the goodness of our heart, not as a business decision. Let's not kid ourselves into thinking that the cost of deconstruction can be offset by a tax deduction.
 Number three, the health concerns. On the surface, it seems like mechanical demolition is dirtier, less environmentally friendly. I would encourage you to go to one of these sites. Workers routinely remove their masks and expose themselves to who knows what. So my question is, is exposing five to eight workers eight hours a day for three weeks at a time doing a house simply worth it? Yeah.
 As far as I think if water consumption is a concern, how about simply deconstructing on a rainy day? We have lots of those around here. You've kind of addressed some capacity concern. Number five is the net yield.
 i love i love reclaimed old growth lumber as a matter of fact my brother started and operates a large-scale wood reclamation company here in portland i install i install it in virtually every single one of my new homes i believe in reclaiming and reusing the old growth wood from these houses my concerns are twofold in regard to yield consider the resources it takes to remove a single stud from the wall and rafters of a house let alone all of them and number two what is that reclaimed stud going to be used for
 I can promise you from experience that it will not likely be used in the construction of a new home. Auxiliary structures like a shed or a treehouse, high-end design paneling, or flooring at Starbucks, or an art project maybe. A new home, I just don't think so. One of my business mottos is to think it through. I really think that we need to look deeper, beyond what sounds and feels good. I would encourage you and the other people here today to think it through as well.
 I would encourage you, as the leaders of our community and all of the other citizens of our wonderful city, to really evaluate the entire scope of this proposal. Deconstruction is no doubt a very progressive alternative to mechanical demolition, but I fear unintended consequences. Given my hands-on experience, I support partial deconstruction and ideally the creation of some sort of incentive-based full deconstruction model.
 The city deconstruction grant program is a great start, but we need to do what we can to incentivize this process so more people want to participate rather than creating another costly barrier to entry that ultimately gets passed on to renters and homeowners. I can let you wrap up. Yeah, okay.
 Something along the lines of the SDC waiver program, 10-year tax abatement program, something along those lines. I just think we need to set this thing up for success. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Appreciate you being constructive critics and participants in this process. Thank you. Okay, anyone else want to speak on this item?
 Further questions from council? This is not an emergency ordinance. We'll come back. I just have some comments I want to make, and maybe there's some other questions. This hearing really illustrates a couple of things. I think, one, that there is a division of opinion about how fast we should move on this. And again, I think this process has been very good in terms of airing those concerns and also trying to calibrate our approach.
 Secondly, frankly, this is classic Susan Anderson in that this woman has an ability to find the sweet spot where we move thoughtful progress at just the right pace. We've got the housing industry concerned about this, but I would frankly characterize their position as not up in arms, but positive.
 skeptical. We have neighborhood activists wanting us to go a little faster and we figured out ways to do this that are as practical as possible. You know, back to Mike's comments, you know, frankly, I want it to be time-consuming, difficult, and expensive when we throw away 100 years of history.
 So that's okay with me. And yet we've also tried to mitigate those effects. Another talent of Susan's that's shown up in this issue is that she selects great staff, and I think Sean's done stellar work on this. And the third is that she's always finding money for things from other sources, including from DEQ in this case, to help.
 advance the grants. So they've done a great job of leveraging the dollars that the council gave for what was a prototyping level work here into what's now going to be policy. So I just want to appreciate the good work that you've done and that we've had a great process of involvement from the community, including the building community, in getting us to this point.
 So, again, as I said at the outset, I would be inclined to go a little farther faster if I was left to my own devices, but I've been persuaded that I think the council should return to this question soon, but not necessarily start at a point where it would be questionable as to whether we would succeed.
 I just wanted to thank, by the way, I think classic Susan Anderson will become one of the highest terms of praise in the city. It should be. I want to thank Susan and Sean for all of their work on this very thoughtful proposal. I also want to thank Commissioner Fish for his suggestion because I want to see deconstructions happen, largely because of the climate benefits, and I think that reducing carbon emissions should be, to borrow a phrase from Star Trek, our prime directive.
 But I want it to actually work as a deconstruction program, so I think we need to be sensitive about the concerns that there won't be enough capacity in terms of contractors and workforce to actually get this done. And I think given that homebuilders are going to know sometime in advance what homes they're going to deconstruct –
 then they will know a couple of weeks in advance of the start date whether they're really running into problems. So Commissioner Fish's suggestion that we get a report a couple of weeks before this actually goes live, I think is a great way of addressing that concern. So thank you, Commissioner Fish. Other comments or questions? Again, thank you all. Great hearing. This will come back on second reading next week. And we're going to take a ten-minute recess because our next item is a four o'clock time certain, so we'll see you in ten minutes. Did you already do that? We had all these orange ones. We've got to mess up other regular agenda items.
 Okay, we'll get started again. Thank you, everyone. Good afternoon. Let's take item 773, please. Amend public benefits of Google Fiber Oregon LLC franchise. Ms. Henry, come on up. This is good work, and I'm glad we're here. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and Council. I'm Mary Beth Henry with the Office for Community Technology. I'm pleased to be here today to ask you to support a franchise amendment for Google Fiber. Thank you.
 The original franchise was negotiated and approved two years ago, and since that time our community came together to develop a digital equity action plan to address the needs of those who aren't online because they can't afford it, don't have a device, and or they don't know how to use the Internet. I want to thank you members of the council for funding the digital equity position
 which sent a strong signal to the community and the Internet service providers that Portland takes digital equity seriously and that we expect them to as well. Google Fiber continues to work proactively with city staff on the possibility of bringing its gigabit broadband service to Portland and has made considerable progress over the last year in securing the necessary rights to deploy its network.
 In anticipation of these efforts coming to fruition, Google Fiber and city staff have developed franchise language to better reflect the newly adopted goals of the Digital Equity Action Plan. Both parties agreed that making some modifications would be mutually beneficial in light of the city's new plan.
 Google Fiber also learned more about impactful ways of addressing digital equity and is focused on working with affordable housing providers like Home Forward and working with libraries and nonprofits to expand capacity to address affordability, devices, and digital literacy training.
 As is usually the case, we arrived at this point today thanks to a team effort, and I'd like to thank Ben Walters of the City Attorney's Office and Rebecca Gibbons and Kim Whalen of my office, as well as Brendan Finn with Commissioner Saltzman and Josh Alpert of the Mayor's Office.
 I'd also like to give a shout-out to the Google Fiber team, and I am pleased to say that every one of your portfolios has been involved in this project. Alex Bejarano, David McEldowney, Ryan Mace, and Bob Haley of PBOT, Sylvia Kate, Andy Galizia, Douglas Hardy, and Andy Peterson of Development Services.
 Eli Callison, Jocelyn Tunnard of Bureau of Environmental Services, Tom Klutz and Ben Gossett of Water, Kevin Martin of Planning and Sustainability, Pauline Goebel, David Berg and Beth Fox with OMF, Frank James of Parks, and, of course, my staff, Kim Whalen, Rebecca Gibbons, Julie O'Malchuk, Jennifer Lee, Melvin Riddick and Josh Eddings. As I said, there are a lot of people involved.
 The amendment focuses on the public benefits as well as franchise term. The remainder of the original franchise is not modified. As you all know so well, Portland's authority to franchise stems from our oversight of the community's right-of-way. The amendment provides for Google Fiber to offer products that seek to narrow the digital divide, including service offerings that will expand residential access,
 in areas of low broadband adoption. Google Fiber will work with affordable and public housing providers to identify dwelling units where it may offer internet at no cost to residents. Google Fiber will also support local organizations to teach digital literacy to residents, demonstrate the importance of broadband in communities with limited broadband access, and help unconnected residents subscribe to broadband.
 As part of this process, Google is funding two digital fellows, one at FreeGeek and one with Multnomah County Libraries. The amendment further provides for a digital equity support fee of 3% to be used for implementation of the Digital Equity Action Plan and the Broadband Strategic Plan. The fees will be overseen by the Office for Community Technology. OCT staff believe that a new entrant in the marketplace
 may result in an uptick in subscribership overall, though some cannibalization may occur as cable subscribers may choose to switch in a competitive marketplace. The amendment also provides the opportunity for the City and Google Fiber to mutually agree to joint fiber construction to reduce costs.
 This has incredible potential for the city to expand its government-only network, Ernie, to meet the public sector's growing broadband needs over the coming years, thereby saving the city money. The franchise term is being extended by two years to 2026 to provide 10 years in which Google Fiber will hopefully provide competitive gigabit services in Portland.
 The extension will also assure that the revised public benefits obtained in the amendment will be provided for an additional two years. Important to remember that these public benefits are in addition to the 5% fee already included in the Google Fiber franchise.
 It represents an opportunity for our community, and I'd like to thank Google Fiber for its willingness to negotiate new public benefits in light of the city's Digital Equity Action Plan and evolving best practices in addressing digital inclusion.
 OCT staff expect an overall increase in economic activity and other benefits as a result of a widespread residential fiber deployment. While metrics specific to Portland are not available, the Broadband Strategic Plan and my office's white paper called The Case for Fiber in Portland, The Benefits Gigabit Networking Offers a Community,
 identified that fiber to the home has significant economic development impacts that stimulate the local economy. New jobs held by people who pay taxes, as well as positive impacts in education, health care, transportation, and sustainability. A competitive broadband marketplace will benefit consumers who will have a choice of providers. And I'm happy to answer questions.
 I have a question, Mary Beth. Mary Beth, the flip side of closing the digital divide is that we are potentially putting more people in harm's way. And let me give you a few examples. The city of Portland has some of the most sophisticated filters on their computer and on their Internet systems,
 And I daily get fraudulent bank solicitations, fraudulent credit card solicitations, spam phishing. I get viruses attached to documents. I get solicitations from banks asking me to confirm my Social Security number and my other information, which even someone as unsophisticated as me knows how to filter those out because it's not a bank with which I have a relationship. And I can go on and on and on. Recently at home,
 We hit a new low when I got a phone call on my message, my phone, a message that said that a gentleman in the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office had some legal papers. Would I please call to arrange service? When I called, the number didn't work. When I called the gentleman through the directory, he said that his name had been appropriated in his scam, so people were getting calls in his name around legal documents. Okay.
 So the bad guys are getting very sophisticated. And one of the flip sides of closing the digital divide and allowing low-income families, older adults, and others to access the Internet is that people who prey precisely on those kinds of people have a new avenue. What commitment do we have from Google that they are taking adequate steps to protect people who are connected to the Internet?
 Well, I actually think that the responsibility really more lies with the organizations that are doing digital literacy training. And we found in our outreach with the very populations that you're talking about that they have real concerns about privacy and the issues that you've outlined.
 and asked if as part of our plan we could provide for the kind of training that would help them, help protect them from those who prey on, you know, people using the Internet. So I don't know that there's a perfect solution, and Google Fiber representatives are here, and I'm sure they'd be happy to address this issue, but I think it's,
 the community and our responsibility to provide the digital literacy training to equip people so that they can navigate the internet safely. And so I'm just going to respectfully disagree with that because I don't think it's a question of literacy. I think the bad guys are one step ahead of us. And they are so sophisticated in sending fake and fraudulent solicitations.
 Plus, the way Google Search works, I've noticed that I'm now inundated with stuff that I don't want or don't need, but it's all pegged to my age and my circumstances. So they are tracking my viewing habits, my commercial transactions and other things. And I have now squarely, I guess, reached senior citizen status because on a daily basis, I'm offered prosthetics.
 miracle health drugs, all kinds of things about extending my life, blah, blah, blah, burial insurance. And these are not things in the ordinary course that I've sought. I think the bad guys are one step ahead of us. And if you're going to put an older, and I consider myself a reasonably sophisticated person, and I'm no match for the kind of people who are out there.
 If you put someone who's 70, 80, 90 years old who now wants to do their banking online and other things, and they're getting constantly bombarded with fraudulent solicitations, all the education in the world isn't going to prevent that person from inadvertently clicking onto an email, having a virus kick in, and having their data stolen. So...
 I'd like us to think about ways we can be more aggressive in protecting people. And again, I think it's the flip side of what we're doing in terms of closing the digital divide. We're opening up a broader market for people that are unscrupulous. And there are a lot of unscrupulous people now using the Internet for bad purposes. And I'm not singling out Google as being a facilitator, but I think Google could actually be a problem solver.
 Other comments? And there is an incognito search that you can use next time you're doing a Google search. This issue came up at the Digital Inclusion Network last week. Go incognito. I think Commissioner Fish might need to use that. I don't know who you're corresponding with, but I'm not getting all that stuff. So I'm not sure. I actually use prosthetics, and I don't get those ads. Communicating with the wrong guy. Okay.
 I know that question was serious.
 since devolved into reality. You mentioned that the library and Free Geek were chosen to be the fellows. Was there a competitive process for that? Yes. So the process was run by an organization, a national organization that's actually headquartered here in Portland called NTEN, the Nonprofit Technology Organization. And they solicited...
 organizations, nonprofits from throughout Portland to compete to host a digital fellow. And Free Geek and the libraries won. And it's my understanding that Google and we have learned a lot from other cities that have had high-fiber networks prior to this one. Is that correct?
 Yes, and throughout this process, we have been talking with our colleagues in the other Google Fiber cities to learn what works, how to move forward. And the message from most of the communities was that it's a partnership and partnership.
 We address issues together. And that's what this ordinance reflects, is amending ours to learn from others' experiences, both good and bad. And it really reflects the last two years of our community putting together the digital equity plan. We didn't have that. We had our broadband plan, which called on us to develop a digital equity plan, but...
 So this really reflects that work from the community, and I think some of the members who helped put that plan together are here to testify today. And it's rare and delightful that we go from planning to implementation so quickly, and I really appreciate all your work. It's so much fun. Thank you. Other questions, comments? Yes.
 Thank you very much. And do we have some invited testimony, or do we have just folks signed up to speak? Well, the Google Fiber representatives are here, and then I believe there were citizens who signed up as well. Okay. Come on up, please. Let's have Google Fiber first, and then anyone else who would like to speak. Mayor, if Google Fiber wants to make any other announcement today, shall we give them the next extra couple of minutes? We can even do a drum roll. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for having us today. My name is Brian Bell, and I oversee expansion work for Google Fiber in the western United States, joined by my colleague Chris Taylor, who oversees business operations here for the Fiber team in Portland. So we're thrilled to be here today to talk to you about this amendment. Thank you.
 Google Fiber was created with the goal of making broadband better and more accessible to more people. One thing we're proud of is that we've partnered with cities on the important issue of closing the digital divide. As you heard from Mary Beth, one thing we're thrilled about with this amendment is that it aligns our franchise requirements with the great work that the city of Portland is doing.
 So, Portland is a leader on digital equity issues. We congratulate the city on the progress that's made with the Digital Equity Action Plan and really look forward to continuing our work together on this important issue. So Google Fiber is a technology at heart. We're always seeking to innovate and change and be nimble so that we're taking account of the latest technologies and the latest thinking on complex issues.
 So, since we launched our first network back in 2011 in Kansas City, we've learned a lot. And as you heard from Mary Beth, some of the commitments and ideas contained in the franchise just from two years ago no longer reflect the latest and greatest way to approach some of these tough issues. So, I want to highlight just a few of the things that we've changed in our most recent approaches to digital equity issues.
 So the first, as Mary Beth mentioned, is we are partnering with the federal housing department of housing and urban development to offer free gigabit service to public housing facilities. So we will work to identify properties that make sense to deploy free service to those residents with no additional fees.
 The second is that we develop targeted products and services to make available to the most digitally divided parts of the community. And so those are lower cost options to help people who haven't been online the first time potentially take that first step and get online. Third, we invest heavily in local partnerships and really know that there is a lot of great work going on in the community. And if we can partner with those organizations already making a difference, we can really
 team up to have an even bigger impact. And we're thrilled with the partnerships that are already off and running here in Portland. So Portland's home to the Digital Inclusion Fellowship Program, which is a partnership between Google Fiber and Portland's own nonprofit technology enterprise network, N10, which recruits and trains emerging community leaders on digital equity engagement. And this year, N10 announced that two Portland-area organizations have been selected as hosts for our Digital Inclusion Fellowship.
 which are the Noni County Library and Free Geek. And they both serve as national exemplars of innovation and digital inclusion work, and we're thrilled to partner with them. We know this has been a long exploration process for Google Fiber and the city over the last couple years, but we continue to make great progress and have overcome some significant issues through our great work with our city, county, and the partners we have in the surrounding community.
 So this franchise amendment is another important step along our journey as we explore bringing fiber here. And we hope to bring super fast internet to Portland and look forward to continuing the partnership. I want to conclude by extending a thank you to Ben Walters from the city attorney's office and the other staff members who have worked on this, including especially Mary Beth Henry, who has been a tireless advocate for digital inclusion and digital equity issues and has been invaluable.
 an amazing partner as we've worked through the complicated issues that necessarily arise when seeking to deploy a network in a new city. So thank you, Mary Beth. Thank you for having us here today, and we're happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much. Chris, welcome. Thank you. I'm really just here to answer questions if you have them. I think Brian covered it. All right. Questions for the Google Fiber team? You know, this has been a long courtship. What are the remaining barriers to bringing Google here?
 Sure. Great question. Deploying a network is complex. There are a lot of moving pieces. Some of them require actions from the city and some don't. There's a lot of internal work that happens along the network design, business modeling, construction costs. So
 We can't point to any one thing or one or two things that are left to go, but we are excited about the progress and hope to keep pushing forward and getting closer to having clarity on that. Are there any additional regulatory hurdles in Portland? I think –
 Chris may be able to speak as one of our local team members, but I know that we've recently received approval for certain network cut real estate approvals, and there will be others down the road. So things are moving forward. There's still some pieces, but in terms of outstanding obstacles, big hurdles to clear at this time, I can't think of any that are...
 in the immediate future. Yeah, we still have more work to do, but so far all of the actual pending actions that are before the city, we've been very pleased with the outcome, this being one of them, but I don't want to make any assumptions until you have your second reading. But no, we don't have any major issues
 pending proposals that haven't been. And I think that speaks to the great work of staff and the city, the leadership the city has had on supporting this project. It is complex. Lots of issues come up, and it has been a great partnership with the city. It's good to hear. Thank you. It's great. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Thank you. Thank you. Are there others that are here to speak on this item? We have a sign-up sheet for public testimony. I'll show nine people signed up. Okay. The first three, please come on up, are Shedrick Wilkins...
 Colleen Dixon and Samuel Pastrick. Okay, come on up please. Go ahead. I'm Shedrick Wilkins and I echo Commissioner Fish's concern about unscrupulous people using high speed cable for internet. I worry too that I read a story about computers being used, for example, in England if you go to a doctor and they give you a chest x-ray, the doctor in England is required to look
 and not just send it high speed to some AI machine that looks at it and sees if you have a tumor. In this country, sometimes the doctor will just fax the x-ray high speed, go golf, and then get flagged later on. In England, it's required that a doctor look at the x-ray first and not get lazy, right, and let some computer do it, right,
 and then say, oh, and there have been situations where the computer doesn't see something, and the doctor should have looked at it.
 Colleen Dixon, I'm the director of development and public services at FreeGeek. Last time I was in this chair we were talking about passing the digital equity action plan and thank you for that work. I just want to say that the resources that it takes to make that work an actual reality, make a plan in action is a big thing that we need as both nonprofit organizations and as a movement for digital equity within the community.
 We're happy to be a part of that work and we are thrilled to have the support of the fee through Google to support the plan and then also to be a recipient of the Digital Inclusion Fellowship and to do more digital literacy education work in the community and build out our programs which hopefully will help to support some of these questions and concerns through community-based organizing.
 Great. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Good job not reading from notes, Colleen. That's pretty usual. Good afternoon. I'm Sam Patrick, and I'm here today with CUB of Oregon. As Colleen said, I was also here in April to encourage adoption of Resolution 37199, which, of course, directs the City Office for Community Technology to implement the Digital Equity Action Plan, the DEEP.
 So I'm here today to encourage adoption of the proposed amendments to the 2014 ordinance granting franchise to Google Fiber to construct and operate a fiber network here in Portland. The DEEP, as you folks know, captures really the hard work of the Digital Inclusion Network. Many folks are here today since 2014 and outlines specific operational and policy proposals for
 public and private agencies along with non-profits like cub and to advance the cause of digital equity in the city of portland and also multnomah county at large so a clear theme throughout the deep is a need for for partner organizations to have access to sustainable funding mechanisms to implement those strategic goals so in short really to execute the plan and in cub's opinion
 intended and to its fullest potential is really, you know, that reliable funding is paramount. So the proposed digital equity support fee, which would amount to 3% of gross revenues from fiber sales and operation, is in CUB's opinion really a long-term funding solution and one that's really consistent with language not only outlined in the DEEP itself but also endorsed by City Council.
 So with this in mind, we really strongly encourage adoption of the proposed amendments to the original franchise agreement. And these include but are not limited to the digital equity support fee. So in the same spirit, CUB looks forward to continued work and strong collaboration with the Office for Community Technology to ensure that these funds are carefully allocated and that they're consistent with both deep and broadband strategic plan goals. So thanks for your time. Thank you both. Thanks very much.
 Let's check the next group. The next three are Dwayne Johnson, John Worona, and Greg Martin. Come on up. Okay, Mr. Johnson, I think you're first. It looks that way. I'm Commissioner's Mayor. Thank you for allowing us to speak before you today.
 As a longtime innovator, entrepreneur, and supporter of Internet access for all, I am the Deputy Director of Innovate Oregon and co-founder of Scale Up Partners, which works with communities across the country, connecting and giving access to the opportunities of the 21st century for underrepresented communities. At the end of the day, broadband access and Internet access is a fundamental component
 economic opportunity for underrepresented communities. The idea that we can make those connections available, and not only available, but do it at an inexpensive price, is key. But even more important than that, I'm going to speak to what Commissioner Fish said a little earlier. We have to actually have a strategy on how we deal with.
 the predators and people that are really looking for access to people's accounts and information. This could happen whether there's broadband access and support or not. The opportunity here is actually to take an organization like Google that is proactive in addressing these issues as opposed to just basically putting a pipe to somebody's house and literally giving somebody else responsibility for that support.
 I think the opportunity here is a great one in that we're creating a funding source to actually support some of that literacy, as well as being proactive working with the communities themselves to be able to understand better what's being put in front of them.
 But lastly, there's the opportunity to really be pioneers in solving the problems. One of the advantages you have when you're working with the providers from this perspective is that we can actually work with them to solve the problems. What you do get to see through the broadband is what types of phishing is happening.
 And you won't see that if you're just getting one pipe to one individual. But if, Commissioner, you're getting the same phishing expeditions that Commissioner Novick is getting, an organization like Google sets up these centers where they're actually seeing these things happening, and they may be able to actually reduce the opportunities that these people that are trying to hack people have. So when we can actually set a system up that's proactive, we can actually have a quick response operation that can work alongside this.
 and actually reduce the risk for everybody. So I think this opportunity here is to reduce the challenges as well as get the providers themselves to work together with us and have a collaborative approach to this so that the communities get access, but they can get access in a way that's not going to be threatening. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hi. Hi.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is John Worona, and I'm the Director of Digital Strategies at the Multnomah County Library, and I'd like to say just a few words today in support of the amendment to the Google Fiber Franchise Agreement. First, we'd like to thank the City of Portland, especially Mary Beth Henry and the Office for Community Technology, who has worked closely with the library and Multnomah County's Department of County Assets and IT to guide the work of the Digital Inclusion Network and the groundbreaking Digital Equity Action Plan.
 which set a course for addressing the very real issues around digital equity, access, and opportunity in our community. I'm new to the library and the county organization, but I quickly learned how deliberate and thoughtful the local stakeholders have been about engaging Google early in the discussion about the future of connectivity in this region. Google deserves recognition for being so receptive to the inclusion discussion from the very early exploratory stages here in this region.
 The library supports the amendment because the agreement offers more options and access for all residents to fully participate in the digital world.
 As the largest provider of free high-speed Internet access and free computing devices in the state, the library knows the community needs firsthand. Last year, the library connected people in the community with nearly 2 million Wi-Fi and public computer sessions. And tomorrow marks the end of our fiscal year, and we're projecting a rise of over 20% in just the Wi-Fi number alone. So this trend of increased demand shows no signs of slowing down.
 The library provides access to devices, training in multiple languages, and broadband for the essential activities of modern life. In addition, folks also need a way to afford access where they live in the evenings when homework happens. Increased access to next level broadband means more people can get connected, but the digital divide may grow wider still for those on the other side.
 The library will build upon the early successes of working with the partners mentioned and who you've heard from and will hear from to provide access to training, devices, Internet service, and to increase adoption rates and prepare those who need it for low-cost, high-speed access where they live, as I said, in public housing developments and among lower-income individuals and families. We're already putting the action in the action plan.
 It's appropriate, and we support Google and their counterparts in making inclusion a priority and putting resources behind it
 Multnomah County Library takes our role seriously in bridging gaps to access and opportunity wherever we can. This year we will have a Digital Inclusion Fellow to help us, thanks to Google Fiber and N10, who you've heard about. We thank the Multnomah County Department of Assets and IT for their support. We thank the City of Portland for your efforts. We thank all of our Digital Inclusion Network partners who you're hearing from before and after us. And we want to express the library's support for the amendment. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Greg Martin. I'm the Chief Information Officer at KinderCare Education. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners, for having me here today. I also do volunteer work with various organizations, including University of Portland, Technology Association of Oregon, Kairos Charter School, and iUrban Team, and a few others.
 THROUGH THAT WORK, I'VE COME TO, WELL, I'VE BEEN DOING THIS KIND OF WORK MY WHOLE LIFE. I CARE DEEPLY ABOUT EDUCATION. I CARE DEEPLY ABOUT DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION, AND I CARE DEEPLY ABOUT SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND MATH EDUCATION, ESPECIALLY FOR YOUTH. AND SO I CAME TO BE AWARE OF THIS EFFORT AND CAME TO SUPPORT IT BECAUSE I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT. I THINK IT'S A GREAT RESULT. I'M GLAD IT'S HAPPENING. I'M GLAD THAT FIBER IS COMING TO THE BEAUTIFUL CITY OF PORTLAND THAT I'VE FALLEN IN LOVE WITH IN MY TWO AND A
 And I'm glad that the city was smart enough to include a diversity and inclusion component. I've reviewed the DEEP plan, and I think it's on point. And I'm glad to see that there's an awareness of the need for an educational component, and I'm also here to advocate for some of the community-based organizations being involved
 important components of the education as opposed to having, you know, some external entity come in and train everybody. I think you really want to train the community to train itself. So that's my recommendation. Thank you for listening. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Okay, let's take the next folks, please. Lindsay Kaplan, Marina Inglesby, and Sam Burnett. Okay, come on up. Welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Lindsay Kaplan. I'm the Director of Community Engagement at Portland Community Media. And I'm here to voice my support for the amendment that we've been speaking about today. PCM, I'm a little tall, I'm a little short. PCM has and continues to invest significant resources to ensure that we help lead the field of digital equity and inclusion.
 empowering and equipping underserved community members to thrive in a connected world, and that includes Internet access. By amending the Google Fiber Agreement,
 The change would allow the implementation of the Digital Equity Action Plan, which we've been speaking about as well, a plan in which PCM is deeply invested, a plan that will in turn provide the affordable Internet access we've been talking about to the residents of Portland, benefiting the civic, cultural, and creative economy. The creative economy is, in particular, the part that I'm invested in.
 While taking a huge leap forward in achieving digital inclusion in Portland, I definitely
 Yeah, which is something that's also very important to PCM. I just wanted to voice my support. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hello. I'm Marita Inglesby. I am with Portland Public Schools in the Office of Information Technology, and my position is IT Client Services Director. Our CIO, Josh Klein, is out of town and unable to be here. He testified in support of the Digital Equity Action Plan in April last
 And we are also in support of this amendment. It is a very significant opportunity. We are very well placed for success and to do this right, I think, with the enactment of the Digital Equity Action Plan and so many partners in place. And having Google Fiber join this partnership and bring this funding source is going to poise us for success soon.
 in the future, many years ahead. And we're very excited about this opportunity for our community and for our students especially. Thank you to the Office of Community Technology and especially Mary Beth Henry for all of her work. Thanks for your partnership. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners.
 My name is Sam Burnett, and the last time I testified before council, I was an eighth-grade urging council to make the push to bring Google Fiber to Portland initially. Good hanging in there. Good for you. Today, we are here to usher in a new era of equity. Thank you.
 While this measure will in no way mollify completely the stark economic, educational, social, and of course technological divides that have manifested themselves after centuries of racist practices, it is a strong and important boost that will no doubt positively impact thousands in the Portland area.
 In today's digitalized world, Internet is everything. As the physical world quickly seeds financial, social, and informational power to cyberspace, we must ensure that we do all in our power to prevent this transition from becoming another gaping chasm between rich and poor, categories that are still all too often defined by race.
 If managed correctly, the online world has unprecedented potential to bring diverse groups together and facilitate connections that would otherwise not be possible. If, on the other hand, we allow the digital divide to fester uncombated, we will only be exasperating issues of equity that crucially need to be addressed. I assure you I am an optimist but have far too often seen the ideals of pessimists come to fruition.
 Let this be a key step on the journey to amend inequity, but let it not be an excuse to rest on laurels. Thousands at the least will benefit from this, but why settle for thousands when we have the potential to assist millions? A friend of mine recently said something that captured my attention.
 He said the future doesn't exist. Now, I want to assure you this wasn't doomsday rhetoric. He was merely pointing out the fact that anything we wish to see in the future, we must ourselves make happen. Let us together make this equitable vision of the future a reality.
 Let us continue to aid those in need, and let us never forget that to get to where we are now, standing, sitting today, we once needed a helping hand ourselves, no matter how large or small. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. And without getting too personal, I hope we get this done before you reach some other big life milestone. Which school were you with in eighth grade? I was at Mount Tabor and then went on to graduate from Franklin High School.
 So, yeah, I'll try to make it not another six-year gap. Your credit to the Portland Public Schools, and thank you. That was a beautiful speech. Thank you. Well done. Okay, anyone else sign up? That's all I showed. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Well, I want to thank you all for an excellent hearing and Mary Beth for great work. This comes back for a second reading, final action next week. Any other comments from the council? Good work. We hope to hear more from you very soon.
 Thank you. Okay. Let's move on to the rest of our calendar with Item 774. Amend Intergovernmental Agreement with the Portland Development Commission to provide funding for the design and construction of the 10th and Yamhill Smart Park Garage Renovation Project in an amount of $5 million. Thank you.
 Want to do 775 at the same time? Yes, we could probably do REIT 775 as well. Thank you. 775, authorized contract with Shields Obletz Johnson to provide owners, representative, and project management services for the design and construction phases of the 10th and Yamhill Smart Park Garage renovation project. Okay, as soon as we get technology to help. Lisa, Dave, who's going to kick off here?
 Oh, Carly, you need to help them with a PowerPoint. This is always a little bit like the Sistine Chapel. Grab the woman from Free Geek. It always reminds me of the painting on the roof of the Sistine Chapel. You know, we've got to get the technology. It takes divine intervention to get this thing to work. All right. Thanks for your patience. A few more.
 Prayers and incantations will connect it all up and make it work here. Okay. Okay.
 Dave, Lisa, who wants to start? Okay. Good morning, or good afternoon, Council. I'm sorry I lose my track of time, Mayor and Council. My name is Dave Benson. I'm your Parking Services Group Manager. We're here today to amend, ask your consent to amend the Intergovernmental Agreement with Portland Development Commission related to the 10th and Yamhill Smart Park Garage renovation project in the city's
 Solo Power Loan Guarantee. You may recall in 2011, Solo Power secured a loan from the Department of Energy for $20 million, of which the city guaranteed, and specifically PBOT, $5 million of that $20 million.
 This project background is the garage at the facility at 10th and Yam Hill. It was built in the late 1970s, had five floors. We added two more floors in 1984 for a total of seven floors and just under 800 parking stalls. It has almost 28,000 square feet of retail space.
 It serves as the western anchor for the downtown retail core and serves primarily short-term visits, that's four hours or less, for retail and office visitors. As you know, it is the transportation hub for light rail, streetcar parking, and we'd like to add bicycle parking as a component of the future.
 The net revenue for the facility is $1.2 million annually, but we take a loss on the retail spaces of $80,000 to $100,000 a year. It serves approximately 41,000 vehicle parking trips per month.
 And the average weekday peak time occupancy is 85%. May I just interrupt you? How could we make a loss on the retail? We've been pricing the retail far below market because of the disrepair to the facility. So we've been taking a long time. The repairs we have to make, it doesn't cover the rent. Right. Got it. Thank you.
 As you probably also know, for a decade or maybe even a little more, we've been talking about redevelopment of this facility, including demolishing it and rebuilding it to where we are today. As a result, a lot of the deferred major maintenance projects have been delayed. The project goals is to preserve the building while bringing it into full compliance. We want to make sure it supports the downtown retail presence with multimodal goals.
 We want to improve the environment at the ground level retail and stairways and we want to pursue Park smart certification, which is formally called green garage certification the project scope and
 is take care of the general and deferred maintenance, take care of a seismic remediation. And on this point, I'll say since 2008, we had an engineering firm take a look at it, and last year we had two separate engineering firms look at this facility for life safety issues.
 And they all recommended the same thing. There's fatigue in the holes for the skybridge bolts across that lead to target. There's wear on what are called the corbels or beam ends. There's concrete cracks and spalling. And there's rust stains on the steel deck diatomite.
 diaphragm of bolted connections, all of which in our plan will be remediated. I will say that the NATO company actually owns SkyBridge and they're working with their own contractor to handle that.
 We're going to do the ADA upgrades to the stairways and elevators. We're going to replace lighting, steel cables, and other improvements. Obviously, we want to improve the storefront improvements, replace windows, doors, canopies, and make interior improvements, new flooring, new ceiling, partition stairs, bathrooms, the new HVAC system, which is in disrepair, plumbing, electrical, and lighting. So pretty comprehensive look.
 The budget is $25 million for this project. The sources, PDC is bringing $5 million to us to help us work through this project. We appropriated in fiscal year 15-16 $3.7 million dollars.
 in fiscal year 15-16, added an additional $3.5 million, and then net Smart Park revenues are going to support $3.8 million of that, and then we're going to borrow $9 million, and the debt servicing on that will be repaid with revenues from Smart Park.
 The hard costs, construction, tenant improvements, public art like that, are $17.4 million. Permit fees, inspection, SDC fees, testing are about $3 million of that. There's some indirect costs, project management, outreach, construction management, about $3.25 million. Okay.
 The IGA amendment, PDC contributes $5 million to the project, is identified in the original intergovernmental agreement that was first brought to Council in 2011. This satisfies PDC's IGA commitment. In the coming days, PBOT and PDC will develop a management agreement where PDC manages retail spaces after renovation.
 The project schedule generally is we've already done some tenant outreach in this year. PDC in May of this year approved this IGA amendment. We're here to you today so you can approve or consider the IGA and owner's rep contract, which we're discussing. We'll be back to you next month or early August for you to consider the contract management general contractor design contract.
 And it'll take us about a year to do the design and get to the guaranteed maximum price. We suspect that'll be in about this time next year. In summer of next year, all the tenants have to vacate. Just the way we're doing the renovation, we have to have all the tenants leave. We can't leave anybody in there.
 And in July of next year, council will approve that guaranteed maximum price and the construction contract, and then it'll take about a year to build out. And our goal is to minimize the impact to the parking. We intend to try to keep the parking structure open to park cars, but we don't know exactly that impact. If it's going to be a floor at a time or two floors at a time, that's yet to be determined. Thank you.
 So I'd like to introduce Lisa Abooff from PDC, who is going to talk about the ground floor retail and retenanting. Sure. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm Lisa Abooff. I'm the central city manager with the Portland Development Commission, and PDC has partnered with various city bureaus on this project for many years. I think I would date myself if I actually told you the year I started working on this project. So we're very enthusiastic to bring this amendment before you today and to see renovation of the garage moving forward.
 Our interest in the garage has consistently been to make improvements to the garage that supported downtown retail. As Dave mentioned, kind of this started with the downtown retail strategy. We've seen a lot of improvements and invested heavily in kind of the area surrounding the garage.
 And so PDCN, as well as the Portland Business Alliance, who has been our partner with the downtown retail strategy, have longstanding relationships both with the garage retailers, some of whom actually participated in our joint pop-up program, as well as those retailers who are adjacent to it.
 Over the past year or two, as we've jointly decided with PBOT to proceed with the scope of work that Dave shared, we've maintained ongoing communication with those retailers, knowing that improvements to the garage may have an impact on their operations. What you'll see in the slide that's shown here is –
 The scope does include anticipated changes to the retail space as we currently know it and as it's currently tenanted. That's in part tied to the site's significant grade changes that makes it challenging in terms of ADA accessibility into the retail spaces. Thank you.
 Current garage tenants have been on a month-to-month lease that is held by the Office of Management and Finance based on projected redevelopment of the site. And this has been true for multiple years running at this point. And many of the leases are below market rate, which is one of the driving factors behind it not being revenue positive.
 Knowing that the tenants will need to move out of the building during construction, we did go to the tenants early. We've been holding ongoing conversations with them, both as we've been looking at the scope of work, but also as we were starting to land on the schedule to make sure that they had a long lead time in terms of looking for new locations, thinking about their business operations, et cetera. So I would just kind of recall that, in fact, their need to vacate will not occur for another year. So it won't be until next summer. All right.
 We have also offered PBA in partnership with PDC. We keep an active list of vacant retail locations in the downtown core, as well as good lease information about when vacancies will be coming available. We've shared it with the tenants. We'll continue to share that information with them as they consider kind of their next steps over the next year, should they wish to relocate.
 In addition to seeing the retail space improved, PDC is also interested, via this amendment, in a master lease to create new opportunities for us to implement some of our work that we mapped out for you in our strategic plan.
 Specifically, we started discussions with some of our network providers that conventionally we've worked with in our neighborhood scale development, but not necessarily in Central City. Providers such as MISO and the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce to identify how a PDC managed downtown retail space could further their opportunities for wealth creation within the businesses that they provide technical assistance to. Wanting to make sure that we don't overbuild the space or underbuild the space in terms of their partners' interests.
 We anticipate conducting ongoing outreach and coordination with those partners. We convene a group of network providers who do small business technical assistance.
 Over the next six months, as we work with PBOT in terms of the master lease around retail, start to think about the space that works for their partners, helps us implement our strategic plan. And then having identified and prioritized those opportunities, we then anticipate pursuing a competitive marketing and leasing approach to make sure that we get kind of a good retail mix that supports the retailers who are going back into the garage and being successful. So with that...
 i think we have one yeah a little final slide the council action today is to we'd ask that you approve the amended intergovernmental agreement portland development commission related solo power and the 10th and yam hill garage renovation project and mayor i believe you added the next agenda item which is the uh
 Owner's agent, which in short is a project manager. We still have the bandwidth at PBOT to manage this project along with the other projects we're currently managing. We've done this before, and it's to hire this consultant to look out for the city's interest and our interest and manage the project going forward.
 I have two questions. One, you mentioned that the earthquake safety was going to be just life safety level. We're paying $25 million, and we don't know that this will be up after the big one.
 Well, it depends what we define as the big one. I mean, there are different gradations on that. We're very interested in the design that promotes life safety, and if there's anything when the engineers get into the garage that would tell us that there's a greater risk or things that we would reconsider and look at upgrades, but, I mean –
 the problem with all hazards or things that will absolutely stand up no matter what, it's a pretty high engineering standard. And we're really interested in protecting life. Well, I understand that, but we're also paying $25 million. So how much would it cost to – I have no idea. Okay. Explain to me the solo power loan. Where does that come in?
 Yeah, the solar power loan was with the Department of Energy. Solar power was going to locate in the enterprise zone in Portland and, as the name implies, develop solar panels. They borrowed $20 million. The city of Portland was required, as part of that arrangement that PDC helped broker, $5 million of that loan.
 And as part of that arrangement, PDC agreed to contribute a like amount in the river district of which the parking facility at Taney Island also parked. So essentially to support our backstopping that loan. I don't get the connection with this project.
 Well, the short of it is the Bureau of Transportation of the City of Portland has an obligation if a solar power defaults on the loan of $5 million. I'm sorry, it's been a long day. I know. I'm not following as to why that's connected with this particular project. Okay.
 It was. So the state provided a loan to solar power. The city backed through PBOT, backed a portion of that loan. PDs should have, and it hasn't been called on. So they are performing on their loan. So it's a backstop that right now is kind of not being called on. They are actively paying their state, solar power is actively paying their state loan. Okay.
 The agreement that then backstopped PBOT's backstop was this intergovernmental agreement that you're considering an amendment that said, should that backstop be called upon, PDC would provide $5 million in the River District Urban Renewal Area to a project with the 10th and Yamhill Garage identified as kind of the preferred most logical project for it to be placed in.
 So, the solar power is paying its way, so that 5 million, therefore we don't, we're saying we don't need it and it can go into this project.
 Well, no. Yes and no. I mean, the $5 million that PDC is contributing holds us harmless if, for whatever reason, solo power defaults. I mean, it's a net zero. If they go ahead and perform on their loan and PDC gives us the money to do this redevelopment, PDC has met their commitment under the Center and Governmental Agreement. And then we would give them the $5 million back? No. As long as we enter into a master lease agreement? No.
 the $5 million would just be a portion of an investment similar to PBOTS into the assets.
 So basically, Commissioner, as I understand it, we've gone from PBOT maybe being on the hook for the solo power loan to PDC has made sure that at a minimum we'll be held harmless and actually we might be better off. Correct. If you see PDC is sort of in the shoes of solo power. That's helpful. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner, on that point, because I'm now confused. So we backstopped the loan because solo power put equipment on top of the building? Yes.
 No. Solar Power's arrangement to build a facility in the Air Price District had nothing to do with it, but Department of Energy required us in 2011 to guarantee at least $5 million of that before they'd loaned the $20 million. There's no solar-related component? There's no solar-related component to this at all. That's helpful.
 And Commissioner Novick, did you want to have something further on that? Actually, no. I was going to say that Elle was informing me that Chris Arms might have a more detailed answer to your question about the seismic issues. Yeah, I was going to ask you. You are our champion on the council for making sure that things are earthquake-safe. And so I want your opinion as well as somebody else's about why we're not actually making it earthquake-safe. We're only making it so that people can get out of it.
 Hi, I'm Chris Arms with the Bureau of Transportation. The previous studies that have been done on the building indicate that the stairs are the major hazardous piece in a seismic event, and they will be replaced and relocated as part of the project, so that will be addressed. So you're telling me that the structure will stay up in a major event? Well, as Dave indicated, it's hard to get a structural engineer to say that a building is going to collapse
 in a major seismic event, but based on the three engineering firms who have looked at the building, we believe that the deficiencies in the seismic will be addressed as part of this project. In terms of, I mean, generally speaking, yes, you can retrofit a building to life safety standards or to it will be operational after the earthquake standards. In the, I mean,
 an unreinforced masonry building project we sort of identified here are some kinds of buildings like hospitals that are absolutely critical we want to make sure that they're immediately functional it does cost a lot more to ensure that and i have to say even as pibac commissioner and although i wish we did have a precise answer to the question of what would the cost be of making this a functional parking garage after the biggest earthquake i i think that
 parking garages are not so essential that they would require the highest level of retrofit when you have limited resources? That's true, although there might be emergency shelter locations. And also, as I said, if we're going to invest $25 million, it would be nice to know that it's going to be up for the next 50 years or so. What I'm hearing you say, Steve, is that
 that the marginal cost to bring it up in a case like this isn't worth it. So the $25 million is to the current specifications. If we wanted to elevate it to some higher level of protection, I assume that would cost more money. Yes. And you had a slide that showed artists rendering of the new building. Could you put that up again, please? Yes.
 Is that what you were looking at, Commissioner? Yes. So it looks like the stairs are just on the outside. Is that correct? Yes. Currently there's stairs in each one of the four corners, and they will be concentrated at two of the corners, and they will meet current ADA, which they don't. They'll be out in the open like this? Yeah. I'm just kind of worried about that. It looks like it's inviting accidents or suicides. Well, currently the stairs –
 Kind of hidden and so the goal is to have more eyes on the stairs so that People have feel safer in the stairwells as they use them. I believe they're glass enclosed There's a certain requirement a requirement about What the material is so that I think that would be helpful Thank you other questions For the team covered everything you need to okay anyone else wants to speak on this item I
 Two people who want to speak. Okay. Doug Peterson and David Gweither. Come on up. Commissioner Fritz and Novick are talking about seismic upgrades. I came into this project in late March and wasn't – was aware of how things had progressed
 In terms of seismic evaluation, we decided that after I looked at the building, that we needed some more eyes on it. So we hired a structural engineer with a seismic background named Franz Rad, who teaches. He's the head of the Department of Portland State, licensed engineer there.
 this field very respected his professional designations Look like the alphabet. Could you go ahead and put your name in the record before? Oh, I'm sorry David Weiser anyway You'll see the document that he produced Mr. Peterson here financed his study and one of the things that that Is really apparent anybody that walks through the building could see it is when they built a
 the structure, they put the pillars up and then they hung the beams across it. They're reinforced concrete beams. Page 10 shows the point that I'm trying to make. The corbels in question, they balanced the beams, but they didn't attach the beams to the columns so that if the pillars move in
 North-South in this case, let's say six inches, which as you go up in height, if the bottom moves a little bit, the top moves farther. The pillar falls down. It slides right off. If it moves east-west a foot or maybe 18 inches, same thing happens. Now, our structural engineer pointed out that that could be fixed, sort of.
 you could attach that with epoxy dowels. He mentions that in his program. He also gives us a cost estimate to retrofit it, $5 to $9 million, depending on how far you want to go. Now, Portland's been very lucky. We haven't had a major seismic event for a long time, and you can interpret that two ways. Either it's not going to happen anytime soon or we're due.
 The more pessimistic view, of course, is that we're due for one someday soon. Now, as public servants, you have to identify the difference between needs and wants.
 Everybody wants something, but we need certain things. I think this particular structure needs to have a serious seismic upgrade, a robust one. And parking structures, because of their nature, because everything's in the open, you don't have to go through sheetrock to get to the structure, are one of the most easiest to retrofit and also be a good example.
 you're asking the contractors and construction companies to upgrade other buildings why not do it the right way with this project 25 million is a lot of money it represents about 1% of the total budget for the city although this particular costs are spread in a number of different areas
 So, anyway, that's what I have to say about that, and Mr. Peterson could discuss his issues in more detail. Thank you for allowing me to appear before the council. My name is Douglas Peterson. I own Peterson's Convenience Stores.
 meterson son morrison was our first store that's our flagship store or it's in the 10th and yam hill parking garage we've been over 31 years we've been there hundreds and hundreds of customers every day coming to the store we want to be there after the remodel i understand the remodel i have no problem with that that's wonderful uh but uh
 the hall of tenants have been told that we have to vacate next summer and find other locations. And for most tenants that are there, if they leave for a year, they want to be in a new location and established location. In this case, my whole business is focused on the max transit line, the red and blue lines, and also the streetcar lines that are out there. And my traffic patterns and everything is focused on that. I put,
 When the store was first opened, the construction of the light rail was underway. Jackhammers and dirt everywhere. The street was closed. They had some wooden sidewalks and everything. We opened and were successful right off the bat because we focused on getting all the construction guys to shop with us. But anyway, we want to be able to come back. And we were told that there was no guarantees you could come back. So we want to...
 be able to come back. And 31 and a half years of serving the public, and we've been successful. I have 25 employees. They work back and forth between all the stores. The full-time people get medical benefits and vacation time. And we pay our people well. And I just want to be able to come back.
 Just some interesting things. I asked the Lottery Commission, how much have we sold in lottery tickets and retail at the Morrison store? And they could only go back 13 years. But in that 13 years, we sold $2,445,773 in lottery sales. All three stores in those 13 years, $6,676,000.
 and a good portion of the lottery proceeds go back to local communities. But I just want to mention that. And the other thing is I was with Fred Meyer for 24 years, and many of the years I did remodeling for the stores, setting up new stores and remodeling old stores, remodeling.
 I never remember closing a store for a year. We always, one store, a Walnut Park store, we moved the variety department into the lower level parking structure so that they could continue to operate while they tore down the old variety store and put in the new. We've
 I just question whether all businesses have to be closed for a year. Can't that be done in cycles? But anyway, we want to come back, and I think 31 1⁄2 years of successful business should get a chance to come back. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Okay. Anyone else? Come on up, Shedrick. Shedrick.
 I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I'm kind of intrigued about Commissioner Fritz's interest in why a solar power is lending money to a building which doesn't have solar panels on it. So it's just like a solar company is lending money, and I don't know if the German company Solar World in Hillsboro does that sort of stuff.
 and solar power makes solar cells that are made out of plastic. I asked for a tour of the plant to see how they do this stuff, and is it more advanced, and I was not returned anything. I was not allowed to have a Saturday tour of the place. So it kind of makes me feel funny about that sort of thing and about this international company called Solo World that makes the traditional solar panels versus this innovative plastic stuff. Thank you.
 Okay. These two items continue to next week. Any questions or guidance before they do? Just one question for Commissioner Novick. Under the agreement, PDC would manage the retail space. Is that correct? Right. And PDC would, therefore, determine the plan for how to activate that retail space. Exactly. Thank you. And the concerns have certainly been heard, and they're going to do a teneting plan to take these concerns into account. Yep.
 Okay, so these two items pass, 7074, 7075, next week. Let's take 776, please. Vacate a portion of Southwest Florida Street west of Southwest 45th Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Second meeting roll call. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. And 777? 777.
 initiate foreclosure sale on five properties for the recovery of delinquent city liens placed against the properties. Follow-up item to our previous action on these five properties, and Sarah is here to very briefly explain why we have an ordinance in progress.
 Thank you. Good evening, Mayor and Commissioner. Sarah Landis to the Auditor's Office. This is a follow-up to our report entitled Foreclosure List 2016-01, which you voted to approve on June 15th. As we're working through our first exercising of the Foreclosure Code in a number of years, we learned that Council is required to pass this legislation.
 list by ordinance and not by accepting of the report, which was what we did on the 15th. So this is to tie up that knot. There have been no changes to the list since it was voted on on the 15th. Okay. Thank you. Have you heard from any of the property owners since then? A few of the listed property owners have been in touch with us. There have been no changes in the recorded list.
 property owner name with Multnomah County, there's still ample time before a foreclosure sale is initiated for property owners to rectify that recording disconnect between the original owner that's on our list and who may be in ownership of the property at this point. What's the lag time for that?
 Before the foreclosure sale? Yeah. I think we would have to ask the treasurer, but she has yet to get the rules established for that, and they have postings for 60 days, I believe, of those rules, and so we're months out. So I do want to just be clear then. If some folks have come forward since we had that hearing, that you would continue to work with them?
 Yes, we are continuing to work with them. They have until the foreclosure sale to pay off their liens and remove themselves from the list, for sure. And remediate the problem so that we're not back there again. So in other words, we're saying, yes, we really mean it this time. That's right. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Marco is here as well. Okay. Maybe not? Marco Maciel manages this process for us. All right. We're in good shape. All right. So this is an emergency ordinance. I don't see anyone here to testify other than you two, so we'll take a vote, please. Aye.
 So we have had a robust process and a couple of hearings to talk about this, and every effort has been made to notify property owners, and now, yes, we really mean it, and you still have an opportunity to get your property out of the lien. My understanding is that if we were to sell these properties for just the lien price, it would be $378,000. The properties are probably worth more than that, and so it really behooves the property owners to pay the lien.
 delinquent fees and get back their property or else as under the mayor's leadership and with the city auditors and your wonderful work Diligent work then they are appropriately Thank you. Hi Very much progress. I 7 78 second reading
 Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation roll call please All right