It's getting, it's getting, Steve was here. Feedback? Anyway, I'm just, I'm going to raise it. We should get started. Yeah, we should. Okay. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the June 24th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales?
 Here. Thank you, everyone. We'll get to the business of the council in a moment, but before we begin, I think we should take a moment in sadness and solidarity with the people of Charleston and everyone who cares about race relations and justice in this country, and to take a moment of silence for the victims of
 the most reprehensible kind of hate crime in Charleston, South Carolina last week. Let's remember, please. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We have a full agenda this morning. As always, we have some citizens signed up for council communications. We'll take those first.
 Then we have some time, certain presentations and calendar items, and then a whole bunch of ordinances and resolutions as usual. If you're here to testify on a council calendar item, we'll make sure we give you an opportunity to be heard. Just let the council clerk know if you want to speak on a particular item. We limit time for testimony on council items just to manage the agenda. Typically it's three minutes. You'll see a light and a buzzer at 2 p.m.
 at two and a half minutes and another set of those at three. Please follow those time limits so that we give everybody a chance to be heard. And speaking of that, we ask that in this chamber, if you agree with someone and want to demonstrate that, feel free to give them a wave of the hand or a thumbs up. And if you don't agree with them and want to do likewise in the other direction, go ahead. But we ask that we not make verbal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' opinions in this room so that everybody does feel and can be heard.
 Obviously, if someone is disruptive, we'll ask them to stop being disruptive, and at worst, we'll ask to exclude them from the council chambers, but we don't want to go there, and so please do respect that.
 those boundaries. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization under our code, you need to disclose that, so please do. And if you're representing an organization in the community and want to let us know about that organization, do that as well. You need, if you're testifying, only give us your name. You don't need to give us your address. And if you have handouts, please give them to the council clerk and she'll distribute them. So with that, unless there's any other announcements, we'll take the first of the communications items, item 652.
 Request of Kamala J. Paddy to address council regarding problem drug houses. Good morning. Come on up. Is Paddy here? All right. We'll see if she's here later. Then let's take 653. Request of Tautu Fa'elava to address council regarding work in the Jade District and disparities Pacific Islanders face. Good morning. Come on up, please. Mayor Hales. Commissioner Novick. Good morning.
 Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Saltzman, and Commissioner Fish. My name is Toyotu Faaleava. I'm a member of the Board of Directors for APANO and for the Samoa Community Development Corporation. I speak today in support of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement's Diversity and Civic Leadership Program and for the need to more fully serve Poland's growing community of 40,000 Asian and Pacific Islanders.
 APANO and our partners, including Samoa Pacific Development Corporation, believe wholeheartedly that it is time for the city to more fully serve our Pacific and Asian communities. We are grateful for your support to expand the DCL program and to increase funding for the existing DCL programs at the level requested through the budget process. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners.
 for prioritizing this important investment in this year's budget. Investment in leadership development of communities of color is integral to creating equitable governance. Best practices show that to effectively engage underrepresented communities, we need culturally specific spaces for our communities to meet, specifically in culturally competent programs to build a successful strategy for civic engagement.
 Asian and Pacific Islanders are the second largest community of color in Portland and growing rapidly. Yet our communities continue to be underrepresented in civic leadership, and we experience disproportionate poverty, health concerns, and educational inequity. When the API category is disaggregated, the disparities are very severe for some ethnic groups, particularly Pacific Islanders.
 To help address these inequities, our panel looks forward to applying for an open ONI RFP process to select a new DCL partner. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, item 654, please.
 Request of Elizabeth Takahashi Barth to address council regarding volunteering with the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, Jade District Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative, and support community-based civic engagement initiatives. Good morning. Good morning, Mary Hales and commissioners. My name is Elizabeth Takahashi Barth, and I am a longtime member of APANO, the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, and I also serve as a part of the steering committee for the Jade District Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative.
 For the last two years, APANO has been leading the Jade District Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative along 82nd Avenue with the mission of growing and sustaining a diverse, thriving neighborhood without displacement. Our visioning and community processes have engaged over 250 diverse residents and generated popular neighborhood projects like the Harrison Park Community Garden and the Jade District International Night Market.
 I want to thank you for supporting APANO's operation of the Jade APANO Multicultural Space on 82nd and Division in the 2015-2016 City of Portland budget. Spaces like this are key to building and strengthening community. Having a community center in the Jade was a theme that we heard from residents in the Jade visioning process that was conducted last summer and was one of the goals outlined in the Jade District Visioning Plan set out last July.
 As the Powell Division Transit and Development Project evolves, we will continue to focus on strategies to prevent displacement of the communities that live and work in the Jade District. And we look to you to prioritize this as well. Current plans show that the Powell Division Transit project will cut directly through the Jade District. Local businesses are vulnerable during construction and as the demographics shift in the area.
 The city needs to be thinking proactively about how to support our community during this disruptive phase so that those who have a long history in the area can stay and benefit from the improvements that are being made. APANO is part of the Comprehensive Plan Anti-Displacement Coalition and just last night, the Planning and Sustainability Commission voted to include strong anti-displacement policies in the 20-year Comprehensive Plan. It's vital that the City Council see this through.
 The first step is to budget for it and we will be looking for votes in the fall to help support this effort going forward. Additionally, while we are working on policy and business development, we want to make sure that new development is culturally responsive and appropriate for our community's needs within the Jade District and across Portland.
 One way to ensure this happens is to have intentional community involvement during each phase of the development process. We looked for your support and direction to make sure this happens, and we're ready to have a seat at the table when those decisions are made.
 And as we roll into summer, I'd like to invite you to join us for the second annual Jade District International Night Market. Last year was our first Jade District Night Market, and it drew in 20,000 people from across the whole metro area and was a great success. And we are having, hopefully, just as successful an event this year, which will be happening August 18th and the 15th and the 22nd, two Saturdays. Thank you very much. Great. Thank you. Looking forward to the market. Thank you.
 Okay, let's see. Item 655, please. Request of Gerald Fittipaldi and Soren Impey to address council regarding Portland bicycle infrastructure, neighborhood greenways, and downtown bike routes. Come on up, please. He had actually asked for...
 Jessica Engelman and Soren to go first. So I think there was a little bit of a mix-up. Okay, sure. You can call the others, too, and we'll just do them in whatever order you'd like. All right. 656, a request of Jessica Engelman and Marissa DeMol to address council regarding Bike Loud PDX, bicycle infrastructure enhancements for downtown. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Jessica Engelman and I'm a member of Bike Loud PDX. I am here today to express the deep sadness, anger, frustration, and fear that pedestrians and cyclists are starting to feel in this city. On May 9th, the conversation was that our city streets aren't safe and somebody might get hurt. A month later, the conversation is now, well, who's it going to be next? Is it going to be a young child who gets killed or maimed? Is it going to be a friend of mine? Is it going to be me?
 Here in Portland, we have the data, the know-how, and the creativity to design streets that are safe for all users, drivers included. The only reason that we don't is because of misplaced priorities.
 Every time that PBOT comes back to us and says that we're not going to implement your safety infrastructure suggestion because it would require removing on-street parking, what they are literally telling us is that driver convenience is more important than our lives.
 I think it's very appropriate that you guys are discussing the Climate Action Plan today because it'll give you a chance to think long and hard about how you plan on convincing drivers to give up their personal vehicles in favor of active transportation when cyclists and pedestrians today don't feel safe.
 Now, we're going to give you, as part of our handouts, a list of five simple asks that we think you could start implementing now. You don't have to wait for millions of dollars. You don't have to wait for a street fee. These are things that you could start implementing now with just a little paint, some enforcement, a change of attitude, and political will. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Soren Impey, and I'm here representing Bike Lab PDX and also as a Portlander.
 I'd like to thank the commissioners and mayor for letting me speak. Mark Angelus, Kirk Johnson, Ryan Egg, Renee Bates, Morgan Maynard Cook, James Carirollo, Catherine Rickson, Dustin Finney. The deaths of these people who live and work in Portland were preventable.
 As I stand here asking you to make safe roads a priority, I am not a special interest. Safe roads are a human right, are human right. Vision Zero is not a future goal. It is not a series of committee meetings. It is an ethical duty. The safety of people walking and cycling in our city should be a priority. But many Portlanders do not find our streets safe for cycling or walking.
 Cycling mode share has dropped two years in a row. Cycling to one of our largest employers, Portland State University, has plummeted. The League of American Bicyclists awarded Portland platinum status as a bike city. But downtown Portland lacks a single northbound bike facility. And our bridge connections dump people into dense rush hour traffic.
 with no facility and very, very bad, dangerous pavement. So I want to contrast this with Seattle and San Francisco, who have built miles of protected bike lanes in their downtown areas and implemented bike share. It's time to stop treating the Portland bike and pedestrian plans like wish lists. The safety and comfort of people walking and biking should not take a back seat to maintenance.
 And I want to touch on reducing pollution, which is also a local and global health issue. I want to remind the mayor and commissioners that the Portland Climate Action Plan commits to reducing vehicle miles traveled by 30%. We're not meeting, we're not on track to meet these goals now. And if we continue to prioritize convenience, parking, and traffic speed, we're going to fail to meet that goal.
 So BikeLog PDX has provided you with a list of immediately feasible safety improvements based on the 2030 bike plan. We ask the city to implement these improvements as soon as possible and to provide an update on their implementation in around four weeks. We also ask that the mayor and commissioners commit to funding and following the bike, pedestrian, and climate action plans. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Thank you. Thank you very much. Call the other two then.
 Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Marisa Trujillo-Demal. I want to thank you for seeing us today. I'm here to speak on behalf of student bike commuters to Portland State University.
 I ride my bike to class. I live in Northeast, so my commute is about six miles. My commute goes through neighborhood Greenways, then down Vancouver, through the Rose Quarter, over Still Bridge, Esplanade, Third, and then onto campus. And I want to tell you what my commute is because I want to give you an idea about the kind of impact that the funding, the $6 million bike funding, could have on the student bike commuters to PSU.
 I just want to mention that in 2010 there were 13% of bike commuters at PSU, and that fell to 7% last year. Most students said that, well, 22% of the students polled, which is most of the bike yes people, said that improved routes to and from campus would actually make them more likely to commute. So that brings me back to my route. Okay.
 I start on neighborhood greenways where I am passed by cars going over 25 miles an hour. I move over to Vancouver, which is really our only in and out route to Northeast. I have to go through the Fremont exit, which is very scary, especially during rush hour when freight and buses are coming through that area.
 And then I get to downtown. Now, coming into the city isn't as much of a problem because we have the NATO option and we have Third. But leaving the city at night, as I'm sure all of you know because you are right here sitting on Fourth, is terrifying. Fourth Avenue, between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m., is dense with traffic. Every type of vehicle, including bicycles, trying to weave through this road.
 I have been witness to multiple near misses. I have seen vehicles get screamed at by bikes just trying to get their attention so they don't get hit. And so I'm here asking you to please consider the 28,000 students at Portland State and the 2,500 bike commuters when you are allocating funding. We really want Portland to remain a platinum city, but right now most of us are too afraid of our ride home. Thank you. Morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Gerald Fittipaldi and I'm representing Bike PSU. Some of my friends bike to campus. The ones who don't all say the same thing. I'm worried I would get hit. Portland has some great bike routes. We appreciate the city's hard work. The verters on the 50s bikeway help me feel safe biking to campus. Two things stand in the way of inviting more to bike. Gaps in Portland's bike network and aggressive drivers.
 The gaps are especially apparent leading to PSU, home to 6400 employees and 28,000 students. That's more than double the number of OHSU, Portland's largest employer. When the politics of bike infrastructure get contentious, we of BikePSU will give you the political will to make our streets safer. We've got your back.
 In the audience is Britt Grajczyk, incoming president of the Neuroscience Student Club at PSU. In April, Britt was hit by a reckless driver. She suffered injuries to her hip and spine. Britt has been brushed off when seeking action against the driver. Drivers let off the hook continue their reckless ways. Cars are two-ton high-speed pieces of metal that kill 30,000 Americans every year.
 when controlled recklessly. In 2012, 32 coffins were lowered in Portland due to traffic violence, or of people killed while walking or biking. Safer street design and a zero-tolerance reckless driving policy are necessary for Vision Zero. We need your help. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all.
 All right, let's move on to the regular calendar. I think our first item is let's look to consent calendar. Sorry. I don't think we've had anything withdrawn from the consent calendar, right? We have 667. Oh, there it is. I'm sorry. Yes. All right, so we're pulling 667 to regular calendar. That's it, right? I think so. Okay, let's take a vote on the balance of the consent calendar, please.
 Bish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? I know we have Mr. James Posey and various other folks here in support of the Commission on Equitable Contracting and Purchasing. So thank you very much, everybody, for your work on that. Thanks to Brian Dench for setting it up, and I'm very happy to vote aye. Hales? I want to thank those community leaders who've stepped forward to be on this commission for their commitment and their willingness to work together to make the city do a better job.
 That's what this is about. We're not interested in simply validating what we're already doing. We're interested in making actual, tangible, measurable improvement, which is something that I've heard from a member or two of this group that we're appointing. So we want to let you know that we are in solidarity with that goal, and that's why this commission is important, and that's why this council supports it. So we look forward to your work. We look forward to you speaking truth to power, whether that's the Purchasing Bureau or the five of us or both.
 and to continuing to make us actually get to our goals when it comes to giving people opportunity to get contracts for work in the City of Portland. Thank you for your willingness to serve. Aye. You all. Okay. Let's move on to time certain, 657. Travel Portland 2015 presentation. Good morning. I have some introductory. Okay. Okay.
 commissioner saltzman will start off and then we'll give jeff thank you mayor it's a pleasure to introduce this annual update for the city council from travel portland on the health of our tourism industry over the past year and it's no shock to report that it is healthy and travel portland jeff miller board chair jim dodson many of the staff and other board members here in the audience are a big reason our industry is so healthy
 And as we know, Travel Portland is the premier destination marketing organization and continues to be the go-to location for would-be Portland travelers and conventioneers worldwide. We'll hear more about these successes now from Travel Portland's Executive Director, Jeff Miller. Thank you.
 Mayor Hales, nice to be here, commissioners. It's always fun to talk about the wonderful work that we do. In conversation with Commissioner Saltzman this year, who, as you know, is on our board, we thought we'd take a little bit of a back-to-basics approach and talk about the work of the work and how we do what we do and where we invest those funds and what that looks like. We've got our board members here, staff members here, and I get to work with some really, really wonderful people, and it's exciting work to do.
 I always say if you're interested in an organization, look at their budget, and that will tell you what they're interested in and how they do what they do. As you can see from this chart, marketing is the number one budget item with 37% of our monies going there. The winter campaign, which is November through March, is the largest piece of that, obviously. The hotel said to us, please invest when we need business the most, and that's in those kind of rainy, dreary winter months, which actually weren't rainy or dreary this year.
 Convention marketing, website, the voice of the brand really sits in this budget piece. Convention sales, something that is easily counted, 19% of our budget. Most of that is paid for by the Oregon Convention Center and we've also enhanced that with Tourism Improvement District funds given to us by the hotels.
 Tourism, global tourism, 10% of the budget, and probably the largest increase in the last few years. And we think the future is in international as Portland grows its reputation both domestically but also internationally. Communications PR, while only 8%, probably is our farthest reach when those journalists tell the story of Portland, both domestically and internationally.
 Convention services, visitor services, partner services, also very important. They fulfill the promise when that visitor comes to Portland and show just how friendly we are and how much fun we have living here and doing what we do. Capital events and certainly the operations with IT and other things are a part of that budget. But let me get into some of that work. Thank you.
 Global tourism, we have a very, very busy calendar. We have 48 FAM tours a year and many of you are familiar with the convention sales FAM tours, but probably not the tour operators that come from around the world to see Portland and put us on their itineraries. We attend 23 trade shows, some very, very large like the largest one in Berlin, 23 buildings of convention of destinations selling their location. It's nothing short of amazing to see.
 And we're very closely connected to Delta and the Port of Portland. Those direct flights, as you know, are incredible economic drivers for our region, and certainly our job is to help fill the front of the plane and, more importantly, often the back of the plane. We have two large planning meetings with Delta Asia, Delta Europe, and then many, many other planning meetings with them to ensure that our marketing is aligned with their marketing because we want a healthy PDX and we want those flights full.
 Yes, they are. We also have new Condor in Iceland Air, and our team has worked very, very closely with our marketing teams. The Iceland Air flight has already extended, as you know. The first two weeks are completely sold out. Condor doing very well. So it tells us that Portland is on the map.
 One thing that we're doing very differently now than we did two years ago was really consumer promotions. In these global destinations, we have a lot of tour operators that have Portland packages. But what we found is that we really needed to tell the story of Portland more authentically and tell it to the consumers so that they're buying those packages.
 A promotion we did last year was with Thomas Lauderdale and Pink Martini. He had a concert already planned in Paris. We took over the lobby with Delta. We had a week on what would be their kink radio. That radio station then came here and broadcast back to France for a week. We did giveaways. Thomas talked about this great place, Portland, that he lives. And those kind of consumer promotions really put us on a different playing field than we've ever been, and we're really proud of those, and I'm proud of the team for coming up with that. Thank you.
 Most people don't know that we're in 19 countries. We work very, very hard around the globe, and nobody has an idea of what our reach is and what we're trying to do for Portland. We have seven foreign language websites, Japanese, German, Dutch, French, simplified Chinese, traditional Chinese, and Portuguese. And then I've given some of the brochures that we have done in other languages too. So we are truly a global organization and really proud of that.
 This is our new trade show booth at IPW. You probably saw last year Commissioner Saltzman joins us at ASAE for the convention trade show. This is the biggest international show in the U.S. On the right, we have folks from Asia. On the left, folks from the U.K. And I think the center is either Germany or France. So when you see these in action, it's a lot of fun.
 Partner businesses, these are the folks that, as I said, we want to bring business to Portland and Portlanders, and it's economic development. Tourism is a big engine. 838 partners, and we've had a special push this year to increase our MWESB, and especially on the minority side, and I'll talk about that a little bit more.
 business-to-business networking events so that those partners, those small businesses, can understand how they can partner with each other and partner with Travel Portland. And then a new effort this year has been Brow Bag Lunches. One coming up is Billy Moser, our VP of Global Tourism.
 will meet with partners and have a brown bag to talk about how can you connect with Travel Portland? How can you get more of that business? What do you need to do to be China ready? What does that look like in your business and how do we help you get there? So when that tourist shows up you know how to treat them, you know what that feels like and how to partner with us. The Visitors Information Center in Pioneer Courthouse Square sees over 600,000 visitors a year. It's pretty phenomenal and that's
 separate from TriMet and the other parts of that building. We love what's going on down there, and we have 72 volunteers that help us with 12,000 hours, and they are passionate about this place, Portland. We're working with the James Beard Public Market, and they'll unveil tonight, as you know. They're one of the new designs. We want a visitor's information center there, too, because we know that will also be a place for visitors together, and we think we should be in both places there, so we're excited about that.
 Marketing. You have the Travel Portland magazine there. We produce a lot of those every year, so if you ever need them for visitors or for your office, please let us know. We're happy to supply those. We distribute them far and wide. It's not only a lure piece, but it's also something that we find people bring, and they've dogged the pages and seeing things that they want to do.
 One of the things that we've worked with RAC and we've developed an events calendar that is 12% of the entire page views of TravelPortland.com.
 And it's something that we think we can do a better job of talking to locals about how do you access, what is Travel Portland, number one, and what's that events calendar? At any one time, there are about 700 events on that calendar, 790 contributors. So anybody can contribute to that, and it's a great place for Portlanders, not just visitors, to find out what's going on this weekend when they've got family in town and other things. So we're going to do a local push, which we've never done before, but we think that's the place to do it.
 Social media, obviously very, very important to us. And we have a separate website for the meeting side of the business that gets 25,000 hits a month. We've got lots of trade show booths, eight of them, 20 by 20s, 10 by 20s, and all sorts of sizes. And you've seen one of those. But the marketing folks really are the brand of what we do. And here are the TravelPortland.com website visits. As you can see, it has grown significantly over the years.
 One of the things that we did last year when DMI went away, the downtown marketing went away, we took ownership of downtownportland.org and Dining Month Portland and incorporated those into our website. So we have a much, much more robust downtown presence on there, and we can redirect those folks to our website, and it was a way that we were able to hold on to those URLs. And we worked directly with the Business Alliance and that program, as it's been funded, to keep that robust and make sure that it works well.
 The reason March is so big, Dining Month Portland is a huge promotion for our restaurants. They love it. It fills the restaurants when they need the business. We're able to then promote it up in Seattle, Vancouver, BC and get those other visitors down. That spike is partially because of Dining Month. That's how big it is. You may have heard we built a clock.
 It sits at the airport. It's 25 feet tall, the largest freestanding cuckoo clock in North America, made out of a single piece of Oregon maple. It is nothing short of phenomenal. We had it in Seattle and in Vancouver, B.C., to kick off the winter campaign. We took Portland personalities with us. We took naked bike riders who were in leotards. Thank you.
 We took Steven Smith who did a tea tasting there, a poet, a comedian, a band, and each hour a new Portland personality would come out. And one was Santa Squatch. So you got to sit on Santa Squatch's lap and ask for what you wanted for Christmas.
 Just with the two clock showings, we had 67 media placements, articles and online articles, about the clock and about the winter promotion, 115 million impressions, and we got $2.9 million worth of media value out of that one clock. It will be at PDX until next March, and I would say that there's easily 200 or 300 to 500 selfies a day with a clock.
 It is a working clock, too, by the way, and was produced locally. The winter campaign, we always like to measure what we do to make sure that it's effective for the people we're doing it for. We asked Smith Travel to give us a projection looking at our convention calendar and everything during that November to March time period. What do you think will happen?
 They thought we would sell 0.4% more rooms. It was actually 4.5% more rooms. So we feel like we've had a little bit of an effect there. Intent to travel, we ask West Coast travelers, are you extremely or very likely to come to Portland in the next 24 months? Last year, 28% of them said yes. This year, 20, 37% of them said yes. So we're moving that needling and really getting to the hearts and minds of those travelers.
 We asked Longwoods to measure what is our advertising worth in incremental spend. So they said last year we got $64.7 million more spending that we would not have gotten had we not advertised in that time period. This year it was 70.1, so a pretty nice increase. And that is money in businesses small and large. Communications PR, again, one of the most important things we do.
 Through the third quarter of this year, there have been 535 articles featured on Portland that our team has touched. There have been, I'm sure, many more than that, but our team's worked with that many. You can see 407 domestic, 128 international, and we've worked with 150 journalists. And that's touching them, talking to them, touring them, or providing information for them. So it's a lot of people that have an interest in this place. We do media tours.
 And we have PR contracts with Lane PR, a local company that talks about West Coast media, Sunset Magazine, those sorts of things. And we've just engaged Laura Davidson out of New York to talk to national media and who are those publications and what are those places that we want to tell the special story of Portland. You can see the ad values are up, very large numbers and very, very important.
 One of the initiatives that I've talked about before but we're very excited about is diversity and strategic relationships. And many of you have met Tamara Kennedy Hill, who heads that up. Her title was Director of Community Relations, and now it's Director of Diversity and Strategic Relationships because we wanted to be explicit in what that work was and what our goals were in that position. So we're...
 moving forward very clearly on that. We have a committee of the board, the Community Action Committee, that looks at development, public safety, transportation. What are those things that affect tourists?
 on diversity. We have a multicultural advisory council that we're asking those folks' opinions on the work that we're doing, especially on the convention side. But also, Tamara helps coordinate our internal efforts, what are we doing and how are we doing it well together, and then the liaison to the Chamber and to community groups to make sure that we are listening and hearing. We just had a group in from the Jade District come and talk to the entire Travel Portland staff about what's going on there so we do a better job
 of selling that, so it was great to hear them here this morning. And there are a lot of jobs in hospitality, so how do we connect our hospitality partners to those career fairs? We have a small foundation that we are able to give for people moving into hospitality jobs, and we do that with the Hispanic Chamber and other places, something very, very important to us, and it's a position that's taking greater and greater importance. Thank you.
 Convention sales, we can count those room nights very, very clearly. We attend 34 trade shows. We have 90 site visits, and that's for meeting planners that want a more personalized view of Portland and what they need to see.
 We do three FAM tours. Many of you have been to those FAM tours. Commissioner Hales, excuse me, Mayor Hales was just at one of our FAMs doing a welcome, and I thought you did a great job of talking about getting this place ready for them over many, many years. They loved that.
 We have a customer advisory board, and those people are giving their meeting planners that give us advice on our programs, and are we doing things well? That's coming up July 8th and 9th. We have one of those cab members in town this week, Jan Snegas, and she represents the Unitarian Universalist. They have 5,000 attendees, 9,200 room nights, and an economic value to Portland of $4 million.
 Really important to have those cab members also be customers and love us. And we're always excited to have the Universalists back. They're kind of a good core group of Portland, and they are the greenest group that the convention center ever sees. And they push us really, really hard, and it makes us better at what they do because they're so interested in all sorts of sustainability. Thank you.
 We also, as we've talked about this diversity effort, we worked with Supublico to help us produce some videos for that meeting planner, those diverse meeting planners. We've done an African American, Asian American, and Hispanic. And I'm going to show you the African American. These aren't released yet, but this is the first preview. African Americans in Oregon are pretty unique to most other places.
 It's an environment that's loving and it embraces interesting and new people that come to it. It's a very diverse city. You have lots of different foods and culture and dancing and people. I think we have a festival of some sort every single week. You can drive an hour in any direction. You can hit the snow, you can hit the ocean, you can hit the desert. You know, you can ride your bike to and fro and like it's easy, it's simple. This is an excellent place to come.
 on convention and then you can vacation afterwards. I believe Portland's a great art city. It's a very lively, very vibrant community. It's easy to get around.
 We have everything that a major city would have and that would draw them to come to their community. This is a place that you can get the best food, the friendliest people, a good rate on a hotel, and outstanding, and when I say outstanding convention facilities, they have outstanding convention facilities. You need to come here to feel it and experience it. Music
 We have the hashtag for That's My PDX that we'll use on the social media side of all of these and really engage those meeting planners. This will be on our website. We'll use it in promotional ways. And we're really excited about being able to do that and talk directly to those communities. And many of you know we did a meeting planner survey a few years ago, and we asked them, what do you need out of a destination? And so we're building that tool chest continually so that we can talk to those people and help them find their community when they're in Portland. Thank you.
 Convention Services has to fulfill all the promises that the sales team made. So we do a lot. We distribute a lot of promotional materials. We have the TriMet program that we help with. We have a housing department that helps book rooms for those groups that ask us.
 You can see 32,000 of those. And at the end of the day, again, economic development. We want to push leads out to those meeting planners so that they use local businesses and create that business for them. A lot of groups, a lot of site tours for clients, again, who need that personalized experience to find the right off-site venues, the right caterers, other things.
 And then we also go the year before to very large conventions and kind of whip them up and get them excited about coming to Portland the following year. So we think that's important, and meeting planners love that.
 These are the stats. These are how many citywide convention groups we've had the last three years. And we're just going into 2015-16 and we'll add a few more in the year for the year. You can see significant numbers of room nights on those citywide conventions. And you can already see that 15-16 is more than last year and we know we'll add some to that.
 with very large economic impact. And we're very conservative. This does not include multipliers. It's just what our calculator, that's a national calculator that we use, says. We also book a lot of single hotel pieces of convention, so smaller meetings, 500 to 500 people. Again, a lot of room nights and a lot of economic impact. Thank you.
 I want to talk a little bit about the Visitors Development Fund Board, which is separate from Travel Portland, even though we manage the paperwork and the assets of that. Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fritz sit on that board. And it's comprised of elected officials from each jurisdiction, five hoteliers and two rental car folks, since they're collecting the taxes for this, and two Travel Portland people.
 The funding for that in the new VDI agreement is $645,000 a year, which goes up by CPI, and then a flat amount of $875,000 that was from the refinance of the Convention Center bonds. So we have about $1.5 million coming in a year.
 The Visitors Development Fund has made grants the last two years of, as you can see here, and the amounts of those. We're spending the money very wisely, we think. The economic impact of those 45 grants in 2013 was over $73 million with an ROI of 34.3 to 1.
 The average VDF grant is $52,000. These are not huge grants, and most of that is used to buy down the rent at the convention center so that we can lure that group to come. It's sort of the guarantee that you'll come if we help do that. This is the checkbook. And we're, you know, you can see the amount of money coming in. We had some carryover moving into 2016. But you can see the commitments already made each year, the promises that we've made out of that. And there's not a lot of money left at the end of 2016.
 a little bit more in 2018. It looks like a fair amount in 2018, but 2018 is a need year for Portland. We're struggling to book the number of conventions that we need, so we're working really, really hard on that. And we will need to deploy that money very, very carefully.
 And here's, I think, a really good place to talk about IAAF 2016. We're incredibly excited about them coming here and what it will do for Portland. We applaud the city council's support of that. One of the reasons, you know, I heard that as they were testifying that we had limited them to $100,000, and we hadn't limited them. We had saved $50,000. We knew we could probably get to $100,000. But they were making an ask when their event is next March,
 everyone generally asked two or three years in advance. So we had spent the checkbook down and we're afraid that we weren't going to have enough money for them. When the board at this last meeting went back and looked at it, we were able to come together and pull out $175,000 for them on a $250,000 ask and we're looking at other ways that we might help them. But we needed them to come a little earlier and plan this with us so that we could be good partners.
 and one thing that we're also talking to them about the IFF folks Vin Lanana and the group they have we've been awarded in Oregon and Eugene the 2021 outdoor championships which is fantastic but there's a move afoot to raise the lodging tax the statewide lodging tax by one percent to pay for this and we're concerned about that we're at 14.5 percent 12.5 percent lodging tax 2 TID
 And we are competitive. We are just below our competitive set in the amount of taxes that we charge meeting planners. So we're concerned about the fact that we would raise this to 15.5%, which would make us not as competitive. We still have the issue of the convention center and not having a headquarters hotel. And we also know that we have plenty of venues in Portland that are going to need help.
 The amounts that they're looking for for this event are $75 million worth of renovation to Hayward Field plus another amount for the event. We know that we have $75 to $100 million worth of work at VMC. The Portland Expo Center has three 90-year-old buildings that need help. We've got a lot of things, so we are at that table. We're having that conversation. We're working with Susan Hartnett, who's been a great partner of ours, the metro, the county folks, to really talk about what are the needs in Portland, and when you look –
 at the amount of tax collected just in the city of Portland, it's about $5 million a year this year. That's 33% of the entire statewide lodging tax collection.
 when you look at the 1%. So we want to make sure that we can be partners in helping the 2021 happen, but also understanding that Portland has needs that we need to take care of at the same time. And, again, we want to be partners. We're excited about it. But we really want to be at that table, and we will be at that table with you and with many others.
 I wanted to just briefly show you sort of how a convention and a good convention month actually does affect the tax rolls and the tax that we all get. In April of this year, we had 13 conventions booked at the Oregon Convention Center, which represented over 25,000 room nights.
 12,800 of those were the Craft Brewers Conference. Now, this was not only big, but it was good for Portland because we are the home of craft brewing. We own that. We're very proud of it. It was business development, I think, for us. The occupancy that month for hotels went up 7%.
 The average daily rate went up $21 to $143. Revenue for hotels went up 24%, and we know that the tax collections go up about 24%. So when we have a robust month of conventions and big conventions, it affects how those taxes are collected and that it makes a difference. My last few slides, and I'll be very brief with these, but I thought you ought to see what's happened over the last four years.
 The occupancy rate in 2011 was 68.7 for the entire city of Portland hotels for the year. This year it's 76.7 percent. Phenomenal. Now, we've got a lot of new hotel product coming on, so that's a very good thing. That occupancy may go down, but we will sell more rooms, which is, I think, important here. And this is calendar year.
 The average daily rate was $106.77. In 2011, it's now $132.13. And on some weekends in Portland and days when we have conventions, you won't find a room for under $300 or $400 in downtown. The revenue growth for the hotels has gone up, as you can see, 8%, 10%, 10%, and 13% last year. And you already know what this year looks like because you see the tax collections increase.
 This is the five-year tax collection increase. 2011, our 1% to travel Portland was about $3 million a year, just slightly over that. This year, if we get a $17,000 check in July, and we know we will, we will be at $5 million. Five times that is certainly your take. It's risen from $15 million in that 2011 year to $25 million this year. It's a phenomenal increase.
 You want us working and doing this program of work to feed that engine and create those taxes and really grow your ability to use that in our hotels and small businesses to grow with us. And Portland is happening now, as we like to say. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions and questions.
 Thanks very much. Questions? A couple questions. Thanks for the presentation. We learned this past week that Charlotte got the NBA All-Star game, and so it's pushing back our aspirations. So it begs the question in my mind, how much business are we currently losing because we don't have a headquarter hotel?
 We lose each year probably about 15 pieces of large citywide conventions because of the lack of that hotel and hotel package. It's huge amounts of economic impact, hundreds of million dollars over the course of a few years.
 My recollection is we were also hearing from the NBA that that was sort of a prerequisite to have a headquarter hotel. It is, and I heard yesterday that I think it's 2020 is the 50-year anniversary of the Trailblazers, and that would be the sweet spot. We should have the hotel open by then, and we're building. The Trailblazers are leading the charge on the bid, but we are right with them, with the Oregon Sports Authority and many others, to make sure that we are a...
 a destination that they're going to pick very soon. Other questions for Jeff? Yeah, I was wondering, what is the thought in the industry about the impact of Airbnb, et cetera, on hotels? I mean, is there competition? Is there not competition? Is the jury still out? No.
 I think some would say that the jury is still out in some ways, but Bashar Wali from Provenance Hotels has said it's a very different animal, and it's bringing a consumer that we might not see in a hotel, family, people that want to stay in neighborhoods. So...
 As we look at our tax collections from Airbnb and kind of figure out what we think those are, it's been a significant driver of taxes, and the hotels are certainly not feeling it as you've seen the statistics. And that consumer that's picking Airbnb is probably not looking to spend $300 or $400 a night on a hotel room, and they're looking for a different experience. So we think it's additive, it's not competition. Yeah.
 I apologize if I said this and I just missed it, but what's sort of the breakdown of visitors to Portland in terms of in-state, out-of-state, West Coast, Midwest, Northeast, international? Yeah.
 It's a little hard to tell sort of the number. We know that we get over 8 million visitors a year. We know international is growing. Because we don't have a sales tax, we do get some visa view information on international, and we know that Japan is our number one inbound market. China is just barely number two, and that's increased in the past three years. Germany, U.K. are right after those. Australia is coming on very, very strong, which I think is surprising to most people.
 Within any destination, we know that, as we say, the rubber tire market, Seattle, Vancouver, Oregon, Northern California is our biggest market. Canada is our biggest international, not overseas market. So that's why we do the winter campaign from Vancouver, B.C., Seattle, and regionally, because those people, they know the rains.
 and we've done focus groups, they're more than willing to come here when it's a little damp and wet. So that's going to always be our most important market, but we've got to look further afield as we think about sort of the brand of. And what's our role in international marketing as we go with PDC to Japan or other places? Yes.
 I feel like we sell the lifestyle of this place. Do we have the business infrastructure as kind of the basics? But what's it going to be like? What's that city like? And so that's our role. And we work very closely with all those agencies to do that. Jeff, I have one more question. It goes back to the grant making. And I want to ask you a philosophical question. When I served on the Oregon Cultural Trust Board, there were people who urged that we made fewer grants,
 at a larger amount to really have an impact on organizations versus lots of grants, smaller amounts. Your average grant is between 50 and 100.
 What's the pluses and minuses of, say, betting the house on one event versus spreading the money around lots of events? We have very strict guidelines that the Board has adopted. And between November and March, you have to have an ROI of 25 to 1 at least to get a grant. And we look at that based on economic impact, the number of room nights, and just calculate purely what that 25 to 1 would be. So you can get a larger grant if you come during those months.
 and it's strictly based on your ability to bring us business. In the summer months it's 40 to 1. So it's a little harder to get a bigger grant. If you're going to be here in July the hotels don't need the business as much. We're full with transient demand so we really look at it from an ROI standpoint and we
 We do some one-offs depending on the group. If it's a sweet spot for Portland, then we'll go a little below those. But we look at it more of what's this business going to bring us back as opposed to small or large. If you've got a really huge event and you deserve the $100,000 and can sort of make that work, then we'll give you that grant. Other questions? Yes.
 Jeff, we just appreciate you and Commissioner Seltzman, you getting this presentation before us, although we have obviously two of our members that serve on the Visitor Development Board and serve us well there. It's good for the whole council and the whole community to hear how this is working. There's a great deal of public resources.
 revenue involved and public expenditure that we rely on your organization to use well and obviously getting great results and we appreciate the presentation it's good for the the community and the whole council to see the report about how this is working and and where we have to go next so we appreciate you very much thank you so much thanks for that trust thank you good work
 All right. Now we're going to move on to an ordinance item, which is 658. 658. Approve the...
 South Waterfront North District Development Agreement between Portland Development Commission and ZRZ Realty Company and direct the bureaus of transportation, parks and recreation, environmental services, housing, planning and sustainability, and development services to work with Portland Development Commission to develop intergovernmental agreements to implement public obligations as specified in the development agreement. And why don't you read 659 as well, please. Mm-hmm.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement between the Portland Development Commission and the Portland Bureau of Transportation for Southwest Bond Avenue 30% design and further design of specific segments of Southwest Bond Avenue as triggered by design of adjacent development in the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area not to exceed $500,000.
 Okay, this is a long-awaited discussion about some important documents for part of the city where we've had big hopes and dreams, some of them now actually coming true. And we have a presentation to start off from Patrick Quinton and Geraldine Moyle from PDC, followed by some invited testimony from Jadis Idel and his team and others as well. So let me start off by asking Patrick and Geraldine to walk us through the staff recommendations. Yes, please.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales. Good morning, commissioners. This is a milestone day, and so we're very happy to be here. As the mayor mentioned, I'm joined by Geraldine Moyle, who will basically do the presentation. I'll kick it off, but I just do want to acknowledge up front the
 The incredible staff work that's happened over a very long period of time, Geraldine and I go way back personally on this. Working at South Waterfront was my first assignment at PDC, and Geraldine has been working on this the entire time. So it's been five, six years already.
 on this alone and it's taken a lot of work by a lot of people both within the city, PDC, as well as our partners with ZRZ. So I do want to just acknowledge all the great work. So we're here today to
 I ask for you to adopt both the development agreement that you're all very familiar with between PDC and ZRZ Realty and other city bureaus and
 as well as authorized PBOT to enter into an IGA to begin work on the initial work on Bond Avenue. I just want to highlight...
 as part of adopting the development agreement one of the one of the things you're doing is in addition to agreeing to all the provisions within the agreement it's the council's action provides direction to all the city bureaus that are that are part of the development agreement for them to begin to work on their pieces of it and you know it according to the time frames established there so that because there will be a series of igas that come about as a result of this work but
 But the two actions today are to adopt the development agreement and to authorize PBOT to enter into the IGA on bond.
 We, a few months back, came to you to talk about the – to act on the urban renewal area changes. We spent a lot of time talking about projections for resources within the North McAdam urban renewal area. And you can recall that we talked a lot – we talked about these two different scenarios, the scenarios of what it looks like in amended –
 urban renewal area without a development agreement with ZRZ and one with. We adopted the urban renewal area change to North McAdam.
 Under the base assumption, and that's what you see there on the left, what we now have the opportunity to realize is actually the more optimistic resource scenario that comes from development happening on ZRZ property. And you can see the expanded resources here. And more importantly, what it does is it opens up a pot of resources for us to truly fulfill our affordable housing obligations. You see the $13 million increase there.
 In addition, you see the ability for us to put money towards significant open space outcomes, both on the greenway as well as the down payment on the purchase of a parcel of land for Ross Island Bridge Park. So we really do have the opportunity to fulfill the vision of South Waterfront through the adoption of the development agreement. Thank you.
 As I mentioned, the vision for South Waterfront, if you go beyond the actual dollars that we're putting to work and what the city's outcomes are, you can see here the broader outcomes. When South Waterfront was created, when the North McAdam New Array was created, we talked about things like 10,000 jobs, housing units.
 Obviously, affordable housing units is part of that. And there was kind of midpoint people were saying, well, South Waterfront's a failure. We're not achieving those outcomes. And I think we're now seeing that it's actually going to be possible to get there. But unlocking development in this part of South Waterfront is really what's going to get us there.
 And it's because of the other investments that are happening as well as what the city will do. The most important ones are the opening of light rail, which is slated to happen in a few months now. And we can already see the excitement on both sides of the river and what that's going to mean for development there.
 We didn't know about the night cancer challenge when the district was created many years ago, but we now see that that's going to happen, and we can see what's going to happen in terms of the build-out on the OHSU campus, and we think there will be significant spillover effects from that. And, of course, now we're here to talk about what can happen on the property owned by the Zeidel family. That provides the significant –
 opportunity for private development to happen. Everything that happens on OHSU is basically non-taxable development. So the private development really is going to happen on the ZRZ property. And before I turn it over to Geraldine, yeah, next one, I just want to, we did, I did talk about at the beginning the length of time that we've been working on this. And, and, you know,
 I'm not going to run through this in great detail, but I do think this is an example of kind of the power of this type of long-term thinking when we think about how to make decisions.
 Catalytic development happened in this city. This is not an overnight process. It's very different than individual projects It's very different than conceiving of a building and then you're going through through design review and whatnot This is this is bringing together parties with with diverse interests You you're thinking about how to create outcomes that are 20 30 years out of
 And so this timeline shows you what has happened over the past five years. It hasn't been a completely linear process, but it never is. But it took bringing together all the different parties. It took something different.
 something as significant as light rail to bring parties together to talk about the alignment, and then that partnership led to negotiations around this, and it also included bringing together different city bureaus and beginning to think about their own objectives for this. Zydel, obviously, they've made a significant investment in the partnership,
 cleanup of their property. So a lot has happened during the time period that we've supposedly nothing has been happening and now we're actually here at a point where we can realize the benefits of all this work. So with that I'll turn it over to Geraldine who can walk through the elements of the development agreement.
 I'm Geraldine Moyle with Portland Development Commission. I'm going to walk you through the phasing and some details from the development agreement. The first phase is from 2014 to 2017, and we've structured the agreement such that the public infrastructure is aligned with the private development. So as private development occurs, our public investment in infrastructure occurs. Thank you.
 So with OHSU's Knight Cancer Center projected to be open in 2018, the first part of Bond Avenue is built, and that's the part that connects from River Parkway to Porter Avenue. With Zydel's Block 6 project, we build another part of Bond Avenue, what we call the Moody Connector, which provides access back to Moody and access through the district, and that's projected to be in July 2017 in terms of construction start.
 And with Zydell's Block 4 project, we build another part of Bond Avenue, the part from Wood Street to Grover Street. I think the important thing to note is we only initiate that design if they're also building Block 6 concurrently so that we can exercise efficiencies in our Bond Avenue construction. And finally, with their Block 1 project, which is adjacent to the existing Emory building, there would be potential to underground and overhead projects.
 PPNL line that's adjacent to the project. We also start to look at some district systems with Phase 1, so Phase 1 stormwater district systems, and also energy, so district energy system, and mostly it's focused on viability. With Phase 2 and 3, which is projected to be 2018 through 2025,
 Zidell is projected to have a million square feet of development. And with that million square feet, our focus in public investment is on the Greenway. So that's the Greenway from the Markham Bridge to the Ross Island Bridge and a connector back to Moody Avenue. The thing to note is the development agreement.
 triggers design of the Greenway with design of projects in Phase 2, we don't actually construct until we have $75 million of assessed value because that provides the TIF projected to do the Greenway. So it's tied to the assessed value of the projects that ZYDAL would bring online.
 In addition, there's an affordable housing option in Phase 2, and that option is highlighted in the purple square or rectangle, and we'll go into more detail on that in a moment. We also start a park partnership with the Zydals in regards to where a park might be, size, location, and programming-wise. And the district systems are constructed, so that's district stormwater and district energy.
 Finally, there's a phase three that could be included if a development...
 occurs prior to the end of the URA in 2025. And we've structured the development agreement such that if there is additional TIF available, PDC has the ability to use that TIF for additional work in the district. That's Bond Avenue, Grover to Gibbs, which completes the couplet, the Bond-Moody couplet that provides district access. And then also the Greenway component that is south of the Ross Island Bridge to Gibbs.
 I think the other thing to note is as Phase 2 development gets to 75,000 or 750,000 square feet of development, that triggers that final piece of bond into design as well, because we need that final piece in order to have the couplet complete. Just a summary of the investment of public and private dollars with the development agreement. There's $24 million of TIFs.
 Invested in infrastructure. There's an additional four million in TIF affiliated with the Knight Cancer Center and that's the piece of bond that's north of Porter. Additional public investment with other entities is seven million which is about 35 million total of public investment in infrastructure.
 On the Zidell private side, there's an equal amount of investment in infrastructure, so that's their work to date on the Greenway. That is the East-West Streets, another infrastructure within the district or within their development. And finally, the development agreement outlines 1.5 million square feet of expected private development and infrastructure.
 an assessed value of $210 million. We need that $210 million of assessed value to get the $35 million or the $24 million of TIF that then allows us to do our investments. We're now going to focus on some of the details. In regards to North McAdam and the affordable housing approach, the 2003 housing goals for North McAdam included 479 units serving 0 to 60 percent MFI.
 Achieved to date, you'll see in this graph, is 209 units with the Grays Landing Project. And in April of this year, an RFP was issued for River Place Parcel 3, which is at the north end of the district. Okay.
 This RFP included a program requirement for a minimum of 200 affordable housing units serving 0 to 60% MFI, and of those units for 90 to serve 0 to 30% MFI. We have three proposals that were received for that RFP, and the selection committee and evaluation committee is currently reviewing those proposals. We also are including an affordable housing option in the development agreement with the ZYDAL.
 So this is a summary of that option. You can see that the purple dash that we looked at in a prior map is now this yellow rectangle on this graph or map. And the PHB option includes the ability to purchase a parcel in development capacity of at least 180,000 gross square feet within that yellow rectangle. And depending on the unit mix, that equates to approximately 200 units.
 The option in the development agreement includes an understanding of appraisal instructions in terms of title encumbrances, environmental conditions, and any demolition that might need to occur on the site. And as that timeline is worked out,
 We will have a purchase price for that property in July 2016. That option will also include an escalation rate that's based on the CPI up until the time that option is executed. And we're projecting that that option would be executed in 2021. So with River Place Parcel 3 currently underway and this project, those are two projects that could forward the North McAdam Affordable Housing Goals. Yeah.
 The appraisal process sometimes is cumbersome and has not always worked as smoothly as we would have liked in other settings. What have we learned elsewhere that is informing the way we're establishing the mechanism here to establish a fair price, fair to the developer, fair to the public? So we have learned from the most recent projects that it's important that the appraisal and the purchase price be agreed on now,
 and that the escalation rate be agreed on as well. So there's an understanding of what we're purchasing and what price we're purchasing so that the ability to accumulate those funds for purchasing that property is pretty clear. We've set up the appraisal approach such that both PHB and ZYDAL are getting appraisals concurrent.
 And if there's a disagreement or a discrepancy between those two, there's a third-party appraisal outlined already. And my understanding is that Commissioner Saltzman would be the third party to make that call. Is that correct? Sure. Okay. So if you just contrast this with the current –
 negotiations with Hoyt Street around that property that that's the difference is the appraisal would be happening up front so you don't have these disagreements over how much the city's investment contribute to the value you're basically doing at the beginning of the process so we take out that whole judgment call that has to happen whatever 10 years out you know what's the value of public investment that's so I think that's one of the big lessons and Javier is here if you want to ask and the earlier chart showed the
 after parcel three, what's left at zero to 60. And it looks like with this particular parcel to be determined, we can satisfy almost all of the remaining obligations at zero to 60. Is that correct? That's my understanding. Yes. Yes. And so by July of next year?
 The parcel and the purchase price will be agreed upon? By July of next year, the purchase price will be agreed upon. The actual location is somewhere within that yellow rectangle. Well, you'll have an agreement on the price and you'll have an agreement on the escalation, but the purchase price will ultimately be what that number is calculated at the end because it's determined based on how many years it takes and what the CPI has been over that time period.
 And are you estimating that the option will be executed in 2021 because you're factoring in first the completion of the Block 3 and then the additional TIF being generated? Or what's the assumption behind 2021? Part of it is the two things you mentioned. Another part is that building is currently being leased to OHSU.
 And their lease is up in that timeline and we'd like to know if we're moving forward with that PHB project before OHSU is asked to leave the building. Okay. Okay.
 One of the other components of the development agreement is the parks partnership. And so this slide shows an outline of the timeline for that partnership. By October of 2018, ZYDAL and the city will enter into an open space concept plan process, which will focus on the Ross Island Bridge Park in terms of determining the size, location, conceptual design, and potential programming for that park.
 It will also take into consideration the Greenway concept and could initiate Greenway concept design prior to the construction of that. It will take into consideration the Zidell Yards other open space included in their development and
 It will also consider what development is being proposed on phase two around the potential park. We wanted to make sure that there was opportunity for the new users, if you will, the employees and residences of Zidell Yards to have some input into that process.
 The concept plan process ends in an acquisition option, and that's projected to be 2019 through 2021. And that option outlines a timeline for acquisition, a purchase price for the park property, and a construction schedule for the design and development of that park. And in 2022, you might recall from our URA amendment budget that we have projected $5 million to go towards the acquisition of the park.
 Another thing to note is that post-acquisition, detailed park design occurs on that park, and that includes a public design process. So for the actual what that park would look like and the components of it, that's part of the detailed park design process.
 And finally, there is the ability within the development agreement for ZYDAL to fund construction of the park in exchange for SDC credits as permitted currently by the code. And or ZYDAL may choose to donate property for the park as well.
 And parks may choose to accept it or not, depending on whether we've agreed. I know the answer to this question. I know that's come up in public testimony. Why did we not have a similar agreement for parks in terms of the purchase price versus the Housing Bureau discussion you just had? In terms of the timeline? Yeah.
 Yes, for parks, it's market value at the time of the sale versus the current cost pre-public improvements. I think that could be part of the acquisition option. We need to go through the open space concept plan process first to determine the size and location.
 The acquisition option includes the purchase price and could include a similar escalation scale, if you will, that's tied to CPI. That needs to be negotiated as part of the acquisition. And is there any limit on the expectation of system development charges from outside of the North Macadam URA being used for purchasing the park? At this point, we've identified 5 million of PDC TIFs.
 This timeline allows the Parks Bureau to identify additional funds for the acquisition of the park. Is there an expectation that there will be unlimited funds, that the sky's the limit in terms of the purchase price? I don't think there's an expectation that there would be unlimited funds. If TIF and SDCs cannot fund all of the acquisition, we would have to seek other funding, like grants or other public agency funding.
 I will just add that from my perspective as a parks commissioner, there are many parks needs citywide and especially in the central city. And so my expectation is that it's not an unlimited amount that would be available for parks in this area. Although I certainly appreciate the collaboration and the expectation that we're going to be able to get to an agreement both on the open space concept plan and also on the purchase price. Okay.
 But the development agreement, I don't think it doesn't commit parks to purchase the property. So there's no commitment on the expenditure of parks funds. That was the answer that I was thinking of. One of the other components of the development agreement is district stormwater. So what we've outlined in the development agreement is a partnership agreement.
 primarily with the Bureau of Environmental Services, but also with PDC, PBOT, Parks, and other bureaus that may have a part in District Stormwater. One of the things we need to do is solve the stormwater solution for not only the Zidell Yards private development, but also for Bond Street.
 and the park and affordable housing. So this partnership builds on an EPA grant that the city and ZYDAL jointly acquired a couple years ago that looked at district systems. In this slide you can see a few of the opportunities for district stormwater that were explored. And that partnership will continue to explore opportunities for public and private
 green infrastructure, mixing those waters, if you will, and explore the potential to exceed the city's existing requirements as well. And again, the solution is needed to serve both public and private projects within the Zydal Yards Master Plan. I think it's worth noting that the reason this piece of the deal is so complicated is that we didn't have the opportunity to connect into the big pipe. So we have to do a sort of workaround and create a district stormwater solution.
 but also this is one of the it doesn't get a lot of attention but this is one of the benefits to to negotiating a development agreement like this you get to address other infrastructure needs on a district scale and be thoughtful about at the beginning and anticipate we can anticipate the amount of development is going to happen and then we can plan for a master solution that i think has much better outcomes for the public
 Finally, as part of the development agreement, all of PDC's current policies apply to the private and public projects within the DA, and that includes our business equity program, our workforce equity program, the South Waterfront Project Apprenticeship Agreement, which I'll provide a little more detail on shortly, our green building policy, and the 2% for art policy, where on public infrastructure projects with PDC dollars, 2% goes towards art.
 In regards to the South Waterfront Apprenticeship Agreement, the development agreement includes an update to this agreement. It was first established with the Central District Development Agreement. And the new updated apprenticeship agreement revises the boundary for the policies and requirements of this agreement to include OHSU properties in South Waterfront. So that's not only their Central District properties, but it's also their snitcher campuses.
 and then also the Zydell Yards properties. So the properties you see on this map that are in pink would be subject to the South Waterfront Apprenticeship Agreement, and this agreement requires all projects to meet PDC's equity policy procedures and specifications focused on minority women and emerging small businesses. Thank you.
 And finally, the other item before you today is to authorize the PDC PBOT IGA for Bond Avenue design. So this IGA is for $500,000 in fiscal year 15-16, and it focuses on 30% design of Bond Avenue for the full alignment. We need to understand how the...
 the road connects at Gibbs and at River Parkway and what the elevations and general design of the full Bond Avenue is. And then it will further the
 the design of certain segments affiliated with adjacent OHSU and ZYDAL design and construction. So you might remember from the phase one slide, we build a piece of bond as OHSU builds their building. We build another piece of bond as ZYDAL builds their block six project and another piece with block four. This sets the stage for initiating and furthering those designs of each piece as they initiate and further their design of their adjacent projects.
 With that, we'll also refine our construction costs. And construction, which is also funded with TIF, would come under a separate IGA before you once we know those construction costs have been finalized. And finally, the IGA is subject to approval of the development agreement. Okay. Questions for Patrick or Geraldine at this juncture? We obviously may have more at the end, but questions now? Okay.
 Thank you both. Thank you. And now I'd like to call Jay Zydel and Matt French and Dennis Allen from CRZ. Good morning, and come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Jay Zydel, president of the Zydel Company. They're going to let you go first. You're silent partners. You're on your own, Jay. Okay. For the record, I have Matt French on my right, and I have Dennis Allen on my left. We know how shy they are, so that's why you had to do that. Exactly. Yeah.
 Mayor Hales, Commissioners Fish, Fritz, Novick, and Saltzman, I want to thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today. I first started working on a full-time basis nearly 45 years ago and have been coming to the same office for that entire time period on Moody Avenue. During that period, we have seen enormous change in the area overall.
 which has gone from a nearly industrial district to a rapidly transitioning new neighborhood. Our family has, in one way or another, been operating at the Moody Avenue site since 1929, nearly 86 years. And it is fair to say that the Zaito family looks at our property through a special lens. Fifteen years ago, as a family, we engaged in some deep soul-searching
 as it relates to what we wanted to see happen on our property. Together, we concluded that our desires were to see the site become something quite special for both the family and the city that we have lived and operated our businesses in. With your efforts months back to extend the URA and the joint efforts of our team and the city that has culminated with the development agreement we are discussing here today,
 The table has been set for us to continue to work together in a public-private partnership that will lead to the development of our property within South Waterfront into an exciting, vibrant, and diverse neighborhood that we will all be able to take great pride in. As you know, we have spent the last year or more working on development ideas for Block 1, 4, and 6 projects.
 We have an incredible opportunity in front of us, and with the DA behind us, we look forward to rolling up our shirt sleeves and getting to work. Finally, I would like to take a minute and acknowledge in particular the efforts of Geraldine, Lisa, and Patrick on behalf of PDC and the city to get us to where we are today. Without their efforts, who knows where we'd be today. We've been at this for over five years, but we're down to the...
 Close to the goal line. Thank you very much, and we welcome your questions. Thank you. Do you want to add anything, either of you, at this point? Questions for the team? I have one question. Based on your experience, what's harder, to craft a DDA with the city or to build a barge? Do you want that on the record? Good thing it doesn't take that long. It's been a very interesting experience, something that certainly I don't have a lot of experience at.
 It's had its ups and downs, but I think we're all going to be able to sit around years from now and look back at the great things we've accomplished.
 Other questions for the ZRZ team? I just want to say thank you and your team for being patient negotiators and working with us, because contracts require two consensual parties, and it has to be a good deal for the city and a good deal for you. And we believe, obviously, that we're at that point, but it took patience and effort on your part of the table as well as on the PDC side. So thank you.
 Thank you. And, again, we really look forward to getting going on what's going to be a very exciting time for us. I've heard that. I've heard that from your team. I'm interested in building a thing or two, so that's great. Thank you all very much. Actually, may I say one more thing? This is Adele.
 About 15 years ago, there was an article in the New Yorker about, it was focused on Philadelphia, and it said that in America it used to be that there were these families in every city that sort of were the civic culture of the city. They contributed to the opera, they sort of weighed in on major civic events, and now that's less and less true, that every company in America, it seems, is now owned by some other company in Houston or Phoenix or something. The ones in Houston or Phoenix are owned by some company in St. Louis.
 And it's really good that we still have a few locally owned businesses and business people such as yourself who think of yourself as full partners with the city, remain citizens of the city, controlling your own business and your own property. So I just wanted to say that I'm thankful that you're still here, been here since 1929 and working with us. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Thanks. Okay, I want to call on...
 Len Michon from South Portland Neighborhood Association, Sean Becker from South Waterfront Retail Collaborative, and Michael Harrison from OHSU, please. Good morning. Len, you want to go first? Good morning. I'm Len Michon, resident of South Waterfront and a member of the board of the South Portland Neighborhood Association.
 Honorable Mayor Hales and Councilmembers, thank you for the opportunity today to speak about the ZRZ and PDC agreement. I'd like to congratulate the parties for arriving in an agreement that provides for the continued development of South Waterfront and with the City's and PDC's obligation to provide funding for the extension of Southwest Bond Avenue
 ultimately to provide one-way northbound traffic flow. The agreement appears to provide protections for each party involved. ZRZ is providing an option for PHB to purchase a lot during Phase 2 of development for affordable housing.
 And as we've already heard, this is in addition to Gray's Landing, which is now fully occupied, and to what is expected to be another affordable housing project at Parcel 3 on River Place. So South Waterfront really will be moving forward on its earlier commitments to affordable housing, which I think is very positive.
 I applaud the potential district energy system which OSU may develop and to which ZRZ buildings may ultimately connect for its environmental impact possibilities. I am pleased to see the agreement mentioned as the potential for funding a parking garage, although that's in the very, very back.
 Since currently parking is at a premium and certainly will be even more so as development progresses. With any development as huge as ZRZ, use construction periods are extended 20 to 30 years as we've heard. This result is based upon each building's design, city approvals, and construction. While the timeline is excruciatingly long, watching this development I think will be very interesting. Thank you.
 Regarding the interim activation partnership, I'm pleased that the city may attempt to streamline city approvals for certain activities. However, I would urge that the citizen participation process not be shortchanged. Speaking as a resident of the district, the time frame is exceedingly long for the creation of quality of life amenities such as the Greenway and the Ross Island Bridge Park.
 However, the agreement does allow for construction of an interim greenway, pedestrian and bike trails, which I encourage ZRZ to undertake. I understand that PPNR has received some limited grant funding and plans to design a portion of the greenway starting this year. I would encourage a collaborative work with ZRZ in this effort.
 Speaking as a member of the SPNA Board, I'm pleased to endorse the agreement and urge your yes vote on the resolutions before you. But I would hope that certain aspects of the process could be moved forward a little bit sooner. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Thanks, Len. Michael, you want to be next? Sure. I'm Michael Harrison with OHSU. I appreciate the opportunity to be here to talk.
 testify today. We're very excited to see the IGA between PDC and PBOT on the agenda, ensuring that the Bond Avenue extension on the
 The Knight Cancer Research Building, our purpose in building it is to advance the early diagnosis and treatment of cancer. But we're also pleased that our project will help the city advance their own jobs goals further.
 For the construction of the building, for example, we have very aggressive MWESB goals, as well as partnership in the apprenticeship program that Geraldine mentioned earlier. Ultimately, with the Knight Cancer Research Building and the two other projects that we have in development, we'll also see probably more than 1,000 permanent jobs down in South Waterfront as well.
 Lastly, I want to applaud the city, both staff and the council members who directly engaged in negotiations as well for the successful completion. Well, the successful development. It's not complete until it's voted on, but the successful completion of negotiations.
 over the development agreement. We're really excited that South Waterfront will become a complete community over time and that there's a timeline that people can focus on. There's much to celebrate today and appreciate all the work. Thank you.
 sean welcome thank you good morning i'm sean becker i own and operate sean z becker real estate in south waterfront um and first let me say i'm excited about the zeidel property development i think it's a wonderful thing for the neighborhood i sit in a little bit of a unique perspective i've been selling homes in south waterfront since 2004. about a year ago i purchased a commercial condo in south waterfront so i own and operate my business out of that space in south waterfront so i'm both the business owner
 I'm an employer, I employ seven people, and I'm also a retailer in the neighborhood. And one thing I recognized through this time period from about 2004 onward as the retail has developed is that there's been lack of cohesion, if you will, amongst all the retailers. Amongst – there's kind of a disconnect and a breakdown. A lot of the retailers don't know each other.
 So my idea was born about a year ago to start this South Waterfront Retailer Collective. The idea was not to be a business association, et cetera. It was really pretty grassroots. The idea was that we all got to know each other on a first-name basis because I believe –
 Having watched South Waterfront develop, I've been a homeowner in South Waterfront, so I know it well. To see the diversity in the neighborhood and see the neighborhood kind of develop, you know, with the Grey's Landing, for example, you have the Mirabella, these different ideas in the neighborhood and different faces of the neighborhood really have led to strengthening of the retail in the neighborhood. So what I wanted to have is all the retailers know each other on a first-name basis because we do all share the same clientele in South Waterfront.
 What I've witnessed and watched happen is that this diversity in the neighborhood, whether you're a luxury condo homeowner or you're an employee at OHSU, I mean, this helps drive the retail in the neighborhood.
 So as the South Waterfront continues to move forward, I'm a big fan of continuing this diversity in the neighborhood, whether it's affordable housing, whether it's OHSU employment, whether it's more market rate housing, which I'm always a fan of. But I think that diversity really leads to a complete neighborhood, and I think really –
 The conversation in South Waterfront is just another great neighborhood in the city of Portland, and I think the retailers play a big piece of that, and I think the clientele of the retailers help drive that forward. So I'm a big fan of continuing the diversity and the development of Zydel property in South Waterfront. Thank you. Thanks very much. Questions? Questions?
 Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. And then the final two invited folks that I want to bring up are Dan Valliere from REACH and Rehana Ansari from the Portland Business Alliance. So come on up. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm Dan Valliere, CEO at REACH Community Development, owner and manager of nearly 2,000 apartments, all affordable to households with lower incomes, including Gray's Landing.
 This agreement is an extremely important step toward meeting the original vision of the South Waterfront neighborhood. The vision at the outset was a community that includes an equitable share of affordable housing, affordable to households with lower incomes, particularly, as was pointed out, at certain income levels like 60% of median and below and 30% of median and below.
 Land in the South Waterfront area is appreciating continually, given the ongoing investments in the area. And so the city's acquisition of land for the purpose of affordable housing is the right strategy. It also means that the process for developing future housing will be a transparent process. It will be an open process for selecting the developer for the site, for example, as is being done now on Parcel 3, which was mentioned, and that's a good thing.
 ZRZ and the Zidell family, as we've heard, are helping lead and have been helping lead the reimagining of the neighborhood for many years. And so it's very notable that the family is agreeing to sell property to the city expressly for the purpose of affordable housing. It demonstrates their long-held commitment to promoting inclusion in the neighborhood. And it could serve as a model across the city, too, of how to do things differently.
 the purchase price for example remains to be determined but as we saw there's a clear process outlined in the agreement of how that will be done so i think that also is a good thing last thing i would say is approval today does not complete the work not only on the development side but on the affordable housing goals it is true that combined with parcel 3 and this new opportunity
 from the Zydell family, we can likely meet the goals that were set out and shown on the slides earlier. It's important to remember that those goals, when they were set, were associated with a number of 3,000 total housing units in the neighborhood, that that was sort of the vision and that that goal was attached to kind of that first phase of 3,000 housing units. We're just about at that point, I believe, we're about to cross that milestone.
 So there still is a conversation that needs to happen to clarify what goals would we have in the future as the neighborhood grows further. So there is work to be done still on affordable housing even beyond this, but it's true that with this additional opportunity, we have come a long way in the past 18 months. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. Rihanna Hansery here on behalf of the Portland Business Alliance to testify in support of the South Waterfront North District Development Agreement.
 We believe the Portland Development Commission should focus on catalyzing private sector job growth, and this agreement is in effort to do that. We applaud the earlier extension and expansion of the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area, as it has largely made possible the city's investment and affordable housing components of this agreement.
 This public-private partnership between the city, PDC, and ZRZ Realty Company is mutually beneficial and reaffirms the party's longstanding commitment to economic development in South Waterfront.
 The agreement will accelerate development and result in more jobs and public benefits, ranging from transportation to open space to affordable housing. This prime waterfront property is the largest available site left in the central city and is ripe for development, located near new transit lines and
 and one of the region's largest employers, Oregon Health and Sciences University. Seizing these opportunities are key to promoting the innovation quadrant, where major projects have already led to transformative investments by local universities, developers, and employers.
 PDC and PBOT investments in infrastructure, including Bond Street, are critical to development in the area, and the commitment to build another segment of Greenway adds to the transportation and recreation assets that Portland is known for. With the adoption and execution of this agreement, Zydal Yards is perfectly positioned to become a vibrant mixed-use neighborhood, helping to achieve the city's economic and housing goals. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Questions?
 Thank you both. And now let's turn to public testimony. Anyone signed up to speak? Yes, we have seven people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Alvin Hall, Lightning Watchdog X, and Barry Joe Stahl. Come on up, please. Alvin Hall, I'm not here. Let's go with Leah Greenwood then. Come on up. Lightning, I think you're on first. Go ahead. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X.
 I like what I'm seeing here. I like the development agreement. I do want to see it finalized. A couple concerns I guess I have on the affordable housing parcel. I want to kind of see that maybe tightened up a little bit. I know you're going into an option type situation, and based upon the environmental, the title, and other various issues, but at a certain point when we determine the price based upon hopefully we can do it with two appraisers,
 within a range. I'd like to see that tightened up a little bit to where there really isn't an out by the city, that they do commit, they commit to a price, they commit to a time frame, and they deliver the funds to these ideal companies. So I don't really want to have the city have an out at a certain point. So I'd like to maybe have that tightened up a little bit, especially on the environmental issues side.
 relying upon Zydel Company's information on that. I want the independent studies done by the city relied upon that information. Make your determination. Now another issue I have on the park, I want to see, as Commissioner Fritz said, I'd like to see some type of price established, at least at a certain time frame. How much property will be purchased? I understand PDC will do a $5 million toward that
 I understand by the drawings that it's going to be waterfront. One of the things I have is that on the waterfront developments of the parks, to me the river is an extension of the park and the properties. And what I want to see here is that I want to see something else looked at a little bit closer on this, something to do out on the water.
 I want to see access to boats, whether they're just small boats that people can utilize from the local area there, and then head up to, say, Marine Drive to their other boats. I want a little bit more emphasis on the water. And I know that the Zydel Company, it appears as though you will be –
 ending your business there, if I'm correct, at a certain time. Possibly that's in the future. That's just my opinion. But what I'd like to see there is maybe even some type of a museum dedicated to the Zydel Company, possibly on a floating barge located at a certain location.
 have it as the museum and also as a maybe a art-type gallery, get-together, something out on the water that brings people to the water. And I'd like to see maybe the Zell Company and family look at that as a Seidel Maritime Museum. And I think that's very important to have that in the city and in this project. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stoll, I'll take you next.
 Good morning, counsel. Barry Jo Stull. We have a couple of things to say. Where's Commissioner Fish when I go to talk? We actually had an affordable housing memorial he participated in here, I'm going to guess, about 2008. And what we calculated was pretty much the one-night street count of homeless people was almost exactly the same as the affordable housing, which had disappeared to the south waterfront. Ah.
 did not build the promised affordable housing. Now that the property values have escalated because of all the city's funding and the development and putting in the roads and the streetcar, now we're thinking about how much we're going to spend in future prices to put in a park? No. Not in my city. See, I come from the city of Portland, Oregon, and across the way over here, we have a park that was donated to the city.
 That's what good people do when they're rich, is they become philanthropists. I think the Zydell Corporation has plenty of money to build that park. And I think that $5 million will go a long ways to addressing the housing crisis that we have. Let me repeat myself, because we never built the promised affordable housing when we developed that whole area and changed it from the toxic waste site that it was
 We have remediated that as a society. And now what? We're going to buy it back to put in a park? No. We have already paid. We all have already paid. I paid plenty. And here's what I know about how this kind of system works. I know Commissioner Fritz used to volunteer at Sisters of the Road Cafe. I had an interesting question for them back in the day. It's like, well, how come it costs,
 $1.25 cash to buy your meal here, but if you buy it with food stamps at the time, it only costs $1.00. The answer was, for every dollar of food stamp purchase, Sisters of the Road Cafe got reimbursed $1.25. So imagine that.
 You go to the store because you have a job and you buy something. But if you're a poor person, when you go to the store, they get 25% on top just for accepting you as a customer. That's what I'm looking at here. So I'm going to let you all go, and I'll give you a harder time on things I'm much more experienced with. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Mayor and commissioners, my name is Leah Greenwood. My history in working in North McAdam is closer to 13, 14 years. I previously served as housing policy manager at the Portland Development Commission. A couple of things I just wanted to highlight. The League of Women Voters will be testifying later, and they will identify in their testimony some of the details about the development agreement.
 Well, they develop that aren't ideal. And so I support the recommendations that they'll they'll bring forward and won't address them here. But I did want to say thank you for stopping the process and asking ZRZ and PDC to kind of go back to the table and look at how they could address affordable housing and the development agreement.
 I know doing that at a late date doesn't put PDC in the greatest position of leverage, and I think that what they have proposed is a long ways from where we were just a couple of months ago. So it is exciting to see this is a historic development agreement, both as it relates to the residential development, but just the development and economic development that will come from development of that property.
 One of the things I did want to address is, as a number of folks have said already, this agreement itself isn't the only thing that needs to happen in the district as it relates to affordable housing. I wanted to highlight that when the district was being created, there was a jobs housing agreement
 And it was focused on housing jobs and jobs housing balance, which at the time was the buzzword. Now we've talked about workforce housing. We can call it whatever we want, middle-income housing. It's the whole range. But I wanted to highlight that the jobs housing group that focused on the balance acknowledged the transportation constraints in this district. Right.
 and the importance of creating residential opportunities for the workers in the district and the workers at OHSU because of the investment that this city was going to make in that transportation infrastructure. The Jobs Housing Committee felt, and this was directly from the housing strategy, Jobs Housing Committee felt that obtaining a profile of affordability was essential to gaining citywide support of the urban renewal investment.
 and would allay fears that the district would become an exclusive high-end enclave. So these were the discussions that we were having before we even approved the urban renewal district. And I do think right now we have one affordable housing project. I would argue that everything else is a high-end enclave. We do have – OHSU does own significant land in the district, and I'd ask that the city –
 work with OHSU to find how we can commit some of that land for residential development, affordable housing, and workforce housing.
 OHSU still owes PDC $2 million. The value of that probably is about $2.4, $2.5 million looking at inflation, not taking into account opportunity costs. And we know from a survey in 1999 that 88 percent at that time, 88 percent of the employees at OHSU made less than $50,000. One-third of the employees at OHSU made less than $20,000.
 So I really want to see that we're having a conversation about how both affordable housing and housing at 80% median income really does support OHSU and the work they're doing and our economic investment in the district. So let's see how we can turn that $2 million into something that is supportive of our broader commitments in the district. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. Next three, please. Our Laura Campos, Debbie Iona, and Phillip Selinger.
 Okay? I like that idea. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Laura Campos, and I've been testifying about this for 32 years. I even brought my historic Citra Zydell Master Plan 1986 document. But I want to make a point that with all due respect to the Zydell family that has lived here for 86 years, Native Americans occupied this land for much longer. Not that I'm representing the Native community, but I am Native American.
 I moved to Portland in 1977 to work for Mayor Goldschmidt to work on the comp plan and the greenway. I also know that our neighborhood plan was passed in 1977 and talked about redeveloping this site. So I've lived about eight blocks. Well, I used to live six blocks, but then they filled in two blocks of the river. So now I live eight blocks from the river since 1981 in the historic Larahill neighborhood.
 Everyone seems to forget that this area was a floodplain, and this map shows that. And I want to thank Amanda. I know that I had a lot to do with mentoring her in her early stages for planning, and I want to thank her for saying that there are not unlimited funds for park purchase. Thank you. And I want to go further. This site has been largely illegal fill area,
 that harmed Willamette River back in the 80s, and my neighborhood at that time testified against that. The property owners, in my opinion, stole land from the public and should not profit from their wrongdoing. Secondly, in regards to the stormwater problem, the problem was created by the property owners, the Zydels. There wouldn't be a stormwater problem if they hadn't illegally filled the river.
 So as Native Americans, we know that this area was a natural wetland that adequately handled the stormwater. I know your exasperation, and I'm just living in the past. But I think it's significant when we're spending a lot of public money to step back and take a wider view. The illegal fill caused significant harm to wildlife, plants, animals, and as my people know, this violates a sacred connection
 between man and environment. So we're creating an imbalance, and I'm not grateful. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good morning. Hi. I'm Debbie Iona, representing the League of Women Voters. Today I'll focus on several points from the written memo we submitted. The DA places deadlines on the city's acquisition and development of the park and the affordable housing parcels. TIF will be needed to finance those projects.
 The availability of TIF depends entirely on when ZRZ develops its properties. It is important to keep in mind that there is no obligation for ZRZ to develop anything. That's not completely true, and I'm on your side on this. Remember the slide that they showed us earlier? There's $47 million without ZYDAL.
 We're putting $19 million into parcel three. So we've actually got $47 million to do the two projects that we've promised without the Zydale money kicking in. The Zydale money kicks us to 60, and I'm on your side, and I want more housing, and I want to make sure we hit our targets. I just want to be clear, the assumptions around money for affordable housing, you get to the 47, which is the amount we have for the first two projects,
 is exclusive of the Zydel agreement. Okay. Let's see, where was I? Sorry. Okay. It's not advisable to tie the city's right to buy and develop these sites to a time frame over which the city has no control. The housing and the park are too important to the district to risk losing them due to the unpredictable timing of real estate development.
 The League recognizes the efforts PDC made to strengthen the affordable housing provisions. We recommend improving the agreement by placing a fair market value cap on the escalating price so that the Housing Bureau pays whichever is less. As to the park, why are the park's location and acreage undetermined? This is a very risky approach as development may limit the park's size and location.
 Why is the purchase price based on the market value at the time of sale? Given the timeline for the steps that need to be taken first, it is conceivable that a price will not be set until 2020. Over time, land costs are likely to skyrocket. Keep in mind that in 2006, the City paid $5 million for Block 49. This DA commits only $5 million in TIF for acquisition.
 Instead, a timeline and pricing formula similar to that for the affordable housing site should be applied. If development does not occur, TIF fails to materialize, and the city does not meet the deadlines for acquiring the affordable housing and park properties, what are the consequences? We read the DA to say that the city will lose the right to acquire these properties if it does not purchase them by the deadlines set forth in the agreement.
 In the event of environmental contamination or tidal complications, the agreement caps ZRZ's responsibility for curative measures at $250,000. Environmental cleanup can be expensive. Is the City prepared to cover additional costs? Why shouldn't ZRZ bear full responsibility? There are significant exposures and risks that need to be addressed before this agreement is executed, and we encourage you to attend to them.
 And also, in the time I have left, I want to second Leah Greenwood's comments about OHSU. The League has been saying that over and over again, that OHSU needs to step up and provide a site for an affordable housing project. Thank you very much. Thank you. Questions? Thank you both. Okay, is there anyone else? That's all who signed up. So could staff come back up, please, Patrick and Geraldine, for any other questions from council?
 Patrick, the League, Debbie raises a question, I think a very important question about under what circumstances could we effectively lose the option to purchase the dirt in the Zydel development for affordable housing. Now, we've got timelines here, and we know from your presentation we've got resources, TIF resources that are developed exclusive
 independent from the ZYDEL development agreement, but under what circumstance could the city lose its option to purchase that shirt? So the option that will be negotiated includes a timeline for the acquisition. We outlined projected dates for when that would occur.
 And those dates are outlined in the development agreement as well, specifically requiring that the purchase option for the affordable housing needs to be executed by 2021. By 21. You've set aside $19 million for parcel three, correct? Correct.
 correct and um how much uh tiff do you anticipate will be available for the just for the acquisition of this uh land um independent of whether mr zeidel moves forward with his development as of 2021 independent of the development agreement i mean without without without any new tiff being generated as a as a result of his development
 What's the what you're going to spend 19 million in block three? What are the available resources for affordable housing as of 2021? Just ballpark. But there's an exhibit E in the development agreement that outlines those. And I'm.
 I may have to do some math here, but for housing, we are projecting outside of the development agreement the $42 million you mentioned. So $42 million minus 19 would be what would be available. There may be a question, I suppose, about when we develop the DIRT, but it sounds to me like it's,
 short of a negligent action by the city, it's inconceivable that we won't exercise the option to purchase the dirt. Is that fair? Correct. Well, it would be the city's decision. Yeah, the city would have to actively decide not to exercise the option. Not to. And it wouldn't be because we didn't have the resources to do it. Correct.
 Correct. And, you know, we can kind of scenario plan all sorts of things. The city could even exercise the option in advance of the TIF being available and the TIF could pay back the city. I mean, there's all sorts of ways the city can, just to exercise the option and acquire the land in advance of the development. Yeah, and actually I'm glad you mentioned that because I think there might be some merit to doing that. Yeah, so that's a way to, right. Okay, thank you. Other questions? No.
 Okay. Any council motions or decisions? I think we were all prepared to give comments today, particularly because it's unlikely that everyone that's here is going to be back here next week. Is there any reason why we don't move to put an emergency clause on this? I don't see one. I don't see any reason not to. So I would move to put an emergency clause on the ordinance? Is there a second? Second. Any discussion about that? So roll call vote on adding the emergency clause, please. Does the City Attorney, is that proper? No.
 Bish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? I believe it's because it's in the public interest to move expeditiously in implementing this agreement. Aye. Hales? Aye. Then a roll call vote on the ordinance then. Bish? We've been at this for a long time. I was trying to think of what the appropriate analogy would be. The best one I could come up with is a high school romance. It seems to me over time it was on, it was off, there were new issues.
 New faces, new circumstances. But congratulations to everybody that brought this home. And I want to acknowledge Mayor Jillian Detweiler on your team. I want to acknowledge Javier and Carl at the Housing Bureau, Patrick, Lisa, and Geraldine in particular at PDC. And I'll have something to say about the other folks in a second.
 I also want to thank Liam Frost, Sonja Schmansky, and our new BES director, Mike Jordan. The stormwater issues are not uncomplicated, and it took a lot of conversations and a lot of effort to get to this point. So I appreciate everyone's work. A couple years ago, a number of us were at a funeral for Noha Tula, who was one of my mentors and someone that I think about a lot.
 And Dr. Toulon reminds us that most of the great things that happened in this city happened because someone had vision and persistence. And he had a 30-year vision for what he wanted at Portland State, and it included a university district and it included an urban center, and he had this dream of transportation bisected in the urban center. And he had a big dream, but it took 30 years to realize that dream. He was a very patient man. But what we also remember about Nohad is he was very persistent.
 And so I want to acknowledge that ultimately we would not be here today if Jay Zydell did not have a vision and the persistence to see that vision forward. And there are probably days he gets up and thinks, yeah, the barge business was a pretty good business compared to being a developer. But this city needs people with vision and the tenacity to see their vision through. And I think today we owe him a debt of gratitude and his family.
 and the fact that he's made two things very clear in this process. One is that he has empowered the next generation of his family to take a leadership role in this. And number two is he said that he intends to be a long-term owner, that this is going to be something that's going to stay within the family, and I think we're all excited about that. I have a sense of how much work behind the scenes had to get done to get to this point, and two words that come to mind are collaboration and trust.
 A lot of collaboration. And then at the end, it took a lot of trust. And it took, in fact, some members of the council up here, it took a leap of faith. And it required some of my colleagues to actually roll up their sleeves, go down there, and rethink some assumptions about how we're going to do this.
 And to those who say that the commission style form of government has this built-in inefficiency, I think this is an example where each of everybody on this side of the table brought something unique and important to the process. And I especially want to compliment my friend Commissioner Fritz because I think there were some issues that she cared deeply about. And as is her style, she got directly involved in the sort of personal diplomacy to satisfy her concerns. Okay.
 A couple years ago, we were looking at a district before the mayor's proposal to do reset on urban renewal generally that was projected to have about $7 million for affordable housing. Today, we are contemplating $60 million. We didn't have a clear path to build units beyond Gray's Landing. Now we have a clear path to build at least 400 more units, and we have members of the community reminding us that that's a down payment and we've got to do more.
 And I celebrate that because that ultimately means 400 families that cannot afford to live in our city are going to have a choice, a chance to live in a very desirable neighborhood. And if the idea of opportunity, which is at the heart of what Dan Saltzman is doing, means anything, it means that folks that don't have a lot should be able to choose where to live and raise their families. And I think over time you're going to be hard-pressed to find a more attractive and desirable place to live than South Waterfront.
 And finally, and I just should acknowledge that I think Gretchen Kofori is somewhere smiling down on us today because she was a very loud voice for making sure we honored our four-wall housing commitment, and we have come so far. And finally, it is our tradition when we adopt something like this to then collectively wish that our partners are wildly successful because this is one of those moments where your success rebounds to the benefit of everyone.
 So, Jay, we hope you are wildly successful. We hope that Google decides to relocate and have their world headquarters in your neck. We hope that Nike wakes up and has buyer's remorse. We hope that everyone's beating down your door because if you are wildly successful, then the whole South Waterfront and the whole city benefits. Mayor, thank you for your leadership on this. It started with this bigger vision you had about reset on urban renewal, and we're now bringing home something that I think not that long ago people doubted we could do.
 So congratulations to everyone who had a hand in this. Aye. Saltzman? Well, this is an historic moment, and I really want to acknowledge that and I guess maybe just provide some perspective that I've been fortunate enough to be a witness to on my tenure on the City Council, starting under Mayor Vera Katz, when this whole piece of land was looked at and –
 Nobody thought anything could be done with it. It was too snarled no access to it I mean it was great industrial use great waterfront marine use but when you went over the Ross Island Bridge or the Markham Bridge and you looked over there and you realized that
 all the difficulties of making something happen there. It was really a challenge. And this city council over the years has slowly, working with partners, you know, put all the pieces in place. This is really sort of the final piece that still remains to be... The painting still needs to be finished, but we have a pretty clear idea with this agreement where we're going to end up. And, you know, I think it's just a real credit to...
 everybody in the city of Portland who has had the patience to stick with this process and to start developing the essential infrastructure to make this work. And it started out with, you know, some visionary people taking a risk on building housing down in this area. And for a long time, and even still today, it kind of looks out of place, but it's popular. And I
 you know and without the tram and ohsu's commitment to expand to south waterfront uh you know another piece of the puzzle uh would not have happened so met the major piece the night cancer research institute ohsu's major commitment there and really this is the last major piece and i'm really excited about both the opportunity to allow us to achieve our affordable housing goals
 in the South waterfront and I think this does protect the public's interest by Providing is setting a price for the purchase of the parcel of land in advance and I believe that we will based on the wildly successful Development that we anticipate will happen there that we will have adequate resources when those resources are needed to add these additional units of affordable housing and more and so I'm really Just want to recognize
 Again, the Zydell family's contribution to our city. I know, you know, being up here and being a witness to all this, I've had many chances to meet with Jay over the years and share in some of his frustrations or at least listen to his frustrations with the city. But I've also seen the newer generation come along and I think really sort of, you know, really put some new energy into doing something down here. And I just want to take, parenthetically, just...
 say how great it is to sort of start attaching identity to Zidell Yards. You know, when I read about concerts happening down there in Willamette Week or ads in the Mercury about, you know, the food cart festival, the Zidell Yards, I mean, it's starting to really catch on. People are starting to recognize this sense of place.
 And that's only going to bode well, I think, for the future development down here. And, you know, I too hope somebody like a Google or a Nike will take another look at this tremendous opportunity to have people work and live in our city and with tremendous...
 tremendous transit access and greenway access and a new park so it's all very exciting and i you know i feel fortunate to be able to sort of be here as a witness to this final final piece of the puzzle being put together as well and i know there's probably going to be you know obstacles along the way to getting to yes but i do want to thank pdc geraldine patrick lisa for really
 making this getting this deal across the table the mayor's office Julian Detweiler Portland Housing Bureau Javier Mena and Carl Dingle spill in particular and I just think we're at a great point and I'm really pleased to be able to be here today to support this. Hi Novick. Oh
 It takes a village of city bureaus to raise a development agreement. And I'm very grateful for the work of staff of PBOT, including Kurt Kruger and Dan Layden and BDS staff and park staff and BES and the city attorney's office, especially Harry Auerbach. So thanks to all of you and thanks to everybody. Hi. Fritz. Hi.
 Much has been said, but not just been said by everyone. So I'm going to repeat some of the things that have already been said. Thank you to Gillian Detweiler in the Mayor's Office, to Geraldine and Patrick at the Portland Development Commission, Tim Crail, Patty Howard, and Tom Bezot in my office, and Mike Abate in our team at Parks. And to Jay Zydal and your team. It's truly a public-private partnership, which we all hope is going to succeed beyond our wildest dreams.
 echo Commissioner Fish's acknowledgement of the Commission form of government and my delight in being personally involved as well as admiration for his leadership on the housing issue, getting to places which we're not entirely comfortable with, but we're trusting that things are going to go well.
 I will note that the agreement we're approving today does not allocate all of the additional tax increments financing that will result from this development, as Commissioner Fish pointed out. The Council and the Portland Development Commission will have a further debate about whether the housing allocation is 50% or the 43% that it's currently set up by code.
 There are many, many infrastructure improvements still unfunded in the district. The South Portal is one of the main ones that is of great concern to me. The ways in and out of the district. We knew back when I was on the Planning Commission when we sent this to Council, that was one of the big constraints.
 the money for improving the park. I tell you, $5 million, that may not go very far for purchasing property. It certainly doesn't go very far in developing property. So we're going to need to be in a conversation about that. But that, I trust that we are going to get to an agreement and that we're going to figure out together how to fund it appropriately. If we don't, the agreement doesn't require us to buy property that we can't afford or to develop it in ways that we don't want to do.
 trusting and verifying is also there. It's uncertain, but then it's also flexible. And I think that that is important, not knowing what's going to be developed there in the near future and in the long term.
 It's certainly another reason that I'm hoping to get re-elected next year so that I can be part of the implementation of this agreement and be there to discuss where's the park. The Ross Island Bridge Park is actually a very nice place. I appreciate you giving me a tour of it. It reminds me of Cathedral Park.
 It is the city owns the right-of-way underneath the bridge. So when people are saying, oh, we're concerned that there won't be any park, oh, yes, there will be because we at least have that area. And I'm confident that together we can design an open space concept plan that will pull together the greenway, the enhancements that are being proposed there, and the rest of the district. Commissioner Saltzman referred to this as the last piece of the puzzle.
 I'm reminded of the winter Christmas vacation that I spent with my husband's family. We did a puzzle that was circular, so no edges, or edges but no corners, and entirely green, so no colors. And we spent the entire... It's New York, so it was snowing. So we spent the entire vacation putting together this puzzle. And lo and behold, there was an extra piece after we got the entire thing done. The puzzle was done, but there was an extra piece that...
 that didn't fit in. And so I caution us. We need to be clear. This neighborhood didn't develop over the last 10 years the way it was envisioned. It was supposed to be a lot more jobs than housing. That didn't work. I'm really grateful for the Knight Cancer Institute that is now bringing in those additional jobs. And clearly, the Zydell Property Development can also focus on jobs as well as housing. If it's going to be a truly mixed neighborhood, it has to have both.
 But it's not currently a great neighborhood, I would have to say. It has some things that are lacking. It's coming along. But this development agreement is the make or break for the entire area. If we can get it right, it's going to be a wonderful community to live, work, and play in for 100 years and more. If we don't, it'll be a, huh, not quite what we thought. And I think with this development agreement, we're set on...
 in a path of, yes, we can still see the vision, we can get there, and we're committed to the partnership to do so. Very much appreciate the League of Women Voters for their ongoing attention to this. There's folks there who have been looking into this for many years, and indeed Laura Compost, who mentioned that she's been doing it for 32 years.
 So we have committed community members who also want it to work, whether they live in or near the district or not. And I appreciate the mayor's leadership in allowing us all to be part of this to get to an agreement that I can support. Thank you. Aye. Hayles. Well, let me say I feel the heft of this decision in part because of context, not just because it's been painstakingly negotiated with a lot of people that have done good work together over quite a bit of time,
 but also because of the importance of this decision in terms of urban development. In one capacity or another, four different day jobs and some volunteer jobs as well, I've been thinking about how cities grow for about 30 years.
 And all over the country now there's a movement from the suburbs to cities. So we all need to think about that because, of course, it's happening here. And we're growing, and we're growing fast, faster than many people are comfortable with. But nevertheless, we're growing. And that's true, again, in other cities. There's a lot of infill and redevelopment happening in cities all over the country.
 But there are only a handful of places in North America that I know of, really six that I know of, where a city has had the opportunity to create a whole new neighborhood.
 if you define it the way I would, about the Pearl District in the South Waterfront. And those are two of those six neighborhoods. The others are Yaletown and Coal Harbor in Vancouver, British Columbia, Battery Park City in New York, and South of Market in San Francisco.
 Plus or minus, those seem to be the chances that major American cities have had to do what we're doing in the Pearl District and now here. And that is try to create and put in place all the ingredients of a new neighborhood. Housing, public spaces, employment, the non-profit sector, a major institution, whether it's the Pacific Northwest College of Art, much smaller scale operation, or OHSU. Transportation. Transportation.
 And the scary thing about that list is not only that it's short and that two of the six major opportunities like that are here, but I think I can say without too much bragging that we're actually doing a better job than those other four.
 There's not really much local transit circulation in Battery Park City, although New York has a great subway system. Coal Harbor and Yaletown have amazing public spaces, but not much new employment. In terms of all those ingredients,
 The Pearl District, which has been rated by the Congress on the New Urbanism and those kinds of folks that look at these things as the best new urban neighborhood in the country, and now South Waterfront, have done a better job of putting all those pieces in place.
 in order to create something that's obviously very difficult to do, which is a great new urban neighborhood from what was essentially, in both cases, nearly an empty quarter, although obviously the Zidell company has soldiered on in their business while much of the land around them went fallow. One of the things that it takes
 for that success to happen is for a city, our city, and the private property owners and developers to have a really clear understanding about what we expect from each other. And that that's durable, as Commissioner Saltzman noted, over multiple administrations and over many years because it does take a long time to build a new neighborhood. And that's why this development agreement matters so much.
 because this is how we hold each other accountable. Jay and his team can look to the city and say, it's right here in the development agreement. This is what we have a right to expect from the city. And we can look to him and his team and say, and it's right here in the agreement. We expect you to deliver just as you do us. And that's why this is a contract, in that sense of the word, and a very important social contract between a community and a
 enlightened citizen who owns some property and who wants to do the right thing. So this is a big day, and a credit to all, Patrick, you and your team, most of all, for getting us to this point on the city side. Credit to you, Jay, as I said, for being persistent in trying to get your vision in writing with the city that you love and that your family is so much a part of.
 So well done. Much good work ahead. I look forward to the day when the South Waterfront as a neighborhood is as far along as the Pearl District is today. And the thousands of people who live and work there and the people who visit it say, what a great and complete neighborhood. We're well on the way to that vision. And this document will get us there. Well done. Aye. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Okay, it is 12 o'clock. I propose that we run on until 1230 and then take a half an hour break. Does that sound good to the council? And we will see how far we can get down our regular agenda. Okay.
 We have that one item that we pulled from regular. It's yours. We have one more time, sir. Oh, sorry, we have the second item. We have the second of these two to vote on. No, I know, but I mean we read. Steve, you want an emergency on 59? We don't need to. We'll just let it go a second.
 I think we can let that go. Yeah, let that go. Then we have a time. Okay, so yeah, 659 goes to second reading. That's right. Sorry, I blew past 660. So we will do 660 next.
 660 create a local improvement district to construct street sidewalk and stormwater improvements from Northwest Raleigh Street to Northwest Upshur Street in the Northwest 20th Avenue local improvement district. Commissioner Novick, Andrew Abbey come on down Good afternoon commissioners Andrew Abbey local improvement district administrator council approved the resolution of intent four weeks ago today for Northwest 20th Avenue with 100% petition support for this LID and
 We have increased the LID by $4.12 per accessible square foot to include right-of-way costs, which is an adjustment that we've made to the LID. We did not receive any remonstrances against LID formation. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Okay. Questions? Thank you. Is there anyone else that wants to speak on this item? Did we have a couple of people who are here to speak, Andrew?
 If you would like to speak on this, come on up, please. Don't wait to be called if you're here on this item. Phil, how are you? Good afternoon. Good morning. My name is Phil Selinger, and I'm here today representing the Northwest District Association neighborhood. And more than just accommodation or cooperation, the relationship between Conway and their development team in the neighborhood has been closer to a partnership.
 We were invited to be part of their master planning process for their properties early on, and that included the traffic impact analysis that was projected for the district around the Conway properties.
 The 23rd and Vaughan intersection was really a focus of a lot of that development pressure on the transportation system. There are only two freeway portals into the dense northwest neighborhood, this being one of them.
 And we know that Conway was going to be a large contributor to that development pressure, but not the exclusive contributor. And so it's really important and appreciated that Conway has stepped up to support this LID. So we were a part of this conversation with both PBOT and ODOT in analyzing the problems. It's a tough challenge. There's no great fix. Yes.
 for making that intersection and the area around it work efficiently. But we'd like to think that the so-called jug handle fix and the punching through of Northwest 20th makes the best use of the existing infrastructure to address those problems.
 Not only does it help address the traffic pressures on the 23rd and Vaughan intersection, but it also helps connect the neighborhood with itself, the northwest neighborhood with the industrial area to the north, which is also redeveloping pretty quickly. So it's part of that fabric that will be used by multiple modes, including bikes, pedestrians, and local traffic. I also want to make note of the fact that
 rebuilding streets and intersections is not the only way we're going to solve this problem. The master plan in the neighborhood and this whole greater conversation has talked about demand management being an important component to this whole picture. We do have a newly formed Transportation and Parking Stakeholder Advisory Committee to –
 to PBOT that was formed less than a year ago, and I should note that Conway is part of the representation on that committee. So we are going to be monitoring these issues on an ongoing basis. So that really concludes the neighborhood comments, but I'm here for any questions you might have. Thank you, Phil. Thanks very much. Please.
 Good morning Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Chris Bramer. I am a principal engineer at Kittleson and Associates and the engineer record for the traffic study for the project. Before I make my comments, I do want to acknowledge both Phil and WDA members as well as Oregon Department of Transportation and Portland Bureau of Transportation staff who worked with us very closely on the project. I think as you just heard it's very collaborative effort and we very much appreciate
 that input. I'm here specifically to respond to Commissioner Fritz's question last time around regarding the impact of 405 traffic and the rerouting of U-turns. We did consider that issue. We looked at both morning and evening peak hour operations and the implications of the U-turn rerouting.
 From a capacity perspective, we are expecting a change that's probably largely imperceptible to the public. The big benefit we see with the elimination of the U-turn as it relates to 405 traffic in that merge area, comes down to the behavior of some motorists at that area today. Today we have people on main line I-405 southbound that get off at Vaughn Street, make the U-turn movement, and then are coming back on the ramp.
 and basically short-cutting or queue jumping down to Gleason and the exit there. And that behavior is not only undesirable but has some safety implications. That queue jumping phenomenon will be eliminated by this change. And so we think that's a net benefit to the system from a safety perspective, and at the end of the day won't change the number of people on mainline I-405.
 With that, I'll conclude my testimony unless you have questions. If I could just add one other quick supplement to my comments, and that was that the neighborhood doesn't view this as a long-term fix for the issues at this location, but the long-term fix is elusive. We haven't really found a long-term fix. This buys us some important time for the neighborhood. Okay, good point. Thank you. Other questions for either of these folks? Yes.
 Thank you both. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Then this passes to second reading next week. Okay. Do we want to take that pulled item? Is there anyone here? I'm not sure who pulled this. An amendment. An amendment. Okay. Let's take item 667, please. Authorized purchase of one hybrid electric sedan for use by the Office of Neighborhood Involvement at $28,500. Okay.
 hey john hi good morning how are you mayor and council um the ordinance before you today is requesting authorization for city fleet to purchase a vehicle for use by the office of neighborhood involvement and it approves city fleet to build the office of neighborhood involvement for this vehicle through its interagency on this fiscal year
 To accomplish this, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement needs to move funding from their external material and services to their internal material and services.
 So approval to amend the FY 2014-15 appropriation schedule will ensure that ONI's interagency won't be overspent. So we're asking for approval to do those two things, to purchase the vehicle and change the appropriation schedule to go ahead and move forward with this purchase. Okay. I think the question that often comes up when these show up on our agenda is, okay,
 So why would any bureau need a dedicated vehicle when we have a fleet that can be accessed on call? So why does it have to be a dedicated automobile for ONI rather than?
 you know, on demand. I think that's an excellent question, and there isn't a representative from ONI here, but let me explain it in the way that I understand it, is that my understanding is that ONI doesn't have any vehicles assigned to them at all, and they need a vehicle that is used for multiple shifts per day
 The motor pool that we have is a great solution for the short-term use during the day because it can leave then come back and someone else uses it, then it comes back. In this case, it's going to be used for a very long day. And so my feeling is that we should move forward with this purchase because of the real need for the vehicle. That's fine. Okay, very good.
 Okay, other questions? So I move the amendment, which is to delete the word authorize and amend the FY2014-15 budget appropriation schedule in the amount of $28,500 for the... Okay, is there a second? Further discussion of the amendment? Roll call on adopting the amendment. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye.
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then a roll call on the emergency ordinance as amended. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 Hi. Well, thank you to Teresa Marchetti and John for being here to explain this item. Unlike environmental services, development services, and other bureaus that have multiple vehicles for their use, ONI has one truck for the graffiti program, zero cars for it. Do we have 12 crime prevention staff? So they are working citywide, and they have to use their own private vehicles. So eventually I would hope that we would have more,
 cars for all of our crime prevention staff. This is one step towards that eked out of ONI's budget because we don't have a budget for that and additional vehicles. Aye. Nails. Aye. Thank you. Appreciate your help, your authorization, and we'll go to work. All right. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's move to the regular agenda. Item 674. Aye.
 amend the grants with six neighborhood district coalition's for community collection events at a total cost of 143 thousand eighty six dollars and extend the term to June 30 2017 come on up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I
 Good morning. Thank you for having us. We're bringing forward an ordinance to authorize the two-year amendment to the grants for the District Coalition in order to deliver community collection events. Who are you again? I'm Jill Kolick and I'm with the City of Portland Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and I'm the manager of the training and outreach programs.
 And I'm here today with Jennifer Kirk from Neighbors West Northwest and Richard Bixby from East Portland Neighborhood Office who will talk after me. For 24 years we've been doing the community collection events in partnership with Metro who gives a matching grant for it. We give seven coalition offices money who in turn pass it on to associations and community, nonprofit,
 neighborhood groups that put on these events. You may be familiar with them. They happen all throughout the city and they take the place often of a temporary depot where folks can bring in unwanted items to recycle, reuse, or dispose. And they typically take place on a weekend in the fall and the spring and we do about 50 of these a year.
 The goal of the collection events is to get materials from Portland residents to reduce waste and promote recycling, particularly bulky materials that often accumulate and might otherwise be disposed of inappropriately.
 And we place a high degree of value on our relationship that we've had with the coalitions and have developed over these 24 years. The collection events have proven to be a really great vehicle for us and a really great model. They have a range of benefits. We leverage the organization's existing assets, their volunteers, their commitment to the community and their relationships within those communities.
 We also build community capacity through leadership development, broad community involvement, and also tapping into other aspects. People can join the coalition and association offices to help out. And, of course, there's the fundraising element as well.
 We provide a high-value service to residents, give them the opportunity to promote, to properly dispose of typically hard-to-grip items, and that helps solve some neighborhood nuisance issues. And then we also increase reuse and recycling, especially of larger items.
 So just a few things to note that this ordinance authorizes is based on a recent census data analysis. We're going to be doubling the amount of funding allocation to East Portland for their neighborhood cleanups.
 And then we're also just taking this opportunity to clarify the reuse and recycling elements that we would like to have in these contracts, as well as the developing partnerships with community organizations, which they already are doing. It's just a way to cement that. So we hope, obviously, that you will support the continued funding of the community collection events. And from there, I'm going to give it to Jen.
 Thanks. Mayor Hales and commissioners, thank you for having me today. My name is Jennifer Kirk. I'm the information and outreach coordinator at Neighbors West Northwest, which is a coalition of 12 neighborhood associations at inner southwest and northwest Portland.
 In my role as staff, I've coordinated the cleanup program, as we call it in the office, for the past three years. The coalition area sees a wide diversity throughout its neighborhoods. That's reflected in our cleanups that the neighborhoods throw. For example, we have three of our neighborhoods are downtown, the Northwest Industrial Neighborhood, and Forest Park. So you can see the wide diversity that we see on issues and cleanups.
 from there. The Community Collection Events Program provides many benefits to neighborhood associations in our coalition area and flexibility within that program allows each of the participating neighborhood associations in our coalition to tailor funds to their sustainability and waste needs. Some neighborhoods use the funds to hold litter cleanups and while others focus more on the recycling or bulky waste aspects that Jill was mentioning. Funds that
 Excuse me, neighborhoods that participate in the program are able to use the funds to address livability issues, to provide a service to their neighbors, and to attract volunteers to contribute to future community events. For several of the neighborhoods that participate in our coalition area, the collection or events are an annual service project. This is one instance of how the general public is introduced to neighborhood associations outside of regularly scheduled meetings. And in this way, the program allows volunteers at specific discrete events to be introduced to the neighborhood system and civic engagement.
 Expansion of the program will allow more flexibility for volunteers who plan and host community collection events. Long-term volunteers can continue to host their successful events. For example, both Forest Park and Sylvan Highlands have been holding their events for over a decade.
 But this amendment will allow neighborhoods with different needs to try out new types of collection event styles. For example, the Pearl District and downtown have both expressed interest in focusing on reuse and hard-to-recycle items because recycling and reuse is a challenge for low-car communities and multifamily dwellings.
 To reflect this need, this fall, coalition and BPS staff are developing a pilot project between the Downtown Neighborhood Association and Portland State University that will focus on e-waste and recycling specifically. We hope that this will be a model to deploy in other dense neighborhoods that are not amenable to the traditional bulky waste.
 cleanup structure. We also have challenges if you have an annual event, you usually have a lot of people that come out. When you don't have a lot of space, it's hard to accommodate those people and their needs. So we're looking at potentially having smaller, more repeatable events to suit the community's needs on a regular basis. It would be similar to how our neighborhoods institute their litter cleanups. In these cleanups, we have a partnership with Solve and local businesses to keep costs low.
 and repeatable litter cleanups or community events with more volunteers, including opportunities for youth participation and community service.
 Finally, the program expansion will now also encourage potential partnerships between neighborhood associations and nonprofit partners within our coalition boundaries, which will strengthen connections and build community capacity. We look forward to the next two years in being able to try new things with this contract amendment. We appreciate BPS's staff's creativity and the program's flexibility, which allow for volunteers to better help their communities. Thank you. Thank you. Richard, welcome. Mayor and commissioners, hi.
 I'm Richard Bixby with the East Portland Neighborhood Office, one of the seven coalitions that receive this funding. As Jen was saying, these cleanup funds do provide an opportunity for neighborhood associations to build their capacity to connect with their community, all while organizing events that promote proper disposal of bulky items and reuse and recycling activities.
 I'd like to thank BPS for taking the step this year and looking at their historic formula of how they divide these funds amongst the city coalitions and taking the step and creating and adopting a more equitable formula. This does benefit East Portland. And with the additional funding, we look forward to reaching even more of the community out there with these events. We are also excited about the chance to work with other community organizations today
 on this cleanup program. Neighborhood associations have been doing these cleanups for many years and have used them for both building their internal capacity and serving the larger community. We think other community organizations can similarly use these. We're looking forward to working with BPS on figuring out how BPS
 we can best reach other communities that are out there that might be interested in these events. We've also had a lot of partnerships between neighborhood associations on these events, and we're looking that as we expand this, we'll be able to expand more partnerships out in the community. So I support this change and the continued funding of this program. Great. Thank you. Questions?
 Thank you all. Thanks very much. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? No one else signed up. Okay. Roll call vote, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Very pleased to see a step towards more equitable funding. Aye. Hales? Good work. Aye. Thank you.
 Okay, 675, second reading. Extend contract with EC Company and increase the total not to exceed amount to $3 million for solar system installation services. Roll call vote, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. 676. Aye.
 Improve land use and other city regulations through regulatory improvement code amendment package 7, technical amendments. Roll call, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. I appreciate the partnership between the Bureau of Development Services and the Bureau of Planning Sustainability. This was a great package, and it's fun working with you on it, Mayor. Aye. Hales. Same back at you. Aye.
 677. Mayor, I'm going to ask after the reading of this to suspend the rules for a second, but let's get the title in. Okay. Amend the Central City Plan District to increase the height limit on Block U of Cooch Addition and support construction of a headquarters building for the Multnomah County Health Department. Mr. Fish? Mayor, I was unable to join the council last week because I was in Salem. Okay.
 And I support the matter before us, but there is one issue that I seek clarification on. As the council will remember, this is a little bit of a two-step. The city made a commitment of urban renewal dollars to help the county build a health department building.
 And the Housing Bureau independently determined that Block U, which is adjacent to Bud Clark Commons, was an appropriate site for a health department building. And because it otherwise met the criteria for 30% set-aside funding, agreed to add the dirt with no additional consideration into the deal.
 The understanding then, when a different building was being designed, was that a lot of care would go into the design so that it did not unduly burden Bug Car Commons in two respects.
 Well, the most important respect is the public spaces. The outdoor spaces at Bug Clark Commons, as you know, are on the eastern side of the building. So the original building was designed with some setbacks and with an eye towards how do you not intrude, how do you limit the impact on the outdoor spaces, which are an integral part of Bug Clark Commons design. Now that we have a taller building, we're
 under this proposal, I think it's even more important that the design, that the building be designed with input from Home Forward, transition projects, and the city, again, to minimize the unnecessary impact on the outdoor spaces. I didn't see anything that formally required that consultation, and this is separate and apart from the design review process that they have to go through anyway. So I support that.
 the additional height and the county has faithfully gone through the hoops that we set out for them and getting community approval. But I want to just make sure that the design, that the folks designing this building are working with our partners to minimize the impact on Bug Clark Commons. And for purposes of this vote, I'd be satisfied to have Doug Oblitz make a representation of that effect. Doug, come on up. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners, Doug Oblitz, Shills Oblitz-Johnson representing Multnomah County.
 Commissioner Fish, the issue that you have raised was also raised by key stakeholders during our public review of the MAP amendments that are before you today for second reading, and specifically were addressed in testimony before the Planning and Sustainability Commission a few weeks ago. In response, Chair Kofori sent a memorandum which you have in front of you now dated June 3rd,
 which was addressed specifically to the Old Town Chinatown community transition projects and Home Forward, outlining how the county intends to address this and a series of other issues during the design process and also in the formulation of a good neighbor agreement, which the county is committed to complete prior to construction.
 The memo has had its desired effect, and I believe the key stakeholders are satisfied that the county is committed to work with them on both the issue of the design of the building, but also the other issues that are outlined in that memo. So you'll see, I think it's item E under the design issues listing, is specifically a commitment by the county to reformulate a
 a stakeholder advisory committee and to re-energize the discussion about the design of the building under the new MAP amendment process that we've got before you today. It's our intent to go to work immediately to engage these stakeholders and others in the design process to address these issues and in the development of a good neighbor agreement. With all due respect, though, can both E and F talk about usability during construction? It doesn't...
 necessarily address what Commissioner ... I'm sorry, it would be on the second page related to design issues. It's the first E. I'm sorry, the first E. My understanding, Doug, is that under this agreement that was before us,
 The county would have an option until the end of 2016 to move forward with this building, and you're going through the design phase and the approval phase. I just want to make it as clear as possible on the record that I and I believe the council as a whole
 want to make sure that the public spaces that were incorporated in the bug car commons, which are an integral part of the design since the building does not accommodate as many people as we would like, so the outdoor space became an extension, are not degraded by a new building that's adjacent to it that now we're allowing additional height. We're talking about air and light.
 And that there will, in fact, be intentional thinking about how to mitigate the impact of the height on those public spaces. Understood. Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Fish, I appreciate you bringing that. The other concern that was pending after the hearing was about the level of affordable housing requirements.
 or the intent to use fee in lieu in order to gain the additional height. And I know Commissioner Salzman has been leading the council in the discussion of the bonuses, which we were discussing yesterday. This application comes in under the current rules rather than future rules.
 Chair Crafoie did indicate on the record during the testimony that she is committed to providing some compensation towards affordable housing. I want to state on the record that this does not...
 This is under the current rules, and this doesn't set a precedent for any future developments that we would actually require to provide a definite level of affordable housing subsidy if that's the way the council chooses to go. There is the potential for including an agreement on that in the disposition agreement, which the Housing Bureau is still working on with the county. My understanding is that the chair doesn't –
 at this point, want to define the language on that, but Commissioner Saltzman, I encourage you to continue investigating that option as the Housing Bureau does another avenue to make sure that the city's needs are met as well as the county's. Appreciate that. I just want to say that
 I appreciate Commissioner Fritz's points, as well as Commissioner Fish's, and to the extent the Housing Bureau will be engaged in this second PDA on this,
 design issues and the use of the affordable housing bonus, we will continue to actively participate. And I'm very pleased that Chair Kifori has chosen to use this affordable housing bonus to obtain the additional height. And she committed to me that this would be at least a $500,000 payment into our housing investment fund. It's a great start.
 And, Doug, just my recollection was that the last time the parties got together to look at design and consider impact, the design team actually came to the city, came to the Housing Bureau, presented and flagged some of the issues just so there could be some input. We're not talking about materials. We're not talking about window size. We are talking about compatibility. Right. And we'll do the same thing again. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. All right. Doug, thank you very much. Anyone else? Any further comment before we vote?
 Then roll call vote on that, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Well, this, you know, having been a county commissioner at one time and being familiar with the county health department's current headquarters on, I believe it's 3rd and Stark, 4th and Stark, this is going to be a dramatic improvement for the employees of,
 that department, and it's going to be a tremendous boost for the neighborhood in bringing a lot more people down there in the daytime to purchase goods and services and food. So it's a great move, and I look forward. And I really appreciate Chair Khafre's stepping up and utilizing the affordable housing bonus to obtain the additional height they need for this building. Bye.
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? It's good to be working with our partner, Chair Debra Kofori, a known advocate for affordable housing and for doing the right thing so that we have confidence in passing this MAP amendment that the right thing is going to happen there. And thanks to Doug Oblitz and your team for working on the project. Aye.
 Good work. Real project coming. Yay. Aye. Okay, I promised the council a break, but before we take one, I want to signal to people that have been waiting on a number of items that we're going to postpone most of them, but I would like to try to take 684 before we break because we have some folks here to speak on that item and then signal everyone else that the council will take a 30-minute recess at the conclusion of this item, which will probably take us to roughly reconvening at 115. Did we lose anybody from 1 to 2? No.
 I don't believe so. Okay. So we'll take 684 before we break, and then we'll come back at 115. 684, authorize the submittal of a boundary change request to the state of Oregon to add .46 acres to the Portland Enterprise Zone. Mr. Quinton, Mr. Rowe, come on up. Come on up. Jared, come on up. You want to pull that up?
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. So I'll just kick it off. Jared Wiener is the PDC staff person responsible for the software and technology industry. He's going to lead us through the presentation on this. But basically we're here to ask for an enterprise zone boundary change.
 so that we can accommodate the growth of Jaguar Land Rover's Innovation Center here in Portland, a $4 million investment. So the program itself, you're all very familiar with the Enterprise Zone Program. If they were to be located within the boundaries, they wouldn't be before you. They would have the right to apply and receive the benefit of the tax abatement on their investment. What we're asking for here today is a boundary change,
 so that we can bring in the site that they've selected. And what we're going to walk you through is the agreement that we have with them that we think is an extraordinary improvement in what we've done in the past and I think represents a great tradeoff for us increasing and expanding the boundary of the program, foregoing, obviously, the tax revenue. But as you'll see, we think it's a template for how we can do –
 future boundary changes, but also maybe how we operate the Enterprise Zone program in general going forward. So with that, I'll turn it over to Jared Wiener. Thanks, Patrick. And as Patrick said, I'm Jared Wiener. I'm with the Portland Development Commission. And we also have Richard Rowe and Sarah Nelson from Jaguar Land Rover here, as well as Jeff Allen from Jive Oregon. And, yeah.
 And so we're here, the action we're looking for is to authorize the submittal of a boundary change request to the state of Oregon to add 0.46 acres to the Portland E-Zone.
 And the E-Zone, what this does is it allows for five year property tax abatement on new capital investments, qualified investments, as well as there's an electronic commerce overlay to that, which provides a tax credit on personal or corporate income tax.
 The program has seen a lot of success through its time here within the city. We've received a total investment of $1.2 billion, a local procurement that's resulted from that of $58 million. And there's been 42 new projects since 2011. There's 12 that have occurred this year already. And then we have eight potentially in the hopper sort of going forward as well, including this one.
 And so this project specifically would allow for Jaguar Land Rover to make a planned investment of $4 million. And that would allow them to create 50 to 80 new jobs with an average wage of approximately $90,000 a year. And then there's benefits on top of that. Most of these jobs would be graphic designers and engineers. Okay.
 In addition to sort of the typical job creation you'd see through the company, they also are going to be doing a technology incubator in the space, which will produce roughly 10 to 12 companies per year will go through that incubator.
 So not only do we get Jaguar Land Rover with this project, but we also get to facilitate and foster new companies coming into Portland as well. And this is a benefit not just to the software industry, which I work with, but also to our clean tech industry as well.
 And Jaguar Land Rover should really be applauded for being a good corporate citizen and working with the city in a partnership on this effort. Beyond just the typical E-Zone policies and pieces to that, they've also committed to doing things above and beyond, and it's really sort of setting a precedent for how we partner with our corporate citizens in town around E-Zone.
 a program here. So there's benefits here to sort of wage requirements that they've fully agreed to as well as a commitment to hire underrepresented populations and also to sort of foster more sort of economic activity both through their incubator, through their company.
 to these communities that are traditionally underrepresented in the technology space. They're also going to be employing through internships youth students, 16- to 24-year-olds, as well as students at local colleges as well.
 And then they're also going to be actively engaged and are already actively engaged in the community, hosting six events annually, as well as working with four high school technology clubs through a calendar year.
 So the benefits go beyond just sort of traditional economic development benefits. And so with that, I'm happy to take any questions. And we also have Richard here who can share a little bit more on from Jaguar's perspective on this project. Welcome, Richard. Sure. Thank you. Afternoon. Thank you. And yeah, so the enterprise zone is critical to solidify presence and expansion in Portland around technology and research and development, which is what Jaguar Land Rover is committed to.
 We looked at other cities up and down the West Coast and we chose Portland for a number of reasons. We have collaboration partnerships existing before we came here with Intel and other software companies. We looked at it strategically and geographically. Because we're a car company, we like to test the car, so getting out into the road and driving around Oregon was also very beneficial and contributed to our decision.
 Also, the connections, we are quite close to the bay and the companies there. We're also looking at the local talent here and looking to grow that talent by offering jobs in the community.
 We're excited because of the partnership we have with the public sector, such as PDC and Drive Oregon. And we're growing those relationships day by day. We have partnership benefits. Partnerships benefit our technology and the connection with the local community, such as job fairs and school events and other of the events that we host annually. We have commitment to equity inclusion and workforce development benefits.
 So this partnership will shape the next generation of our technology and how we engage the community, helping transition companies like ours to be more sophisticated mobility companies. For instance, the work we've done with PSU already in terms of looking at how we can make our cars and the roads safer for bicyclists in terms of the Bike Sense project.
 We value the community we're in and we want to grow with it as the community grows. And we're excited that we're finding new ways to address challenges like diversity hiring, engagement, women who code and inclusive entrepreneurships.
 We signed on the diversity pledge already and we're taking active action to advance that. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, I noticed that your company was one that signed the diversity pledge. It was a story about that in the DJC yesterday. That's great. So just to clarify on that, does that include women and people with disabilities as well as communities of color? Yes. Great. And where in England is Jaguar's headquarters?
 And so the headquarters is now based in Gaydon. That's in the Midlands.
 Yeah, I mean, that's another reason you chose here, right? It's because they have the good sense to elect an expert. We might want to think about a sister city relationship in the U.K. Maybe we could engage Jagra in that. Just shameless. Yes, she is. Next thing she'll ask is for a loaner for Oni for their new car. Okay, nice. Good thought. Yeah. Patrick, the question that we have to address on these E-Zone things is, you know, is there sufficient public benefit?
 So according to the financial impact, Jaguar is proposing to make a $4 million investment, and the city's foregone revenue over five years is $73,000. So as you look at this and scrub it, you're confident that there's a significant public benefit for this change? Yes.
 Yeah, you know, I think this is, and Commissioner Novick and I have had conversations about this on numerous occasions. If you look at the Enterprise Zone program just at its face, you know, investment for tax abatement, the big question is the but-for question. Would they have made the investment otherwise, or are we attracting investment that wouldn't occur? Because it's foregone decisions.
 future revenue. We're not giving up existing revenue. And I think there's still debate out there because it's hard to know really whether companies would invest or not. The benefit of this is that on top of that, and we know the $4 million investment, what it will pay for over a long period of time, is we have negotiated benefits that we can say then I think the collection of those vastly exceed what we're giving up
 Even the normal enterprise zone program has through our business equity programs, working with minority contractors, working with local suppliers, the first source hiring agreements, all that provides public benefits. But what Jaguar is agreeing to is extraordinary. It will be.
 a kind of new standard for public benefit agreements that we have in the enterprise zone program so the opportunity to have a signature company sign on to the diversity pledge and then and and create a more diverse workforce here or to work with diverse entrepreneurs that is worth
 I mean, we invest in that. We make active investments in those programs on our own. So to have a partner doing that work, that's money that we're not investing. So that's my long way of saying absolutely. I think we feel very confident that this is an investment on our part that will pay off in many ways. So part of this agreement includes the average salary is $90,000, but you are committing to at least $15 an hour.
 for all other employees, I guess, other than those making 90? Absolutely, yeah. And I was curious, you mentioned the PSU, is it Bike Sense? Bike Sense, yeah. So we did a workshop with students from PSU, and we looked at problems, and what came out of that workshop was the fact that people are getting knocked off their bikes by cars, and what could we do to help that? So we did a brainstorm session
 around that and we fed those ideas back into the UK and they prototyped a concept video which is on YouTube and you can Google that on YouTube and search for that. It's called Bike Sense. And it's basically how we can integrate.
 existing technologies in our cars to warn the drivers that there are bicyclists around and not to open the doors or not to drive the car. And if we can link in that with the communities and the other OEMs and we can put a network together through Drive Oregon, then all cars can have this kind of safety feature as well. Great. Well, I hope you will pilot that here in Portland. That's great. Great idea. Other questions for this team?
 Thank you all very much. Appreciate you waiting. So Jeff Allen is here from Drive Oregon. Maybe quickly say a few words. Absolutely. Come on up, Jeff. Sarah, are you going to come up too? All right.
 Thank you. I know I'm between you and your lunch, so I'll be quick. My name is Jeff Allen. I'm Executive Director of Drive Oregon, which actually began around 2010 when PDC started convening companies in the electric vehicle space and supply chain and thought there was something to this cluster. And we now have over 100 member companies, and we're funded in large part by Business Oregon with lottery dollars as part of the state economic development strategy.
 And JLR has been, I say JLR because I have not learned to say Jaguar properly and reliably. They've been a great partner and a member pretty much from the time they moved to Oregon.
 We've done events there. What we found is both that they're very committed to building the automotive and automotive software and mobility ecosystem here in Oregon, and they really mean that, and they really do it in an open source kind of way and transparent way. But they're also a tremendous ambassador for us. We were just with some of their staff over in South Korea at a global electric vehicle conference yesterday,
 And it's huge for us to talk about the automotive software industry in Oregon to have a company like Jaguar Land Rover to point to alongside some of our other members who are still working out of their garages. So that mix of large companies like JLR, Mentor Graphics, Intel, and those small startups is really powerful. Yeah.
 I just wanted to put a little context of not only why is this important just on the face for the jobs, but what it means for our industry and for putting Oregon on the map globally in this industry. I think it's probably the most exciting development of the last four or five years that I've been working in this space here in Portland.
 When we looked at where the opportunities in the electric vehicle, advanced mobility supply chain in Oregon, the first thing I said is, well, we don't make cars. I went to school in Michigan. That's where they make cars. Maybe Georgia now they make cars. But we know software and electronics and embedded systems. And one of the things I've been learning about these vehicles is today's cars look a lot more like a computer that happens to have wheels on it than they do like a car that happens to have some electronics in it.
 One of my favorite sound bites is that the Chevy Volt has more lines of computer code in it than a 787 Dreamliner from Boeing. My programming friends tell me that's mostly a commentary on the poor programming skills at Chevy, but needless to say there's a lot of technology in these cars. An executive at Apple recently pointed out that the car is the ultimate mobile device.
 And we're seeing this huge connection between connected vehicle technology, internet of things, cars. It's a big opportunity for Oregon. We know a few things about software. And we believe that there's also a unique piece about Oregon which is most of the world is using this technology or seeing this technology as a way to pack more cars on the freeway going twice as fast and only six inches apart.
 And Oregon is kind of an outlier, as we often are, in asking questions like, hmm, how could you use this technology to make cycling safer and reduce right hooks? How could you use this to improve transit services and help companies like GlobeSherpa continue to grow here? So we have both that kind of sustainable mobility niche and this software niche.
 expertise and we think this incubator is really going to help drive the growth of that ecosystem in itself, but also through all these startup companies that are going to be coming through the incubator. Drive Oregon has made a commitment to this project. First of all, we've committed one of our matching grants of $50,000 that's contingent on the launch of the incubator.
 But we've also committed to help recruit companies into the incubator and help support and mentor those companies in the incubator. And then importantly to help make sure that they stay in Oregon as they grow. And I think this will attract both local interest from the software community in working in this space, but there's also some real potential to pull folks out of California
 where most of the automotive companies have their software design centers, bring them up here, put them through the incubator, and after they've been in Oregon for six months, especially if they're here in the right six months, they're never going to want to leave. If they're here between November and April, it might be a little harder. But if we time it right and they're here on a day like today, I think we can keep them here. That's great. Thank you, Jeff. Questions for Jeff? Thank you all very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, then let's take a roll call vote on the resolution, please. Aye. Saltzman. This is a great additional investment, and I'm happy to support it. Aye. Novick. Richard, I have to say that the commitments your company are making today are very much at odds with the unflattering portrayal of Jaguar in the show Mad Men. Aye. Fritz.
 Well, thank you to Patrick and the team for doing this. I'm a big fan of the enterprise zones. I have not previously been a big fan of British car companies, and I was born in Sutton Coalfield. I'm very proud to be associated with this work that you're doing. Thank you for coming to Oregon. You can tell other immigrants who might be homesick for good home cooking that Tabor Tavern on East Burnside has the best fish and chips in the state of Oregon. Hi. Hi.
 Well, you know, the council will remember we just approved an updated strategic plan from the Portland Development Commission, which said we have three jobs, create jobs
 build the city and share prosperity. And this is at least a twofer because this company is promising to really create opportunity for more people while we grow the job base here. And that's exactly what we had in mind. And we can write those words on a strategic plan and adopt it, but it requires that the private sector step up and help. So we really appreciate your company doing that. This is really an excellent commitment to shared goals, and we look forward to your success. Hi. Hi.
 Thank you all. We're recessed until 1.15. Get back to work. Council will return to order and we'll return to the agenda where we left off, which I believe is item 678. That's an emergency. Oh, right. Sorry. So let's go to 682. 682. Authorize application to the U.S. Department of Justice Office of
 Justice Programs Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $437,882 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistant Grant Program, fiscal year 2015, local solicitation to prevent or reduce crime and violence. Just taking a second reading vote on the acceptance of the Byrne Grant. Thank you. That's the first item. So roll call on that, please. Bish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Okay.
 All right. Okay, we're done. Let's move to 678 then. Authorize a three-year grant agreement with Janus Youth Programs Inc. for an amount not to exceed $909,000 to provide shelter beds, treatment, and case management for juvenile human trafficking victims. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then roll call, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman?
 Well, very happy to continue to see funding for the Athena Shelter for Victims of Sex Trafficking. So thank you, Mayor. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Nice to not have to argue about this. Aye. Hales. Aye. I agree with that. 679.
 Authorize a grant to Central City Concern in an amount not to exceed $1,716,410 for the provision of treatment readiness services, traditional housing, and follow-up retention support services to chemically dependent homeless adult chronic arrestees. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Lieutenant Tasha Hager with the Portland Police Bureau. Seated with me is Emily Roshon, who's...
 the new service coordination team program manager at Portland who took Billy Kemmerer's spot. And Dana Brandon with Central City Concern Program Manager. They're here to answer any questions if you have any. This request is for the budget for Central City Concern. It's to keep the services we currently have with them that support our service coordination team program, which is stabilization beds and alcohol and drug-free beds. Thank you.
 mentors, outreach and case managers, but it's also to increase services with them, to include services for women, culturally specific program, chronic pain management,
 suboxone, and most importantly, at least for the behavioral health unit side of the Portland Police Bureau, six stabilization beds, which are meant to serve dual or coexisting disorder, mental health disorder, and drug and alcohol. So the budget is the same. It's only adjusted for inflation, but it's the same as the police bureau had last year to support the service coordination team program.
 So the service coordination team historically has been Central City Concern and Volunteers of America. Yeah. So what's before us is just the Central City Concern piece? Yes, sir. The additions that we had or where we were seeing some gaps in our system were the things that we could only get through Central City Concern, so the movement of the money was that direction.
 So you're saying that Volunteers for America is no longer a part of the team that's working on a service coordination team? That's correct. And I don't remember any council discussion about that, so could you bring me up to speed on that? So the shifting of funding was really the addition of the six beds, which were available through Central City Concern, and the addition of treatment for women.
 and the Suboxone treatment. So those were a few of the things that we wanted to add that we could not get through Volunteers of America. And the contract, when we looked at how to get those and stay within our current budget without having to come to council to ask for an increase in money, that's what we could get through Central City Concern, which had to do primarily with their ability to...
 do billing for Medicare. So have we done a separate procurement for this contract, or are you just shifting it from one provider to another? We're just shifting the funds, sir. So, Mayor, I'm not prepared to support this today, and I'd like a briefing if I could, because having had a long history with the service coordination team and our partners, I'd like to have a better understanding of how we got to this place. So does a setover of a week cause you any hardship in terms of contracting?
 Does that put us after the first of the year? No, it won't. Okay. Or the first of the fiscal year? Well, we'll have a, if it's still an emergency ordinance next week, then it'll go over. It's not in the same fiscal year, then. Oh, you're right. You're right. It will take us past the beginning of the fiscal year, so that would be a problem, Commissioner Fisher. That would, yes, sir.
 I share Commissioner Fish's concern. We don't have enough time today to go into all my concerns. I'd rather do it privately, so I'm not prepared to vote for this today. And I didn't receive a briefing on it either, so there are some, I think, important issues, and I'd be happy to schedule a follow-up and then give you my sense before next week.
 We do have a council session tomorrow. We might want to continue this and give people a chance to have their questions answered and then see if we want to address it tomorrow. Yes, or else perhaps tomorrow we could carry over the amounts into the next year's budget if there's a way to make sure that...
 I mean, $1.7 million is a lot of money that was budgeted in this year's budget. I completely share Commissioner Fisher's concern, and I'm not sure that we're going to have time before tomorrow. But I think putting it over until tomorrow at least gives us that option, Mayor. I would urge us to set it over until tomorrow, and then we'll decide that. Let's try that, see where we stand. And ask the City Budget Office if there's a way to just carry over the money.
 So, sure, but in the meantime, if there's substantive questions, obviously, Lieutenant Hager and others from the Bureau, Emily and others, need to be available to you after we're done with Council today and before we start with Council tomorrow. Yeah, so today we're going to go to about 6 o'clock or 7. Yeah, so probably tomorrow morning. And tomorrow I'm fully booked, so I'll do my best. I think it's unlikely we're going to have that conversation. Okay. Colleagues, Mayor and Lieutenant. Yeah.
 I seem to recall hearing that we've been talking to Volunteers of America over the past couple of years about whether they could build their services to Medicaid because we thought that they were Medicaid eligible. And what I'd heard is they hadn't figured out a way to do that. And given that the services should be Medicaid eligible, that was a major reason for the shift. Yeah.
 Is that correct? It's a big part because that's where we're able to make the savings to do the additions of all the treatment. Volunteers of America is not currently able to bill for Medicare, and I think that's something that Billy Cameron is working on for the last couple of years to try and make that happen.
 So the savings from that is what is allowing us to get the additional treatment options that we've added. Yeah, and I actually recall, you know, pushing on the service coordination team, could we – these really should be services that are paid for by Medicaid. Can't VOA do that? Right.
 I mean, I might be the only one on the council who is in these conversations, but I do think that there's a legitimate reason for this shift. Yeah, I do too. But appreciate the need to get questions answered. And a no-bid contract is of concern too. This is a lot of money to not even ask other providers who might be able to provide the service.
 I believe that ask was made of Volunteers of America. The Assistant Chief Bob Day and Commander Sarah Westbrook had several meetings with high-level people and Volunteers of America about the potential to provide the same services that we were trying to get through Central City Concern, and they weren't able to provide those. So that along with the...
 not billing for Medicare is where we landed with going with Central City Concern. I think previously, though, Volunteers of America did the services that they were able to provide, and Central City Concern had others. And to me, the partnership of all of the entities involved makes the program stronger. Right. Yeah.
 There's no doubt that having multiple partners makes things stronger, and it's not that BOA is not a partner with the Behavioral Health Unit. It's just for this particular contract, in order to get the savings that we needed to add the additional beds and the treatment for women.
 and the Suboxone treatment, we needed the additional savings of the Medicare billing to pay for those things. So we can't get that on the VOA side, and the only way to get it is to shift that money and the responsibility for billing for Medicare to Central City Concern. Okay.
 I think it's actually Medicaid. Or Medicaid. Medicaid. Medicaid. I think that before we were, in effect, spending general fund money that we didn't need to spend for services the federal government and to some extent the state should have been covering. Right.
 So, now we're not going to be doing that anymore and we're in effect using the savings from getting Medicaid billings to expand services. There's at least three issues here for me and there's three members of this council that have a multi-year history with this program including when hearings like this brought a lot of people out who are very critical of this approach. So that we have a depth of history, number one is how is the program changing if at all
 And that could be responding to the conditions in terms of funding. It could be responding in terms of who you're serving or any number of things. Number two is what's been the process to get here. Right. Because Volunteers for America was an initial partner in developing this. And, you know, that includes performance issues and things of that nature. And number three is the contracting piece, since we're shifting money without actually doing a procurement. Right.
 And I think all those perhaps we can discuss by tomorrow, and I'll certainly work with you. I have a sense we're going to be here until dinnertime tonight, but I'll ask my chief of staff to reach out to you. And I did actually this morning, coming out of a breakfast meeting, hear something on OPB.
 But I, about this particular program and what struck me is that it was one of these news accounts that actually presented none of the history, none of the context of how we got here and what's really going on here. So I was a little frustrated with that. But anyway, we'll try to have that conversation before tomorrow. Okay. But no guarantees. All right. What does Subotan mean?
 Am I pronouncing that correctly? Suboxone. Suboxone? Suboxone. It's an opiate replacement. So it's kind of like methadone, but a different type of replacement for opiate users. For men and women? Yes. Yes.
 And I'm looking at the contract itself and wondering if there are any changes in the mix of the different options between treatment readiness, alcohol and drug-free units. I'm somewhat concerned that the alcohol and drug-free and the women's program both require sobriety at entry and those are the majority of the beds, whereas the treatment readiness is only 18 beds. We have the treatment readiness is 20, we have 24 beds.
 And that does not, that does not, you do not have to be sober to access those beds. It is low barrier housing. The 30 units that are alcohol and drug free housing, that does require sobriety and stabilization. So the contract is wrong? The numbers are incorrect?
 Anyway, this on the ordinance all right. I think I think this issue cries out for a little more Briefing time if we can manage it Hopefully quickly and not therefore not screw up the works in terms of getting contracts signed and funds dispersed So I'm going to continue this to tomorrow afternoon two o'clock Okay And give at least the two council members that have indicated the need to get some more information from you and from command staff about this
 chance to do that and we'll see where we are. All right. Sounds good. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much and Emily, welcome. It's a very important program that you're managing. So this whole, as you tell from the strength of the interest here, this council really believes in this program and wants it to work. So that's why we want to make sure we are doing just that. So we'll see you tomorrow. Thank you. Okay. Set over until tomorrow 2 p.m. Let's move to next item. Where did I go? 680. It's 680. Right.
 Authorize a grant agreement with Central City Concern in an amount not to exceed $1,667,675 to provide services through the Cheers, Van, and Sobering Station.
 And this one's no changes, right? There are no changes on this, no, sir. Okay. But I'm here to answer any questions regarding the Shears or Sovereign Station, which, of course, is a well-used resource in the Police Bureau and a positive impact on the community. Just a footnote, I don't think this is true, but we might want to revisit the operations of Hooper.
 after we see how the new psychiatric emergency facility is going to work in practice versus how it works in theory. It's different needs, but obviously people that are comorbid with more than one problem will be seeing them in one place or another.
 I'm glad you brought that up. One of my concerns with the Unity Center is that I'm told that people will be triaged out of there and will be able to jump the line at Hooper. So I think that, yes, we will need to evaluate the effects both on the police and on people needing services as that new practice. Yeah. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote.
 Fish. Pleased to support this and grateful for all the great services that Central City Concern provides in our community. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Very satisfying to me to see services which we band-aided together funding for over the course of the recession now being in the ongoing budget. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Aye. Hales. Thank you. Aye. 681. Amend intergovernmental agreement with...
 TriMet to N-14 participant agencies to extend the term to September 30, 2015 to provide transit police services. Good afternoon, Commander Leloff, Bob, welcome. Good afternoon. So why are we extending these contracts? These are five-year contracts. They haven't been reviewed in five years.
 uh... there's been significant changes and we thought we had all of it worked out one glitch in language that we resolved last week but we were able to get it
 completed so I believe we have buy-in from all 14 agencies it's really a language issue around buying command staff the future of transit policing is buying command staff from other agencies so there's a commander from Portland there's a lieutenant from Portland there's also a lieutenant from Gresham and our intent is to buy another lieutenant from another agency
 and shoring up things from five years. So we get all that worked out in the next two months, and you come back to us with new five-year contracts? That's the plan? That's the short extension? Three months. It's a three-month extension? So the three-month extension allows the bill to be paid and services to not be affected. And then last week Larry O'Day and TriMet sat down and met in the evening and actually worked out the conflict we were having.
 It's only a language issue and we have a resolution to that and this gives us time to get the signatures. I don't know whether this is part of the discussion. A couple of times I've been on the MAX going to the convention center and have seen our officers working with their inspectors in a fairly aggressive manner.
 particularly against people who appear to be homeless and that was not my understanding of what transit police were doing i wasn't aware that you were part of the fair enforcement team parents enforcement is very uh important uh to the transit uh to trimet and we do partner up they handle the fair inspecting and we handle uh looking at criminal histories and um
 exclusions and warrants and we do those for a number of reasons. It is working the system itself, securing and making people feel safe and taking people that have warrants off the system and it's also terrorism. We work the platforms pretty aggressively.
 It wasn't clear to me in the two instances that I observed that the police were waiting until the fair inspection had been done and that you would then be involved in the criminal background check. It seemed very much that the officer and the fair inspector were involved.
 doing the fairing in enforcement we do fair inspections it is a marriage so they will encounter the person if they do not have a fair that is a violation and as they run the person if it becomes a warrant or an excluded issue then please take care of that so we're doubling our efforts and it's also equitable
 I'd be interested in statistics on that. I'm concerned, though, that it's putting our police officers in situations which should not escalate into use of force incidents, and that it seemed likely to me just watching that that might happen. You know, similar to we got an ordinance later on this afternoon about we don't want the police enforcing the smoking ban on parks,
 But riding TriMet without a ticket shouldn't escalate into something much worse. And I actually counter with it's very safe for the officers because we're working in a large group. We're working three, four officers along with three or four fare inspectors. So we're having very little use of force because there's usually two officers to be able to deal with that issue rather than that escalating into a force issue. And it is a theft of services issue.
 And we're having quite a loss to the system, upwards of 19%. And so as a steward of the money, we're also trying to protect the system from major loss. I was more concerned about the impact on the passenger than whether the police are in groups of four or more.
 Mayor Redekopo, So my six months there I think the impact is that people really enjoy that. They like seeing the police on the platform. They enjoy feeling safe and we hit different platforms at different times and it's also a mechanism to to counter violence in some areas of the city.
 And so working in large group is actually a very effective tool. I am actually enhancing that abilities, and that is one of the main focuses that I would like to try. So if we need to have some conversation about that, I would enjoy that. Thank you. I'd like to do that. Good. Further questions? Okay. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, we'll take a roll call vote. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Well, I'm glad that we're going to have another conversation offline and also the coming back for three months. I found the experience quite terrifying, and I had a ticket. So I'm concerned about the effect. And as we're working to have our police seen as champions and not warriors and looking at potential interactions, I think that there is – I have a significant concern that I'd be happy to talk about with you more. Aye. Hayles. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, thank you both. Item 682, which is a second reading and a roll call vote. Oh, you're ready. Sorry. Did we do that? I'm sorry, I lost my... You did that one already. That's the one we did this morning. I'm sorry? You did that one when you first convened. Oh, you're right. I'm sorry. We did. 683.
 Accept bid of R&R General Contractors Inc. for the Northeast 112th Avenue and Northeast Mark Street Local Improvement District Phase 1 for $1,305,745. Ms. Moody. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. We have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to R&R General Contractors. The engineer's estimate on this project was $1,575,473. On May 12, 2015, nine bids were received, and R&R is the low bidder at $1,305,744.60. Yes.
 Portland Bureau of Transportation has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing at 17% under their original engineers estimate The city identified 11 divisions of work for potential minority women and emerging small business subcontracting opportunities R&R general contractors is a certified minority firm So participation on this project is at 87% as they are using a few non certified subcontractors I will turn this back over to council if you have any questions and
 I don't have any questions, just a comment that, Andrew, you make people happy all the time, but now you're going to make them 17% more happy. So that's kind of icing on the cake for a good LID that you worked hard on. You know, we've had a couple come recently, Christine, where the bids came in above the construction estimate. Yeah.
 in some other procurement reports. This one is comfortably below. So any lessons learned other than it's clear that PBOT is inflating their estimates in order to get good numbers? That's the scam. Andrew and I talked about this a little bit, so I'll have him brief you.
 So one thing to keep in mind, Commissioner Fish, is PBOT uses the same unit prices irrespective of where we do the work. So, for example, a few years ago we reconstructed Northwest 23rd Avenue north of Burnside, and we had very high unit prices because it was a very difficult work environment, a lot of traffic control issues, the hassle factor of businesses, et cetera. In this particular instance, Northeast 112th Avenue is a dead-end local street,
 With an eye to try to save money on the contract and attract good bids, I made arrangements where we have a temporary access road during construction. So what we were able to tell the contractors who were bidding is you can just pretty much shut down the work site and work at your convenience. So we're hoping that it's a very streamlined construction approach. So again, the unit prices that we use in Peabodder citywide, and so you might have a high unit price for reconstructing our material as opposed to a low unit price.
 on a local street. And in general with LIDs, we try to work fairly with the contractors, and I think we have a pretty good reputation working with them, and so they like doing LID jobs, and so I think that's reflected in the bid results. And certainly the competition of having nine bidders went a long way too. Thank you. Yeah, nine bidders. That's kind of surprising. Okay. Other questions? I move the report. Second. Further discussion? Roll call on accepting the report. Okay.
 Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Terrific. This is also going to minority business. Aye. Hales. They will be very happy to have the street. Aye. Okay. Let's move on past 684, which we've already done, to 685.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant Lagoon reconstruction phase 3 for project number e zero 7146 for 11 million dollars. Hey second reading roll call I want to thank Scott Gibson and the team. I think they've really refined these presentations mayor to the point where they're they're quite helpful to council there's a sink and I I
 I appreciate all the work they put into doing this the right way. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 686. 686.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Piedmont Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E10332, for $3,500,000. Second reading. Roll call vote. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Hales?
 Okay, that finishes our morning agenda. I think the question was, could we take up some of the afternoon items that are on after the time certain? So I guess folks take a quick look here, Council. We could take them up now if you don't expect testimony or if the people that need to speak about them are already here.
 So my recommendation had been that since the time certain is at 2 and the meaning of a time certain is it can start no earlier than the time certain, you might use this cushion to try and clean up some of the regular agenda items that you might have.
 otherwise have to put off until after the time certain. Council, we raised this actually in execs and tried to work this out. And my concern is that it says regular agenda afternoon session. So we're not really going to know whether it's important to someone until they come after the time certain. Yeah, I'm worried about that too. Yeah. So unless we know that there's items here that are just ministerial, we can take care of them. We should prepare on the side of giving people a chance to speak. There's one second waiting. That's all.
 So let's just save that whole batch then, and we will take a 13-minute recess and be back here at 2 p.m. No rest. Good afternoon, everyone.
 Welcome to the afternoon session of the City Council for June 24th. Would you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. We're going to get started in a minute with the afternoon calendar. Just want to welcome everyone here to council chambers. We're going to have, obviously, quite a few people interested in testifying today, so let me tell you a little bit about how that works.
 We're going to have some invited testimony at the front of our consideration of these resolutions this afternoon. Then we'll have public testimony, and that's open to anyone that wants to speak. And just let the council clerk know if you're not already on the list, and she'll make sure that you are. Obviously, with the number of people here, we're going to have to limit testimony in time, and so I'm going to ask everyone to try to keep your testimony to two minutes so that we can hear everyone.
 Speaking of hearing everyone, we have some basic rules of courtesy here in the chamber, which is that if you agree with someone and want to somehow indicate that other than a smile, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And likewise, if you feel so inclined, if you disagree with someone, do some sort of hand signal as long as it's not obscene. But we ask that...
 People in this chamber not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against their fellow citizens' point of view so that everybody does get heard and feel that they can be. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization under our code, you need to let us know that. If you're representing an organization, you can let us know that as well. If you have handouts that you want the council to receive, please give them to our council clerk, and she'll get them to us and distribute them to us.
 And you need not give us your address if you're here to speak on one of these items. You just need to give us your name. So that's pretty much it in terms of rules of procedure. I want to ask our council clerk to read the three items together, and then we'll begin with testimony. 687, adopt the Joint City of Portland and Multnomah County 2015 Climate Action Plan to reduce local carbon emissions by 80% from 1990 levels by 2050.
 688, direct city bureaus to implement policies and programs to keep Portland on a path to reduce local carbon emissions 80% from 1990 levels by 2050.
 and 689, establish private sector investor support for city investments in environmentally responsible capital projects, including green bonds and other climate-related financing tools. Thank you. So as you've heard, we're taking up actually three separate resolutions this afternoon on three different aspects of this huge and growing challenge.
 One is to adopt our 2015 version of our climate action plan. The second is to tell our city bureaus to move forward with policies and projects and programs to actually implement it and make it real. And the third is establishing our interest in this relatively new idea of green bonds as a way to finance projects, some of them city infrastructure projects that have environmental benefits.
 Climate change is a huge challenge. As of this week, more than 800 people have died in Pakistan because of the catastrophic heat wave there. There are severe storms worldwide, but including recently in the Midwest. California and Washington are now dealing with spreading wildfires much earlier in the year than has been traditionally the case. And this weekend could be a record-breaking heat weekend for here in Portland.
 And it's a global challenge that we all believe we have a role in. Next month, I'm going to be very privileged to join a group of 16 other mayors from around the world who have been invited to go to the Vatican and confer with Pope Francis and the Vatican Academy on these issues because the Catholic Church, among many other organizations, is paying attention to these issues. And the Pope has recently issued a papal encyclical that's really a remarkable example
 articulation of the connection between climate change and justice and the quality of people's lives. If you haven't read it, like me, it may be the first time that you've read a papal encyclical, but I recommend it. It's an amazing document.
 Climate change is not a new challenge. For more than 20 years, Portland has actually had a plan to address climate change, and we're actually seeing real results. Our emissions here in Portland are lower than they were in 1990, despite the fact that we've added more than 170,000 people and 75,000 jobs.
 So we have proven that even a growing city, even a prosperous city, can make improvements. And I think that's an important message for us to take to that conversation and many others. We're considering a major update to the city-county climate action plan because this is a joint effort between us and Multnomah County. And again, both governments make commitments in this plan to do things that will make a difference.
 I'm particularly pleased, and I know others will be, that this new plan elevates equity. A lot of the same things that are reducing carbon emissions are creating Portland as a better place to live and as a place where there's economic opportunity. And that's important because for a long time not all Portlanders have had access to those community benefits that my favorite economist, Ed Whitelaw, calls the second paycheck.
 the things that we get as a community because we live here. But again, it's not equally true. Communities of color, low-income people have not had the same access to frequent transit service or sidewalks in East Portland, something this council is starting to address. They've not always had equal access to energy efficiency programs because often lower-income people
 renters and therefore they don't have the easy access to financing options to fund retrofits. Same thing with solar, a lot of renters have had no opportunity to really lower their energy costs with solar because that's the landlord's decision. Same thing with recycling information, again, because multifamily residents don't necessarily have the same opportunities as single family residents do.
 I'm particularly, again, pleased that this is a partnership with Multnomah County and that Chair Khafre is here and is going to be our first testifier this afternoon. But I also want to call out my colleagues that every bureau in city government, all five of us, have a role as both legislators here in the city to consider and adopt these kinds of plans, but we also manage bureaus that, again, make these things real in how we operate and how we serve the city.
 So, again, I want to welcome everyone, and I have a number of invited testifiers to call, but first, Multnomah County Chair, Deborah Kofori. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you so much for having me here today. And as I was here last week, I unfortunately missed the both of you, but I was here last week, I've decided I'm going to be coming every week. I'm sure there's many things on your agenda that I have to talk about. You're always welcome. Thank you. Deborah Kofori, Multnomah County Chair. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Every generation faces a challenge that requires us to be bolder and braver than we've been before. And I believe that climate change is our generation's challenge. What we do today to fight climate change will determine the health of the community that our children will inherit tomorrow.
 But our actions will also send a clear message to communities of color, to the homeless, and to seniors who will be disproportionately affected by climate change, that we are committed to making our community more equitable. Over the past couple of days, I've been working with our Office of Emergency Management to prepare for this second heat wave of the year. And let's remember that summer has just begun.
 Science tells us that we are going to have more extreme weather in the future, and our climate is changing faster than any of us could have imagined. Thirteen of the last 15 hottest years on record have occurred since 2000, and 2015 is already on track to become the hottest year on record. In light of these challenges, our work together on the Climate Action Plan is more important than ever, and our city-county partnership is more important than ever.
 Climate change is a global issue, but the impacts of climate change hit hardest at the local level. Your Multnomah County Health Department has studied how global warming will affect our health, and no surprise, it's bad news. First, we're going to have more heat waves. And because Portland's weather is usually so mild, many residents live without air conditioning, like me, and I'm sure many in this room.
 Residents with medical problems or those who live alone or on our streets will feel the full brunt of these changing weather patterns. Second, heat makes our existing air quality issues even worse. When it comes to the nation's worst diesel pollution, Oregon ranks sixth. And among counties, Multnomah County is the fourth worst. We are worse than Los Angeles. And we find concentrations of diesel emissions two to three times higher where people of color live.
 As our climate changes, if you have asthma or emphysema, you will find it more difficult to breathe. And finally, warmer winters with more intense rainstorms will lengthen the mosquito breeding season and cause new species of mosquitoes to move in. It's not just a matter of livability. Mosquitoes can carry deadly diseases like the West Nile virus, which we are already starting to see in Oregon. As the Pope has said, the elderly, the homeless, and the communities of color will be most impacted by climate change.
 They may live in substandard housing conditions that already have mold and mildew. They can be older adults who are socially isolated. They may have limited access to healthy places like parks and green spaces or lack the means to get out of town when the weather gets hot. Addressing these disparities and making our community climate resilient is a vital part of doing our job. That means reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
 preparing for the impacts of climate change, and ensuring that in the process we make our community more fair. And I am heartened to see that our efforts are resulting in real change. Carbon emissions are down 14% from 1990, as you said, Mayor, while our population and our workforce has grown, which shows that we can decrease emissions and grow our economy. Today, we are challenged to go even further. Thank you.
 And our 2015 Climate Action Plan does just that, accelerating our efforts to reduce carbon emissions while targeting our work so that helping those who will be most impacted is at the center of our mission. Thank you for your ongoing partnership and your dedication to this work. Thank you. Thanks very much. Questions for our chair? Thank you, and we'll see you next week. Thank you. Thank you.
 So let me now call on a panel of folks to talk about the resolutions before us. Susan Anderson from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, as well as Michael Armstrong from the Bureau, and then Catherine Hayhoe from the Texas Tech Climate Science Center, who's here in Portland fortuitously this week, and we're very happy to have you here. And Jonas Beery, our debt manager, will come up and bring a chair with him, I think. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm just going to kick it off. Mayor, Commissioner Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. So I was thinking about developing remarks for this and realized that just over 20 years ago, Mike Lindberg and I had worked developing the first climate action plan. We did it in a room that was flipped around at that time. You all were – not you all, but others in your positions were back there, and we had this long –
 dark, dusty sort of city hall, and we presented at that time. At that time, it was the first local action plan on climate change. And at that time also, I can remember –
 Working on this issue, talking about this issue to the bureaus, to residents, to businesses, and so many people still believe that, you know, was this for real? We didn't understand it as climate change. We still called it global warming. But times have really changed since that time. Then global warming was absolutely an environmental issue. It was like air pollution or water pollution.
 Now we know that working on climate change is just as much an economic development issue and a financial strategy for our community, just as much as an environmental strategy. And we have hundreds of companies in Portland that produce or provide services around technologies, different products, all related to sustainability, to reducing the use of fossil fuels.
 In addition, our local companies, our residents, and our city government have benefited from 20 years of energy efficiency programs that the states, nonprofits, the Energy Trust of Oregon, and other organizations, including the city, have helped to bring together, literally saving billions of dollars. So this is one of those things where...
 You know, a penny saved is more than a penny earned. These dollars are dollars that are not going out of the community but are being recirculated within the community for weatherization, for energy efficiency improvements, all things that are very labor intensive. In fact, we've saved more than $60 million within Portland City government over the past 20 years.
 Also 20 years ago, we hoped that national governments around the globe would latch onto this issue. But as the years went by, we realized very clearly that cities would not only have to be part of the answer, but that indeed they were the primary place where most of the action is happening. And now we know that cities is really where it's at in terms of action on climate change.
 Around the world, cities are in the leadership position, and we know that we can't wait for the national governments to come to some kind of worldwide accord at the Conference of Parties. Absolutely, that work has to go on, but we need to take action now. The proof is in the numbers. As the Mayor and Commissioner Caffori have mentioned, our greenhouse gases have fallen dramatically by more than 30% per person here in Portland.
 while for the rest of the world, really, in most other cities, the emissions are going in the other direction. And because of this, we're recognized for our accomplishments by different federal agencies, by nonprofits, by foundations, and most recently, as the mayor mentioned, by the Vatican Council.
 As you all know now, Mayor Hales will meet with the Pope and 15 other international mayors in July to discuss opportunities for cities to make a difference. Pope Francis in his encyclical, again, weird that we're all reading encyclicals now, but it's great reading. Recommend it to anyone. He has brought our, in my mind, our...
 head in our hearts together on this issue, which is essential. He's brought together the issues of social justice and climate change together.
 So in the spirit of understanding that this issue is an environmental issue, but it is very much about people, about their jobs, about their livelihood, about their homes, about how they get to work, all of those things together. We've asked a very special guest who happened to be in town today. I think sometimes we think these things are magic or something, but this was meant to be. Dr. Catherine Hayhoe is an atmospheric scientist from Texas,
 Texas Tech University. She's the director of the Climate Science Center. She's absolutely a leading scientist and a data cruncher, but moreover she's a person of deep moral conviction. I read something on her website that just kind of smacked me in the face in terms of it said more or less we have three choices. We can mitigate, we can adapt, or we can suffer.
 And we're likely going to do all three of those things. And it's really a question of what's the mix going to be. So Dr. Hale is in town for a lecture with the World Affairs Council. She will briefly provide her perspective on climate change and hopefully a little bit about Portland's role in making a difference in our little corner of the world. So thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Well, my name is Catherine Hale, for the record, and I am a climate scientist at Texas Tech University. Okay.
 I love cities. I work with cities all across America, blue, red, green, and every color in between, big and small, to help cities prepare for a changing climate because the future is in cities. That is where most of us live, and that is where most of us experience the impacts of a changing climate. But at the same time, my work as a scientist is very clear. For almost 15 years now, I've been studying the difference that our choices make,
 in terms of the future that we're going to be facing. And it is crystal clear that if we continue on our current pathway, and I don't mean Portland's pathway, I mean the world's pathway, if we continue on our current pathway of depending on fossil fuels to supply our primary source of energy, we are going to end up with changes that we cannot prepare for, changes that will be dangerous from an economic perspective, from a health perspective, and from a well-being of life perspective.
 And so that's why I'm so excited about what Portland is doing. It really is an example. One of the biggest arguments people have is, well, you know, we could do everything we could, but if China's not doing anything or India's not doing anything, why should it matter? But that's a myth. They are doing things. China's a world leader in wind and solar energy. And cities are one of the main ways that that idea that we can reduce our emissions and prosper economically, that that idea is spreading around the world.
 As a scientist, I know what science can do for us. Science can tell us that climate is changing. Science can tell us that for the first time in human history, we have crawled into the driver's seat of our planet and elbowed natural causes out of the way, and we have taken control of our planet's climate. We're the ones doing what's happening today. Science can also tell us that depending on the choices we make, we're going to see very different outcomes. But science stops there.
 And so that's why it's so important to connect this issue to our values. And for over 80% of Americans, many of our values come from our faith. So the Pope's encyclical is essential because it speaks to values. Why do we care about climate change and what should we do about it? As one of my colleagues said, science is like a compass. It can tell us which way is north, south, east, and west. But science can't tell us which way to go because that depends on our values.
 So I welcome this discussion of connecting our action in terms of not just preparing for climate change, but reducing the impact we're having on our planet, as you are today, to what is it that we really care about? What is important to us? What is in our hearts? Because only, as Jane Goodall said, working with our clever brain and our human hearts together can we accomplish what we need to. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much for being here today. Michael.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Michael Armstrong with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I know Dr. Hayhoe, the World Affairs Council, has many things in store for you this afternoon. So I think if you need to. I'll listen to you and then we'll. Okay, I'm going to go on and on and on. Oh, you are. In that case. You can do it. No, he's not.
 I'll be cut off before then. You've been warned. Truly noted. I will then offer an overview of the plan and kind of highlight some of the key actions in it that are different than previous versions, and then certainly take your questions. And I know there are people who are here to testify as well. I do have to go. I got the nod. I thought so. I'm not leaving because this isn't important. It's really important. Look forward to your speech tonight. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much for being here. Let's suspend the rules and welcome her to Portland. Thank you. Thank you all.
 So, as Susan noted, Portland's been working on climate change now for more than two decades. I sometimes bring around the five and a quarter inch floppy diskettes that have the data on them from the original 1993 Climate Action Plan. And it
 It is, I think it illustrates the sustained commitment that people in your shoes have made, that businesses, individuals have made, and it really is the reason we are currently on a good trajectory. I think it's also the reason we know that after 20 years of hard work, we still have a long way to go. And so I think that's one of the lessons of the work Portland has done to date. This work has led to an impressive list of accomplishments. A number of them on the screen here for you to see. Energy use per person is significantly lower than it was in 1990.
 We're using quite a bit less gasoline than we were in 1990. You can see the commuting figures, one of the highest recycling rates in the country. Transit ridership has doubled since 1990. We are starting to see impressive growth in the number of electric vehicles. The list goes on. Installations of photovoltaic systems, green building, eco-roofs, invasive plants.
 planting trees and shrubs, and Susan referenced the energy savings in the city's own operations as a result of this sustained commitment to reducing energy use, switching to renewable energy.
 You put all those things together, and the trend is encouraging. So the bottom line here, the blue line, is for Multnomah County, for across the whole community. And you can see that the trend really has departed from the national picture. It's also encouraging that the national picture has started to bend down as well. We need to have other people follow in our footsteps and the footsteps of a number of other leading cities now. So this is encouraging. At the same time...
 The message, the pairing of declining emissions with population growth, with economic growth is really, really important. And when the conversation goes to China and India, this is the kind of graph that is really useful to them to see that this is possible. This is what they are trying to do as well. So it's an important lesson that I think we have experienced in Portland and we can share elsewhere.
 We're also mindful we really have a long way to go. The city's goal for a number of years now has been to reduce emissions 80% below 1990 levels by 2050. We're 14% below. We're making real progress, and there's a lot of work ahead of us. And that's why we update this climate plan periodically. Let's establish the next set of actions for the city and county to take on. Let's respond to emerging opportunities, changing technologies, new partners. Let's work with the community to do that.
 So the 2015 plan came about through a process that involved a steering committee. We'll hear from a couple members of that in a few minutes.
 We had an equity working group. One of the real differences in this plan from previous versions was the intention to address equity and elevate it as a priority as we're reducing carbon, as we're preparing for climate changes. We need to do that in ways that are attentive to people who have not always had the opportunities and, in fact, have often been more burdened by those activities. And so we made a real effort to address that through developing the plan.
 Certainly a lot of staff work has gone into this from bureaus across the city, departments across the county, and then in some cases bringing together more technical advisory groups to give us good insight into specific issues.
 We have a lot of plans, and so as we update the Climate Action Plan, the previous plan was in 2009. Since then, the city's adopted its first climate change preparation strategy. We also had the Portland Plan in 2012, and now we've got a proposed draft of the Comprehensive Plan. So the earlier climate plans provided input into those plans. Those plans, in turn, evolve policy and ideas further. They give us input into the new climate plan. We're obviously bringing other ideas as well, and so it's an iterative process.
 With the emphasis on equity and bringing in, I think, our longer-standing recognition of the economic opportunities in climate action, we really do want this climate plan to be helping deliver on our commitments to being healthy, prosperous, resilient, and equitable. And so that's a real priority as we've gone through each of these individual actions.
 The plan is organized into these eight areas, and these are actually very similar to the areas in the 2009 plan. The framework is staying largely the same, but we're updating all of the actions, and we're often providing more specificity about how we intend to carry out those actions. So I'll go very quickly through each of these just to illustrate some of the major actions in each arena.
 If you look at Portland's carbon footprint from a conventional way of measuring, about 40% of it comes from energy use in buildings and electricity supply. And so the priority actions that we've identified here, energy performance reporting, earlier this spring you all acted on a report
 for commercial energy benchmarking. There are similar opportunities around energy use in homes, and so we'd like to work with our community partners to really elevate home energy use as something people should be attentive to when buying or renting a home. We also want new opportunities for community solar. Mayor, you referenced the challenges with that up to now, so that's a priority, making solar more broadly available.
 At a state level, this plan identifies a carbon price, whether it's a carbon tax or cap on trade, as a priority policy for the state. It also suggests that the city should look at doing that locally if it doesn't come through at the state. As Susan suggested, we've waited a long time for federal action. We feel some urgency to move forward where we can.
 New construction, we're now in the midst of another building boom, so new construction is a big opportunity to really optimize energy performance at the time buildings are constructed. So there are actions in there to accelerate that. And then the climate plan calls for council to adopt a policy around fossil fuel exports, and this is something there's been a lot of conversation about over the course of the spring, and I think you'll hear testimony about today. And so the current action calls to...
 initiate that development process. So 40% of emissions from buildings and energy, another 40% from transportation emissions,
 A lot of the transportation emissions are driven by what your urban form is to start with and then what kind of transportation system you have to offer to people. Key to this, certainly from a carbon perspective, but from an almost everything perspective, stable long-term funding. This is not a new issue, but it's a very, very important one for our carbon goals as well as for many other things. The fundamental building block here really is healthy connected neighborhoods. We need these walkable neighborhoods. We need compact urban form. We need to connect them with...
 efficient, convenient, affordable transportation options. We also need to be moving toward lower carbon fuels, so biofuels, electric vehicles, compressed natural gas, especially for larger vehicles. So we want to be moving forward on all three of these fronts.
 One of the other new issues that the climate plan really elevates is consumption. And so for the first time, we have continued to measure emissions in a conventional way, add up the energy use, look at waste that goes to landfill. We've also analyzed all of the goods and services that are consumed by households and businesses and government agencies in Portland. And so we have a new way of understanding the magnitude of our consumption footprint in addition to the things that actually take place here.
 And that really initiates a conversation around what's the city's role in informing household and business decisions about consumption. And so it calls for us to develop a strategy around this rather than leaping to we know exactly what we need to do. But it turns out that the consumption footprint is maybe unsurprisingly much, much larger than the...
 the energy that's actually used here. We are net consumers of all kinds of things, and we should look at that as an opportunity to reduce emissions as well. We're good recyclers. We're good composters. We need to make the same opportunities available in multifamily properties, and so that's a new focus in this climate plan. And then making better use of goods while they're still usable, so repair, reuse, sharing, lending, lots of opportunities there. Those really affect our consumption footprint. Thank you.
 Food and agriculture. The big message here is that what we eat matters. And a little chart showing the relative carbon emissions per calorie. And although the
 Letters are small to see the descriptions. You get a sense of the range of impacts. That big long bar at the bottom, so very carbon intensive, is beef. The one at the top is legumes, so beans, and right next to it is wheat. So you get this very big range of emissions associated with food choice. We also know that
 urban agriculture produces a lot of other community benefits. And if you look at what people typically grow in their community garden, in their backyard, they're growing things that are at the very low-carbon footprint end of that spectrum. And so there's actually really nice alignment between our urban agriculture work and low-carbon emissions. We do want people to understand that food choice matters, and so we'll try to advance that from an information perspective while continuing to create opportunities for everyone to have access to fresh, healthy food, because those tend to be lower-carbon foods as well.
 Michael, can you talk a little bit about the significance of transportation of food compared to production of food in terms of carbon intensity? Because I think that a lot of us used to assume that if you buy local food, then that's always better than buying food from far away. And actually, my understanding is that the type of food matters more.
 Yeah, you're exactly right. So, you know, as an average across all the different foodstuffs that people consume, something on the order of 10% of the total emissions are associated with moving that food around. And I think it's 85% are from the production of it and the balance from kind of retail and wholesale sales. So only about 10% of the emissions are associated with transportation. And so local food is really important for a lot of reasons, right?
 If carbon emissions is what you're optimizing for, it's a consideration, but it's only a 10% of that consideration. But presumably, if you're buying a gallon of milk, buying a gallon of local milk versus some that's trucked from Ohio is the better choice. Absolutely. That's exactly right. But eating lentils that come from Chile is probably better than eating beef that comes from next door. Got it. He said it. Probably also true, yes. Yeah. Thank you.
 Okay, urban forest and natural systems. I mentioned that last year, the city adopted a climate change preparation strategy. Important pieces of that have to do with strengthening our natural systems. So they help us be more resilient as the climate changes. They also often help to sequester carbon. So they're taking carbon out of the atmosphere. They're helping slow climate change as well as preparing it for us, preparing us for it. And so this helps bring those things together. So very important actions around climate change
 tree canopy, watershed restoration, removing pavement. These things really help us on both fronts. Cherkafouri touched on a couple of the major impacts from climate change, the changes that we're seeing. And so this plan brings in the key pieces from the climate perforation strategy. We want to be clear that these are integrated. And so hotter dry summers, warmer winters with more intense rain events.
 The heat wave coming this weekend is a perfect illustration of what we need to be prepared for. And so there are significant changes that we need to make in our public health system. We've got wildfire risk this summer that's hopefully not as bad as it's starting to look, but we shall see. And then certainly in the winter, you know, we already have issues managing our rainfall, and we'll probably need to strengthen those systems so that we're doing more of that, because we're likely to get more intense rain events in the winters.
 part of the work to elevate equity in this is around community engagement um this really needs to start from the community and not just appear in a plan first and you know we've we've need needed to go back kind of to the start over and really try to approach community groups and and work with them on their terms and so this has been a learning process for certainly for me and for many of the my colleagues i feel like we've made some good progress and i think you'll hear from some of those groups today we have a long way to go and we're certainly not going to get to the long-term goals if we're not successful
 enabling and supporting community activities. And so a lot of this has to do with responding to community priorities and projects that deliver other benefits. They also often can reduce carbon emissions, and that's a good opportunity for all of us. I think it's a useful point of information when we're
 interacting with the community on this, that, you know, you, you look back at some of the work that the Oregon values and beliefs project did. Um, this, the question here was our statement, a climate change requires us to change our way of life, such as driving lesser living more simply, you know, 88% of Portland respondents agreed with that statement. Uh,
 It's a very, very big number. And so it doesn't say people are excited about that, but it says they recognize that those kinds of changes aren't needed. So I think the community is receptive to the need to do some of these things. And, you know, as Susan was pointing out, many of them have very, very positive community benefits, either in terms of affordability, in terms of quality of life.
 So the last section of the plan addresses government operations, so city operations and county operations. Because you all run bureaus, you're familiar with many of these efforts. We're constantly working on improving the performance of our buildings, pump stations, wastewater treatment plant, the LED traffic, or excuse me, LED streetlight replacement project, converting the fleet,
 to electric vehicles, to low emission vehicles where we have opportunities. So a very long list, you know the Portland building reconstruction is coming up as a very big opportunity for the city to
 deliver this in its own operations. One of the tools that we've identified as one way to finance some of those improvements is green bonds, and so this is the subject of the third resolution. And so I want to take just a minute to give Jonas Beery a chance to explain that in detail because this is a new concept for the city, and I think we're among the early adopters on this. And so I'll let Jonas talk through a couple of slides, and then we'll wrap up and we'll take questions. Thank you. Jonas. Yes.
 Great. Thanks, Michael. For the record, Jonas Beery, the city's debt manager. As Michael said, green bonds are a fairly new concept gaining momentum in the municipal marketplace very quickly, kind of a 101, maybe even a step earlier than 101. But the concept is basically we take traditional borrowings that the city would do and add a green bond designation to that. What that does is identifies borrowers.
 The bonds, which are investments that the public can invest in, institutional investors can invest in, and retail investors. So those that are interested in investing in green infrastructure that the city is conducting have an opportunity to do that. In theory, because we're matching to that specific interest, there's potential for the city to get better pricing, meaning a lower cost of borrowing.
 Important to note the second bullet here that the market's growing, it's evolving, but certainly currently under development and want to be upfront in saying that right now the financial benefit is unproven. The market dynamics exist, but I've, for example, talked to investors who said, yes, I really like green bonds and no, I'm not going to pay you anything different. And what we want to do is position ourselves so that we can, in fact, get that financial benefit as well as some of the other benefits.
 Note here that the requirements are still undeveloped, and so that's important as we develop our strategy that we're sensitive to adapting to those evolving requirements and expectations. Third bullet, it does not require any changes to the current debt policy, any changes to current financial policy. All existing bond-related documents, covenants, regulatory frameworks would still apply. This is just an added kind of bonus designation. Importantly,
 we have no, uh, city capital projects within the next six to 12 months that are expecting long-term financing. And that's important because it gives us the opportunity to be patient and strategic as we develop our, uh, our plan, uh, to give a sense of the market. Um,
 I said it's growing rapidly. What you see here is the blue line is global issuance. So 2007, the first issuance by the World Bank, really the entity that developed this concept. You see sort of some World Bank issuances with the smattering of corporate and international. And then really 2013 is when the market started taking off globally. You start to see the red line is U.S. municipal issuance. So 2013, it was pretty much the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
 2014 you see some growth in that red line state of California, DC water, city of Spokane 2015 we've already seen throughout the first half of the year increased volume, San Francisco's public utility New York City, city of Tacoma so we're starting to see this develop and as more issuance comes to market we start to see more refinement of preferences
 So I want to focus here mostly on the benefits. Benefits are by issuing green bonds, we express support for taking innovative approaches to financing environmentally responsible projects. It continues to present the city as a leader in environmental best practices and financial best practices, being on top of financial tools that develop and doing them in the right way.
 As I noted, it's accommodated within the current financial structure, and we hope to have future reduction in borrowing costs. I note on here a few minor risks, and these are mostly related to potential increases in cost or in administrative requirements of issuing green bonds. And our proposal, or what we envision, is developing a framework that kind of operates in the background that will identify projects in a specific way that will mitigate those risks as we go forward. So, for example, we want to have
 projects that have clearly reportable outcomes. We want to make sure that they're projects that we aren't going to fund them, and then they change their scope during the course of the financing. So moving on to the proposed resolution, what does it do? This is the third resolution in front of you. It advances the city leadership in sustainable innovation and identifies support for the concept of green bond issuance.
 It provides three specific directives to city staff to start looking at potential candidates for green bonds, to continue on our end in public finance and treasury to assess the financial cost benefit, including doing further due diligence with market participants, and then to develop standards and procedures for identifying projects and ongoing reporting. So what we'll do going forward is direct a framework for,
 And I say a strong framework because we want to use the analogy, we want to have a top shelf framework. Like we have top shelf financial policies, top shelf green objectives so that we can attract that investor interest that's actually going to give us the incremental benefit. As we do this, it's going to be critical that we involve the infrastructure bureaus as we're starting to develop this framework. Water, sewer, transportation, facilities.
 that are likely to have projects that will fit within the category. And I also think it's critical that we remain flexible as we develop the framework to be nimble and adapt as the market continues to mature.
 Quickly, what does it not do? It doesn't authorize any specific borrowing. Borrowings will still come to Council during the normal authorization request process. It doesn't change city policy, and it's not anticipated to accelerate or adjust project timing schedules, but really looking at capital projects that are already in the pipeline, and most importantly, in my opinion, establishes the foundation for us to get the longer-term financial benefit by developing the framework. Thank you.
 Thank you. Questions? Jonas, just one question. Of course, I'm going to support this because Senator Dingfelder lobbied me on it and I'm not going to disappoint her. But on the question of this marketplace for green bonds, I mean, the vision here is that over time if we use our purchasing power in effect and other jurisdictions join in,
 My understanding is that we can expect the market to align so that we get the competitive similar interest rates and terms that we would get with conventional financing, so it will be –
 one of those circumstances where there's no premium, but we get the additional environmental dividend. Is that right? Yeah, that's correct. The market right now, there is evidence that there is no additional cost. I mean, you're not paying a different, a higher cost of borrowing for green issues than you would for a non-green identical issue.
 So what we're essentially doing is tapping into a socially responsible investor pool that over time we hope as the market grows, it essentially is at parity with conventional financing. So we're just substituting...
 one set of borrowers for another on competitive terms. Yeah, that's correct. I mean, ideally, we always look to, in our department, expand our investor base. As we get more people coming in and bidding on our bonds, we get a marketplace that has potential to give us better pricing. So if the – assuming the green bond investor marketplace develops, we have potentially more investors interested in participating there, potential for greater pricing. And I would flag, just to think about the market for a second, the slide I had earlier that showed kind of –
 little thin red line, 2.6 billion of issuance in 2014 amongst U.S. muni issuers, that represents less than 1% of the total volume of outstanding muni bonds. So you can see that, I mean, as you sort of look around the room here, there's likely more interest in investment in these than there really is product that's out there in the market. So the dynamics are there. They just haven't borne themselves out yet in a demonstrable way.
 Susan, I have a question for you. We've got these very bold 2013 objectives. We've got five-year priorities. You've got a lot of bureaus, and we're trying to sync them up and get everyone behind the plan. What combination of carrots and sticks do you anticipate to get all the bureaus to play over the next five years, and then how can we gauge progress annually collectively? So...
 Fortunately, most of the bureaus are already doing a fantastic job in most of these areas. We meet regularly once a month with all the bureaus, and we meet once or twice a month with the planning and development bureaus. And this is and could be more of a regular item on the agenda. So the plan is to meet regularly.
 when this is adopted, although we often meet on these regularly anyways, we can come back with an annual report on actions that each of the bureaus have taken to meet the various. And we can broaden that to sustainability broadly, if you'd like, or we can keep it to the climate change. In the past, we've done more of a sustainability report. So I would urge us to think about that as an annual work session to sort of gauge where we are. And also, I think it's –
 Susan and I have already had this conversation, but I think it's great that she's meeting with the Bureau of Leadership. I think the additional overlay is that each of us sets expectations annually for our Bureau directors, and they're either done formally or informally. So that's another way we can be very prescriptive about where we want the energy, so to speak, focused. So let's think about that as well. MR. Other questions, comments for staff?
 Michael, I know that we're doing better than most other places over the last 20 years in terms of reducing our carbon intensity. Are there cities that do better than we do in terms of carbon emissions per capita? For example, how do we compare to New York City on carbon emissions per capita? Yeah.
 Yeah, there are certainly cities that do a lot better in terms of emissions per capita. It's a fairly complex set of inputs that have to do with everything from the climate, how cold is it in the winter, how hot is it in the summer, to density, where people living closer together, multifamily buildings, much more efficient, much better transportation options. And then the third big piece is what's your electricity come from?
 hydro renewables, you're going to have a lot smaller carbon footprint. So New York for example, I believe the numbers so Portland has carbon emissions per person of about 10 metric tons. So 10 tons per person. New York's is I think around 5.8%
 maybe six, so significantly smaller than ours. They have much colder winters. They also have a much more compact footprint. Their transportation system is amazing, as we all know. Vancouver, B.C., emissions per person on the order of, I think, 4.5 metric tons. Their electricity is essentially 100% hydro, and so that takes a big bite off. They've done a pretty good job with their transportation systems, urban form as well.
 You certainly get, you know, you go to Denver, you go to Minneapolis, you get emissions quite a bit higher than Portland's. So absolute numbers are, I think, useful for what can be accomplished. You know, the trend over time, obviously we all are where we are, so what are our biggest opportunities? We are seeing other kind of cities moving aggressively on this and really driving emissions down. Boston, San Francisco, Philadelphia, New York, Vancouver, Seattle, all are...
 have emissions that are now lower than because they're starting in different places, but they've all declined over the last five years ahead of the national trend. That's really encouraging. We all have a long way to go.
 On page 76 of the plan, you have a little discussion, compact urban form reduces carbon, where, for example, you say by encouraging development of new housing units in focused geographic areas like centers rather than spread across the city, grocery stores, restaurants, public spaces, and other services can successfully operate within walking distance of local residents. And I think that you also say at some point that transit is –
 more viable in places where there's sort of more people per stop? I mean, is it fair to say that in New York they have lower emissions in part because everybody rides the subway, but the subway only makes economic sense because there are a lot of people per stop because there's a lot more people living in apartment buildings, basically? Yeah, right.
 Thank you very much. I'm sure we may have more questions for you after the hearing, but thank you. Now I want to call a panel of citizens who worked on this plan who were on a steering committee. Douglas Soy, Kent Snyder, and Duncan Huang, come on up, please. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. You want to go first? I think I'm going to go first. I think the first thing I would say is everyone in this room would agree that we don't want to be worse than L.A. in anything.
 particularly air quality. So my name is Douglas Soy, and along with Kent here, I co-chair the Climate Action Plan Steering Committee. I also serve on the county's Advisory Committee on Sustainability and Innovation. If you look on page six of the Climate Action Plan, you'll see the roster of the steering committee. And I've got to say it was a privilege to work with those members and with the BPS staff.
 We met several times over the last two years when the plan came together to provide big picture guidance to the staff, reviewed the key issues from public comment, and helped the staff reconcile conflicting and competing comments. The Climate Action Plan, this version, has the same goals and framework as the City and County's 2009 plan, but it makes major changes articulating the importance of people in climate work.
 It's about reducing carbon and preparing for climate impacts, but it's now a lot clearer that we do this because of people, both locally and elsewhere. I think it's just really important to think that we're not doing this for nature. We're really doing this for the people. We'll hear from Duncan Huang about the process the Equity Working Group went through later in this little session here, but I want to call the Council's attention to a couple things. First of all, I think...
 This is a major step up, this plan, because it's a plan. There's tasks. There are people responsible for those tasks. There are priorities based on carbon impacts, co-benefits, equity issues. So compared to the 2009 plan, there's actual concrete things to do. The other thing I would think to focus you on is that we're talking a lot about adaptation now.
 We're really trying to prepare particularly the most vulnerable for climate impacts. I think a lot about Wayne Gretzky. He had this great quote. He said, I don't want to skate to where the puck is. I want to skate to where the puck's going to be. I think about this plan and that's what it is. We're skating to where climate preparation, climate adaptation is going to be. So I think about what future Portland residents are going to think about.
 I think they're going to be really thankful for the work that we did today. Thank you.
 Ken? Okay. Good afternoon. Ken Snyder. I've also been with Douglas co-chairing the steering committee, and I've actually been around this not as long as Susan has been. But in that I served on the steering committee for the 2009 climate action plan. We spent several years putting that together. I used to chair the Sustainable Development Commission, or co-chair the Sustainable Development Commission for the city and the city county. I was chairing the county's.
 advisory committee on sustainability and innovation. So I've been through a lot of the iterations of these things. And a couple of things that are actually really to Commissioner Fish, the question you asked to Susan Anderson was the thing that I've noticed, a couple of things in the last over the iterations of these plans,
 where we started a number of years ago, 10 years ago, where we were really kind of asking bureaus and having to pull a little bit from bureaus and departments to, you know, what are you going to do about this? How is this going to impact your thing? The shift that has happened really is they are engaged. They are forthcoming with great ideas. They have embodied the goals into their operations, I mean, from a citizen's view, both at the city level and the county level.
 So it's been a really big shift that way. The second thing is I've watched the, as Susan also referenced, the size of the audience and the diversity of the audience and the conversation. And we went from where it really was a global warming plan and it wasn't an environmental issue to the, back then, the Sustainable Development Commission said, this is the economic strategy really that should rise above all other things for the city and the county. And it has become that.
 So and then the diversity, the people involved, they really this time to really bring in equity, to engage them in a very real constructive way and look at the impacts and how do we both address those but also how do we help them economically at the same time, provide those economic opportunities that have been,
 Not as readily available to them in the past. So I think we've made a lot of good progress. There's a lot more to be done, but we've got a great framework here, and I guess the committee, the steering committee, is going to urge that you adopt the plan. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Duncan Huang, Associate Director at the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon. Thank you for inviting me, and thank you also for providing space for our volunteers earlier this morning to speak about equity issues.
 I'd really like to start by speaking about the process of a climate action plan update. Overall, this process of incorporating equity into the update was really a big step forward. A number of community-based organizations received small grants to participate in this year-long process. That was important because we met weekly, basically, for two hours at a time to really dive into the details. For our organization, we used our small grant to bring on an intern who,
 She was the president of a Vietnamese student association at Portland State University. And this was actually a really empowering experience for her. Over the course of the CAP equity process, she really felt like she had her voice heard and also really felt empowered by being able to interface with our county and city government. Yeah.
 So that was just a great kind of win for building our capacity long term and also working with the city and county and kind of building their analysis. So both sides had a lot of learning to do.
 We also really used this opportunity to build our organizational capacity to work on environmental issues. We now have a program in Opano that is focused specifically on environmental work and environmental justice. So the participation in the CAP process really was kind of the first point of contact on environmental issues, but we've really grown beyond that and now are taking it really seriously. Thank you.
 I think over the course of this process, our community really started to feel ownership of the climate action plan and the update. I think that's a great thing. It's rare for a non-environmental nonprofit to really feel that level of ownership in a climate action plan. But I think this process really did facilitate that.
 Building upon our experience with CAP, we're further engaged in environmental justice and environmental resiliency. We're now proud to be working on our own climate resiliency plan in coalition with other communities of color. It's a coalition including APANO and NEA and OPAL, Coalition of Communities of Color, VOSE and a host of other community-based organizations. We've newly completed a plan outlining a vision for Portland and Multnomah County
 That will offer policy makers options on how to best move forward with implementing the goals of a climate action plan without further harming communities of color. This additional process that we've undertaken on our own is really valued or rooted in the values of self determination and equity. So we really hope to engage the city and county on its implementation in the future.
 As for the cap itself, the values that we brought to the table, I feel, really did show up in the language of the action plan update. I don't think anybody in question its effectiveness. The reduction of 32% in carbon emissions per capita is a remarkable feat. But I think going forward, we're not going to be able to see these continued gains without being inclusive, including everyone that lives in Portland.
 For myself, I live and work in East Portland, in the Jade District in particular. Maps show that we live in an urban heat island. We have limited green space. We have almost no tree canopy. DEQ data shows that we have some of the worst air pollution in the whole city due to our proximity between Southeast 82nd and 9205. This leads to a whole bunch of health disparities. For example, our community has a 16% asthma rate.
 that's twice the county rate, which is 8%. So this is a very real health impact for our community. And talking about Wayne Gretzky and where we want to go, demographics are changing significantly.
 The fastest growing demographic in Portland is now Pacific Islander, and that's no accident. Pacific Islanders are facing tremendous environmental degradation in their home islands, and they're moving here and California and Hawaii. But we're seeing a huge influx, and it's because of climate change. So in closing, we're all here to reduce carbon emissions, but for myself, I'd really like to evaluate the cap based on its implementation performance.
 I think our values are there, but whether this climate action plan works or not for our community will really be found in the implementation and the implementation guide that's going to come out. I see metrics for reducing...
 greenhouse gases, but I don't see those clear equity metrics. So I'd really like to work with the city and county in making sure that, yes, we're going to reduce greenhouse gases, but we're also going to have metrics that really advance equity for our communities as well. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for your help with this so far. Keep calling on you. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you much.
 So let me call another panel of volunteers, Angus Duncan, who chairs the Oregon Global Warming Commission, Mike Houck from the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and Chris Smith from the Planning and Sustainability Commission. So good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, members of the City Council. I assume we can go in no particular order. Go right ahead. Least exalted to most exalted.
 So my name is Angus Tekken. I'm president of the Bonneville Environmental Foundation. I chair the State of Oregon's Global Warming Commission and I was privileged to be a member of the stakeholders group that helped assemble and critique of the plan that's in front of you. And I would just begin by saying there is much to admire and to applaud in this plan and a huge amount of labor by both stakeholders and city staff people that went into that and and
 We all ought to take a brief pause and silently congratulate ourselves and take a heave and then go back to work.
 This plan continues Portland's leadership in addressing energy and climate issues that actually goes back further than Kent. It goes back further even than Susan. It at least goes back as far as 35 years ago when I was a young and went behind the years city staffer, and we brought the first urban energy policy into the city council in the mirror image of this chamber.
 and it was adopted by the City Council. It was predicated then on energy efficiency as its priority, much as this plan is predicated on energy and carbon efficiency as the way to reduce carbon emissions in Portland. And that's by far the most important strategic point to be observed. I have four other quick comments, if I may make them. First...
 I think the most important contribution of this plan is in demonstrating how cities can leverage their special capacities for energy and carbon efficiency. Something like 70% of the people of the world now live in cities, and that's a number that's growing exponentially.
 Close to 80% of the energy that's consumed is consumed by or in cities globally, and about 60%, interestingly, of the greenhouse gases. So the numbers themselves describe the inherent energy and carbon efficiency of urban areas.
 This plan leverages compact urban form. It leverages targeted densities that are aligned with transportation strategies. It leverages multifamily housing, common wall housing, respect for the urban growth boundary. It does all of these things in order to make the best possible use of the urban form to reduce carbon emissions.
 production and achieve those resulting building and transportation carbon and energy efficiencies. And in response to Commissioner Novick's question about points of comparison, I think the really interesting point of comparison would be to step back, say, 10 or 15 years, draw a baseline for each one of the cities that was mentioned, and see how the city of Portland compares relative to its own baseline. I think we would end up feeling...
 Again, at least briefly, pretty good about the progress that the City of Portland has made. But we have to continue demonstrating those considerations. Second point, this plan takes on a new and a critical function that did not show up in the prior plan and that I want to underline. And that is driving down the carbon content of delivered electricity into the city by at least, they didn't say at least, but I did, at least 3% a year.
 The importance of doing this, I think, can be demonstrated pretty simply by us all just imagining our first electric vehicle and choosing where to plug it in. If we plug it into Pacific's territory over in northeast Portland, we'll get pretty good mileage, probably around the carbon equivalent of 35 miles per gallon. Not as good as you can get with an awful lot of internal combustion machines today. But that's what happens when you plug it into the side of a coal plant.
 Plug it into PGE's territory, probably between 50 and 60 miles per gallon equivalent. But if we could drive it up to Seattle and plug it into the Seattle electrical system, it would be well over 100 miles per gallon carbon equivalent.
 So if we're going to achieve our carbon reductions, not just in building efficiency but also in transportation, I really strongly encourage the city council and city council members to leverage your position, not just as a government but also as a large customer, institutional customer of our two utilities.
 to meet with those CEOs, to tell them what this goal is and what your expectations are, even more to recruit the other large institutional customers in the city, Portland State, the county, metro, port.
 OHSU, and a number of commercial customers who would also be willing to take the same line and meet collectively with those CEOs so that you're on record and on record as in effect setting a benchmark for our two utilities, not just for City Puros. Third comment, this plan has rightly been praised for its attention to equity and to the consequences, equity consequences of acting on climate issues. I just want to make one point here.
 that the greatest inequities will not result from pricing carbon. We frequently get pushback on that point.
 But as long as we are giving low-income households the tools to cope with higher energy prices, and you know what those are as well as I do, then we should be pushing carbon prices higher. The greatest inequities, and Chair Khafre, I think, was eloquent at this point, will come from the changing climate itself, which will visit its burdens disproportionately on poor people and poor nations.
 as the heat wave deaths in Pakistan that the Mayor alluded to earlier simply reinforce. Last comment. Climate change is not just another agenda item on the City Council agenda or the State's agenda or the Congress's agenda. It is the most urgent matter before you and before the legislature and before global policymakers, as Pope Francis also underscored.
 We are, to put it in terms that I know at least the Mayor can appreciate, we are on a boat and we have been hulled below the waterline.
 And we have to deal with that very large hole because we're taking in a lot of water. It doesn't mean we don't keep tending to the rigging and the sails because we have to, but we shouldn't pretend that tending to the rigging and the sails is of the same urgency or significance as closing that hole in the water line. And in this regard, supporters of this plan and this policy, and I hope that includes this city council,
 should be appalled at the temporizing in Salem right now as the governor and the legislature proceed to trade away a durable carbon cap on carbon content in transport fuels in return for a temporary short-term gas tax fix. Both of those are necessary, but one's the hole in the hole and one's the rigging and the lines.
 And especially when it comes to transportation matters, city, state, and federal policies and plans are hugely interdependent. And right now, the city is moving forward, the federal government is moving forward, and I fear the state is slipping backward, and we need to arrest that backward motion. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Mike, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Mayor, Commissioners, I served on the Climate Action Plan Steering Committee as a liaison from the Planning and Sustainability Commission, along with Chris. Two things that the Climate Action Plan does is address both mitigation and climate preparation, and I really want to congratulate staff in particular. Michelle and Michael did a great job, and it's a concern I've had for some time I've expressed today.
 that we have a climate change preparation strategy that you adopted in October of 2014. And one of the concerns I had is that document would be lost once the climate action plan was adopted. And they did a great job of bringing forward a number of the strategies into the climate action plan and have pledged to ensure that those two documents continue to inform the work that the bureaus do and the city does.
 There are many actions in the Climate Action Plan to help reduce CO2 through carbon sequestration and strengthen resilience, both for infrastructure and social. And I would say it's very much about the environment, very much about nature, ecological systems.
 You've already heard, you know, that it's a joint effort between the city and county. And what I would like to do, and it is in the Climate Action Plan, a direction to work with Metro. Metro has taken, in my mind, a very small step forward with their climate smart communities effort. They have a huge role to play in an issue that is truly regional, and it goes beyond the city and the county, and I'm hopeful that, again,
 that your bully pulpit can be used to press Metro to get more serious about climate mitigation and adaptation. You have a letter from the Planning Sustainability Commission that conveys our unanimous endorsement of the Climate Action Plan. Again, PSC was particularly pleased to see the work that's been done on equity,
 and that the new plan incorporates, as I said before, key strategies to prepare for impacts of a changing climate. I would like to say I have read the Pope's encyclical, and as I said, it's both about people and the environment and nature. And in reading the encyclical, there are specific references, as there are in the Portland plan and the –
 updated, comprehensive plan, references to the intrinsic value of nature, to biodiversity, to ecosystem health, and very importantly for us, what makes a great city that people want to live in, that have all the benefits that we've heard about, and access to nature is important.
 is very high on the Pope's list of priorities, which, in fact, we could have taken an early draft of the encyclical, I think, and saved a lot of time and incorporated it into the climate preparation strategy.
 The Planning and Sustainability Commission feels very strongly that the city needs to establish a fossil fuel export policy, and my colleague Chris Smith will elaborate on that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Chris, welcome. Chris Smith, Mayor and members of council. I am a member of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and along with my colleague was liaison to the Climate Action Plan Steering Committee.
 I want to emphasize that what we're engaged in here is a virtuous cycle of planning. So the 2009 Climate Action Plan very much informed the Portland Plan. The Portland Plan, with its equity focus, in turn –
 informed this update to the climate action plan, and they've both informed our comprehensive plan that we're updating right now. The result is strategies that accomplish more than one objective. So yesterday, Mayor, in a meeting, we talked about the youth transit pass. We think of that primarily as a youth empowerment strategy, supporting education. But in fact, it's a climate action strategy. It reduces our carbon footprint. Our complete neighborhoods policy...
 Improves livability by keeping people spending less time commuting, more time to enjoy their lives. Makes them healthier by letting them walk and bike to more of their destinations, but also reduces our carbon footprint. So we've integrated this philosophy into our plans. That's illustrated last night we had a public hearing on our –
 growth scenarios report that's essentially the scorecard that we take the plans we created and project them into the future and say what will the results be and we can point to the reductions in vehicle miles traveled and carbon footprint that the comprehensive plan will generate. I want to shift to the point that my colleague made about a fossil fuel export strategy. As you know, our Commission grappled with an application to change zoning in order to support a very high volume of carbon exports
 earlier this year. It's a challenge. We enjoy kind of a unique position. The ground here has soil that will grow anything. It doesn't have fossil fuels underneath. So our state has been a consumer of fossil fuels, and as a result, anything we do to reduce our fossil fuel consumption
 use is essentially an economic plus. We avoid a cost. We're seeing a new pressure that because of the geography of the Columbia Gorge, a lot of commodities want to use Portland and the Lower Columbia as a gateway to Asia, including fossil fuels. So we're going to be presented with an opportunity where we could participate in that. And then suddenly we have
 skin in the game where maybe global carbon reduction means we have a few less jobs or a little bit less property tax. We'd like to take on that issue front and center and come up with a fossil fuel export strategy for Portland so that we don't have to evaluate these things ad hoc, but in fact we have a plan and a strategy for how Portland is going to deal with that question. So it's a key recommendations plan, the task to take that on.
 We hope you won't duck that. Instead, you'll charge us to go do that early in this year and get that on the agenda. Thank you. Great. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Another piece of the picture is transportation. So I next want to call Neil McFarland, the general manager of TriMet, and Maurice Henderson from the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Welcome, Neil. Good morning, Mayor Hales, members of the council. I did want to make a few comments. I'm Neil McFarland, TriMet's general manager here.
 And I want to offer you TriMet's ringing endorsement of the City and County's Climate Action Plan. As you well know, the City and TriMet have had a long history of working together to build really a great city. We've been doing that for decades, and we've created a very sound foundation for the work ahead. But as the Mayor noted and as Chair Khafre noted, the future will require even more of us.
 As we work toward that goal of a connected, healthy, resilient and equitable city, we will need to link ourselves with the region's 2040 land use vision and the climate smart communities vision. And we pledge our support in doing all of that. At the regional level, Metro studies have found that among our most effective strategies for carbon reduction, related particularly to the transportation sectors, is additional transit. Transit service to our connected communities.
 And we know that transit's also at the center of your land use plans for corridors and active centers. And a great way to begin to accommodate the growth that we all know is coming our way. A recent example, as the mayor noted, of this partnership is 122nd. And we greatly appreciate your focus on this in your last budget initiative. Where you're investing in sidewalks, on safe crossings, on a bikeable environment.
 And we've committed to upgrading our Line 71 service to frequent service and connect the residents of East Portland not only to more services but also to the jobs in the Columbia Corridor. And I would just note that we have been underway with service enhancement plans to begin to look at those kinds of connections and partnerships throughout our region and every sector of our region. And I think they provide a great model for how we can begin to move ahead.
 And I'd also note that we are developing a very strong MOU, Memorandum of Understanding, with your planning units to really make sure that we are well-linked in our planning efforts as we move forward in these areas.
 We will improve service. We'll make new and better connections for city residents. You will advance your goals toward Vision Zero, your transportation system plans, and your comprehensive land use plan. And at the same time, we'll be doing a great job of reducing carbon emissions.
 I want to particularly compliment, obviously, the cover photo of the Climate Action Plan. But I would just also just want to make the note that the Orange Line is actually a great partnership between the city, TriMet, and many other agencies. We have transit shelters that are generating electricity.
 We have state-of-the-art energy recovery devices for our propulsion power of our light rail vehicles. We'll be getting more efficiency out of the whole system with LED lighting that is released throughout the system, and that only begins to touch the green elements of that project. So it's a great model of how we can begin to develop infrastructure and projects together that really do meet the goals of the Climate Action Plan.
 So finally, let me say that we share your vision for a low-carbon future and pledge our partnership in supporting your vibrant, mixed-use, walkable, and bikeable neighborhoods and business districts, all served by excellent, excellent transit. So thank you for the opportunity to testify. Thank you, Neil. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. General Manager.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Transportation Commissioner Novick, commissioners. My name is Maurice Henderson, Assistant Director at PBOT. Thank you for this opportunity to speak on PBOT's enthusiastic support for the Climate Action Plan. We've learned that the most effective transportation policies and projects are those which are good for people, the planet, and prosperity, the triple Ps or the triple bottom line. We're using this data to make smarter and data-driven, more climate-friendly decisions for
 To our knowledge, we are the first city in the United States to score all of our projects and programs based on their level of benefit for the climate, safety, health, equity, cost effectiveness, access to daily needs, and economic opportunity. Not surprisingly, the policies and projects which achieve high scores for climate often also achieve high scores for safety, health, equity, and the economy. Like California.
 General Manager McFarland said, I'd like to highlight the project at 122nd Street because of the great investments that we've made there. We will soon see added safe crossings, more sidewalks, bicycle facilities on that street connecting to 122nd Avenue. These improvements will support TriMet's plan to increase transit frequency on 122nd Ave. The combination of safety and access and transit improvements are designed to save lives.
 support healthy, connected communities, as was mentioned, and make it easier to get Portlanders to family wage jobs in the Columbia Corridor. This is also an excellent example of the Council's recent adoption of the Vision Zero plan, as well as PBOT's implementation of several strategies associated with our Portland Progress two-year plan.
 The Bureau is hard at work on a fourth P, actually, as well, in partnership with TriMet. BPS, PBOT will soon recommend to you, Mayor Hales, and you, Commissioner Novick, a letter of intent to improve access to transit, transit frequency, reliability, and starting with two projects, growing transit communities and enhanced transit corridors.
 In a few minutes, you'll hear from Widmer Brewing. Both the brewery and the pub are located in places with great access to rail, bicycle facilities, and safe pedestrian crossings. Serving businesses and multiple travel options is good for...
 both consumers, employees, our sustainable objectives, and our economic vitality as a community. Finally, achieving the Climate Action Plan's transportation goals depends on implementing a mix of cleaner vehicles, cleaner fuels, and greater use of transit options.
 The Obama administration has issued rules that will substantially improve vehicle efficiency. The city and our partners are updating our TSP to deliver those healthy, complete, and climate-friendly neighborhoods. And the third leg of the stool is the state delivering on the clean fuel standards, which is the subject of debate down in Salem right now.
 All three are needed for the region achieving our goals. Mr. Mayor, Commissioner, Commissioners, again, thank you for this opportunity and for leading the way for the city in its efforts to make sure that the planet's health is a major priority for our public service.
 all right thank you thank you well neil before you go um you you have built us a beautiful bridge which is why it keeps showing up on covers of documents because it proves that we can build a beautiful thing as a public work and that's a good thing to remember but of course from a climate standpoint this bridge is a pretty big deal because it's the only bridge i know of maybe the only bridge anywhere that's going to carry three modes of transit pedestrians bicycles and no cars
 So if there was ever a public works statement of our values, you've built one. And I know you're getting ready for a big ceremony on September 12th, and you need to be properly dressed for that ceremony. Now, mayors get to give away ceremonial gifts when people come to town. You know, the mayor of Sapporo will come here, and there's a gift exchange.
 So we had Portland Garment Factory create the new ceremonial gift for Portland, and it's a tie with the image of your bridge in it. I got to present the first one to the president as he landed on the tarmac here for a recent visit, and it just seems appropriate that we make sure that you're wearing one on September 12th. Thank you very much. I'm very grateful. We are, too. Thank you, Neil. Thank you, Neil.
 Thanks very much. Okay, now we have some community partners ready to speak this afternoon. Rose Heiber from the Wisdom Council of Elders, Emily Barrett from Elemental Technologies, and Jonathan Fink from Portland State University. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome. My name is Rose Heiber. I'm Deghatan Dene from the Yukon River of Alaska. Although I've lived in Oregon since about 1949, we have for 14,500 years lived on the Yukon. We have relatives among the Siberian and the Mongolian, and all of our people have experienced climate issues over thousands of years.
 And so I'm very happy to be participating today as a result of that. As a Native community in Portland, we're very interested in sharing our perspective on climate issues. And so we have just returned from Alaska over the last several years where we produced...
 two documentary films and two radio programs on climate issues from the perspective of Native people. We were just funded by National Endowment for the Arts to produce two more films. One is on the Portland metropolitan Native community and its perspective on climate issues.
 The second film in the radio program is focusing on the four coastal tribes of Oregon. So we've been participating for some time, 50 years. There have been unprecedented climate issues in Alaska. We've been observing them. We're on networks, native networks and non-native networks. We're constantly observing all of the news that comes through.
 And so we got to participate in the review of the Climate Action Plan a couple of years ago, and we are very honored to be on that team, by the way. We really appreciated our relationships with the city and the county. They were very open to our comments. They were very collaborative in nature. They made great partners. The partnerships have continued into other projects that are very climate-related.
 And so we are getting ready to, we're just forming a Native Climate Council. And it's probably going to be beyond Portland throughout the state of Oregon because we're selecting the elder scientists and other community members that are going to be in the films and the radio programs. And so we're just organizing that and we'll be producing that over the next year.
 We tend to produce films that are very positive in nature because of the very seriousness of the films themselves, climate issues. Every one of us has lost a loved one in our ancestry to starvation or to weather issues.
 And so we know that. It's in our DNA. We're very connected with this issue, and we do want to be able to share our perspective because we think it's very valuable. You know, the prophecy tells us that Native people, there will come a day that people will want to listen to the opinions of Native people in the way that we care for the earth and the way that we care for one another.
 And so that's a lot of our role. I heard it mentioned that Metro is not doing a lot about climate, and yet you may not be aware that they are very involved restoring infrastructure
 natural areas of Portland and we as a contractor to them wisdom workforce has just formed and as a contractor restoring native species to the natural areas of Portland and so they're they're doing a lot more than perhaps people are aware so I just want to say that we have very good relationships with the city with the county several city Portland Parks and Recreation Portland planning sustainability
 Portland Parks and perhaps the Portland Water Bureau. So we're planning on moving forward. Our nonprofit focuses on race reconciliation. We move forward in a very positive manner with the agencies and other partners that we have. So we look forward to working with you in the coming years. Thank you. Same here. Thank you very much. Nathan, welcome.
 Thank you. I'm Jonathan Fink. I'm Vice President for Research at Portland State University, and I'm here to express the university's enthusiastic support for the Climate Action Plan. Our motto at the university is, let knowledge serve the city, and really no issue demonstrates that better than this plan. I just wanted to mention three ways that Portland State is connected with the preparation and the implementation of this plan.
 We graduate more students that will be current and future citizens of Portland than anywhere else, and we make sure that they all are exposed to sustainability as part of their education so that they will understand how this kind of plan can work.
 We're one of the largest employers in Portland, and through our operations in transportation and energy and so on, we're doing what we can to help mitigate the climate change that we're all concerned about. And finally, the research area, we've been doing a number of projects
 with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to look at what the various actions actually require and how well they're going to work. And working with BPS, we were able to get funding from the Bullitt Foundation to support this work, which is being conducted by our faculty and our students under the guidance of BPS. This is a really nice model that we're now trying to replicate with other parts of the city. Thank you.
 Finally, PSU is able to attract some really good faculty and students, not because of our reputation as a world-leading university and not because of our salaries and certainly not because of our football team. We're able to attract them because of the location that we're in. And activities like the Climate Action Plan really demonstrate why PSU is important and how much value we get out of this partnership. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Jonathan, I thought you attracted people because of your slogan, Vim Vivel, filling the Vikings with vim and vigor. That's exactly it. That's it, for sure. Welcome. Thanks.
 Thank you so much. My name is Emily Barrett and I'm a community ambassador at Elemental Technologies. Glad to be here to talk about our excitement around the Climate Action Plan. We're a software startup headquartered and founded here in Portland. We have 233 employees worldwide and about 170 of those are in Portland, including our entire engineering department. We're the leading supplier of software-defined video solutions for multi-screen content delivery.
 Which means, which means in everyday language that our software creates the type of video files and video streams that allow you to watch video on a computer, a tablet, or a smartphone so that you don't have to watch anything.
 video on TV. We're one of the top companies in the world that does this work. We have over 600 customers, including ESPN, HBO, and the BBC. And while Elemental provides the kind of high-wage jobs that today's knowledge workers seek, as a company, we're also working to live the climate action plan. We provide transit passes, bicycle commute support, car share memberships, and usage for all of our employees, but we don't provide any parking at all. So, we're a very, very, very
 Our work also helps reduce one of the many hidden sources of carbon emissions in modern life. And just one example to share is that it takes about 30% less carbon to stream an hour of video than it does to watch that hour of video on DVD. Right.
 The creation and delivery process for DVDs creates carbon, and there was about 1.2 billion DVDs created last year. So that's being reduced using Elemental's video processing software. Late last year, we signed the Oregon Business Climate Declaration, and along with signing, took the voluntary step of purchasing 30% of the power used at our three Portland locations as renewable under the Blue Sky program. And we didn't have to do this.
 We chose to, to illustrate the importance of taking action on climate change, to show that businesses need to lead by example. And so, yes, it costs us more for power in the short term, but the long-term investment in clean power is vital, and Portland's Climate Action Plan is going to help us prepare for the future. So I will close with...
 with saying that Elemental can't always compete with salaries in the Bay Area, but we can compete and we win on livability. Our employees are proud to live in healthy, connected neighborhoods, in a place that's leading the way to mitigate climate change effects. And I'll close with our CEO, Sam Blackman, who recently wrote, climate change creates real risks to the livability of Portland and therefore threatens Elemental's ability to compete effectively in the global marketplace.
 By taking steps to address climate change now, we protect Oregon and the livability that makes Portland so attractive to the world-class knowledge workers that we need to hire. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 So next, let me call. Before you call the next week, could I just get a time check? It's a little after 3.30. I'm wondering how many more invited testimony. Panels, and then we'll go to testimony. Carla, how many people signed up? I think we've got 30 or 40 people signed up. Yeah. So I have to leave at 5. I have an engagement on behalf of the city, and we have other items after. We have 10 more items after this one. Mm-hmm.
 So if I might suggest that we at least put the timer on for panels. Okay, so I'll ask our panels to be very succinct. Can I go one step further, Mayor? It's hard to imagine we're going to get to our regular agenda after the session. I'll stay here as long as necessary, but in the off chance that we can't, should we consider moving that to tomorrow at 3.30? That's a good idea. I don't know that we want to rush this. That's a very good idea.
 Yeah, let's plan on that. Tomorrow we have a vote right off the top, and then we have rebuttal and a deliberation. So we're done in an hour. I agree. Let's do that. Move the regular agenda to tomorrow at 3.30. 3.30 session. Thank you.
 So I will, without objection, move the remainder of today's calendar after these three items to tomorrow at 3.30. Anybody that's here for any of the things on our calendar, pages 6, 7, and 8 listed, regular agenda, afternoon session, that will be heard tomorrow at 3.30. Good suggestion. Thank you. Okay. Let's hear briefly from the energy sector, Dean Funk, Sheila Holden, and Sean Penrith.
 Good afternoon, Dean. I think you're on first. Oh, good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. First thing I want to say about the action plan is it's a very readable plan, and I want to congratulate BPS on producing a really excellent plan. It's easy to understand. I think it was a very effective work product.
 PG serves 842,000 people in this very fertile valley and a chunk of them here in Portland. That's probably – there is more customers with PG energy customers than anywhere in the state, any other utility.
 I'm going to do a shortcut here. PG has been on a parallel path, often intersecting with Portland and advocating and taking action to create a cleaner, greener energy system. We believe that our customers and our company have been integral to the actions that have been taken during the last 25 years.
 Angus Duncan was talking about and others were talking about the ETO, but let's just put a finer point on who the ETO is. The ETO is the customers of PG and Pacific Power, and they contribute upwards of 3% and upwards of $70 million, $75 million annually towards all these things that contribute to reducing carbon. So people should note that that's the utilities customers that are doing that, and Northwest Naturals too.
 We have a very proud track record dating back a long time. One thing, I'm cleaning my office right now, the drudgery of doing that. And when Mayor Lindbergh's name came up, I was cleaning through all these files, Commissioner Lindbergh, all these files going all the way back to him and all the stuff that we had done on climate action on some dusty old plans in the early 90s and before.
 Through a variety of programs initiated by PG&R customers, tens of millions of avoided CO2 have resulted.
 This is a good number to know, also in reference to Mr. Duncan. In 2000, PG's carbon intensity was 924 pounds of CTO per megawatt hour, a metric that is now on track to reach 589 pounds in 2025 due to policies and practice that we've already adopted. There are 40 states in this country that are not going to meet that. We've already exceeded what they're going to do.
 As we continue to make progress, we're working hard to continue transition to a low-carbon future in ways that hold down customer costs, avoiding rate shock that damages the economy and increases costs on the people who can least afford it. We really don't want to hurt our customers, so we're very careful about that.
 Two to three minutes, there's not a lot of time to talk about the comments or concerns that we have, but there are a few in there. A lot of this plan touches a lot of the things that we do very positively, and electric vehicle charging being one of them. We're hoping pretty soon here to have a new electric avenue right in front of our building at the World Trade Center. Thank you.
 We touch on components from the economy to transportation, natural environment, and more. Just one last thing I want to say. Why don't you mention the things that you're concerned about in the plan? Well, what I want to really say, because there's things to talk about in detail, is the main message I have for today is we have a level of technical expertise and a record of accomplishment in carbon reduction that few other organizations can match, and we're asking you to take advantage of our expertise.
 And my request today is, and I think I also heard it from Angus Duncan, is that we ask Susan and Michael to come and meet with us and our executives and that we make that a regular practice. I won't go through the rest of the comments, but just to say the electrification of the economy is integral to achieving the goals of carbon future, and that's a great place for us to be. Good. We look forward to working with you. Thank you. Appreciate that offer to work with them. Sheila, welcome. Good afternoon.
 In the interest of not going over my time limit, I've already timed myself, and it would take me seven minutes to read all the stuff that I have here. So I'm going to just do a quick highlight. The critical piece for us is that we serve about 74,000 customers in north-northeast Portland, downtown Portland. We serve 560,000 in the state of Oregon.
 Our goal has always been to provide safe, reliable, affordable energy to our customers. We've been known as innovators, whether it comes to customer service, whether it comes to reliability, whether it comes to renewable energy.
 We have been on the forefront of energy efficiency. We were the ones who came up with the idea of demand-side management. So we have a commitment to the environment. It's a core part of our value system as a company. What we are hoping that we're going to be able to do is keep in alignment with where the city of Portland is heading, where the...
 rest of our customer base is heading in terms of wanting to have a clean, reliable energy future. And in order to do that, it means that we have to make good decisions. We have to make practical decisions on how to do that and not have it have a negative impact on the cost of doing business for our customers who are in business or for the residential customers who are having to pay for their power source. Yes.
 So one of the main concerns that we have is that as we look forward to what's happening in the federal arena around pricing, carbon pricing, that we are not going to end up in a position where there will be an additive cost by acting more quickly here in Portland than we're seeing happening on the national level.
 So we're wanting to work with you very closely to address all the things that you're working on and that we've been working on to make sure that Portland and the rest of Oregon has a clean energy future, but do it in a way that is going to be advantageous for our economy, our low-income and vulnerable communities. Thank you. Thank you very much. Sean, welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Sean Penrith. I'm the Executive Director for the Climate Trust. We are an NGO based in Portland, and we invest in climate reduction projects across the country. In the 10 years that I've been in Portland, I've seen Portland firms do a marvelous job at being early adopters of high-performance and low-carbon products and services. But they need a supportive policy environment to advance this.
 Climate Action Plan is a good plan. It offers a tremendous business opportunity and a business case. One of the emerging elements that can be harnessed or leveraged is the growth in green bonds. Green bonds are ideally suited for carbon infrastructure development projects like energy efficiency, transit options, electric vehicle infrastructure, smart grid, green spaces, anaerobic digesters, rural and urban forestry. These are all the elements that are needed to develop an equitable low-carbon economy.
 Climate bonds typically mature in the five to ten years, which is absolutely perfect for low-carbon project development. And these bonds that are issued currently offer a very low coupon or interest rate at around half a percent to no more than 4 percent. So it's very low-cost patient capital. If we issued climate bonds at half a trillion dollars a year between now and the next 20 years, we would still not exhaust the global demand for green bond product.
 The bond market this year is estimated to increase to $100 billion. Last year, it was $36 billion. It is growing tremendously. The majority of issued bonds are oversubscribed and often re-up their issuance, as we saw in California. There is very, very strong demand from institutions, insurance, and pension plan sectors.
 We can join the efforts of four other states, which include Washington, Massachusetts, Arizona, and India, who all issued green muni bonds and used the proceeds to fund a wide range of projects that included clean water, wind, and low-carbon buildings. Muni bonds in the U.S. are the fastest-growing sector, according to J.P. Morgan. So...
 Securing low-cost bond finance offers this city a tremendous opportunity to fund innovation in the clean tech and low-carbon sector, and it will provide benefits to citizens of this city for decades to come. So Climate Trust and myself really support the Resolution 689. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your help in developing that. Thank you very much. Okay. A couple more panels to call. Shawna Brownstein, Julia Person, and Andrea Durbin, please. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Mayor, members of the council, it's great to be here. My name is Andrea Durbin with Oregon Environmental Council, and it's refreshing to be here having this conversation about moving forward with an update of a climate action plan when we spent a lot of our time in Salem trying to get Salem legislators to understand that we need a plan to move forward and follow through on the commitments they made nearly a decade ago to meet the state's emission reductions.
 I would also like to commend the city and BPS for an excellent plan, particularly many people have noted the commitment to equity. And we would like to emphasize today that the commitment to equity is a very important one and we really hope that that commitment is followed through with metrics as others have said and apply an equity lens in evaluating different ways to deliver upon that promise.
 We will be looking for where the city is prioritizing and looking for ways to help
 Deal with the barrier we face today with providing energy efficiency and retrofits for multi-family housing and rental housing. That's an opportunity, I think, to deliver on the equity commitment. We will be looking at where the transportation investments are being made and where we're prioritizing making those kinds of decisions. That will be another place where we're looking at how do we deliver on that commitment.
 I'd like to also add our support for the green bonds, and I think that that is another way where the city can look at how do we finance infrastructure and investments in lower-income communities in the Portland area.
 The other policy measure we'd like to see taken forward, we'd like to thank you again for adopting the energy benchmarking for the commercial sector. And we think it's a good opportunity now to start talking about how to apply that to the residential sector. It will help reduce emissions, represents about 20% of the emissions in the city. And so it's looking for high leverage investments. That's one place that we would highlight and like to work with the city on.
 And we'd also like to highlight in tackling diesel emissions, diesel particulate emissions and black carbon. For many people who are not aware, Multnomah County has the fourth largest, highest diesel particulate emissions in the country. And it's a major concern that affects low-income populations in particular, and one that we hope that we can make some real progress on in the next year. So thank you very much, and appreciate your leadership and commitment on these issues. Thank you. Thanks for your leadership.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Julia Person. I'm Sustainability Director with Windmere Brothers Brewing, and I'm here to lend support from the business perspective and illustrate how business can be a strong partner with the Climate Action Plan. So Windmere Brothers Brewery is the largest brewery in Oregon, and we're expanding over the next two years. We're committed to growing in a responsible manner. Being in the brewing industry, it's very energy intensive.
 Water is one of the key ingredients of beer. So we have a direct line of sight on the impact we can make on our local and community and make on the environment. So as mentioned in our 2014 annual sustainability report, greenhouse gas emissions will be one of the biggest issues facing the brewing industry in the coming years. The big industry for Oregon as well.
 So we're tracking our carbon emissions now for the first time. It's a key performance metric within our operations, and we're committed to reducing our resource usage, as we've shown through signing the Oregon Climate Declaration, through the help of the Oregon Environmental Council. And we've also signed the National Brewery Climate Declaration, alongside 24 other breweries, which recognizes the climate impacts on this industry, and it's a call for action, recognizing that it's also an economic opportunity.
 So we know that our sustainability efforts from our business perspective are a win-win. We're lowering our environmental impact at the same time as lowering our operating costs. And in the past two years, we've avoided nearly $1 million in utilities costs through our actions in reducing carbon emissions. So we definitely support the Climate Action Plan. We'll continue to do our part alongside the city and the county, and we really enjoy brewing beer here.
 Thank you. We're glad you do. Thank you very much. Thank you. We're especially grateful that you're such a good customer of the Portland Water Bureau. Yes, we are a good customer. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Thank you. Sounds like Shauna may not have made it, but let's have Michael Hanna, David Dedkin, and Jenna Garman. Welcome. Go ahead. Hi there. My name is Michael Hanna. My family and I own a retailer at 24th and Sandy Mattress Lot.
 Thank you for the opportunity to talk with you today. I may not agree with every idea proposed by Council, but when it comes to sustainability, my family, our employees, and I are in full alignment with the values and goals of Portland's Climate Action Plan. As a small business owner, CAP aligns with our own sustainability goals and vision. Strong environmental stewardship is good for business in Portland.
 We see it every day. Our customers choose to do business with us because we are committed to sustainability. Our customers love the sustainability gold certification we received from the city just a few weeks ago. Thank you, Paul DeBlock, for your guidance. This is good for business.
 Our company's sustainability vision reads like a page from CAP 2015. Most of our products are locally sourced. Our innovative mattress recycling and donation program kept 70,000 pounds of waste out of landfills last year. We offer discounts to customers who arrive by bike and by tri-met. Future plans include solar panels and eventually energy-efficient lighting. We believe that CAP will heighten Portland's brand as an international sustainability leader, and we believe that this is good for business.
 I'm going to leave you with one area that I urge you to keep in mind. I'm a Meals on Wheels volunteer at the amazing, beautiful East Portland Community Center. Our clients include the most financially vulnerable of our city, and I know that CAP includes terrific long-term plans for East Portland, which I fully endorse. Thank you.
 However, I just want to make sure that Council keeps in mind any potential costs that may be incurred by financially stressed people living in East Portland, especially when it comes to rising housing costs, rising fuel, rising water costs, and rising public transit costs. Please be sensitive to how these potential costs may impact residents of Outer East Portland. Thank you.
 Please know that my wife, Mary Ruth, and I consider it a privilege to do business here in Portland, a city which cares so deeply about sustainability. We are grateful to be here today with so many business and community leaders to offer our support to the Climate Action Plan. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Mayor Hales, city council members. My name is Carrie Hearn. I'm the Oregon Business Partnerships Manager for Climate Solutions here in Portland, and I also served on the steering committee for the 2015 Climate Action Plan update. Thank you.
 Climate Solutions is a regional nonprofit working to accelerate practical and profitable solutions to global warming. And we've been working in this area for over 15 years, working to implement energy efficiency, renewable energy, and carbon reduction policies that demonstrate that clean energy and broadly shared economic prosperity can go hand in hand. And this...
 Climate Action Plan reflects the bold leadership and thoughtful attention and fair to the fair and effective solutions that we also believe in. So we strongly support the city in adopting and implementing the CAP, the Climate Action Plan. And we especially support the city's commitment to equity and the plan's action calling on the state of Oregon to establish a carbon price. And we're also in support of the resolution on green bonds.
 The plan's reduction targets for carbon emissions reflect what is necessary to minimize the severest risks of global warming. These targets are consistent with the state of Oregon's greenhouse gas reduction goals and demonstrate the metropolitan region's commitment as well.
 The plan positions Portland businesses for further growth and success in a changing world. The plan acknowledges that the transition from fossil fuels involves the creation of new jobs and economic development, particularly in energy management, renewable energy, and sustainable products and services. Thank you.
 noting the commitment to equity, ensuring measures to address the underlying social and economic issues in our region. It prioritizes investments that create jobs and benefits low-income populations.
 and communities of color. And implementing these equity goals will mean actively involving diverse communities in the development of climate programs, and it means establishing goals for every resident to have access to things like affordable housing and transportation, parks, schools, and more.
 There are two important areas that demand further attention. The first relates to fossil fuel export. Climate Solutions supports the city's opposition to coal export, and we commend you on that. And we also look forward to working with you further on other proposed fossil fuel export infrastructure.
 The second relates to the accounting for the cost of carbon pollution. So we joined the city in calling for a statewide carbon price implemented through either a carbon cap or a tax, and that is called out in the plan as an action item to occur before 2020. So the plan can serve as a working model for our city, but it also can be replicated in cities and areas across the country and across the world.
 So kudos to the city staff and all of the stakeholders for creating an inspiring plan with 2050 vision and action-oriented programs that our community can work on to reach those goals. And congratulations on your invitation to visit the Pope Francis in the Vatican. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you.
 Mr. Yudkin, you get the last word of our invited panel. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to address city council. My name is David Yudkin, I'm the co-owner of Hot Lips Pizza. And I'm proud that for over two decades, Portland has been a leader on the most pressing issue of our time, which is greenhouse gas emissions and climate change.
 The focus on consumption in the CAP plan, in particular the carbon footprint of food and food waste, is particularly important, drawing the attention to its impact on our environment. Somewhere between 20% and 50% of the food that is grown and processed in the U.S. is wasted, largely at the consumer level.
 Undervaluing of food and the issue of food waste are topics that are simply not on the radar of many Americans, even those who consider themselves to be foodies, environmentalists, or are cost-conscious. Encouraging the consumption of less carbon-intensive foods will be new to many. The focus on reducing food waste will bring immediate cost savings to both businesses and consumers.
 Hot Lips is committed to local purchasing and promoting of our local food economy and that it remains strong. Our recent switch to mostly meatless Mondays may be small in the big picture. However, this change has spurred discussions about the impacts of meat consumption on our city, society, and environment. Thank you.
 for conversations that are sparked are worthwhile and necessary. Portland is a city of innovators, and we are leaders in the nation in sustainability and food, and it's up to us to make the bold decisions that will someday become the norm. Together, we are leading the way. They say we're keeping Portland weird. I say we're taking the next logical step in the right direction.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Dave, I can't resist on behalf of my kids. You know, we grieve the loss of Pal Shanty in my neighborhood, but we are thrilled that you've replaced them. Thank you so much. We now have hot lips. Thank you. I didn't know about Mostly Meat this Monday. That'll give me yet another excuse to go. And thank you for your partnership with the Timbers Army. Much appreciated. Cheers. Cheers.
 So before we move into the rest of the testimony list, I want to bring Michael up quickly and just have him describe these two amendments that have been put before us, and we can put them under consideration so when people testify they want to talk about those they can. Great. So you have, I think, in front of you an amendment that would do two things. One is to add an action on, I believe it's page 80. Thank you.
 that would work with school districts to make it easier for students to attend schools that they can safely walk or bicycle to. So there are questions of school boundaries to be dealt with, but this is something we would work together with the districts on. And so it was a suggestion that came from Commissioner Saltzman. Yeah, we just felt that notwithstanding heated arguments about school district boundaries, there's a lot of people driving their kids to schools.
 And we need to really be cognizant of that and realize what an impact that has on congestion and carbon emissions and everything else. And so it's something that's meritorious of being included in our policy.
 in our policy. So that's why we offered that language. MR. To ask a question of the sponsor on this, on the face of it, no one could possibly be against this unless it works against an equity goal of the district. So the reason some families have to drive their children somewhere else is they have
 because they have a right to a failing school under federal law or some other choice so I assume we're not suggesting we weigh in on that fight and we're simply talking about where the boundaries are drawn create as many opportunities for walking and biking yes okay so Commissioner Saltzman moves this amendment that says work with school districts to increase the number of students who attend schools within safe walking or bicycling distance of their homes adjust the numbering of the subsequent actions in the chapter to reflect that addition second
 Further discussion about adopting that amendment for discussion? So I am interested in the amendment. It weighs into school board purview and also school choice and where the better schools are. Yeah, I heard that concern from Commissioner Fish, too. I guess my reading of this is we're going to work with the school districts like we do on lots of other things because we negotiate with them on a lot of issues.
 So understand they have prerogatives about how they set boundaries. We have a goal when we have a program already of trying to get kids to walk to school and take safe routes to school. The more practical those routes are, the more likely kids will use them and the mom or dad won't drive somebody to school. So I think it's a meritorious idea, understanding that they still have some prerogatives about how they,
 follow federal mandates and set the rules. Commissioner Fritz, I share your concern. So I view this more in the nature of looking at safe routes to schools, having proximity be in the discussion, but not to interfere with some of the equity policy discussions that are going on, which are providing choice to parents in underperforming schools, because I think that would be counterproductive.
 Could we insert can, who can attend schools within safe walking distance of bike lane? Who can attend? Oh, I see what you're saying. Yes. Okay, sure. So in other words, that really addresses our responsibility to provide sidewalks and safe routes to school. You regard that as a friendly amendment, Dan? Yes. Okay. Thank you. Good point. All right. Then further discussion, let's just vote to include that amendment, and we'll hear if others agree or disagree with it. Roll call on that amendment, please.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thank you. Aye. Hales? Aye. And then the second one is about, it looks fairly technical in nature. You want to walk us through that one? Sure. So this has come about as a result of public comments we got expressing concern about life cycle emissions of natural gas and emissions associated with
 extraction, processing, transportation, et cetera. In reviewing the proposed final climate action plan, Northwest Natural brought to us some information about improvements they've made in the local gas distribution system where they have, by the end of this year, they will have replaced every bit of the cast iron and bare steel pipe. So they really have invested strongly in all but eliminating local gas
 fugitive emissions of methane. And so we wanted to reflect that here because it's a great example for other gas utilities around the country. So we thought it was appropriate to reflect that and it was new information that we didn't have in the earlier draft. So this sort of rewrite of this paragraph tries to capture that. Okay, and so the language says this climate, the revised action, revised language says this climate action plan accounts for decreased carbon emissions from a shift from fuel oil to natural gas for home heating, although recent national studies suggest that
 that the life cycle emissions from both oil and natural gas may be greater than previously understood. Northwest Naturals Portland area distribution system is one of the tightest in the nation and will have replaced 100% of its cast iron and bare steel pipe by the end of 2015. The city and county will continue to monitor research on life cycle emissions and advocate for policies that promote lowest carbon fuel options. Those are second to that amendment.
 I actually have a question about the deletion of the sentence fugitive emissions from natural gas extraction or a continuing emissions source. It seemed to me that this amendment was largely talking about distribution and extraction as a different thing. So I was wondering if those two things – I mean, why is that sentence being deleted as part of this amendment? Yeah.
 I think the intent was to reflect the full life cycle. So we still have the wording in there around the thing that matters here is life cycle emissions, not just for natural gas, but for whichever the fuels we're talking about. And so I think the intent was to let life cycle capture that, reflect the specific improvements in the distribution system. That was the- Okay, not that we don't care about the fugitive emissions, but it's captured in the life cycle view. Okay, other questions?
 So roll call on accepting that amendment. I'm sorry, who moved and seconded? Oh, did we get a second? I'm sorry. Second. All right, thank you. And who moved? I moved it. Thank you. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hale?
 Hales. Aye. Okay, again, and folks, we've got copies of that. If you want to comment on those amendments when you testify, please do. Actually, Mayor, as long as we're on the subject of Northwest Natural, can I ask Michael a question? Sure. Northwest Natural sent us a letter where they also expressed sort of a generic concern that they said in a previous draft of the plan that
 there was a reference to the fact that other things being equal, natural gas is less carbon intensive than oil or coal. And they expressed a concern that language like that had dropped out of the final version of the plan. Now, I know actually that there are parts of the plan, for example, where it says that natural gas is preferable as a vehicle fuel. But I just wanted you to speak to that concern that they expressed. Right. I'm not sure I know exactly which reference point.
 got changed that they were thinking of excuse me the plan does continue to refer to the carbon benefits of switching from fuel oil as a home heating fuel or commercial heating fuel to natural gas because there are big carbon and economic benefits to that and then as you note there are references to increasing use of compressed natural gas as a vehicle fuel especially for heavy vehicles so i met with northwest natural yesterday as well and we had a similar conversation i think they're sensitive to references to
 fossil fuels kind of blanket, including everything in there with coal and oil, which are, you know, in almost every case, the highest carbon option. And so I can appreciate their perspective. I think there's also some merit in recognizing that all those fossil fuels deliver carbon emissions. And although natural gas can cut emissions in half, we need to find a way to an 80% reduction. So there is a role for natural gas, but we were using the more general term fossil fuels. Okay.
 thank you thanks very much okay let's move on into the sign up sheet please i believe we have about 28 left on the list and the first three please come on up are terry parker lowen berman and bob solinger and they'll be followed by rayhana ansari tom sinsick and mac mckinley okay mr parker why don't you go ahead first thank you terry parker i'm obviously wearing my own hat today
 Much of what this plan represents is a bias, anti-automobile, car-hater mindset. Transit use is promoted, even though public transit on average uses more energy per passenger mile as measured in BTUs and creates more emissions per passenger mile as measured in CO2 than driving a modern fuel-efficient car. Nearly 10 percent of the jobs in the U.S. are tied to the auto industry.
 History clearly demonstrates higher rates of personal mobility, such as driving, significantly contributes to greater economic productivity, which in turn generates more family wage and better paying jobs. Attempting to thwart driving is a class-separating attack on the economy. Remember, people driving cars paid for TriMet's new bridge.
 Equity requires that public transit must become more financially self-sustainable, and with over $800 million of bicycle infrastructure in the TSP, adult bicyclists must start paying their own way. Any price assessed on carbon must...
 equally apply to TriMet. If the city follows through with the attempt to inhibit driving by the public, the city must set the example by eliminating the entire city of Portland auto fleet, including cars used by elected officials. Likewise, since individual airline miles have about the same carbon footprint as driving a fuel-efficient car, air travel by public officials must be severely restricted, and the number of flights in and out of PDX capped.
 To limit just blowing hot air and reduce energy consumption in the home, financial disincentives must be implemented for the purchase and use of mechanical clothes dryers. Incentives and new building codes are necessary to promote clotheslines and the drip-dry method. Any plan also must mandate that single-family home demolition be replaced by deconstruction. Mechanical demolition wastes reusable resources, fills up landfills, and sprues dust, dirt, and hazardous materials into residential neighborhoods.
 Finally, totally absent and missing is managing the elephant in the room. The reality that overpopulations of humans poses the greatest threat to the environment and climate change. Without advocating for smaller families by promoting contraception and no more than two biological children, everything else is just a band-aid. Dealing with the elephant is an absolute must. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Lowen Berman. I hate to rain on the congratulatory parade, but I believe that the 2005 Climate Action Plan is simply too little and too late.
 Please keep in mind the tragedy of the many thousands who have died in the past weeks in South Asia due to climate change. Please listen to Pope Francis as he speaks clearly about climate justice and the relationship of climate change to poverty, about the ways in which global corporate capitalism and the culture that accompanies it have caused the climate crisis and are the primary obstacles to addressing it.
 The current climate action plan fails to address both the urgency of the climate crisis and the social and economic changes that will be required if humanity and hundreds of other species are to survive.
 Right now, we are in a last-ditch effort to avoid Armageddon. We need action on the scale of World War II mobilization. We need gas rationing and victory gardens. We need wheel mills and solar panels pouring off of assembly lines, just like the tanks and planes poured off in the 1940s.
 We need every building in Multnomah County to be appropriately insulated. We need free public transportation and public control of the entire energy sector. We need a Manhattan Project to develop new forms of renewable energy production. We need all of this and more.
 We need immediate action to dismantle the fossil fuel economy and create a sustainable one. We need profound economic and cultural changes. The plan before the city council pretends we can solve the climate crisis with little sacrifice and within the context of our present economic and social systems.
 The plan mentions but fails to address the impact of our consumption on the world's carbon footprint and the extent to which our culture of greed has been responsible for the destruction of the world's ecosystems and the impoverishment of so many of its peoples. The Pope has called for an economic, social, and cultural revolution. The Climate Action Plan does not begin to meet that standard. Thank you for listening.
 Please consider the words of Pope Francis. Thank you. Thank you very much. Bob, welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Bob Salinger. I'm the Conservation Director for the Audubon Society of Portland. I'm here today on behalf of Audubon to endorse this plan and express our appreciation to the work of staff and the various committees that worked on it. This is one that actually we did not serve on, but they did a great job.
 and appreciate their work. I want to focus on two things very quickly. The first is a fossil fuel export policy. First of all, we appreciate the mayor's leadership in rejecting the Pembina proposal, and we hope he will remain strong as they continue to advocate for that facility.
 We think it's essential that you move forward with a fossil fuel export policy that deals with all the various fossil fuels. We're going to continue to see the Columbia Card or targeted for export of fossil fuels. And we think it's critical that the city have a policy that does not promote development of fossil fuel export infrastructure that will sustain those industries for decades to come. We need to be moving in the opposite direction and we need a policy that gets us there.
 On that same issue, we disagree with those that say that we should wait for the state or the feds or the international community to lead on this. We have seen year after year after year of no leadership. Like most environmental change, it's going to start at the local level, and what we do here can trickle up. We have the power to act locally, and we should do that.
 So we encourage you to move forward quickly on that. The second thing I wanted to flag is floodplains. One of the first places we're really going to see the substantive impacts of climate change is going to be in terms of our rivers and our streams and flooding. We have a nice template for aggressive action on Johnson Creek, but we need to look at the Columbia Corridor, we need to look at the Willamette River, we need to look at the Columbia River, and we need to do a lot more to protect, preserve, and restore our floodplains. It's alluded to in this plan.
 But the metrics are not there, and I think it's very important that we start to focus very concretely on this. It's one of the toughest things we're going to have to do because the edges of our rivers and our streams are high-value real estate. But we've got to cross that threshold and take aggressive action there. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Next ones, please. Next three are Rehana Ansari, Tom Sinsick, and Mac McKinlay.
 and they'll be followed by Patrick O'Heron, Jack Herbert, and Elise Cogburn. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hannah, you want to start? Sure. Hello again, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I'm Raihana Ansari here on behalf of the Portland Business Alliance. The Alliance appreciates the effort that the City of Portland and Multnomah County have undertaken to update the Climate Action Plan. We understand that climate change is a significant challenge, and we appreciate the attempt to reduce carbon emissions.
 We are pleased the city and county have analysis showing that our community has reduced carbon emission levels by 14% since 1990, while the population has increased 30%. While this progress is significant, we agree that more needs to be done. We share similar goals within the plan, specifically around a state transportation package,
 and increased investments in transportation infrastructure. We're also supportive of the plan's objective to improve freight mobility within and through the Portland metro region. The efficient movement of goods is critical for economic prosperity, but also for minimizing emissions that may result from congestion.
 We are, however, concerned about proposals for local adoption of a carbon pricing mechanism and a local fossil fuel export policy. A carbon pricing mechanism would disproportionately burden low-income populations and compromise city and county equity goals. Further, we believe that these proposals will have a minimum impact on carbon emissions, particularly at a global scale.
 While these actions would have little impact on our total emissions, they would be detrimental to businesses in the Portland metro region and make it less affordable for businesses to grow and develop. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Welcome. Mayor Hales and city commissioners, my name is Tom Sensick. I'm a family nurse practitioner with 33 years of advancing public health through the work of families that I've been serving and also in my community.
 Today, at this time of global climate disruption, we have a critical opportunity and obligation to prevent the many health catastrophes that are quickly descending on this and the next generation and will decimate future generations and the earth on which we are to care for. The Climate Action Plan recognizes that carbon emissions are the problem and must be reduced. In order to do this, serious and immediate policy and actions are needed, not just by the city, but by the state and federal government.
 While a climate action plan is laudable, the timetable may sadly be too late. While we are already paying the price for carbon emissions in forest fires, drought, reduced snowpack, warming the Columbia River, no one is paying for the carbon emissions.
 Paying the true price of carbon with carbon pricing is a clear pathway to force the reducing of carbon emissions. Now, the thing that's been the equity issue, what we need now to call for is a dividend on carbon that goes back to all of the people, thereby making it an equitable practice. In fact, this measure is still alive in the state legislature as we speak, which is very interesting in this late session. So I have taken the time.
 out of my day to ride my bike, to do my civic duty, to strongly support the Portland City Council joining other cities across the state, Eugene, Hood River, Corvallis, Milwaukee, and Ashland, in calling for the state price on carbon. But also, please ask that you put on an amendment to attach an equitable dividend back that goes to all of Oregonians on an equitable basis.
 With this, we'll this weekend, as you said, set a new record high. The time to act is now. And on a side note, why do I have to buy coal from Pacific Power? Thank you. Thank you very much. Hi. Hi. I'm Matt McKinley. This is an ecological message. The people of Portland and Multnomah County have received in the Climate Action Plan a gift of hope and wisdom, a document of collaboration and inspiration for all our work.
 Will it become a false hope and a lie? We all live in one world. We all live in the same world. Even while we plan our good works, there are forces outside of here doing their work, undermining what we do. These are blind, obsolete, single-purpose, gargantuan forces that have the power to destroy the living earth itself.
 They come with trains, ships, and pipelines full of fossil fuels. They mound the carbon, build holding tanks and terminals, careless of the harm they do to humans, to us and our communities. If we fail to take them into our plans, if we fail to stop them dead in their tracks, we will bear responsibility for their devastation. Yes, these are wonderful plans for urban canopy, for renewable energy,
 for conscientious resource use in agriculture, for economic justice, for sustainable transportation. But are all these things just a little show to make us feel good? Because it will all be for nothing if we stand by and let these blind monsters and their accomplices in government and other industries destroy our earth.
 If this plan is a real start, it must be accompanied by demands that no fossil fuel terminals or export facilities be allowed to operate or exist in the Northwest. If this plan is for real, you will demand that all governments and public bodies divest from all fossil fuel investments now. To make this plan work.
 It needs a foundation. It needs to take all real world threats into account. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Next three are Patrick O'Heron, Jack Herbert, and Elise Cogburn. And they'll be followed by Anne Littlewood, Harlan Schober, and Richard Tennant. Welcome. Thanks. Thanks for having me. My name is Patrick O'Heron. I live in North Portland. I'm a general surgeon and a board member of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility.
 and I'm a member of the Portland Climate Jobs Committee. First, I want to express support for the Climate Action Plan. There's some really great things about it, perhaps most importantly, that it exists and that Portland has been reducing emissions while providing an excellent quality of life to many of its citizens. But the Climate Plan recognizes that these benefits have not been shared equally by all the citizens and the focus on equity is also fantastic, as are the opposition to coal exports,
 the attempt to quantify our emissions based on consumption, and the inclusion for the need to push the state legislature to start putting a price on carbon. That said, I want to urge two things. The first is to strengthen the plan, and second and most importantly is to ambitiously implement it. If there is ever a time to act boldly and break the mold of cautious politics, surely climate change presents one.
 Increasingly alarming reports warn us of the catastrophic consequences of allowing global temperatures to rise above 2 degrees Celsius. Yet we're on track to blow past the 2,900 gigatons of carbon dioxide that scientists predict will cause that 2 degrees of warming in perhaps as little as 15 years from now. To paraphrase the bulletin of atomic scientists who
 Possibly put it best, despite some modestly positive developments in the climate change arena, current efforts are entirely insufficient to prevent the catastrophic warming of Earth. Leaders are failing to perform their most important duty, ensuring and preserving the health and vitality of human civilization."
 Surely climate catastrophe is a global problem, so what can Portland do that will have an impact? Well, Portland can lead. We can be a model city, an example of what is possible when we all work together. We can emulate cities like Copenhagen in Denmark or Greensburg, Kansas, and countries like Costa Rica and the Maldives that are well on their way to being carbon neutral in the relatively near future.
 Portland can oppose all fossil fuel exports and divest the city from fossil fuels in the recognition that we're all in this together. We all share one earth whose atmosphere, land, and water sustain us, and that fossil fuels burned anywhere harms each and every one of us.
 We can act in a way that is commensurate with the raging crisis that climate destabilization presents. And we can also act in a way to capitalize on the tremendous opportunities inherent in our transition to a low-carbon, healthier, happier, more equitable, and connected society. In my work as an acute care surgeon, I have a great responsibility to act cautiously so that I don't harm any of the patients I operate on.
 But when I have a patient who's dying of a gunshot wound or a terrible infection, the safest and most prudent course is to act boldly and decisively. And that's the position that you all find yourselves in as leaders. Please act accordingly.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hello. My name is Elise Cogburn. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners. So I am here as a recent college graduate of Portland State University. I'm also here representing Divest Portland State, a student group working with the PSU administration to divest from fossil fuels.
 I'm also here in solidarity with the Climate Action Coalition to urge this council to add three additions to the 2015 Climate Action Plan. The first, ban all new fossil infrastructure for export, storage, and transfer of gas, oil, and coal. Divest all fossil fuel holdings by 2020. And work aggressively to reduce carbon emissions within the city of Portland and Multnomah County by promoting renewable energy products and energy conservation. The last time CO2 emissions were this high, humans did not exist.
 Our dependence on fossil fuels is driving climate change at an alarming rate. This information is not new.
 Through my studies at Portland State, I've taken various classes about environmental policy and regulations, and even taken a climate action course by Dr. Linda George. While the 2015 Climate Action Plan provides an abundance of valid information and processes to deal with climate change, it lacks the innovative solution that addresses not just environmental justice, but also economic and social justice. But first, I must give credit where it is due. Portland was the first city in the United States to create a local action plan by cutting carbon.
 For over a decade, Portland has been a leader in cutting carbon from our atmosphere. Portland and Multnomah County, within the 2015 Climate Action Plan, have committed to reduce local carbon emissions by 80% below 1990 levels by 2050, with an interim goal of 40% reduction by 2030. Even though progressive and forward-thinking, this is not possible if we are still allowing existing and new fossil infrastructure for export, storage, and transfer.
 Divestment is a real-world solution to our current climate crisis because it targets large corporations who are doing the most damage.
 But more importantly, divesting from fossil fuels is an opportunity. Imagine governments, nonprofits, universities, religious organizations, residents, and the business community working together to help drive social change to make definitive steps towards ensuring that our world will be here for future generations. Divestment of fossil fuels gives Portland the opportunity to remain a climate champion for other cities to follow and learn from. It gives Portland the opportunity to give the world a sense of hope.
 Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. You're welcome. Hi, my name is Jack Herbert. I'd like to emphasize the testimony you had from Lowell Berman and from Bob Salinger that really pointed out this plan is a great start, but we really need to make much more drastic changes. We are not facing it.
 The planet we love is going under and the environment we love here these forests at Douglas fir the hemlock cedars when the plant when I mean I think we know from if we have winters and springs like we've had those supports are going to go and And so I think we care enough about them. We need to do the work a plan You know
 It needs to have law. It needs to know how it's going to get to where it's going to go, and it needs to have law to force that to get there. You need positive incentives and negative incentives, and you need the programs, the specific programs you're going to do it with. There were four major problems, inequity and all the exploitive and abusive activities.
 use of human beings on this planet. You know, it's getting much worse, and our federal government is driving a lot of that, and our corporations are. We need a humane program at this level to turn that ethic around.
 So we've got to deal with equity, we've got to deal with jobs and economy, we've got to deal with stopping global climate change. And the charts showed us continuing population growth locally, but also climate. People have mentioned that. So clearly, you know...
 What you need is what happened when we had Pearl Harbor. You know, we've got to pool our money. Green bonds are a great idea. I don't know how we can do it, but we're going to pool our money, hire ourselves, put ourselves to work with good jobs, and you need to make sure they are good jobs or you know they'll be crummy ones. And we'll solve those problems, and we can do the conversion we need. Okay, let's see. Okay.
 So I guess, oh, yeah, I think that's all I have at the moment. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much. The next three are Ann Littlewood, Harlan Shover, and Richard Tennant. Thank you. And then let's go with Susan Tennant. They're still here? Welcome. Come on up. And then they'll be followed by Heather Tennant, Cassidy B. Jones, and Dr. Theodora Tsongas. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you.
 uh mayor hills i thank you for your enthusiasm uh with the pope's encyclical i'm glad you're getting to make that trip please say hi to francis for me i will um there's a lot of congratulations in order for the cap but you're going to hear it again and again it's not quite enough it has to go further and what i understand is your next piece of work or one of them is to come up with a plan
 for a fossil fuel export policy. And I want to urge you to keep it simple, and let's just not do that. There's no way we can be a fuel hub without messing with our quality of life. And whether you do life cycle studies or end of point of view studies, it's just meaning burning more fuel.
 Every dollar spent on infrastructure for that kind of thing is a dollar not spent on something else that would be better. And we have to try a lot of other things to see what will be better, what will work. So in your deliberations about fossil fuel export policy, please, let's not go there for Portland. It was a close thing with Pembina, and thanks for the turnaround on that.
 What we need is a policy so we don't have to go do it case by case by case. There's a precedent for you there. When Norway was on the brink of the North Sea oil bonanza, the government there tied themselves to the mast. Before they had the money, they implemented a really rigorous policy that they could only spend so much of it they had to invest the rest. That bound the hands of people who followed them in government and government.
 Those politicians, the political class from that era, is still getting lots of regard for making that choice. So what we need you to do about export is to lock it down so it can't happen, so we don't have to fight each and every thing. And I guarantee you if Pembina gets its nose under the tent and resurfaces, there will be no place to hide, there will be no place to run.
 Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, my name is Richard Tennant and I'm
 I'm a lifelong resident of Portland, Oregon. My mom was a schoolteacher, one-room schoolteacher out at Sylvie's Island. My dad was a detective with Multnomah County. And I just want to testify also, be kind of redundant about the Pembina and exportation of fossil fuels because it usually ends up badly for a variety of reasons. And I brought some little Smurfs for my audience.
 These are little plastic deals which are probably the end result of a lot of energy being expended for production of something that's geared for having, playing with for a day and then throwing it into a landfill.
 So I think if we are going to spend energy recklessly with abandon, we're going to get the end of a physical process, because the law of physics is immutable, as is the law of nature. And I'm here to protect, hopefully, my granddaughter and my grandchildren. And I hope that you each consider your grandchildren when you...
 come up with a determination as to export fuel for making a one-day product. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. That's why I married him.
 Smart guy. He's been holding out on me. He's got Smurfs. My name is Susan Tennant. I've been married to Mr. Tennant for 45 years this year, and we were in a high school play at Roosevelt, and I had to marry him there. I thought I'd die. Clunky football player. He turned out really good. I'm here to tell you to speak for the children. Thank you.
 Today I went to St. John's historical meeting and I left and I said, Richard, go by the community center around the corner. What do you want to do that for? You know, the usual. Go. And so we went together as a couple. And I noticed on the left-hand side of the street a child, seven or eight, disabled, very disabled. And it was hot. It was very hot. And the caregiver was carrying a...
 a chair above the head, kind of keeping himself shaded and pushing the cart and a toddler walking. And as they got to the St. John's Community Center, they have a blue tarp and that's where you can get sandwiches. And I remembered how I'd taken my grandkids there. But something, as human beings, we are drawn to water. Each of you hopefully have something to drink. And there is no water in that wading pool. And it's hot. And the people will, there was nowhere else to go.
 There's nowhere because not everybody can pay $4.50 to get into the pools, or let alone get there if you're pushing a chair. So that's part of my concern. In North Portland, I'm sure you all know where that is. That's where the St. John's Bridge is with the oil farms on one side. There used to be three when I arrived there. I remember as a child going up that way. Now I think there's four or five hundred. And then on the other side, of course, you have your...
 your cove and whatnot. But I asked, I called somebody and said, is this safe to go into Cathedral Park? And he says, ma'am, the dogs, it doesn't matter because their constitution is different. But he said, I wouldn't suggest going in there above your knees because then it could be problematic. So we are the ones that have the old garbage dump. We're the ones that have the waste facility and the car wrecking and everything and the levees that are uncertified, even the port, Vanport Flood isn't certified, but we're working on that.
 Please remember us. St. John's is a wonderful place to grow up and be human. My eldest brother is a troubleshooter for intelligence. He retired. My sister worked for UPS and Bank of America. I worked for Kaiser Permanente for 28 years in mental health, chemical addiction, a member intake service in emergency, baby brother is a policeman, and the other one is a longshoreman.
 We are great people. We are proud people. And we are becoming proud as we get to know you. So give us time. But remember us when you want to put something new out there. Please let us know in advance so we can decide and help you decide too. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, and if you can bring any water to these kids in the parks, it's 100-degree weather coming up. Maybe we could just turn them on for the weekend. That's a good idea. Thank you very much.
 The next three are Heather Tennant, Cassidy B. Jones, and Dr. Theodora Tsongas, and they'll be followed by Tim Miller, Rachel Foley, and Barry Jo Stoll. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello, and thank you, Mayor Charlie Hales and the City of Portland Council. Oh, my goodness. My name is Cassidy Jones, and I am proud to say that I was born and raised in Oregon. I'm a fellow with Oregon Climate, a statewide campaign for fair and effective climate policy, as well as a farm education intern for the Sylvie Island Center.
 This fall, I will enter my senior year at Knox College, not far from Chicago. Despite leaving the Pacific Northwest for my education, it is my hope, like many others, to return to the City of Roses next year when I have completed my degree in International Relations and Environmental Studies.
 As a young person entering the job search, my home of Portland is very high on the list for many reasons. Aside from being incredibly livable, close to my family, and a quick drive to all the outdoor recreation that my heart could desire, the environment is also very important to Portland.
 I must commend and relay my support for the CAP. This plan shows strong leadership from the City of Portland and will encourage others to follow suit in building strong and thorough blueprints for combating climate change. Specifically, I would like to express my gratitude for including putting a price on carbon in the five-year priorities within the buildings and energy section.
 By urging legislators in Salem to take action and price carbon now, Portland can and will strongly influence the rest of the Plymouth Valley and even the rest of the state.
 If I may, I'd like to take the opportunity to point out some aspects of revenue distribution options in relation to carbon pricing. At Oregon Climate, we are advocating for the dividend option. This dividend is best described as a check distributed to all Oregonians, despite income levels, where you live, etc.
 The dividend option would bring anywhere from $500 to $1,500 to all Oregonians, and as the Portland State University studies have proved, would have a negligible impact on the economy. In fact, national studies show that there would be significant job growth with a dividend. Why use this option over...
 Why this option of reusing the money to fund important things such as education or healthcare? If we redistribute this revenue from carbon pricing back to everyone, it is a lasting and equitable program. Eventually, the idea is that an energy transition would occur. This does mean that the carbon dividend would dry up, making it especially important not to fund things that are so important to our state, like education and healthcare with this dividend.
 By redistributing these funds equally to all Oregonians, we can create a strong and lasting program that is simple, straightforward, and the lower economic part of two-thirds of Oregonians would come out on top.
 Thank you again for your leadership, ownership, and time. I couldn't be more proud to call myself an Oregonian. Thank you. Hope you do get to come back. May I just respond to that, please? Cassidy, I actually really like the dividend idea. A problem that we have in Oregon is that, obviously, gasoline is a major source of carbon, and we have a state constitutional provision that was passed somewhere like 1980 that says that taxes on gasoline can only be used on roads. Right.
 So we would need to repeal that provision in order to have a portion of a carbon tax that applies to gasoline used for the dividend you suggested. Thank you. Your first step, please. Hi, I'm Dr. Theodora Songas. I'm an environmental health scientist and retired from the state public health division. I'm a member of the Environmental Health Working Group of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. Okay.
 Yesterday, the Lancet Commission released its 2015 report on health and climate change. The Commission concluded that climate change is a medical emergency. But because climate solutions are health benefits, getting rid of fossil fuels will reduce asthma, respiratory, and cardiovascular diseases and deaths. Detriments to public health are detriments to long-term economic growth.
 The benefits of taking action on climate change are local and they are immediate. Whoever takes measures to combat climate change will get health benefits. Achieving a decarbonized economy and securing the public health benefits it offers is no longer primarily a technical or economic question. It is now a political one. To this end, I want to commend the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission on its climate action plan.
 It is comprehensive and considers public health improvements from active transport and considers equity. However, it does not go far enough.
 One of the conclusions of the Lancet Commission is that we have very little time to take action to prevent the very worst impacts of climate change. Developing infrastructure to replace coal with natural gas is ill-advised and will give a false sense of security, as well as expending scarce resources on a technology that is not solving the problem. We need to expend those resources aggressively on renewable energy development and implementation.
 Finally, the Climate Action Plan needs to promote strong actions to address climate change by asking for a ban on all new fossil fuel infrastructure for export, storage, and transfer of gas, oil, and coal, including propane, and divest from all fossil fuel holdings immediately. Portland is in a perfect position to lead. It has the political will. Let's do it, please. Thank you. Thank you very much. Malcolm. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Heather Tennant, and my parents just spoke. I'm here because of my daughter, Joan. I also have two other children. We have been out on the picket lines with Pembina, the propane, and I thank you, Mayor Hales, for being the one that took a chance and listened to the public.
 Fossil fuels are not the way. They're not the way. They're not the way to... We need to teach our children, our younger generations, that we have to do better. But each of you also need to leave a legacy for yourselves and your children that you are the ones that made a better place. Not just Portland, but when you are...
 When you do the things that you do and you speak out and you listen to the vast many testimonies that you've heard of very intelligent people about how important the earth is. We can't eat money. We can't breathe money. We can't drink money.
 And I know that when I look at you, I see intelligent people. I may not agree with everything, just like you're not going to agree with everything I say. But I have faith in each and every one of you. And I have faith that you will do what's right to protect your children, your grandchildren, and future generations. Because if it doesn't happen now, it will be too late. It will be too late.
 So when you go in chambers and you discuss, this is it. This is the future. And did you want to say something? What did you want to say? No? Keep propionate in the ground. Keep fossil fuels in the ground. Good job. Thank you, John. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you both for coming. The next three are Tim Miller, Rachel Lillette Foley, and Barry Joe Stoll.
 And they'll be followed by Lise Glancy, Alex Anderson, and Jerry Grimm. Then it'll be Frazier Rasmussen with the next group. All right. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Tim Miller, and I'm the CEO of Clean Energy Works. Most of you know my predecessor, Derek Smith. I've worked side-by-side with Derek for the last three years in partnership with the city, and I look forward to continuing that successful work at Clean Energy Works.
 Our organization supports the 2015 Climate Action Plan. We're the largest home performance provider in the Northwest. We're a nonprofit that helps homeowners upgrade their homes for energy efficiency. At the same time, we're creating jobs, boosting the equity and resilience of our communities. Working with local contractors, we have facilitated energy efficiency upgrades for more than 4,500 homes now. And we support the Climate Action Plan for four main reasons. First, making homes more energy efficient.
 will have a significant impact on carbon emissions, as has been mentioned. Twenty percent of carbon emissions in the county are generated from this sector, and we're committed to continuing our work with the city and the county to help homeowners reduce our community's carbon footprint. Second, the Climate Action Plan outlines how to connect the economic opportunities that implementing the plan will generate with advancing equity in the region, and this connection is crucial to ensuring tangible outcomes
 for low-income communities and communities of color participating in carbon pollution mitigation efforts. Third, the Cully Weatherization 2.0 project that the plan highlights is an example of an emerging model that can address climate change and combat gentrification.
 Clean Energy Works is excited to participate in this collaborative effort and working with the city and the county to leverage how home repairs and weatherization resources can be combined to address gentrification and energy efficiency. While engaging homeowners on energy efficiency, we can also help them with the health and safety of their homes, solar energy, seismic upgrades, etc.
 uh... radon mitigation and e-v readiness all can happen at the same time so aligning multiple interest in resources and leveraging those things together so all those partners get benefit at the same time and help homeowners and help reduce our carbon footprint thank you i'm rachel elite foley i'm a volunteer with oregon climate and i'm a reaching granny
 I also have a long history of involvement with India, and that's going to come up in a few seconds. So I want to thank you for urging the state to establish a price on carbon. And I strongly support the Portland City Council joining other cities across the state and calling on the state to price carbon. So there are two things. Why a carbon price?
 A couple supports for that. A carbon price creates a price signal to reward innovation, encourage conservation, and discourages businesses and individuals from using and investing in fossil fuels. And another reason would be true costs of fossil fuels are currently not reflected in their prices. In 2012, climate-related disasters in the U.S. cost us $96 billion, and they are only getting worse.
 and polluters are not being held accountable. One of the questions that has been raised within the climate action plan is how can regressive impacts for low-income populations be prevented? And the answer there that I've been thinking about is to return all revenue back to households. And that is because this is an equitable solution.
 Several people before me have said that it is an inequitable solution, but I just don't go with that. The lowest income Oregonians pay the largest fraction of their paychecks in energy and gasoline. By returning the revenue back in the form of a dividend, which makes it revenue neutral, the lowest income 70% of Oregonians will get more money back than they pay out in increased costs.
 So another result of that is that the danger of this being pulled back and people not supporting it in the long run is mitigated with this kind of a solution. Jurisdictions that have gone before us without a dividend, like Australia, where the carbon tax was successful in reducing emissions, but it was repealed last summer.
 And that is what happens when not everyone feels like they're sharing the benefits. Thank you. I want to get you to wrap up because we're running out of time. Okay. The last thing I wanted to say then is just the India thing about how bad this whole thing is. Okay. At five, and I think we've got to have a hard deadline. Make it very quick.
 I had a letter from a friend in India recently. It's not just people are dying in his city. Water has been limited to use for human consumption. That's it. What happens to agriculture? Thank you. Et cetera. Thank you very much. Mr. Stoll? Hello. I'm going to throw a bunch of numbers around. I think I'm going to start with this one. One, that's how many home planets we have. Two. Three.
 The number of days since my third neurologist said that cannabis was my best treatment option. We call that marijuana under state law because if we told it the truth at the time in the 1930s, people would have said, cannabis, you mean like on the state seal of Oregon, we've got the covered wagon covered with hemp, that's cannabis, right? And how about that sailing ship? Oh, the state seal of Oregon, what else does it have? Fossil fuels.
 The icon there is the merchant ship. It's got a little paddle wheel, got a little fossil fuel coming out. Well, in 1859, we had not on planet Earth drilled a single oil well. That happened later, in 1859. So, I'm not here because whether or not your minds are made up. I'm here because of what your minds are made up with.
 And basically it's a bunch of lies because you don't know the truth about the simplest things. So I have some vegan hemp organ product and there's 19 of them here.
 There's one in the center. They're each touching each other. That's six more. That makes seven. Outside, we have 12. Over here on the clock face, we have the same 12. One o'clock, two o'clock, three o'clock. This is the way it works. You're trying to make squares when you should be making hexagons. You're not paying attention to the natural world. You're not paying attention to the way natural things work. You're not going to guys like me...
 who have expertise in energy management. I used to extract the carbon from the waste heat coming out of the furnace when I was burning natural gas, and I used that to enhance the cannabis plants that I was convicted and sentenced to prison for growing. I was also doing waste heat recovery in another place that didn't have a gas furnace, and I was collecting the heat...
 to warm the water, to enhance the agriculture. So where you might want to go to
 NASCAR is a model of what you can learn from moonshine being illegal. They drove fast cars to get away from the cops, right? Now we have NASCAR. Now we have legal cannabis. We have energy problems because you guys don't know the simplest truths. Talk to a guy like me. Thanks. Thank you. Thanks very much. All right, next please. Our Lise Glancy, Alex Anderson, and Fraser Rasmussen. Carla, how many more do we have? One, two, four more.
 Welcome, Lise. Is Frazier Rasmussen? Good afternoon, Mayor and Councilmembers. My name is Lise Glancy, the Regional Government Relations Manager for the Port of Portland. The Port appreciates the opportunity to provide comments on the City of Portland and Multnomah County 2015 Climate Action Plan. The Port recognizes the significance of climate change and the importance of climate initiatives like the Climate Action Plan. We support the City's and County's strategy and emission reduction targets.
 As the Climate Action Plan reinforces, we all play a role in reducing climate emissions and protecting the world for future generations. The port, like other government entities, is reducing the impact of our operational footprint in support of our own air quality policies and priorities and ISO 14001 environmental management system. We are actively working with our customers, tenants, and stakeholders to assist them in doing the same. In the spirit of partnership,
 The port mapped our emission reduction efforts and results against the Portland Multnomah County Climate Action Plan. We recently voluntarily committed to energy reporting for all port facilities and are committed to continuing our partnership on the Climate Action Plan.
 Given Portland's role as a gateway to other markets for the state and the port's role as an agency charged with connecting people and businesses to market to support regional prosperity, we appreciate the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission's refinement of Objective 5 to acknowledge that freight movement by water and rail is more energy efficient and reduces additional burden on the road network contributing to congestion and emissions.
 we'd recommend adding two additional action items that are included in the letter I've provided you. For Objective 4, we can't overemphasize the importance of close-in industrial land for middle-income job growth. This is important for two reasons. One, it provides higher-paying, accessible jobs in the heart of the city for our residents and offers job opportunities for our workforce without college degrees.
 Two, it makes the most of existing investment in transportation facilities. And under that objective, we'd recommend adding two additional action items again in my letter.
 In developing the proposed local fossil fuels export policy, we encourage the city and county to consider the low carbon fuels such as natural gas and propane play a critical role as transition fuels, reducing greenhouse gases and hazardous air pollutants globally and regionally. Greenhouse gas and air toxic emissions are global environmental and environmental justice issues.
 Consistent language within the Climate Action Plan to address the important role of low-carbon fuels would clarify and prevent conflict between proposed objectives. The report looks forward to continuing to work with the city and county and other stakeholders. Thanks for your time. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Alex Anderson. I'm a recent biology student graduate from Concordia University. I'm here today to represent the commuting working class, which does include students, educated people, elderly, disabled, healthcare professionals, and educators. There's a large population of that persons.
 Here today, some papers that I would like to share with you, if I may bring this forward. Please, just come to Carl and hand them to us. Thank you. The very first page, as you'll get, as everyone can see, is a very pretty picture from Pembina's own website, and I'm very thankful that that has taken off the agenda. A big kudos to all of you for your hard work in that. Without a key, this is not science. So we could just, if I can ask you guys with me to rip this page off, please. Yes.
 It's obsolete. It's a distraction. And in doing so, you just created your first public action to divest from fossil fuels. Thank you. Thank you.
 The second page is a carbon dioxide emissions coefficient by fuel example provided by the U.S. Energy Information Administration, and these are estimates. But if you look down the page, there are several different types of fuels that none of them are clean. All of them have carbon emissions, and we are at a point where we're looking
 What I hear is on the table that we're wanting to reduce by 80% what we had in the 90s. In the 90s, we already exceeded the upper ceiling, which is why we're having the problems today. We need to eliminate carbon emissions completely. Is that possible? Yes, it is. It takes working together. It takes getting this implemented quickly, and that's the important part. As of June 21st, our carbon dioxide...
 dioxide levels in the atmosphere as taken by the Mauna Loa Observatory, which is located on the next page over. It's this cute little diagram here. It was at 402.81 parts per million. That's 128 parts per million above what we had pre-industrial. Let me get you to stop there. We do have the rest of your handout, but that's a pretty dramatic statistic.
 Thank you. We're going to have to wrap up here because we're going to lose Commissioner Fritz. Oh, okay. Well, the rest you can probably see on your own. But just a very brief explanation of why we see carbon going up and down and up and down. It's still on an incline, which gives us about 53 years. Yes.
 at this rate. The reason for the decline is because when plants breathe, when they start having foliage, they breathe in all of that. But we don't have enough to recover. We are at our maximum. I never knew that. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. Who else do we have? Gordon Fulks, Jill Denny, and Mary Vogel. I think Mary left. Yes. And then the last person who signed up, excuse me, was Steve Gutman. Okay. I think you two might have the last word. So welcome.
 Please.
 Thank you. My name is Dr. Gordon Foulkes. I'm an astrophysicist here representing 31,000 American scientists, 9,000 of us with PhDs. We all signed this statement, quote, "...there is no convincing scientific evidence that human release of carbon dioxide, methane, or other greenhouse gases is causing or will in the foreseeable future cause catastrophic heating of the Earth's atmosphere and disruption of the Earth's climate."
 Moreover, there is substantial scientific evidence that increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide produce many beneficial effects upon the natural plant and animal environments of the earth, end quote.
 Not only is this the largest petition ever circulated among scientists, it was also promoted and signed by some of the great scientists of our time. It was signed by the greatest physicist alive today, Professor Freeman Dyson from the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, and the greatest meteorologist alive today, Professor Richard Lindzen of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 Yet you failed to consult any of us and even refused to let any of us have our say, shutting down one meeting to avoid hearing any criticism. That's terribly, terribly wrong. When it comes to Portland's climate action plan, there are no climate performance criteria whatever. That means zero accountability.
 You promise no climate improvements for dollars expended. Will we get a cooler climate? Will we have fewer hot spells like promised for this weekend? Will we never have another Columbus Day storm? Will you even be able to change the slow rate of rise of atmospheric carbon dioxide? Of course not. This is fraud.
 The people promoting climate control have said, who cares if this turns out to be wrong? We're doing so many good things anyway. That's what it's really all about, and that makes you involved in deliberate fraud. It's time to stop scamming the science and show some respect for all scientists, for taxpayers, and for the truth. Let critics be heard. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hi there, my name is Jill Denny and I'm the youngest member of the family that owns Portland Nursery. On behalf of my entire family, we would like to say thank you for prioritizing the environmental health of our community. I am here to show our continuing support for reducing Portland's carbon footprint. In 2014 alone, we provided inner Portland with 11,972 trees, 14,822 native plants, 63,681 shrubs,
 173,333 seed packets, and 311,877 vegetable and herb starts. We offer 220 free gardening classes a year and donate to over 400 local schools, nonprofits, and food-based programs, mainly so that children can be educated on where their food comes from and other matters such as that.
 Oh, to increase horticultural sustainability and education. In our letter, we have outlined many more ways that we assist Portland's response to climate change. So please consider Portland Nursery a resource and that we're here to benefit the community and environment. Or please consider that we are here to benefit the environment and community before making decisions about the comprehensive plan.
 And on a personal note, I recently graduated from Oregon State University with a major in human development and family sciences, as well as minors in horticulture and psychology. And I am on track to become a pediatric horticultural therapist and would like to work with the youth in the community.
 And we would really like that opportunity. So thank you for your time. Thanks for coming in. You know, your family's alerted us to the fact that there's some things in the comp plan which actually may put you out of business. So it's nice to put name and face together. And that is not something I think we want to see. So we look forward to working with you on that. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Anyone else? So, Council, have any questions for staff before we act on the resolutions? Because they are all three before us as amended. Okay.
 So if not, then I think we're ready for a roll call vote on the first of them. Mayor, why don't we do it out of sequence and let Commissioner Fritz go first. Okay. Thank you very much, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you very much to staff and for everybody who's participated in this.
 hearing today. I am proud that Portland is one of the cities invited to the Vatican to talk with the Pope, and I'm very proud to have been part of the previous version of the Climate Action Plan and look forward to implementing it. Thank you all for staying this long, and especially to all of the staff for all of your good work. I. Fish? The 2009 City-County Climate Action Plan was one of the proudest accomplishments of a council that I served on, and this builds on that work and enhances it
 And I'm particularly pleased that we're putting equity more deeply into our plan and more intentionally.
 At the city's utilities, which I have the honor of leading, we've learned that what's good for the environment is also good for our rate payers. So a lot of the kinds of practices that we've been asked to follow turn out to not only promote a good, healthier community and environment, but they also end up saving rate payer dollars. So we look forward to doing our part. And I have to say, I've been on the council for seven years.
 A lot of people who come before us, I happen to know, are either agnostic, atheist, or ambivalent about religion. I have never heard a pope more celebrated in a public forum. And, but I...
 I do very much appreciate much of what he wrote, and I particularly appreciate this concept of a common home. I think that's a beautiful organizing principle for thinking about how we as a global community address lots of challenges. And today I'm very pleased to support this work. Thanks to the staff. Thanks to Susan and her team and everyone who took time to testify today. And I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman?
 Well, this is a very ambitious plan, but then I guess they always have been. And I think the ambitions of our citizens and residents have grown and are up for the challenges that are presented by this action plan. I want to thank the mayor's office and also the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and Jackie Dingfelter and the task force that helped put this together. And I think we have...
 We certainly have our work cut out for us and some major decisions that will follow from adopting this plan today, but I think that the times are ripe. And even Commissioner Fish embraced the Pope yesterday in his op-ed piece on the Portland Tribune. So I'm jumping on that Pope bandwagon, too. Thank you.
 Dr. Mary Hills, I want the exclusive marketing rights to the selfie. When you come back. Novic? Commissioner Saltzman, isn't it a Popemobile rather than a bandwagon? Michael mentioned in his presentation that there's polling that shows that 88% of Portlanders recognize we need to change our way of life in order to address climate disruption. Okay.
 And I think that we should recognize that we have already adopted policies that are, in a way, asking people to accept changes in their way of life, which some people sometimes find annoying in the interest of reducing our carbon emissions.
 There's a lot of people who've let us know that they had a way of life that didn't include having to deal with lots of bicycles. And some of them find bicycles rather annoying. And I think that we should acknowledge that, you know, sometimes you do get stuck behind a bicycle and you have to look out for them. And some of them can even be rude, although not the vast majority. But we are asking people to put up with more bicycles on the road because bicycles don't use gasoline.
 And people should know that something that they can do to reduce carbon emissions in the city is simply to tolerate bicyclists.
 Similarly, there's a lot of people who are annoyed by new apartment buildings going up in their neighborhood. And it increases traffic, it might block their view, the construction's annoying. But, as Michael said, having more people living close together is, particularly in cities, particularly along transit lines, is key to reducing carbon emissions. Because if a bunch of people live close together, there'll be a grocery store that pops up within walking distance.
 and there might be a salt in the straw that pops up there too. And a lot of people think that's a great thing, but there's some people who say, I didn't mind driving to the grocery store and I have no interest in bubble gum flavored ice cream with kale sprinkles. So I don't really think these are great new amenities.
 And to those people, I think we say, listen, we realize that to you, the new apartment buildings are just an annoyance. But we're asking you to put up with that annoyance as part of your contribution to reducing carbon emissions. I think that at some point, we're going to get to where everybody recognizes that...
 fighting global climate disruption is the struggle of our time, as Chair Khafre said. And as some speakers have said here today, we need to take it as seriously as Americans took the Second World War. And I hope that we get to the point where people every once in a while walk up to a bicyclist getting off their bike and say, thank you for your service.
 And where people at dinner parties say, you know, there's a new apartment building going up in my block and the construction is annoying and it'll add traffic and it might block my view. But, you know, anything for the cause. And I realize that might sound crazy, but if we're going to avoid catastrophic climate change or rather climate disruption, I think is a more precise term, then a lot of things that now seem crazy are going to have to come true.
 I want to thank you all and thank the Bureau and my staff, Jackie in particular, and others who have worked so hard on this. Just a couple of vignettes to close out my thoughts on this. President Obama was speaking to the U.S. Conference of Mayors on Friday on this subject and others, and he had a great line, which is, on an issue where you're asked to choose,
 between ideology and reality, pick reality. And that's, of course, what we're doing here. And the other reassurance or the other vignette I want to offer is just one of reassurance. You know, we hear the fear and concern about this issue and maybe a tinge of wonder, can we in little old Portland actually make a difference in all this? And I'm here to tell you from my life experience that we can't.
 and that we already have, actually, because I've spent the last 10 years helping other cities start building transportation systems that were modeled after ours.
 And little old Portland maybe wasn't on the map at the beginning of that period, but by the end it was. And now my wife runs a program at Portland State that deals with incoming delegations that come here to study our sustainability, and they've had someone come here from every continent except Antarctica. And if the penguins who are watching the Ross ice shelf crumble could figure out how to get here, they'd probably come too. So, you know, the world has noticed Portland, which is why we got this amazing invitation here.
 So I think the fact that Portland is being a leader is not just, of course, important in Portland. And we have real evidence around the world and around the country that what we do matters to people other than just us. So I appreciate the longstanding leadership of people like Susan and the folks that we've heard from today. I do believe this will make a difference, a big one, and it will matter. Thank you all very much. Aye. And let's vote on the other two resolutions. Aye.
 688 fish saltzman hi novick hi hailes hi 689 fish aye saltzman uh i think it's very intriguing the uh the concept of green bonds i'm not sure i totally get it but it sounds like something that hopefully we can make a reality hi
 Novic. Aye. Hales. There's quite a bit that Jonas Bury talks about that it takes me a while to get, but I think he's on to something here. Aye. And we are recessed until tomorrow at 2 o'clock. Thank you.