Of course my phone's ringing. All right, good morning, everyone. This is the Wednesday, June 24th morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, good morning. Please call the roll. Good morning, Mayor. It's Keelan. Oh, I'm sorry. Keelan. Good morning. Hardesty. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And Commissioner Hardesty has an excused absence today.
 Colleagues, under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference, and the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. The meeting is available to the public on the City's YouTube channel, eGovPDX, www.portlandoregon.gov slash video.
 and of course, Channel 30. The public can also provide written testimony to the council by emailing the council clerk at cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov. The council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and to promote physical distancing. Pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications.
 Thank you all for your patience, your flexibility, and your understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the city's business. And now I'll turn it over to legal counsel. They'll read the rules of order and decorum. Good morning.
 Good morning. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda at portlandoregon.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, etc.
 Disrupting others testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed If there are disruptions a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold Or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Very good Carla first up is communications Please read item 495 the quest of Donna Cohen to address council regarding st. John's truck strategy to project
 This communication has withdrawn their request today. I'm sorry, could you repeat that? Donna Cohen has withdrawn her request. All right, very good. And we're still a couple of minutes early before the first time. Certainly we have no consent agenda. Could you please read item 500? All right.
 amend intergovernmental agreement with Metro to accept an additional $80,000 and extend the expiration date for administration of the master recycler program. Colleagues, this is a second reading of a non-emergency ordinance. We have already heard both the presentation as well as public testimony on this item. Is there anything else anybody would like to ask about this particular item before we call the roll? Hearing none, please call the roll.
 Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted and I have stalled long enough that it is now 935. Can we please read item number 496. Appoint Serena Stoudemire-Wesley and reappoint Francesca Gambetti and Peter Platt to the Prosper Portland Board.
 Colleagues, today I am pleased to announce my recommendations. My recommendation to nominate Serena Stoudemire-Wesley to serve the remainder of the term of Dr. Alicia Moreland-Capuia, who is moving to Massachusetts with her family after four years of service on the Prosper Portland Board. As you can see from her bio and statement of interest, Serena is a Portland native and
 and she's had a very distinguished career in community engagement and education, and she currently serves as the Youth Development Director with the Oregon Department of Education. Today I'm also nominating to renew the three-year term of Francesca Gambetti and Peter Platt, who have both served on the Prosper Portland Board with dedication and unique perspectives. With that, I'd like to ask Serena, Francesca, and Peter to say a few words.
 And I see Serena, where are you? Let's see here. Right here. There you are. You're over to the left. Hello, Serena. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to finish out Alicia's term. It's really an honor to do that, and I am very excited about working with Prosper Portland and you all, and I look forward to the great work that we have ahead of us. Thank you, Serena. We appreciate your willingness to step forward. Francesca, good morning.
 I found my mute button. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity. It's been a real honor to serve on this board for the past few years. I think Prosper is doing just such important and impactful work to help bring an end to systemic racism and build an equitable economy. I've just been so impressed with the bold leadership and the incredibly talented staff.
 and the real commitment that the organization has demonstrated in using urban renewal and other resources to make positive and lasting change in our community. So I'm really looking forward to another term, and I'm excited by the opportunity to serve alongside Ms. Stuart Meyer-Wesley. Thank you, and we appreciate your stepping forward as well. And Peter, last but not least.
 Yes. Good morning. Morning. And commissioners, hi. Thank you again for being reconsidered and reappointed to this important role. I think the impacts of the COVID pandemic and the ongoing protests and demonstrations against institutionalized racism have
 revealed to all of us the true scope of inequity in our society and the degree to which public institutions like Prosper have a big role to play in continuing to repair, build, and strengthen trust within our communities and stakeholders.
 in order to fulfill the equity-focused mission. So I'm very honored and pleased to be able to help out with that. Again, as I stated three years before, my focus will continue to be to listen to the voices from our communities of culture within our hard-hit yet still fighting small business community and continue to focus on job creation and sustenance at the small business level, which I believe
 continue to be essential components of economic and cultural resiliency, um, and are essential to help underwrite creation of wealth and stability, particularly in, particularly in our lower income communities. So, um, I, I, uh, I commend the staff at Proctor Portland, uh, for their dedication, professionalism, uh,
 and talent. I think they are an exceptional group of people and I'm happy to work with them and welcome Commissioner Serena, Student Myra Wesley to the team. I look forward to working with you as well and thank you again for the opportunity. Thank you, Peter. We appreciate it. We appreciate your continued service as well. Colleagues, any follow-up or questions or thoughts for our three nominees? I'll entertain a motion in a second.
 So moved. Second. Commissioner Udaly moves the report. Commissioner Fritz seconds the report. Carla, please, or Keelan, sorry. Good morning, Keelan. Please call the roll. Udaly. Well, thank you, everyone, for your willingness to serve. I vote aye. Fritz.
 Well, first, thank you to Dr. Alicia Mollen-Capia for her service on the board. She's done an outstanding job, not only at Prosper Portland, but also in our community. And I'm sorry to hear that she's moving elsewhere, but I'm sure, I hope she'll be back. And I know that
 she'll represent Portland well wherever she goes. And thank you very much, Serena, Francesca and Peter for your willingness to serve. This, as you know, is a huge commitment of time and it's also really important. So it's wonderful that you are willing to dedicate yourselves to continuing the work of making Prosper a more equitable and progressive organization and a director of random leadership. So thank you each one. Bye.
 Wheeler. Well I'm very excited about these nominees and I appreciate your willingness to step forward. Serena welcome and Francesca and Peter thank you again and I also want to extend my sincere gratitude to Dr. Alicia Moreland-Capuya who has done a fantastic job in her capacity. Oregon's loss is Massachusetts gain and we so appreciate everything she has done
 And we know that the current nominees are gonna continue that outstanding work. I also just want to acknowledge in this time when racial justice is front and center and elevating black voices has become something that the community expects and demands of every action that we take, Prosper Portland has actually been in the lead on this issue for some time. And the way we've re-imagined what development looks like
 as we thought about how prosperity can and must be shared by all Portlanders, how we rethink the way the development must take place so that, um, those who are the most impacted are also those who have the most opportunity to gain from the developments that are being considered. And as I think about the weighty projects that are yet ahead of us, including the Broadway corridor, um,
 Number one, it is both daunting, the work list, but number two, it's really exciting and energizing, and you're going to be there front and center in helping this council to make good decisions along the way. So thank you all. I'm very happy to vote aye. The report is accepted and the appointments are approved. Thank you for your service. Thank you. Thank you. Next item is item number 501, please, Keelan.
 Authorize revenue bonds in an amount sufficient to provide not more than $11 million to finance the integrated tax system project. Colleagues, the Revenue Division has been engaged in replacing the city's multiple legacy tax administration databases with a single commercial off-the-shelf system since back in 2019.
 The legacy systems are in some cases over 20 years old, are based on outdated technology, and must be replaced. 20 years old, by the way, in IT is 100 years in human years. The new system will provide better customer services, more capability around tax collection for the city, county, and other stakeholders, better security and disaster recovery.
 It will also meet IRS requirements for the safeguarding of federal taxpayer information, otherwise known as FTI. The integrated tax system or ITS is expected to go live phase one this year. Phase two is the stabilization period ending on June 30th, 2021. The integrated tax system or ITS is expected to go live
 I'm sorry, I'm reading the same sentence twice. That's why. The City Council authorized the ITS budget and contract back in 2019. This included an ongoing Cal adjustment in the Revenue Division budget to cover the City's share of the repayment of the bonds before us today. There is no additional budget impact for approving this item.
 The City Council also directed the Revenue Division to negotiate with Multnomah County and all other stakeholders with taxes and fees on the new system to help pay for the system and their share of the bonds.
 Those negotiations, I'm pleased to say, have been successful. Bonds and other ITS costs will begin to be repaid in the fiscal year 21-22. The county has agreed to pay for its allocated share of ITS, and we thank the county for that. The IGA reflecting this will come to council next week.
 The new system is expected to generate additional tax revenue by leveraging federal taxpayer information to identify non-compliant taxpayers. The county will pay for its share of ITS with these additional revenues. And now we have, I see Thomas Lanham is here. I don't know if Matt is also here. Yeah, Matt, Jorach, Thomas Lanham are both here to present. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning. Good morning.
 For the record, I'm Matt Girok, the debt manager in the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. As mentioned, I'm joined by Thomas Lanham, director of the Revenue Division as well. As mentioned in the introductory remarks, the Integrated Tax System Project, which is also referred to as the ITS Project, is a key Revenue Division project that replaces various legacy tax systems with one cohesive tax system package. Thank you.
 The project was approved by city council in June 2019 and has been cash funded through its phase one development. Under the project plan, the majority of remaining costs are to be financed through project completion. This ordinance before you authorizes that financing with the issuance of revenue bonds in an amount of up to $11 million.
 Under the provisions of the ordinance, not more than $10 million of bond proceeds may be directly related to costs of the ITS project. Additional funds under the authorization will be used to pay financing costs, including costs of issuance and potentially capitalized interest if needed.
 Note that the fiscal year 2021 adopted budget allows for approximately $9 million to be borrowed, so loan proceeds will be capped at this level unless there is future budget modification approved by City Council. Under the plan of finance, the proposed bonds will be initially issued in the form of a line of credit, which we anticipate closing this coming August.
 Once all costs associated with the project are incurred, the financing plan anticipates the issuance of long-term bonds to refinance the line of credit balance at that time. The term of the long-term bonds is expected to be approximately 10 years. That service will be paid from appropriated general fund revenues, which will include annual cost recovery revenues received from multiple taxing jurisdictions that utilize tax administration services of the Revenue Division.
 That concludes the overview of the ordinance, and I'm happy to answer any questions related to the financing, and Thomas Landon is on standby as well. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? I don't see any at this point. Keelan, is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up.
 Very good. There being no further business, this is the first reading of an on-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thanks, gentlemen, and I'll have much more to say on this next week as we take up the county IGA as well. I want to thank you for your hard work on this. Thank you. We will move on to item number 502, please. That's the second reading.
 Authorize a contract with Kennedy Jenks Consultants, Inc. for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant High Condition and Risk Assessment Program for a total not to exceed amount of $2,500,000. Colleagues, this is a second reading of the non-emergency ordinance. We had what I thought was a very thoughtful and very interesting presentation on this. We took public testimony today.
 We are now ready to take the vote unless there's any further business on this particular item. Seeing none, Keeling, please call the roll. New Daily. Aye. Fritz. It was indeed a very interesting presentation. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We'll move on to another second reading before we can get to the time certain. Please read 504.
 Approve the designation of 13 trees as City of Portland Heritage Trees and remove the Heritage Tree designation from one tree. Speaking of great presentations, this is also a second reading. We heard a very provocative and interesting presentation and took public testimony on this item as well. Is there any further discussion on it before we call the roll? Seeing none, Keelan, please call the roll. You daily.
 Well I always enjoy this presentation and I want to thank the Parks Department and Urban Forestry Commission once again and I vote aye. Fritz? I agree with my colleague, aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you everyone who worked so hard on that one. And the last second reading is item 506.
 amend street access code and transportation administrative rules to align with changes to the residential info project. Colleagues, any further discussion on this item? This is also a second reading. Keelan, please call the roll. Uh... Commissioner Daly? Mayor, this was item 506. 506, correct.
 I'm going to vote for it. Okay. Uh, we are actually rescheduling this item for July 8th for final vote. Oh, okay. I can vote on it today. Commissioner. Commissioner. I'm willing to vote for it today. Okay. Uh, uh, commissioner you daily. It's your call. Take that to be. You'll vote in support of it today. I will. Yeah. Okay. All right, let's go. All right. Uh, You then please call the roll.
 Well, I don't have any closing remarks prepared because I thought I was going to be pulling this item, but I want to thank everybody for their quick and creative work on solving this problem. And I vote aye.
 Commissioner Hardesty had been here, I would have voted no on this. I'm very concerned that this allows developers of very expensive housing and lots of very expensive housing to pay the same fee as somebody who is developing a modest single home. And also, it doesn't solve the problem that we're trying to solve in the residential info project of providing housing.
 homes where people have streets in front of them. And since it is a, I did, you know, obviously I was involved in setting up this program under the previous administration. And so I do
 believe it's better than what we've been doing in the past in terms of waivers. It still has some troubling aspects and I know that you will all be working on it more as time goes by. It was always kind of intended to be a bit of a pilot to find out how does it work and it has had some good benefits and therefore I will vote aye. Okay.
 Wheeler. I appreciate what Commissioner Fritz just said. This is not the perfect. This is the good or at least it's the better. It's a step in the right direction and therefore I will support it.
 But Commissioner Fritz's admonition is correct. This will be an iterative process. This will be an evolving process. It's my expectation that at some point, revisions to this will be back before the council, but I'll support it because it is definitely a step in the right direction. I'm happy to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. And now we can go back
 on the agenda to the two times certain items 497 and 498. It's my understanding they will be pulled, but we need to read them for the record, Keelan, both 497 and 498. Item 497, authorize $1,623,850 for grant agreements to be divided among the five non-profit
 District coalitions to support neighborhood associations and community engagement activities from July 1st 2020 through June 30 2021 and item 498 authorize 851 thousand six hundred and forty six dollars for grant agreements with Center for intercultural organizing unite Oregon Latino Network immigrant refugee community organization and
 Native American Youth and Family Center Momentum Alliance, and Urban League of Portland for the Diversity and Civic Leadership Organizing Project for July 1st, 2020 through June 30, 2021. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. As a courtesy to Commissioner Hardesty, who wanted to be present for this discussion, I'm pulling these items 497 and 498 back to my office. They've been rescheduled for July 9th at 3.30 p.m. time certain. Thank you. Keelan, could you please read item 499, second reading? Thank you.
 Authorize grant agreement up to $73,000 to Southwest Neighborhoods, Inc. to provide outreach, technical assistance, and community involvement for watershed projects in west side sub-watersheds. This item, colleagues, is somewhat related to the prior two, so I will be pulling it back to my office as well. $499 comes back to my office. Next up is item 503, please. Okay.
 Adopt and authorize the submission of the Action Plan Fiscal Year 2020-21 for the Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partnerships, Emergency Solutions Grant, and Housing Opportunities for programs with the program to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. Colleagues, the 2016 through 2020 Consolidated Plan is the fifth five-year plan.
 Consorcer members also submit an annual action plan. The fifth action plan fiscal 2020 to 2021 will be submitted this year along with any updates to the five year 2016 to 2020 consolidated plans. Yes, there will be a quiz on that later.
 The City of Portland is the lead agent for the Portland Consortium, which also includes the City of Gresham and Multnomah County. In accordance with HUD regulations, the Portland Consortium is required to submit an annual action plan as a condition of receiving four federal formula grants. The Community Development Block Grant that we're all familiar with, the CDBG, the Home Investment Partnership Grant, otherwise called HOME,
 the Emergency Solution Grant, called the ESG, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS, APWA. The action plan contains a snapshot of the community's housing and community development needs. It identifies key local priorities, and it establishes the strategies that each jurisdiction will use to address those high priority needs.
 The action plan also includes one-year numeric goals. Each jurisdiction will be expected to measure its progress against those goals in the Consolidated Annual Performance Report, called the CAPER, which is filed in fall.
 HUD regulations also require each consortium receiving federal housing community development funds to certify that it is affirmatively furthering fair housing, an issue which is of critical importance here in Portland.
 Due to the public health emergency, I'm sorry, the City of Portland is the representative member of the Portland Consortium and with the responsibility to carry out the overall responsibility of the Portland Consortium. Due to the public health emergency, the federally funded projects will have activities designated to address housing, health, and community economic development impacted by COVID-19.
 The Home Consortium Citizen Participation Plan is amended to include reduced public comment periods in order to quickly deploy funds during a public health emergency. And with us today to make sense of everything I just said is our very able Rental Services Manager, Kim McCarty. Kim, welcome. Thank you for being here this morning. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners. Thank you.
 I do have a, I'm Kim McCarty with the Rental Services Office, and I do have a slide presentation. It covers a lot of the things that you just relayed to the commissioners and the public. Would you like me to go through that presentation or just answer questions? No, why don't you go through it? We're a little ahead of schedule today, so we have the luxury of time. Wonderful. I'm going to share my screen. Okay. So, yeah.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Kim McCarty with the Rental Services Office of the Portland Housing Bureau. Portland is the lead for the Portland Consortium that includes the City of Gresham, Multnomah County, and the City of Portland. Portland administers the home funds for all of the consortium jurisdictions and makes the federal formula grant applications for these three jurisdictions.
 The annual action plan and its attached certifications to affirmatively further bear housing serves as the application for these federal formula funds. This is the fifth annual action plan of the 2016 five-year consolidated plan. And this legislation authorizes the mayor to formally request the city's regular non-CARES Act federal
 Act formula grants, sorry about that, and the Community Development Block Grant, Emergency Solutions Grant, Home and Housing for Persons with AIDS, and it amends the associated Citizen Participation Plan on behalf of the consortium members. Bear with me when I, next slide. So as part of the public participation process this year, the jurisdiction partners held listening sessions
 in the fall regarding housing and community economic development. We did this in coordination with Multnomah County and the City of Gresham. The community input that was shared with the jurisdictions was important to the planning and budget committees, and they also informed budget priorities.
 This spring, hearings to share the goals and strategies and actions with the community were modified to address the required distancing to protect public health. And these modifications are included in the updated Community Participation Plan as required by HUD, and they're also included as an exhibit to the 2020 Action Plan application. So I wanted to share with you
 that annually the Portland Consortium reviews demographic and housing market data to refine our programmatic choices. This slide of Multnomah County shows that poverty is concentrated in East Portland and in East Multnomah County, and when we overlay demographic information about race, we know that people of color are disproportionately in poverty and are concentrated in these lower income areas.
 Then when we also add information with recent employment data from Multnomah County during this public health emergency, it shows industries with disproportionate Black, Indigenous, and people of color employment have the highest portion of unemployment claims in Multnomah County.
 As a result of these findings, there will be an increased focus on strategies to improve program access and outcomes for Black, Indigenous, and people of color at risk of housing instability and displacement. So to go into more specifics about the type of federal formula grants that we receive through the consortium,
 and through the City of Portland, there are four annual formula grants that are received. And they have specific objectives and constraints. The Community Development Block Grant is our most flexible source of funding, and you can see this year we received over eight million dollars in new funds. The HOME program has the objective to expand the supply of decent, safe, and sanitary affordable housing.
 And as a part of our over $4 million allocation this year, a portion of that is transferred through a jurisdictional transfer to Gresham and Multnomah County. And then our emergency solutions grant, over $700,000 this year, the goal there is to reduce and prevent homelessness.
 And our HOPWA grant for housing opportunities for persons with AIDS, almost $2 million, that's shared with the counties throughout the region. And the purpose is to provide housing for persons with AIDS, and we do this as a regional partnership. And there's also an agency transfer of the ESG and the HOPWA funds with the Joint Office of Homeless Services.
 So as part of the five-year consolidated planning process, there were three established goals. First, to increase and preserve affordable housing choice. Second, to reduce and prevent homelessness. And then third, to improve employment and household economic stability.
 And you'll see in the following slides where those resources, where the priorities were made. Most of it is with affordable housing followed by preventing homelessness and then lastly improving employment for households and improving economic stability. And you can see there a list of the types of programs that we have supported historically. We'll go on to the next slide here. So this year
 We are, over the last five years, CDBG and HOME has been focused on housing development and rehab services for the city of Portland. Most of the CDBG is being used for our home ownership programs that include both first time home buyer programs and also rehab programs for homeowners that are already in their homes.
 And HOPWA is specific to housing for persons with AIDS, and then the Emergency Solutions Grant is specific to homelessness prevention.
 And when we break this down by the funding type, you can see home is this year is being spent mostly on new affordable housing. But also we have a significant carryover, about $4.5 million that will be spent on emergency rent assistance. And then there's a jurisdictional transfer, as I described earlier, to our partners in Gresham and Multnomah County.
 The CDBG funds will be spent on single-family home repair, financial assistance. It's a big part of our fair housing service programs, such as legal aid services. And then there is an agency transfer to Prosper Portland for the microenterprise, the adult workforce, and the youth workforce development.
 And as I said earlier, the ESG and the HOPWA funds go through an agency transfer to the Joint Office of Homeless Services. So the other part of this legislative action is to amend the citizen participation plan. We needed to do that to address the community health issues. And HUD gave us a waiver where we are allowed this year to reduce the public comment period to five days.
 to allow for virtual hearings to reduce notification time and make it possible that we don't have to provide hard copies or have interpersonal contact at this time. And the 2020 action plan, in addition to that update, also gave us updates to address the CARES Act funding.
 which is coming to the City of Portland. While this particular legislation does not contain any CARES Act funding, the supplemental federal funds associated with the CARES Act, namely the CDBG, the ESG, and HOPWA,
 will be used for COVID-19 rent assistance and business assistance as it pertains to, and homelessness assistance as it pertains to public health types of strategies. So that concludes my presentation. So I want to let you know that the public comment period for all the consortium members is through July 7th, and I'll take any questions you may have.
 Thank you, Kim. That was a great presentation on a fairly complex set of opportunities that provided a lot of clarity, and I appreciate it. Colleagues, any questions for Kim? Very good. Keelan, do we have any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Well, thank you very much for this. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, Kim, for the presentation.
 Next up is item number 505. Increased fee schedule for the Office of Community and Civic Life Noise Program for noise variance applications in the amount of 5% as permitted by Code Section 18.14.020B. Make sure you daily. This is your item. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Civic Life is bringing forward this ordinance to increase the noise program rates by 5% as allowed by city code. We've done this every year. This year, Catherine Couch is here to present on the increase, I believe. Yes, I am here. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. And after many, many years of knowing you, I'm very pleased that I said your name correctly.
 because as a Portlander you always have to stop and wonder is it couch or is it cooch? It is couch. I know well I was born and raised here so. I'm gonna go sit on the cooch for a while. Yeah I wanted to apologize for last time which I when I said your name wrong and I
 I'm gonna try not to do it again, Catherine. It's okay, I'm really used to it. Welcome. Anyway, good morning. Morning. Commissioners, I'm here to present our 5% annual fee increase for noise variances. We do this every year. I put this out to the Noise Review Board and put it on our webpage. Didn't hear any comments, which isn't really a surprise. Let me share my document.
 Okay, there we go. So the current fees are on the left side of the page and the far right is the proposed fees page.
 The pandemic-related stay-at-home order has upended our expectations for noise variance revenue coming in. Event variances that we're used to seeing in the summer, our busy time, have had to cancel, and we're granting refunds to applicants who request one. So that's where we are right now. We're asking for a standard 5% increase with some rounding to make whole numbers, but the one exception that we are doing this year,
 in the hopes of not creating barriers for those individuals and small nonprofits that may be struggling due to the pandemic we're experiencing. For these small events, they're the ones labeled all other on your sheet. We're keeping them the same because we're hoping that we can encourage small community building celebrations and events when they're allowed to happen. That's pretty much it. Does anybody have any questions for me?
 Very good. Colleagues, any questions for Catherine? Catherine, have we seen an increase or decrease in noise complaints since the shutdown? Yes, we've seen an increase. And most of it, I think, you know, people have a lot of anxiety for a few months now. And they're hearing things that they normally don't hear. Or, you know, if it's for a few days, they can just...
 not deal with it. But they're things like stereos, you know, my neighbor is working on this, really neighbor to neighbor things. Yeah, lots of stereo complaints right now. Mine is lawnmowers and leaf blowers. But there you go. I've gotten them to reschedule it around councils. So I'm very grateful for that. Thanks for being here. It's nice to see you today. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Very good.
 Excuse me. Thanks. Excuse me. I had my hand up. Oh, I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Good morning, Catherine. Good morning. I'm wondering how do these fees relate to cost recovery? Well, we looked at cost recovery, and we would have to quadruple our fees in order to get there. So we're not sure how to really do that without causing shockwaves and just having people not apply for variances. That's something we struggle with.
 Yeah, thank you. When I was in charge of the program, we embarked on the 5% a year as a way that's obviously a little bit more than inflation, but it doesn't keep up with the increasing costs in the city. And the plan had been to kind of increase it more and more until we get the cost recovery, because I think most community members would agree.
 believe that if you want to get the variance to be more noisy, you should pay for at least the cost of processing that. So I just hope that that will be considered as you move forward next year. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. And I'm sorry, Commissioner, I didn't have my participant list up appropriately. Keelan, is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up.
 All right, very good. There being no further business on this item, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. And let me just check here. I think that completes our agenda for this morning. Yes, it does. All right. With that then, thank you, everybody. We are adjourned until 2 p.m.
 And I see that we have Commissioners Fritz and Eudaly are with us. All right, good afternoon everybody. This is the Wednesday, June 24th, 2020 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Keelan, can you please call the roll? Hardesty. Eudaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And Commissioner Hardesty has a pre-excused absence.
 Colleagues, under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference. And the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting.
 The meeting is available to the public on the city's YouTube channel, EGovPDX, www.portlandoregon.gov, slash video, and channel 30. The public can also provide written testimony to council by emailing the council clerk at cctestimony.org.
 at portlandoregon.gov. The Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and to promote physical distancing. The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your patience, your flexibility,
 ability, your willingness to learn new technologies, and your understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the city's business. I'll now turn it over to legal counsel to read the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Hi, Lori.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda at courtlandoregon.gov backslash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are allowed. So the home number didn't let you go. Is that right? Evelyn, can I ask you to mute, please? Okay. Okay.
 If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions or warning will be given, that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded.
 Very good. Thank you. Uh, we have two items today. Uh, the first is a proclamation, uh, being introduced by myself and commissioner you daily. The second is a report introduced by commissioner you daily. I want to acknowledge that commissioner you daily has taken the lead on behalf of the council on both of these items, uh,
 After Keelan reads 507 and 508, I'll have some brief introductory remarks and then I'll turn it over to Commissioner Eudaly. So Keelan, can you please read items 507 and 508? Okay.
 Item 507, proclaim the city of Portland a place that does not tolerate xenophobia by condemning the rise in hate crimes, attacks, and attitudes against American and Asian Pacific Islander communities due to the racist manipulation and polarization of the COVID-19 crisis. Very good. Oh, sorry. Sorry, go ahead. Okay. Item 508, accept report of the new Portlanders Policy Commission. Okay.
 Very good. First of all, I want to thank the New Portlanders Policy Commission for being with us today and for sharing this important testimony. I know oftentimes in presentations like this, people are asked to re-litigate their trauma on stage in full view of the public, which can be emotionally very demanding. And it's something privileged groups like my own rarely have to deal with. I want to acknowledge that.
 I wish there were circumstances which brought you here. I wish the circumstances which brought you here were somewhat different, but I commend you for being here anyway and taking on that challenge. And I want to just state on behalf of the entire council, the burden this places on you is not going unnoticed.
 It goes without saying that we're living through an unprecedented public health crisis right now. No country, no community, and no individuals are spared from the impact of COVID-19.
 This proclamation condemning hate crimes against the Asian American and Pacific Islander communities comes at a very important time in American history. And I'm eager to add the voices of the AAPI community to the discussion our country is finally having around what it means to be a non-white person existing in a country that was not designated with them in mind.
 That conversation has to be had at our dinner tables, with our neighbors, and within institutions like the police bureau and the city council as we are now. They're about more than just police accountability and justice. They're about examining the role of one's race and what it plays in determining their outcomes in our society. I believe that this is an important inflection point in our culture that's been a long time coming.
 I include in all of this, of course, the impacts of the Black Lives Matter movement, which is not far removed from the substance of today's proclamation. No two groups' experiences are ever the same, but it's abundantly clear that for many non-white Americans, institutional and cultural racism challenges them daily in ways that white people like myself never have to deal with.
 During this COVID crisis, a lot has happened and it's happened very rapidly. It's devastated our economy, skyrocketed unemployment levels, isolated us from our loved ones, and overall, it's challenged our resolve as human beings. AAPI communities have the added burden they must carry of being wrongly and ignorantly blamed for its presence in America.
 The current president even actively encourages this sentiment. That belief is dangerously ignorant. It has no place here in Portland. COVID has caused enough suffering on its own. I ask you to point your frustrations towards the productive. Our concern should be with eradicating the effects and not looking out for any groups to scapegoat. We're all in this together.
 Our city strives to be a welcoming, healthy, safe community for all of us. And we do better than most, but it's clear that we still have a long way to go before that holds true for all Port Readers. Ignorance about the reality race plays in people's lives is no longer an excuse for inaction. It's impossible to remove oneself from the moment this country is going through.
 I urge all of us to ask ourselves where we fit into all of this and what side of history we want to be on. I take this seriously.
 and commit to doing my part in addressing the concerns NPPC brings to light here today. And I thank you for that. I thank you for your expression of concerns, for your willingness to share your testimony, for being here. I'm looking forward to listening and learning. And now I want to turn this over to the council's leader on these efforts here today, Commissioner Chloe Udailey. Commissioner Udailey.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon, everyone. Before I begin, I just want to let you know I'm having a little bit of an allergy attack and having a hard time catching my breath, so please bear with me. Before I read the proclamation, I want to acknowledge the new Portlander Policy Commission. NPPC wrote this proclamation and advocated for council to support it. We'll be hearing more from the NPPC this afternoon about the work
 that they've accomplished and their goals moving forward. But I'd for now like to thank NPPC members June Schumann, Ann Downing, Octaviano Mariseus, Evelyn Liu, and Bear Bouti, as well as Civic Life staffers Marco, Maia, and
 took cow for all their work making this happen today. I'm very impressed by your commitment to our city and your unwavering support of new Portlanders. And now I will read the proclamation.
 Whereas, Opano and Pua have seen an increase in reports of racially based hate crimes against Asian Americans and Asian Pacific Islander communities spurred on by reference to the virus as Chinese virus, Wuhan virus, and Kung flu in place of the scientific name for the virus.
 and whereas Asian Americans and Asian Pacific Islander communities are being scapegoated due to fears, uncertainties, and the use of anti-Asian rhetoric perpetuated by federal leadership. According to AAPI Stop Hate, AAPI communities have experienced nearly 1,100 anti-Asian physical and verbal attacks
 since March 2020. Yet Asian Americans are no more likely to be carriers of COVID-19 than any other Americans. And whereas City Council declared the City of Portland a welcoming city, a sanctuary city, and an inclusive city for all, Resolution 37277 adopted by Council on March 2nd, 2017. And whereas Portland City Code Section
 23.01.010 states that it is the policy of the City of Portland to eliminate discrimination based on race, religion, color, sex, marital status, familial status, national origin,
 age, mental or physical disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or source of income. Such discrimination poses a threat to the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Portland and menaces the institutions and foundation of our community. And whereas the
 Portland City Council in 2016 adopted Code Section 3.131.010 establishing the new Portlander Policy Commission to advise the city on policies and practices to integrate immigrant and refugee communities, voices and needs into the provision of city services, city decision-making, and civic engagement in Portland, and whereas
 City Council acknowledges the challenges faced by all Portlanders during the COVID-19 crisis, while specifically people of Asian American and Asian Pacific Islander descent have been subject to hate crimes. We acknowledge that Black and Indigenous communities are disproportionately impacted by the highest infection and fatality rate due to the health disparities perpetuated
 perpetuated by systemic racism, and whereas Portland City Council believes that all immigrants and refugees are critical additions to the social and economic well-being of the city, now therefore I, Chloe Daly, Portland City Commissioner, on behalf of Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses,
 do hereby proclaim the city of Portland a place that does not tolerate xenophobia by condemning the rise in hate crimes, attacks, and attitudes against Asian American and Asian Pacific Islander communities due to the racist manipulation and polarization of the COVID-19 crisis. Thank you, Commissioner. Appreciate it.
 And Commissioner, I assume you want to go ahead and do the play by play on the next item. We'll go ahead and, however you want to do it. Sure. Thank you, Mayor. Well, first I want to acknowledge how patient the New Portlander Policy Commission has been throughout the COVID-19 crisis.
 This annual report has been rescheduled a number of times over the last several months, and I'm very happy that we're able to hear from the NPPC today. Additionally, the NPPC adapted their annual report to create a COVID-19 addendum that we'll learn more about this afternoon. The NPPC recognized that immigrant and refugee communities are disproportionately impacted by the global pandemic and worked to incorporate the crisis into their presentation.
 So thank you for your patience, thank you for being responsive to our current environment and recognizing disparate impacts, and I look forward to hearing from everyone today. So now I'd like to introduce the first NPP speakers, June Schumann, Ann Downing, who I don't see, I might have that wrong, and Octaviano Maracias, which I hope is close.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioner Udaile and Fritz. My name is June Schuman. I'm a member of MPPC. I am an immigrant who came to this country as an alien dependent of a U.S. citizen.
 I am the founder, founding director of Oregon Nikkei Legacy Center and a long time community activist. I am here to speak about the proclamation that you have just approved.
 In the midst of this COVID-19 pandemic, we became alarmed by the increased reports of racist incidents against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. Reference to the virus as Chinese virus, Wuhan virus, and Kung flu in place of the scientific name is fanning the anti-Asian stereotypes and scapegoating. We are being labeled as dirty and
 uncivilized. The city's resilient Portland resolution refers to the Oregon Department of Justice's report that year-to-date hate crimes and bias incidents in Oregon increased by 366 percent. 20 percent of these came from Oregon's
 were against Oregon's AAPI communities who make up 5% of the population. From February to April in Portland, there were reports of 10 incidents, about 42% of all, directly related to COVID-19. We can assume that this number is small and more are unreported.
 These incidents are examples of the long-standing pattern of racial hostilities directed against people of color, both native-born and foreign-born. People from the Middle East and other parts of Asia, Pacific Islands, Africa, and countries south of our border have been targets of hate for decades.
 The COVID-19 related incidents against the AAPI people should be ignored or minimized. It is critical that public officials speak out against racism. The message has to be clear that it is not okay to harass and scapegoat anyone for the pandemic. We thank you for your swift action to approve the proclamation.
 Now, I'd like to introduce Anne Downing, who's with us by phone, to speak about her students confronted by anti-Asian harassment. Anne, Anne, you need to unmute yourself. Anne, can you hear us? You need to unmute yourself. She can push star six. Star six on the keypad if she's just on the phone.
 There she is. Awesome. Yay. Anne? I still can't hear her. Wait a minute. Oh, she's just muted herself again, I see. There. Anne, can you hear us okay? Evelyn, do you have Anne's phone number? Yes, I do. Maybe, Anne, if you can hear me, maybe if you hang up for a moment, we'll have Evelyn call you, and then she'll just put you on speakerphone, and we'll be able to hear you just fine.
 Okay, here we go. She hung up. Why don't you go ahead and call her, Evelyn? Yeah, I'm going to mute myself. Well, do it old school. 7-8-4-5-0-3-9- Oh, she's been, okay. Okay, I'll try it again. Ann? No, no. It's okay. Yeah, that's okay. That's okay. Don't even try it. We're going to put you through the phone. I'm going to put you in front of the speaker, and they can hear you, okay? Yep, we hear you loud and clear. Okay.
 Thank you, June, and dear Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners, sorry about the phone. My name is Ann Downing and I teach English as a second language in East Portland at David Douglas High School. And I thank you for the opportunity to share my experience and that of some of my Asian students during recent months. Toward the end of January 2020, misinformation and rumors were spreading rapidly through
 I did daily corona updates. Each day I reminded students that COVID-19 is not a racial disease, it's a human disease.
 One of my Chinese students stayed after class to tell me what he endured every day. He was being harassed in hallways and between classes. He was sometimes shoved by strangers into lockers as they passed, or students would give him a wide berth. Lunchtime was unbearable for him. He was openly harassed and was told on two occasions to get out of line because he had the Chinese virus.
 People stared at him and his friends.
 He was shunned on a daily basis. His mother began packing him lunch. He and other Asian students found places outside the cafeteria to eat. I began seeing signs of shunning in my classroom. A few students didn't want to partner or work in small groups with their Asian classmates. One day, one of my Vietnamese students pulled out a snack from home.
 And his partner came over to me to complain that the Chinese food, it was grapes, might make him sick. He wanted a new partner. Asian students struggled with their limited English to describe to me the microaggressions they had endured.
 My English language learners are kind and they are generous, but fear of the unknown brought out the worst in a few of them. Overt and subtle aggressions were recorded all over the school. Even though those graduates at PSU were texting me to say they felt very uncomfortable in and out of class, people distanced themselves on buses and at MAX platforms regularly.
 My heart broke when one of them said, I wish I could change my face. Asian restaurants and stores were becoming empty. My teaching assistant lost his job at a downtown Asian restaurant. Another Asian teaching assistant was laid off from her job at an Asian store. In both cases, the additional income was critical to the family's stability.
 The pandemic has been particularly isolating and dehumanizing in so many ways for Asian teens and their families. I'll now pass it on to Octavio. Good afternoon, commissioners. I would like to acknowledge that the Portland metro area rests on traditional village sites of the Molomac, Huasco, Cowlitz, Clackamas, Ban of Chinook, Tualatin, Calapuya, Molala, and other tribes.
 My name is Octaviano Merecias. I am a member of the Executive Committee of the New Portlanders Policy Commission, and I'm a member of the Mixtec Indigenous Nation that came to Oregon to work in the construction sites, canneries, farms, and tree plants and nurseries.
 Currently, I'm a grad student at Johns Hopkins University and I have served proudly in this commission for three years. This week is my last week. We're passing the baton to new members of Portland. I work in the city of Portland, within the limits of the city of Portland, and I have dedicated 20 years of my life here to volunteer and to give back to Oregon.
 On behalf of the New Portlanders Policy Commission, we thank City Council for taking the steps to publicly condemn and denounce the surge and rise in actions of white supremacist attitudes, attacks, and hate crimes against Asian Americans and Asian Pacific Islander communities and members of our Black communities.
 Elected officials owe accountability, responsibility, and commitment to advance social and racial justice in order to create a safe and healthy social, emotional, political, cultural community for Portlanders, for all Portlanders. The intersectionality in health disparities, educational disparities, and systemic injustices that affect Black, Indigenous, and people of color and immigrant communities rest on the responsibility of justice.
 equitable and mindful policies. This is the trust that the community put on elected officials. We also want to acknowledge and thank the City Council for your early efforts to address the negative consequences of COVID-19 on Asian communities by partnering with API organizations to provide small grants to J district businesses that suffered a decline in businesses during the early stages of COVID-19.
 In addition, we acknowledge and thank the Council for investing in Portland United Against Hate, which continues to provide critical resources in addressing hate. I will keep my part short and I will pass the mic back to our co-chair, Evelyn. Thanks, Dr. Tapiano.
 Thank you very much Dr. Villano and June and Ann for your testimony. So, oh, can you, I need to change it because I have Tommy's picture up here. I do not look like that. Just a minute. Start video. Okay, there I am. Sorry. I had a beard.
 Good afternoon there Wheeler, Commissioner Sue Daly, Fritz, and I understand Joanne Hardesty is at another event. I am Evelyn Liu. I'm the chair of the Newport News Policy Commission. Oh, okay. So it looks like we have our slide up, which means that my... Yeah. Okay. I need to go back to my notes here. It just blotted out my... Okay. Okay.
 blotted out my notes, it's filled my entire screen. So I hope you, your family and friends are staying safe and healthy. We were scheduled as Commissioner Udalli had indicated that on June the 9th, but in light of the of the protest of that week, we the Executive Committee decided to request a postponement to a later date
 to allow City Council space to deal with the events and also allow our Commission to select, to reflect on our statement of solidarity with the African American and Black community. We do wish to acknowledge and thank Commissioner Eudaly for sharing our statement on her website.
 So I was asked for a little bit about myself. You know, my parents are from China. My parents arrived in May of 1950, and I was born same year, June 22nd, the same year. Grew up in Hawthorne neighborhood, Buckman grade school, girls polytechnic, the only girls school at that time, and majored in humanities at the SU. I have served on Joyne's board, currently serve on Open Signals board and Asian Pacific Chamber.
 The New Portland News Policy Commission, or NPPC, was established by 187-805 ordinance and we were officially sworn in on May of 2016. We had a pool of applicants, but 25 were selected. And each of us came to the commission with varied cultural backgrounds and life experiences, where we all live, work, play, and pray in the city of Portland.
 As a Commission and leaders representing our various communities, we are charged with supporting the City's equity initiatives by reviewing and refining past recommendations on immigrant and refugee policies and practices, developing policy and practice recommendations for improving integration, providing expert support
 and technical advice to city council and city bureaus, and finally providing expert support and technical advice to partnering schools, local governments, state and federal agencies in developing and implementing a comprehensive body of immigrant and refugee policies and practices.
 We had prepared a presentation of the updated revised New Portland to Speak 2.0 ad hoc task force, but when the pandemic hit us, we updated this report with an addendum responding to the needs within Portland's immigrants and refugee community. Here we go.
 who have been one of the communities most impacted during the pandemic. I wish to thank our fellow commissioners both past and present and the executive committee who devoted much time and effort during these last four years to create both bodies of work.
 Coming from different cultures, expectations, and life experiences, these last four years working together as a group has created opportunities to grow personally, thus gaining understanding of others as we move forward in creating space to advocate for our communities. In the interest of time, I won't go through each name, but you can see them listed on the slide, which is on the PowerPoint.
 And, okay, thank you. Today I'm joined by my fellow commissioners, Ann Downing and June Schuman, who will speak on how COVID-19 has impacted the community and the recommendations. Dr. Bahir-Boudi will present an abbreviated summary of the New Portland Speak 2.0, and I will conclude with final remarks and end by taking questions from council. Thank you. And so, Ann and June.
 Thank you, Evelyn. Again, this is Ann Downing, and I'm a member of the NPPC. Thank you for the opportunity again to share my experiences and that of my students. On March 13th, our last day of school, my classroom seemed empty. I said goodbye to the students, and I told them I would see them again in two weeks. The students and I never returned. I've
 I began calling home to assess family needs. We started compiling a list of students who needed technology at home. Most needed a Chromebook and many of those families did not even have wi-fi connections.
 The school sent home Chromebooks and set up hotspots with internet providers. Nearly all my students needed Chromebooks to do online learning. It took weeks to get students the technology they needed. Some were afraid to leave their homes to pick up a Chromebook at school, while others just didn't have transportation.
 Getting my students online and teaching them how to navigate classes with Google Classroom was very challenging. My students reported their parents were out of work. One of my students, only three families did not experience unemployment. Evelyn, you've accidentally muted, so we can't hear you. Evelyn, can you unmute on your screen so we can hear you?
 Families did not experience unemployment. This created an urgent need for food assistance. Some food pantries began making weekly deliveries. Some families refused help because it was embarrassing to receive food.
 Pre-food. Others did not want to receive any sort of aid because they feared deportation or they worried it might jeopardize their chances at full citizenship. Culturally appropriate food was unavailable through local food banks. My students, with their very limited English, were often the only family member with enough English to navigate financial aid forms. They were overwhelmed with complicated online forms and questions they couldn't answer.
 Families often had someone in the family who was ill. As time passed, as time went by, there were hospitalizations and deaths. Families grappled with medical bills and funeral costs. This crisis is ongoing with my students' families. Community leaders and their organizations have scrambled heroically to fill some of these needs. Thank you, and I will pass it back to Jim. Thank you, Ann. Thank you, Jim.
 Thank you, Ann. Again, my name is June Schuman, a member of MPPC. There was immediate impact from the pandemic on the immigrants and refugees because a significant number of these communities work in low-wage jobs that could not be done from home. So their jobs and incomes disappeared.
 Unemployment benefits are not available to all who are laid off. While we acknowledge the hardships felt by all who lost their jobs to the pandemic, immigrants and refugees have the added burden of navigating systems that were not designed for people with diverse language and cultural backgrounds.
 We identified the following as the most urgent priorities from the MPPC's perspective.
 Provide better access to information about state, county, and city policies that impact immigrants and refugees. Fill the gap in the unemployment benefits that excludes workers due to their immigration status. Increase participation of immigrants and refugees in city decision-making bodies. Ensure safety for those subjected to hate crimes.
 As volunteers in our own respective communities, some of us have initiated fundraising and organized distribution of food and financial assistance for thousands of families whose jobs disappeared and businesses were shut down.
 Others are busy participating in Prosper Portland work groups, City Council community calls, Oregon Health Authority briefings, and other policy-related conversations. Our work will continue with the Office of Community and Civic Life to utilize their research to inform our work.
 Finally, we have two recommendations for the City Council's consideration. Number one, invest additional city dollars in the Oregon Workers Relief Fund. We want to thank you for quickly approving $250,000 for the Oregon Workers Relief Fund. This is a good start. However, the need is significantly greater, estimated at over 100 million statewide.
 We support the recommendation by the undocumented Portlanders work group that each jurisdiction contribute a minimum of two million dollars immediately. This will help stabilize local families and avoid dire conditions by filling the gaps in the present assistance programs. Number two, pass a proclamation to condemn the rising incidents of hate and attitudes.
 against Asian American and Pacific Islander AAPI communities due to racist manipulation and politicization of COVID-19 crisis.
 Thank you to Mayor and Commissioner Eudaly for leading action on this earlier. Impacts of COVID-19 will be long lasting. We are appreciative of your leadership, your focus on equity and communities most impacted, and your recognition that there is so much more to do. Thank you for your time. We will now open for any questions that you may have. Thank you, June. Colleagues, any questions?
 We have just one last presenter which is Bahir. Oh okay very good thank you. Okay shall we go on to the next section? Right which is Bahir. I is he he was with us. Yeah he's he's on he's just muted at the moment. Oh okay thank you. There he is. Well thank you Marco and Evelyn and uh
 Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. I hope you are all staying safe and well. Thank you. My name is Bahar Botti. I'm Arabic-speaking. I'm a secretary in the Commission. So while we won't have time to fully present the new Portlanderspeak 2.0 report today, I'd like to provide this brief summary.
 In 2007, which was the year that I arrived to the United States, to America, Oregon, Portland, as a refugee, and I engaged at that time the Immigrants and Refugees Task Force that was part of the Vision PDX, and they produced the New Portland Speaks report at that time. It had four recommendations. Create an office of immigrant and refugee affairs. Two, establish a multicultural center.
 Three, provide additional resources for immigrant and refugee organizations to train their constituents in civic engagement. Four, assess city human resources policies and practices. A major advance took place thanks to Commissioner Fritz. In July 2006, we got the city ordinance, Chapter 3.231, and ordained to a commission, to New Portland Policy Commission. The purpose, as stated in the ordinance of the commission, was,
 where A, review, develop, evaluate and refine policy and practice recommendations for improving immigrant and refugee community integration in all city activities. B, facilitate constructive working partnerships between city leaders and newcomer community leadership. C, provide a forum for setting integration goals between city bureaus and community organizations. D, provide technical support and policy advice
 to the city council offices and city bureaus, that's our role, we serve as consultant and advocate to local, state, and federal agencies on policies impacting immigrant and refugee communities as capacity allows. What remains in 2020? We still don't have a formal office for immigrant and refugees to coordinate services with other programs in the city. Cultural and linguistic services,
 barriers persist. Only nine languages are recognized by the city, while there are several other growing communities who are not being included. We are still lacking a culturally specific formal stage slash home that can go beyond the language barrier toward a culturally appropriate integration process. At that time, 10 years ago, there was a feasibility study
 by the Bureau of Sustainability and Development for the Intercultural Center. When we asked for it last year, two years ago, the staff in the Bureau couldn't find it. It's gone. And I hate also to say this, but when it comes to employment, there is still a kind of token minority hire going on, which can be an expression of structural implicit bias.
 So we updated the recommendations by task force, thanks to the support of Commissioner and the staff of the Community and Civic Life Office. We had four policy recommendations. First, reinforce, fortify, and develop best practices to better serve the immigrant and refugee constituents.
 by providing these functions at the city, build structures for information sharing, like at least a call system 311, to improve practices and resource communities. That includes three key elements. The first key short-term goal is establishing a clearly identifiable, reliable, responsive, and well-informed home system
 slash space slash place and the staff that would serve as a bridge between city resources and their governmental representatives and immigrant and refugee communities. Again, a 311 call resource center would be an easy and financially feasible start. A second key element needed is an effective intra-city system that is responsive in the language, culture, and needs of the immigrant and refugee communities as when people call or visit the city.
 A third key element needed is immigrant and refugee space in the form of an intercultural center, a space for collaboration and learning among community, governments, nonprofits, and academia. And that's the collective impact model that we hope to adopt. To establish updated and effective data collection systems.
 The city needs a modern information system that orients around the whole person regarding the social determinants of health, food, housing, employment, legal needs, environmental impacts. Three, conduct an audit of City of Portland internal services and programs to assess effectiveness in meeting
 the needs for immigrants and refugees for build collaborative cross jurisdictional programs, services and policies with leveraged funding and improved communication and innovative partnerships to support immigrants and refugees.
 Amid to long-term recommendation is that the city begin to explore and develop a joint immigrant and refugee work across jurisdictions. This coordinated effort would improve the community's social determinants of health on, as we said, on the collective impact model. Simultaneously, without an actual space,
 where migrant and refugee community members can come together for healing as well as building the political relationships to address community needs, the vision of the New Portland Policy Commission remains unfulfilled. My final comment is that we seek an inviting city that demonstrates through intentional governance and functional systems, respect for our culture, knowledge, assets, and abilities,
 The immigrant and refugee communities of Portland are excited to practice and be part of our newfound democracy. We seek to be an active agent in our own self-determination and community health and wealth. The city can be key in removing barriers and building ladders, not looking down upon, but helping up our hardworking and diverse community members to fortify a new and better life.
 We can do this by listening to the dreams of immigrants and refugees who are known as Portlanders and join as accomplices in making these dreams a reality. We ask that later we return to this longer term discussion to provide a more comprehensive presentation. And we all know now we have the opportunity to create a new normal. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Oh, so thank you, Dr. Rudy. So in closing, this is Evelyn again. And so in closing, I'd like to thank Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Udailey, Fritz and Hardesty for their time.
 Oh, do I need to unmute myself? No, I do not. No, you're good. We can hear you. So we want to let you know that through your actions as commissioners for the city of Portland, you have demonstrated your values in centering the most impacted by the inequities and the disparities, which have exposed all of the...
 as I indicated the disparities. And still we know that there's much work to do and we know that it will take time. Frequently we expect overnight changes but we know that that's not possible. It's like changing your own habits. It takes a little while. So we look forward as MPPC members to partnering with the city during your ongoing considerations of current and future policy and budget changes.
 The socioeconomic health of our communities depend on our urgent short-term and long-term policies that guides towards a transformation. The previous normal was unjust to BIPOC communities. We now have the opportunity to create a new normal, and we'll just have to go with the flow. So thank you again, and thank you, commissioners.
 both City Council and all of our Commissioners who spoke today and everyone who has served in the past or currently Commissioners and will be joining us. Thank you again and open for any questions. Thank you, excellent. Colleagues, any questions or thoughts? I just wanted to, Commissioner Fritz, go ahead.
 Thank you. That was a really provocative and helpful list, Dr. Butte, in terms of the next steps, the things that still need to be done. I'm particularly intrigued with the need to collaborate with the counties and I'm thinking of Washington County as well as Multnomah County. Do you know, is there anything similar to the new Portlanders Policy Commission going on in either of those places?
 May I speak? So in the city of Beaverton, there is a committee for immigrants and refugees. We have liaison there, but there is no like it's not to the level of even a council or commission. There's no there is an advisory board. You know, it's not. Anyway, it's not that level. That's the city of Portland is doing. So we are grateful for the city of Portland for taking this initiative.
 Thank you. There are no other things in other counties. I'm not aware of that.
 Well, we'll have to do something about that. And perhaps I can help with that. I serve as the city's representative on the League of Oregon Cities. So I've been developing relationships with the city's city council members in Washington County and Multnomah County. So I would be happy to see if, you know, how I can partner with Commission New Daily and your commission to start establishing more of those connections moving forward because it
 it obviously does need to be a metro area initiative because we have people living in all of those places. Thank you, that's really interesting. Thank you Commissioner. Anybody else?
 Very good. I also want to thank all of you for your testimony, and Anne, I really want to acknowledge the testimony that you gave us from the perspective of the impact on young people in our schools, and we're certainly hearing testimony from other individuals that is similar. And I want to thank you for sharing that information, and June, thank you for working with us to patch through the technology and make this work this afternoon so that everybody could be heard.
 Commissioner Daley, I want to thank you in particular for your leadership on this and bringing this forward today, not only the annual report of the Commission, but as well the important proclamation that you read. And I want to thank you personally for your leadership in that regard.
 If there are no other questions at this particular time, then I will accept a motion and a second to accept the report of the new Portlanders Policy Commission.
 Oh, could I make a comment? Yeah, of course. Go ahead, Evelyn. I just wanted to add that, you know, we do look forward to meeting each one of the commissioners, or at least with their chief of staff. We are well aware that, you know, this is a really challenging time for everyone.
 But that you know getting to know who we are, we would appreciate a little bit of time again so that you get to know us also. So that we can work together and to maybe assist in any way that we can on some of the items that are on your plate that are pressing. That's fantastic and thank you Evelyn for that generous offer. I know we all appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz, did you have your hand raised again?
 I did. I just wanted to say thank you to Evelyn for that offer. I was just thinking this morning when I saw this item on the agenda, how much I miss meeting with you and your colleagues and how helpful you've been to me. And now that we're all getting used to this strange way of interacting with each other, and I can't help but think about it.
 I share your challenges with participating by phone. It's very difficult. Thank you, Evelyn, for helping to work around that. So yeah, if you could please contact my scheduler, I'd be happy to set up a meeting. That'd be fantastic. Excellent, thank you so much. Appreciate it. Yeah, likewise, and thank you for the generous offer. But of course. Very good, I'll entertain a motion and a second to accept the new Portlanders Policy Commission report. I move the report.
 Second. I have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Keelan, please call the roll. Udaly. I want to thank Marco from Civic Life and Hannah from my office, who is the liaison for helping bring this forward. Of course, thank everyone that's here today, Evelyn, June, Bear, and Akash.
 Octaviano, I want to thank you for your years of service and congratulate you. I'll have to find out what you're moving on to next. I'm sure it's something equally exciting and important. And I want to appreciate the requests that you've made to us. It's very helpful to me in this moment.
 to be given, you know, concrete asks that we can start making progress toward because this is a intense and overwhelming episode in our history.
 But the work has to continue. And I'm supportive of your work. I'm very interested in your proposals. And just want you to know that the Oregon Workers Relief Fund, bridging the digital divide, and providing language supports and other accommodations have been top priorities for me throughout this crisis. So I'm glad we're aligned on that. And I'm going to...
 end it there and just look forward to connecting with you all soon. I vote aye.
 It's really wonderful to see you all and hear from you. I'm going to start with addressing the proclamation and thank you for your leadership in deferring these items while we were so busy with the budget and focusing on the Black Lives Matter movements and the protests. That shows great allyship and I appreciate your commitment.
 firm leadership within the community. And we are in the middle of two public health crises, the acute one of COVID-19 and the ongoing one of systemic racism towards the Black community, the Indigenous community and communities of colour and to all immigrant and refugee communities. The proclamation affirms the city's recognition of how
 anti-Asian American and Pacific Islander xenophobia continues to affect your communities disproportionately and the pandemic's disproportionate impact on those communities due to folks being vulnerable due to economic inequality health disparities and social exclusion so thank you to each one of you who shared today thank you particularly Anne Downing gosh what a
 recounting of the challenges that your students, your Asian students have endured throughout this pandemic and I think of how long I've been, I've been
 isolated by myself here at home and the days seem to stretch into years. And for them, that also must be the case, that being shunned by their peers and not feeling safe in the community, feeling even less safe in the community, I really feel for them. And thank you, Anne, for your many years, your decades of taking care of those students at
 at David Douglas High School and for all that you've taught me over the years. I greatly appreciate you and your value to the community and your years of teaching and your service to the commission.
 We have seen throughout the years, from the Black death to Ebola now to COVID, xenophobia and public health policy are strongly linked and have often involved scapegoating of non-white people and others. And so with the resolution, we proclaimed that we will not tolerate these actions or any marginalised streets in the city of Portland. Thank you.
 Thank you also for the New Portlanders Commission report. That member list is like a list of all-stars of the immigrant refugee communities and exemplifies the leadership. And it's fantastic to see how many different communities are represented in your commission. So I'm very happy that it has come.
 continued to blossom after I got it started in 2016. Thank you to long time staff member Linda Castillo who was very important and was in some of the photographs we saw. I did want to mention by the way that Commissioner Hardesty would have
 been here. She has a long-standing absence this week, but it is very important to her to support the immigrant and refugee communities, and I know she appreciated the ability to focus on the budget and police accountability over the past three weeks.
 I would be very appreciative of getting some recommendations on different languages to add to the list of approved or safe harbor languages in the city of Portland. My staff, Tatiana Elhaldi in the Office of Equity and Human Rights has been doing work on language access. And so I'd be happy to talk with representatives and to get your recommendations about which additional languages.
 to move forward. And it's really encouraging and inspiring to hear that despite all that's going on with the pandemic and with the xenophobia in the community, that you're still focused on these are the steps that we need to take to truly...
 truly value New Portlanders and as I mentioned I'd be very happy to work with the council members from different jurisdictions in Washington and Multnomah counties to see if we can before I leave which is now six months and a little bit get something established for a partnership there so look forward to meeting with you and let's maybe focused on that when we meet.
 I feel very blessed to be a New Portlander myself and two others of my staff were not born in this country, two more are the daughters of immigrants so we while acknowledging that our
 city as a whole does not yet reflect the diversity in our community and the richness of our community. I have been very blessed with the staff that I have had over the last 11 plus years to be informed by folks who have different backgrounds, different perspectives and
 and just the richness that that has given to me has been so helpful. Thank you to Misan Kwan and Yesenia Carrillo who helped me with preparation for this session and thank you all each and every one of you. Being on a commission takes a lot of time and it takes a lot of work to staff it. Thank you Marco for taking up that work and for each and
 each of you for the work that you've done and the work that you will do. Octavius, I wish you all the best in your next endeavor. Johns Hopkins is very impressive. And thank you. I'm sorry, Octaviana, I got that wrong.
 Yeah, I'm just really excited. As you can tell, this commission has always been super important to me. And it makes me really happy to know that you have taken a concept and made it blossom into something that is going to endure and continue to help the city grow and develop. I'm very happy to vote aye. Wheeler? Well, the first mistake I've made today is I chose to go right after Commissioner Fritz.
 And Commissioner Fritz, I want to acknowledge you as well. I gave Commissioner Udailey the credit she deserved for leadership on these issues and the leadership that she provided in bringing forward the proclamation today, as well as her and her team's hard work with the Bureau, the Office of Community and Civic Life to help orchestrate today's event.
 events, but I would be completely remiss, Commissioner Fritz, if I didn't also acknowledge your leadership, your years of passion and commitment to the issue of New Portlanders, as well as equity in general. And so I want to thank you and your enthusiasm is contagious and it's palpable.
 And I even, you know, Evelyn, maybe you could second me on this. I thought I heard Commissioner Fritz a couple of times hint that she's going to stay actively engaged even after she's retired from the Portland City Council.
 So that's the first opportunity I've heard to keep her here and to keep her engaged. And on an issue where she is so passionate and thoughtful in her response, I hope that we can persuade her over the next several months to stick around and work with us on some of these issues. I just want to acknowledge you. I have learned in the last.
 several weeks that leadership comes in many forms.
 And the concept of leadership that most Americans are familiar with is charging up the hill and being in the lead and defining both the message and the actions and the strategy. That's sort of the American way, but it's not always the right way. And what I've learned in recent weeks is sometimes you can lead by actually stepping back and stepping aside.
 and taking the opportunity to elevate other people, other lived experiences, and other voices, and instead taking that opportunity to be an ally, to be a strong, to be a genuine ally. And you exhibited that in spades when you made the decision to withhold the report,
 at the height of the local demonstrations to make sure that black voices have the opportunity to be elevated in the middle of a movement that is elevating and is centered around black people here in Portland as well as nationally. And I want to acknowledge that profound moment of leadership on your part. It made a huge impression on all of us here at City Hall. And I want to acknowledge that. Number two, I want to acknowledge
 that even before the COVID crisis was really taken seriously here in the state of Oregon, in the city of Portland,
 The AAPI community was already feeling its impacts. And we know this because even before we declared a state of emergency, in fact, weeks before we declared a state of emergency, we were already organizing through Prosper Portland aid to the Jade District. And the reports we were getting out of the Jade District was that xenophobia and racism
 was leading to, in particular, restaurants, but not exclusively restaurants in the Jade District, seeing their business dropping off precipitously at a time when other businesses throughout the city of Portland were still thriving. And that was a wake-up call to a lot of us that this pandemic was going to have a scapegoating
 component to it. And in fact, some people were and even still are referring to this as the quote, China virus, unquote.
 And I was pleased that we were able to work together with the AAPI community and the folks in the Jade District, Pano and others, to orchestrate some quick and early relief to the Jade District. But that work is clearly not over. That is something I continue to be committed to going forward. And then also yesterday, some of us had the opportunity to participate in a really profound
 event. It was a commemoration and remembrance of Vincent Chin. And Vincent Chin, of course, was an Asian American, a person living here in the United States who was brutally murdered. And those who murdered him received a grand total of $3,000 in fines and parole. That was basically it. That was what at the time
 was the value of his life according to the judicial system here in the United States of America. And that, of course, galvanized the AAPI community nationally and has continued to galvanize that community. But standing there yesterday with all of those leaders from different backgrounds, different lived experiences, to hear State Senator Lou Frederick, who I thought just did
 an eloquent job of connecting the Black Lives Matter movement and the lived experience of Black people in the United States and important in connecting that to other communities, in particular the AAPI community
 in Oregon was a profound moment and a reminder that even though the moment we're in is elevating black lives There is so much intersectionality between that movement and the work that you do on the New Portlanders Commission and the values That are espoused in the proclamation that Commissioner you daily read this afternoon Finally three I will say this the work that your commission does is
 is more important than it has ever been right now. We get called the whitest city in America all the time. And frankly, I cringe when I hear it. And it makes me want to redouble our efforts to be supportive of the communities that we do have.
 And I like to talk about the engagement and the leadership and the resourcefulness of the communities that we do have in our community. And this commission, I think, is one of the great things that we do to elevate voices that are not voices in the majority. And I appreciate the fact that all of you who serve on this commission do so oftentimes
 understanding that it could cause you to reopen old wounds, old injustices. It could cause you to have to again recite painful aspects of lived experience so that the rest of us can benefit from that understanding. And I want to acknowledge that it is a burden both personally and professionally for you to have to do that in service to the community. But I cannot tell you how much I admire
 your willingness to do that. And so it is with great support and passion and even love for what you do and who you are. I'm happy to vote aye. The report is accepted. Thank you, Commissioner Bailey, for reading the proclamation. And I believe, Keelan, unless I'm mistaken, that completes our business for this afternoon. Is that correct? That's correct.
 All right. Thank you, everyone. Excellent presentation. Excellent testimony. We are adjourned until Thursday afternoon at 2 p.m. Bye-bye, everybody. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye.