Yeah.
 The fifth meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everybody. Let me go through some logistics here. First of all, we've got these time-certain items, 701 and 702, up first, and we'll do those first, but a few of you may be here because we had quite a few items on yesterday's
 regular agenda that we moved to this afternoon, and we'll take those up immediately following the two-time certain items. So there's item 679 left over yesterday, which is the Central City Concern item.
 Grant, and then everything on the regular agenda from yesterday afternoon, that is items 690 to 700, all of which, again, we will take up when we're finished with these two land use cases, items 701 and 702. So bear with us, and we'll get caught up to our own agenda. Welcome, and we're going to return to...
 These two cases, in one case to consider findings on 701. So let's take up that item first, please. 701, consider proposal of the City of Portland Water Bureau for historic demolition review and the Bureau of Development Services staff and Portland Historic Landmarks Commission recommendation of approval for the demolition of 1894 Reservoir No. 3, 1894 Reservoir No. 4,
 and the 1946 Weir Building, all contributing resources in the Washington Park Historic District at 2403 Southwest Washington Street, LU14-249-689-DM. Okay, Commissioner Fritz, do you have comments here or a motion? So I move adoption of the findings. Second. Okay. Any further discussion on the adoption of the findings? Roll call on the findings.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Thank you very much to staff for all of your work, both in the Water Bureau and in the Bureau of Development Services, for your diligence in going through this. Also the neighborhood associations who work really well, the Westside folks in coming to agreements on this. Kind of surprising that we are there and that I think there's a good plan for replacing the –
 historic structures with something which will become historic and will be valued for generations to come. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, now we'll move to 702. Okay.
 702 appeal of portland water bureau and mount tabor neighborhood association against historic landmarks commission's decision to approve with conditions a proposal to disconnect the mount tabor reservoirs from the public drinking water system at mount tabor park
 located at 6325 Southeast Division Street, LU14-218444HREM. Okay. So I think we need to do a little procedural work here, correct, City Attorney? Yes.
 Thank you. So last time we left it, we have rebuttal and discussion by council, and I think the parties are ready to present. Okay, so we make sure I've got this correct. Both appellants get a chance for rebuttal at this point? Yes, but I believe they're doing that jointly right now. Okay. So we'll give each of the appellants an opportunity to present rebuttal or in whatever format you'd like.
 I'll be recognized, David. So, Mr. Schaff, would you like to start? Okay. I am David Schaff. I'm the director of the Water Bureau. With me is Teresa Elliott. She is the principal engineer who's in charge of our LT2 compliance program. And with me also are John Larson and Stephanie Stewart from the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association. We've agreed I'll start off with just a little introduction. Okay.
 We're here today for the scheduled rebuttal in this land use appeal, and we're prepared to move forward with our rebuttals. However, at the May 28th council hearing, we were instructed to talk to the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association to determine if a mutual resolution of the appeals could be achieved. We're prepared to outline where we stand in those conversations with the MTNA if that is the desire of the council. Council's interest. I'm very desirous of hearing that, yes. Proceed. All right.
 Since the Council's May 28th hearing on this pending land use action, the Water Bureau and the MTNA have met six times for about 12 hours in order to come to a resolution of their pending appeals. Although we are quite close to an agreement, we still have some final details to work out. In general terms, we believe this issue may be resolved in a land use decision made as follows. We would like the Council today to agree to...
 to delay its tentative decision on the appeals to July 15th. The parties will work in the interim to finalize their agreement. At the July 15th council hearing, council will be asked, separate and apart from its land use action, to consider and approve a binding resolution that allocates city resources to maintain, repair, and preserve the reservoirs at Mount Tabor in a manner that's acceptable to the MTNA
 and to operate them in such a way that they're kept as full as much as possible. The council would then be asked to make a tentative decision to adopt the Landmarks Commission decision with a modified Condition B and no Condition E.
 Council would then return to make a final decision either August 5th or the 19th, depending on your schedules and who's going to be here. And then the final one would be the MTA would not appeal the council's final decision to LUBA.
 That's the overview of where we are. Can you refresh our memories what condition B and condition E are? Condition B is the issue about keeping the reservoirs full and the 60-day time period.
 And Condition E is the adoption, I'm going to paraphrase it, the adoption of the historic land, the historic structures report. I can actually find it. The implementation of it, yes, right. Okay. So the binding resolution and the commitments are in lieu of Condition E.
 And when would the council get to see the proposed binding resolution? Well, we hope we will. I'm leaving on vacation next week, but we are going to meet either tomorrow or Saturday or Sunday morning and try and work out the final details. And then while I'm away, the MTNA will be having their discussions. We'll anticipate filing the resolution the week of July 6th.
 for council consideration on the 15th. So it would be published as part of the agenda for council so that the general public would have the opportunity to comment on it? That's the intent. Just procedurally, because this is a new procedure for me, if in the event you were not able to close the gap on whatever...
 differences that are still between you, and because this is a land use proceeding, we're not involved in these negotiations. We would have a date of July 15th then for the council to make a decision in the absence of an agreement.
 Is that right? We continue the land use case to that same date. That's our understanding. We understand from Lynn Lee Reese that we can schedule two items for a time certain, the morning of the 15th. One would be the resolution and one would be the land use decision. I do expect, and I'm going to let these guys talk as well, I do expect we are going to reach an agreement. Thank you.
 John Larson, Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association. Commissioner Fish. We've never been here before either, so this is new territory for all of us, I believe. One question that occurs to me is if we are both talking to commissioners at the same time, is it then still ex parte? That is, could we actually...
 You know, you said, well, we can't talk to you about what this is. We won't know what it is until it's published, but...
 we would be more than happy to be talking with you. We have felt like we could not be talking with you. But if both parties were talking with you simultaneously, it doesn't seem to me that that's talking, as a lay citizen understands the concept of ex parte, that that would not be that. So it's a question that you might want to consider. First of all, John, I just want to say, because we're not privy to the specific details, but...
 When we were last together, it was the council desire that the parties meet and try to find a mutually acceptable agreement. I think it's highly laudable that you're here today saying that you may have the outline of an agreement, and I compliment you for both sides for pursuing that. I think we need guidance from Lindley, though, as to what role the council could play in bringing this home because we are bound by land use rules.
 So this is a really tricky one, and generally we try not to give you legal advice in a public setting. I think in this particular instance, the answer is yes, it's still an ex parte contact because you have a pending land use proceeding, and the question of a settlement within that land use is clearly relevant to it.
 What you do when you have an ex parte contact, though, is you disclose it. So while the system discourages ex parte contacts, it also provides a remedy for ex parte contacts. So if, on the record today, there were a desire to be communication from the neighborhood association, the thing we would need to do to remedy that is to make sure that at the following hearing that everybody on the commission described...
 what the communication was, what the substance of it was, and when it happened and who it was with. Sometimes it's easier to just avoid those contacts altogether, but I'm going to have to leave that to your discretion.
 well i know commissioner fish and i share the desire for transparency um in fact i am astonished that these discussions have been hap that you're so close to an agreement i did not know that i know that commissioner fish did not know that either um so our staff have been doing a really good job of making sure that we are sealed off from ex parte contacts i would be concerned about um so-called back room or back office discussions that the public is not privy to that the
 The land use process is as open and transparent as it possibly can be. So although I would love to know what the – I'd love to be part of those negotiations, I'm not sure that it's in the public interest for us to do so. And perhaps the best solution is to come to that hearing on the 15th.
 with the understanding that there will then be a public hearing, that there may then be council, there will then be council discussion and there may be amendments or proposed amendments to the binding resolution. Just as I was reluctant or not willing to accept the directive from the Historic Landmarks Commission that the council shall adopt something, the council is elected to make decisions on behalf of the entire city and so I wouldn't
 I can't agree to be bound by a binding to rubber stamp a binding resolution without having had a public hearing and a discussion of it. I think maybe that's the appropriate way to go about it. So let me suggest some things here. One, I agree with the caution and the cautious view in this case of the city attorney about us having contact with parties to a land use case.
 However, there's a resolution that's being proposed here as well, and that's a different animal. And the commissioner in charge who will be filing the resolution, I presume that will be you, Commissioner Fish, but I guess there are options there, ought to be involved with the preparation of that resolution.
 As is obvious, I think, here, the Council is trying really hard to follow the rules about how we do land use cases. And I didn't know that this discussion was underway either. And I don't feel, as I suspect most of us don't feel a need to be engaged.
 in that discussion. But it's really important that that resolution get filed, assuming you get to a point where the neighborhood association and the bureau both agree on the language of a resolution, that get filed early or timely so that the community has a chance to see it and
 develop an opinion about it and then for the public that are here you need to understand a resolution on the council calendar we'll take testimony on that the land use case is essentially done here but for rebuttals but if there's a resolution in front of the portland city council people get to come here and and have their say about that and you will
 So I guess I would try to divide those two questions quite a bit, that I would expect that Commissioner Fish would hear back from these two parties about the language of a resolution that he would work with them to prepare it and file it for the council to consider, and then the public gets to weigh in. And, Mayor, just to clarify, so I think under our rules, the resolution would have to be filed no later than July 9th. Is that right, Carla? That's right.
 Thursday before? Thursday, July 9th? Correct, yes. And, again, since we're in – we're making – this is new territory, I think, for all of us. Mayor, I think you're correct. I would have to file it because it requires a council person to affirmatively file a resolution.
 And I think, though, that my role is largely ministerial, is to review it as to form, not to negotiate new or different terms, just make sure it fits within our form.
 and then transmit that to the council, in effect. I, however, since it wouldn't be part of a land use case, would love to be involved in the making of it. And this is a logistical thing, since it might be difficult for you to get. I don't know how quickly you can get there. The mayor and I are both out at the beginning of August. So August 19th is the more realistic date for a final decision. The plan is that if we're going to
 reach a resolution, then you would be filing it. We would be talking to – I think it would be better for us to be talking to both the Parks Commissioner and the Water Bureau Commissioner if we're going to do that. So you're saying that talking about a resolution is not ex parte. Right. Talking about the land use case that that resolution has to do with would be ex parte. Yeah, and that's a little bit of a fine point, obviously. But it's –
 resolution is in lieu of a condition of approval. Right. I think we can navigate this water. I think you can, too. And I think you hear a commitment that Commissioner Fritz and I will jointly review and file the resolution. And what we're simply saying is the dynamics of the negotiation we can't be privy to because that's outside. But whatever is in the resolution, we can work with you to file. Okay.
 Yes, let me think out loud for a second. This might help. At least it will help me because, again, we are trying to walk through this.
 There is a land use case in front of the City Council, two different appellants, and a set of conditions that were proposed by the Landmarks Commission. The Council is free today or any other time to approve the Landmarks Commission's decision, reject it, or modify it. That will still be true when it comes back to us, whenever that is. In the meantime, if you as a couple of parties want to get together and craft a resolution on the same subject,
 That's okay. And you do that in the light of day, and it happens in this council chamber in terms of people responding to it. And that directs us when we go back to the land use case.
 That's the point of inflection, that when we're in the quasi-judicial role of deciding a land use case, we start and stop that procedure kind of formally as we've done in this case. But a resolution that instructs or informs what we do is a completely separate proposition as long as we maintain that separation. I hope that helps. It helped me anyway. Okay. So my name is Stephanie Stewart, and I'm the land use chair for the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association. And I'd like to...
 weigh in if I could here with a question for you. It's a procedural question. So we have made substantive and meaningful agreements between the two parties. I myself personally am concerned as to what the right legal mechanism is to record these agreements.
 I am personally more comfortable with a land use decision process. I know how it works. And I have seen just enough policymaking to know that that is a process fraught with blind corners. So I'd...
 I would love, if possible, right now to get your feedback as to whether or not you think that the suggestion from the applicant to move our agreements into a resolution and out of the land use decision is an appropriate legal mechanism.
 I think I'll jump into that just to respond. I think if the resolution, because we do things by resolution all the time. We adopted a climate action plan yesterday by resolution. Resolutions aren't just ceremonial documents compared to ordinances. They do direct bureaus to do things.
 And they are binding in the force of law in the sense that they are the council's direction to city agencies to do things or stop doing things. So if we adopt a resolution, just speaking hypothetically, that says the Water Bureau has to do this, this, this, this, and this, that's real and that's binding.
 and therefore they are required to carry out that action as directed by the city council in a resolution. That's my version of what our charter says. And if I might respond to Mr. Stewart and the neighborhood association,
 The challenge with the land use case is that any condition of approval needs to be necessary to meet the approval criteria. It also has to have a reasonable next, anything that we direct to be done has to have a reasonable nexus to the application and the content of it. It also has to have a rough proportionality in terms of the cost. If you were to move forward on a resolution, then in my mind it would
 that would mean that we wouldn't have to be quite so worried about either the nexus or the proportionality because it would be a separate resolution. I hope that helps. I mean, I think it has the full weight of a public decision. Right there. So other points and concerns that you want to get on the table, please. Well, I guess I just want to say, I mean, we're optimistic. We have worked hard.
 We heard a clear direction from almost all of you that you wanted us to talk and to try to work this out. And we took that very seriously. And Water Bureau took it seriously as well. So we've been, as Director Schaaf said, we've had six two-hour meetings in the interim. And, of course, we've also spent a lot of time that was not in those meetings. So we've been working closely.
 very hard to try to reach an agreement and we have reached agreement on some very big issues and we've reached agreement on many of the details but there are still some big issues to be resolved and there are still some details to be resolved so we're we're working hard to bring this to a conclusion that protects the park and the
 functionally from the water bureau's point of view so i think it would be really good if we could test that solution with two of the commissioners not to say make a backroom deal but to test the resolution and its reasonableness um so that we have some better notion because we're for citizens this is very much we're like in a fog bank we're dealing with a
 City bureaus appeal of a city commission's decision to the ruler of both of them, and we're kind of on our own out here not knowing where the fences are or where the pits are that we're going to step into. So it would be really helpful to have some opportunity to test the –
 resolution with the City Council members. Well, it sounds like you've got two willing participants here from the two relevant bureaus.
 that are interested in doing that. And again, I just want to say I appreciate the fact that this has been underway. That's what I expected as mayor, and I think it's what all of us expected would happen. Doesn't mean that you're able to get to yes on a responsible solution, but that you're trying, and we appreciate that. I guess I hope you feel the respect that we have for the work that you've been doing, and that that will get honored here if you are able to reach a responsible agreement.
 Carla, on the 15th, do we have time certain slots that are available? We've reserved the 930 for this item. That's when everybody's in is only in the morning. Is that time still convenient for all the parties? We've discussed it, and we're –
 expecting or hoping that what we would do is one time certain, but we would have two items. One is the resolution. We want to go first with the resolution and then the tentative decision. Mayor, under the circumstances, I think what I would propose is we set over the matter to the 15th, with the understanding that Commissioners Fish and Fritz will review a proposed resolution and file it for consideration and that we'll
 for the on the no file no later than the 9th and And that on the 15th we would further disclose the full extent of any conversation We've had with the parties at that hearing
 I think captures the sense of what I've heard from this. There's no objection. Then that's how we'll proceed. We'll schedule both a public hearing on a resolution and continue the land use appeal until July 15th at 9.15 in the morning. Thank you. 9.30, sorry, jumping the gun. May I ask one quick note?
 Sorry, just one quick clarification. For the purposes of the council clerk, it would be helpful to know how long council would like to set aside since it's not an afternoon. I would set aside an hour or a half or more because there's going to be public testimony. A 9.30 time certain, just to translate that for everyone, means we start at 10. That's right. Do we have something on the Thursday? I'm not here. Both you and the mayor are gone. Right. Let's keep it.
 There's that. That would be a problem. So I think it's, yeah, we're going to try to avoid other business that morning. I'll practice that in what I file or don't file, and maybe others can do likewise. Execs can work that out. Do you think that we can be ready by the 9th?
 I do. I do, too. I think if we're going to be ready, we'll be ready by the 9th. I mean, we're going to, you know, it's a little bit of a, so this is one of what I was talking about, it's a little bit of a gray area. We don't want to promise you that this is done, but we feel confident enough to sit here in front of you today and say we're working very hard. So if it's going to be done, it'll be done by the 9th. I would put that little caveat on it, but I don't, I'm only hedging my bets because I don't want you to,
 think, well, this is completely resolved because it's not. But we're doing our best. Both parties are working hard to get to a resolution that you can live with. The council really appreciates it when we get to a 90% solution that then we get to tweak a little bit.
 I have to say that I am so proud of the city staff and of the neighborhood association for doing what we asked of you and really stepping up under very difficult circumstances. I knew you could do it, and I'm just really excited that we might get to a very historic, pun intended perhaps, outcome of this very difficult and important case. So thank you very much for all the work that you've done.
 Thank you. That will continue this item to July 15th at 9.30 a.m. Thank you. Wow. Okay. Let's take a two-minute break just so we can. Take a two-minute break and then return to the rest of the calendar. We have the afternoon session now. But we said we were doing that at 3.30. Yeah. We did. I think we're resisting until 3.30.
 Bring the council meeting back to order and to return to unfinished business. We have one item left over from the morning calendar and several items left over from the afternoon calendar yesterday. Item 679, I think it's the first.
 679 authorize a grant to central city concern in an amount not to exceed 1 million 716 410 for the provision of treatment readiness services transitional housing and follow-up retention support services to chemically dependent homeless adult chronic arrestees so i know there were questions about this chance to get informed folks here if you have further questions
 We're all set, Mayor. All set. So thank you for being here as resources. I think we're ready to proceed then. Roll call vote, please, on 679. Fish? Mayor, thank you for the one-day setover. I've had a chance to have my questions addressed, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 Fritz. So this is a really important program which goes beyond the Police Bureau, and it was something that the three of us who were here during the previous administration prioritized in very difficult budget times. So I think Commissioner Fish and my concerns voiced yesterday are evidence that we continue to be highly invested in this program. I do have continued concerns about the mix of sober and –
 entry-level care that's being offered under this contract. And so I would like to have some continued discussion, particularly when this contract comes back for reassignment next year. There are...
 I think that the service coordination team approach is hugely important and that we need to continue to have all five of us involved in making sure that it goes in the direction that we want it to do so. In the meantime, aye.
 I appreciate the chance to have the discussion. I just want to say, Ed, I'm glad you're here. You're a great partner, and we depend on great partners for these programs to work. I think what we need to be doing in a number of areas, homelessness, mental health, youth at risk,
 is find partnerships that work and do more, take them to scale. So I'm very interested not only in maintaining the service coordination team, but expanding it because it works. So I want to hear from the Bureau about that, from the management of the team, from our partners.
 you know the definition of insanity is to keep doing the same thing over and over again expecting a different result so if we're doing things that are different and working well again in any of these intergovernmental issues that are also dealing with long-term intractable problems like drug addiction and homelessness and youth at risk to name three um
 Let's again seize on things that are working and do more of them. So I'm very interested not just in hearing back from you about how the program is working and how our contractors are performing, but what we could do more of with more resources. I expect that this city is going to have the ability to invest more in things that we need to invest in, whether it's capital improvements or programs that work.
 So hopefully that's a clear signal to you that this is something that everyone on the council is very focused on. Finally, I've had a chance, I know, I believe you have, Commissioner Fritz, maybe you have as well, Nick and Dan, but
 Steve, I don't think you have yet. If you haven't had a chance to go to a service coordination team graduation, oh, yeah, you have. It's amazing, and I encourage all of us to do that. So please let us know, Lieutenant Hager and Rachel, what next one that comes up. I'm certainly interested in attending because it really helps us see, again, the people that these programs serve and how they work.
 So thank you all for great work. Aye. Mayor, may I make one more comment? I apologize for going over the end. And that I was reminded as I was having discussions that we're talking about people in a program. So the discussion at council yesterday was about the economics and the Medicaid and such.
 when we do a transition from one provider to another, we're talking about a therapist being a different therapist for somebody who's in the program. And so I think it's really important
 It was a good reminder to me, because I've become a policymaker now, and I think in policy terms, that we also need to be thinking about the individual people who are part of the program, and how are we going to structure programs that work for those particular people, as well as the long-term health of the program. So I appreciate that Central City Concern is obviously very mindful about that. You have skilled therapists who will help today's cohort.
 make the transition to a different provider. But we all know how difficult it is when a beloved physician or therapist or dentist terminates their practice. And so I just wanted to remind us all of that. Yes, good point. Thank you all very much. Okay, let's move on to the regular agenda items that were postponed starting with 690. Okay.
 Revise home ownership and home repair financial assistance guidelines for the Portland Housing Bureau. Mr. Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. These proposed revisions are for the Housing Bureau's Home Ownership and Home Repair Program guidelines, and they reflect the need for greater flexibility for home ownership subsidies in order to successfully achieve program outcomes in the current real estate market, particularly in north and northeast Portland.
 Loan terms for homeownership subsidies are being modified to reflect the significant levels of assistance required to create homeownership opportunities for low-income families in the current market. The affordability period has been extended from 15 to 30 years, and provisions for loan forgiveness of homeownership assistance loans have been removed. Okay. Thank you very much. Does anyone want to speak on this item? If not, roll call on resolution. Okay.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? I appreciate the explanation that just came. I request that whenever we have changes, if we could please get strikeout and underlying versions routinely, because it's very difficult when you're just presented with new guidelines to know what's different from the previous ones. So with Commissioner Saltzman's explanation, I'm happy to vote aye. Hills? Aye.
 Thank you, Commissioner. And I'm going to be interested in seeing what more we can do, not just with the funds that you and I have earmarked in the interstate urban rural area, but elsewhere for trying to give people more home ownership opportunities. We've concentrated a lot in affordable housing, on affordable rental housing, but I think the ability of people to buy homes in the city is another affordability issue that we want to focus on more. So thanks for attending to that as well. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, 691. Authorized consortium agreement with the City of Gresham and Multnomah County to participate in the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Home Investment Partnership Program to receive affordable housing funds. Mr. Salsman. Thank you, Mayor. Portland, I'm sorry, funding received by the Portland Home Consortium is allocated to three individual jurisdictions.
 based on their share of poverty, Portland's share of poverty, and the home resources is approximately 79% of the funding received. For fiscal 15-16, the consortium received almost $3 million, and Portland's share was $2.2 million. And the other jurisdictions are the city of Gresham and Multnomah County. Great. Thank you very much. Does anyone want to speak on this ordinance?
 Then a roll call vote, please. It's an emergency ordinance. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. 692. Amend the tax increment financing set aside for affordable housing policy to extend the deadline for Portland Housing Bureau to conduct a thorough review of the policy from June 30, 2015 to September 30, 2015. Mr. Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mayor. The TIF set-aside policy is supposed to be reviewed every five years, and we're simply asking. There's been a lot of activity recently around URA updates and set-aside policy, and we feel that we could give you a better report if we had until September 30th of this year rather than 10 days ago. Commissioner, I'm going to support this with just one caveat. I would hope on this body that
 that we are not requiring any member of Council to bring an ordinance to get an extension of this limited duration.
 And I would hope that we could do this informally, simply through disclosure, rather than have to put your Bureau through the task of filing an ordinance on something as ministerial as this. And you have every reason to ask for, and you have every claim on a very brief additional amount of time to prepare this report. I would encourage us to do these kinds of things informally without the necessity of an ordinance. Well, thank you. Any other comments? Anyone want to speak on this item?
 Then it comes back for second reading next week, 693. Authorize 20 subrecipient contracts totaling $16,777,246 for services in support of ending homelessness and providing affordable housing. Commissioner Salzman. Thank you, Ms. Mayor. This will provide over $16 million of a broad continuum of assistance and services for low-income homeowners, renters, homeless individuals, and families.
 and those at risk at homelessness. This master ordinance creates efficiencies for staff and council by consolidating the multiple contract ordinances into a single ordinance for council. The strategy has been employed successfully by the Bureau for the past several years. We're urged adoption. Questions? I just want to, oh, just a comment, Mayor. Sure. I know we're not going to vote on this until next week, but...
 The Exhibit A that's attached is an honor roll of mission-driven nonprofits that are core partners of the city in advancing our goals towards reducing and ultimately ending homelessness. And we are talking about a mix of funds, including general fund, federal funds, and then funds that are competitive funds.
 And if anyone wants to sort of see the roadmap of how this community on an annual basis attempts to tackle this enormous challenge of homelessness, Exhibit A is about as good a document as I've seen that lays out all of our great partners who are working on the front lines of making a difference.
 Questions? Thanks, Mayor. I greatly appreciate the consolidated approach. How does a nonprofit apply to have some of this funding? If next year when we get to this point there's another omnibus ordinance, how would a new nonprofit apply to become a partner with the Housing Bureau? I believe it's all competitive, but I can double-check on that and get back to you. That we put out a solicitation.
 Yeah, if you would, the one that's missing here for me is Right to Dream 2, and I know that they're going to be entering to provide a different kind of service from some of the others, but you've also got some...
 terrific partnerships, for instance, with the Community Alliance of Tenants. They're not direct providers. So, yeah, I'd appreciate knowing their process. Okay. I'll check and get back to you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Yes. We have one person signed up. Barry Joe Stull. Come on up, Mr. Stull. Good afternoon. Thanks. I'll share with you what I shared with the County Board of Commissioners earlier today. I'm wearing my hat because I have a neuropathic pain condition. It's
 And light is kind of toxic at points, so it's just annoying, so the reason I took it out is because I respect you. I took it off rather. I could very well be the poster child of the city of Portland for a lot of things that are wrong. And I'm going to talk about how as a person with a disability, it's a spinal cord injury. That's like saying that flaming heap at the bottom of the cliff is a car that had a brake problem.
 Came home from work and was locked out of my apartment. My landlord destroyed $20,000 worth of my property in 2006 You've all heard this and I know you've all done absolutely nothing about it. So I don't think we need to have any more Discussion I went through a horrible horrible experience It was actually criminal and I can tell you right now that the reason I survived Because I'm highly educated and
 I'm in the top 5% in IQ tests, the way we give them in this society, which doesn't measure my musical talent that I have. And I come from a working class background and people that work really hard. My grandfather survived a coal mining accident and he still ended a 50-year career as a coal miner while he had all of his other jobs. So what I'm saying is, down the street...
 Mr. Bradley, working for Mr. Shrunk, the District Attorney at the time, Mr. Bradley said that they do not enforce perjury in landlord-tenant actions. And I happened to be in a lawyer's office when one lawyer said to the other, I can't believe the landlords can get away with saying anything and the court accepts it, and if the tenant does one thing, it's any...
 a hint of some kind of impropriety, the way they serve the document, the court finds with the landlord. Okay, so the problem we have here isn't a housing problem. It's a social justice problem. And I went through transition projects. They approved my housing plan. They kicked me out. I tested positive for THC. It was actually Marinol, a dronabinol. It's a
 federal approved drug that my neurologist gave me. And then they said my housing plan didn't work anymore. And I filed a grievance, and that grievance was never processed. And one of the persons that got a copy of that was Dorian Binder, who we named the men's shelter in the Bud Clark Commons after. So I'm going to tell you all right now,
 I do know about how heat rises and cold sinks because it is a function of gravity. I do know how people become perpetually chronically homeless in this city. I am one of them. I am housed with a HUD grant as a person with a disability that meets the definition of chronically homeless.
 I'm telling you, I became chronically homeless and endured chronic homelessness in this city because the nonprofit affordable housing landlord, no doubt, has 4066 Northeast Grand vacant right now. He's still partnering with them. You're still partnering with them. Why are we keeping affordable housing vacant and awarding these types of things? We have to look upstream and see who's throwing the people in the river and not just deal with an angry person like myself that comes out wet.
 appreciate that thank you thank you very much and i'm available mayor i would like you to consult with me on this i want this to be a two-way street and not me endlessly saying the same thing take action you need answers i have quite a few you should start asking me some questions thank you thank you thank you very much okay anyone else want to speak on this item if not then it's a non-emergency ordinance comes back on second reading next week 694.
 Confirm the Portland Streetcar and Portland Aerial Tram participation in the Orange Line Grand Opening Celebration on September 12, 2015. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, this is a joyous occasion. We are going to confirm that we will be participating in the numerous festivities on September 12th.
 which, alas, will not include my suggestion that Neil McFarland wear a cowboy hat and lasso people out of single-occupancy vehicles and drag them out of the Orange Lounge. I thought it would be nice to tie in with the Pendleton Roundup. But all sorts of other cool things will happen. Catherine? I'm going to check through this.
 Good afternoon. Thank you. With me is Anne Becklin, the Director of Community Affairs of TriMet, to tell you more about the September 12 celebration for the opening of the Orange Line, the opening of the Tilcum Crossing Bridge, which of course means that a streetcar can also close the loop and circumnavigate the central city. We're very excited to participate in the celebration.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm very happy to be here to talk about, give you just a taste of what we're doing for the Max Orange Line opening. Neil showed me a very beautiful tie he received from you yesterday. And make sure he was properly quaffed for that. He's very happy about that. We are 78 days today. May be happy with it, but the test will be whether he actually wears it. You will see that on him quite a bit this summer, I predict.
 We're 78 days out from our Max Line Grand Opening on September 12th. And as some of you may know, we kicked off the Catch the Orange campaign on May 15th with a spectacular first ride out to Park Avenue in Clackamas. About 500 people attended with us. We have a very big...
 event, gamut of events. We've got 27 events over five months leading up to that opening day. We've got talks and walks. We've got lectures on sustainability and bridge building. We have preview rides and safety rides and, of course, our major public celebrations. I want to say that our slate of events has been entirely funded by the generosity of local corporate sponsors and organizations. We're very grateful for that.
 But why are we doing so much? We realize that this is not just the celebration in our community of the latest great investment and partnership that we've demonstrated among our partners, but it's also one of the greatest teachable moments we have in our community for having people experience what an investment like this can bring, how the advances in sustainability, redevelopment,
 education, ability to leverage partnerships has all culminated in the opening of the MAX Orange Line. So we're out to make a point however we can reach people. We've been thrilled with the response to date. We've toured over 2,000 schoolchildren, took school safety rides as part of our program in May and early June. They loved being on the bridge. What better way to get them to be transit supporters and users than to train them early?
 The Streetcar and Max Orange Line are offering six preview rides a week. We expect to tour thousands of people on both lines between now and early August. Currently, we're experiencing packed cars and cheers when we get to the ends of the line. Last week, over 200 people turned out for a transit on tap where we had a talk about the kind of archaeological finds we discovered underneath Max Construction. Okay.
 It's really interesting how transit and beer go together for the best kind of night meeting, and you can really connect with people in those kind of forums.
 There is our Catch the Orange website that is on your screen right now. If you scroll down, it shows the entire list of our events going through opening day. I'd like to point out just a few of them that you may be interested. On July 20th, we're going to host Congressman Earl Blumenauer for Transit on Tap at the new Haslow and 8th development, which is served by both Streetcar and MAX.
 Our big public events kick off with the 20th anniversary of Bridge Pedal on August 9th. We'll do Bridge Pedal in the morning. They're expecting to max out their attendance at 20,000 that day. It will be the first opportunity for the public to ride over the Telecom Crossing. And in the afternoon, the City of Portland is partnering with TriMet and Providence to host an open day on the bridge so that people get to experience it even if they didn't participate.
 pay to ride on bridge pedal. We're also doing a firework spectacular that will be blown off of both sides of the bridge on Saturday night, August 22nd. We expect thousands of people to show up for that. Then on September 10th, as we demonstrated earlier this week,
 We're calling the first light. We'll light the aesthetic lighting on the bridge permanently at that time. We have a 9-11 celebration planned for Friday night, a memorial ceremony that will happen in our town of Milwaukee along the alignment. And then on September 12th, we have a very grand opening day planned. We've –
 Our partners in the celebration, the Grand Ronde Tribe, are going to escort the first MAX train over the Telecom Crossing as we come up to the ceremony. So we've got a very big palette of events. We know, and we're also, this is the first time since 1998 that we've made MAX, all MAX, and bus free on that day. We're expecting over 80,000 people to come celebrate with us.
 with the inclusion of streetcar and the tram, we know that it is going to be a party around the entire central business district and all the way out all of our lines. And so we're very grateful for the partnership that you've demonstrated, both on the project and in this momentous community celebration. Thank you very much. Thank you. Questions? I just want to observe that last weekend my daughter and I took a long bike ride and we ended up.
 following the Orange Line from someplace in Brooklyn in, and then we went to where the Orange Line bisects the Oregon Rail Heritage Museum. And the thing that struck us is how great the bike infrastructure is integrated into all the work that's been done along the Orange Line. And it's pretty neat.
 It's pretty amazing. We tagged the total at $65 million worth of bike and pedestrian improvements along the Orange Line because of the participation and the way we were able to leverage all of the partners' investment in it. Yeah, that's our new favorite route from our neighborhood to the Central East Side because it's such a straight shot and a nice run. Can you tell us a little bit about the community involvement in the 12th? Are we having high school bands that...
 Are we using, you know? Well, per your suggestion, both the symphony and the Royal Rosarians will be participating in the opening ceremony. And we have major stages at Lincoln, which is the big line. They'll be programmed all day.
 Down by the bridge, we expect very heavy crowds. The Grand Ronde is going to set up a Native American village in the area adjacent to the bridge. OHSU is sponsoring a station and opening their new collaborative life sciences building to the public.
 Once you cross the bridge, OMSI and Opera and all classical and the Oregon Rail History, Oregon Historical Rail Facility are going to have major events there. Our station at Clinton is also going to be really fun, like the gateway to that neighborhood there, that newly revitalized neighborhood there.
 Then you follow on out, you go along. People will have an opportunity to visit some of our facilities along 17th Avenue. Then the city of Milwaukee and Clackamas County are sponsoring events at their respective stations. It's going to be a very big day. And we'll have all of that on our site. Also, Pamplin Media is going to publish an insert that will provide a guide for everyone that plans to come and talk about all the events that are happening that day.
 Maybe even the city's golf course in Eastmoreland could get involved. We're giving away orange teas at the Bybee station. Good. I think it's probably the only municipal golf course in the country where you can walk off the light rail train and play golf. Right. So they ought to make the most of that with Travel Portland in the future. Right. Great work. Other questions? Yes.
 I just wanted to say that the first ride was remarkable in many ways, but perhaps the most was that the governor, who was instrumental in getting funding for the Orange Line when she was in the legislature, was there, and she had to have been the happiest governor in America. That was a real boost. Good work. Thank you both. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this resolution? Thank you.
 If not, then roll call, please. Fish? Look forward to joining you. Thank you. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? This is going to be great. Aye.
 I was honored to represent the city at the joining together of the two sides of the Telecom Crossing, so I'm also looking forward to this event. I have to say I'm very pleased to see that it's scheduled on a day that the Oregon Ducks are away, so I may actually wear orange, although I don't usually during football season. Aye. Thanks very much. It's going to be fun. Aye. Well done. Okay. $6.95. $6.95.
 Amend contract with TriMet related to the operations and maintenance of the Portland streetcar system and increase funding to $7,271,090. Commissioner Novick. More cause for celebration. TriMet's contributing more money towards the operations of the streetcar.
 Yeah. All right. This amendment is our annual amendment, whereby TriMet and the city of Portland exhibit their agreement on the funding for the upcoming fiscal year. So for fiscal year 15-16, the amount of TriMet funding going to Portland streetcar operations will be more than half. It'll be $7.2 million. Great. That's great. Questions? Anyone want to speak on this ordinance?
 And a roll call vote, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? I'm a long way. Aye. 696. Amend contract with Portland Streetcar, Inc. for Portland Streetcar Operations Assistance. Commissioner Novick? Colleagues, this spring, PVOT worked with procurement on a competitive solicitation for streetcar operations assistance services. In other words, the kind of services that have historically been provided by Portland Streetcar, Inc.
 Evaluate side to open it that up to competitive process evaluations have been completed and as of last Friday June 19th the seven-day protest period ended However, the existing contract expires on June 30th and the purpose of this ordinance is to provide direct and interrupted services Well, we complete contract negotiations for the streetcar rink. Do I have that right Catherine you do? Thank you. Okay Thank you questions for Catherine I want to speak on this item roll call vote, please. I
 Bish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. And 697? Vacate a portion of an unnamed street north of North Shmere Road subject to certain conditions and reservations. Second reading, roll call. Bish? I hope someday that someone puts a bagel joint at North Shmere Road. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? And I hope that it will also have egg creams. Aye. Bish?
 Mr. Fritz. Aye. Hayles. Aye. 698. Authorize a contract with Eco Northwest to fund an economic impact study of the Delta Park Recreation Complex for an amount not to exceed $48,000. Mr. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Adoption of this ordinance will fund a study to conduct an economic survey of the Delta Park Recreation Complex, which is East Delta Park, the Portland International Raceway, and Heron Lakes Golf Course.
 We've invested heavily in these regional facilities over the year, and the study will help us understand how to enhance the performance of these facilities through integrated investments and targeted investments. In addition, it may help us, hopefully, to figure out how to use
 recover lost dollars in the forms of spillover spending that has seeped across the Washington, Oregon border into Clark County, and to support more jobs in North Portland. Eco Northwest is a leading company in this area of research. They have worked as a vendor for the city of Portland many times in the past.
 And now I'd like to turn the presentation over to Trang Lam, who has the almost impossible, but she's doing it very well, task of filling Todd Luskorden's shoes. Welcome, Trang. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Trang Lam. I'm the new property and business development manager at Porton Parks and Recreation. I have with me Frank James, the property management specialist here, who will be managing the contract for us.
 I'm here today to request approval of a contract to fund an economic impact study of the Delta Park Recreational Complex for an amount not to exceed $48,000. The three facilities that Commissioner Fritz mentioned total over 700 acres of park's asset. So it's important for us to take a look at these assets and see how we can find new opportunities. So now I'm going to turn it over to Frank to tell you a little bit more about the contract and the study that we're doing.
 Sure. Thank you. The contract fee actually is a pretty small investment to make, considering everything else that we've put into those facilities. And it's going to be designed to go ahead and bring the facilities to a level that hopefully we'll be that much more pleased with.
 As you probably know, Eco Northwest is one of the best vendors to do this kind of work, because they've actually had previous experience with at least PIR in the past. They've done a couple of studies of PIR back in, I believe it was 2006 and 2007. So, you know, they have the kind of background that will allow them to go ahead and be that much more efficient with the kind of work that they're going to be doing with this contract.
 There's a great potential to substantially enhance the performance of the facilities as we try to leverage their unique uses with the kind of targeted investments that can emerge from the kind of data that is going to be provided by the study. And the study will also assist in determining how potential enhancements at the three facilities may increase visitor counts, better meet the needs of local residents, and ultimately support more jobs in North Portland.
 Now, the Portland Development Commission conducted a competitive solicitation process, and they awarded flexible services contracts to several local vendors to perform studies. Parks believes that PDC's procurement process meets the intent of the Portland City Code, of the Professional, Technical, and Expert Manual, by maximizing competition and providing opportunities to local vendors.
 Excuse me one second please. That's the worst thing that could have happened. That's the worst thing that could happen. There's so much worse in here. I have to apologize for that. The worst thing that happened in your day is that you did okay. I meant to shut it off before I took my seat but neglected to do so.
 So getting back to my point, PDC's process, we believe, meets the intent of the Portland City Code of 5.68.015 of the PTE manual by maximizing competition and providing opportunities to local professional, technical, and expert service providers.
 And consequently, it should facilitate the awarding of this contract. So we'd hope that you'd agree with what we've had to say about this matter and authorize it. So this, I have some questions that are obviously supportive of this kind of inquiry, but just want to think out loud a little bit. So we're looking at both the...
 sort of enterprise functions, i.e., the golf course and the PIR, which is maybe the PIR is a little bit of a hybrid, and the more traditional community-serving functions of the soccer fields and the softball complex and so on, right? We're looking at all of those in an economic study. Yes. And so obviously there are…
 there are different cost recovery objectives for each of those you know this is a familiar topic because we in effect have rolled back the clock on our cost recovery objectives on our community centers in part with the action that the city council took in this budget to make recreation more free and available for teenagers and community centers across the city so you know there are policy questions um
 attendant to the analysis, which maybe the analysis is intended to inform. But I'm just curious about how you see those playing out. In other words, we may want to make less money on the softball complex so it can be more used by more teams. How do we finesse those issues, or how does this study intersect with that set of policy decisions that the five of us need to weigh? Sure. Sure.
 So, I think, you know, the study will help us figure out what the opportunities might be if there are other uses out there that can actually be complementary to what's currently with the softball fields and the soccer fields and things like that for the community purpose. From a cost recovery perspective, we'll also need to take a look at how those same assets can actually be used for tournaments and things like that so we can bring some revenues in to support the community efforts. Okay.
 So there's a balance between those two elements, and we'll be taking a look at those policies and how we can balance those two to provide those community amenities while figuring out how do we bring in some revenues to support that.
 I know we have a parks board, and you may be reviewing this work with them as you proceed. But we also have a number of user groups there, whether it's the Portland Softball Association or the race car aficionados.
 that love the PIR and golfers, and we have a golf advisory committee and so on. Are you going to involve some of those user groups, at least in reviewing what you're finding? We definitely will. I think this is the first step to understanding what the opportunities are. As we use this study, we'll take a look at what,
 might be able to be implemented. So we'll use this study to talk to those user groups and say, here's the variety of opportunities that we see. Let's talk about what the priorities are out here. So following up on the mayor's questions, because this is a very familiar conversation, and I'm just delighted, Commissioner Fritz, you're launching this. And I'm sure this is going to be part of the analysis, but let me just throw out some ideas that I hope will come back to us.
 The first is what are some of the public-private opportunities to complete the turfing of all the fields at Delta Park? And I have to tell you, driving by Delta Park the other day and seeing four fields with turf and lights made my heart sing because in addition to all the obvious benefits, it opens the door to 24-7, 12-months-a-year use. And one of the problems with Delta –
 park was we lost all those hours in the evenings and in the rainy season. So that's just a huge win for recreational sports. So that's one. How could we leverage the other fields? Number two, how could we capitalize on the parking at PIR when it's not in use for race events?
 Number three, how might we better create connectivity between those three venues and the Mac stop? Because one of the challenges is, great, there's a Mac stop there now that I-5 has become a parking lot when you need to get there in the afternoon. But it's a little hard to get from there to the venue. So how might we –
 facilitate that connectivity, including potentially a bus or a shuttle or something. And the fourth, since you said economic development and the mayor emphasized enterprise, you know, I've spent so much of my life over the last 15 years, and I'm doing it again with a youngster, on the I-5 corridor going to places north and south that have a delta park that's fully built out.
 And because they have a Delta Park fully built out, they have weekend jamborees where people from all over the place come, and it's just a mammoth gathering. And it could be lacrosse, soccer, you name the sport. And what it means is that all the hotels in the area get filled up. And so I hope we're also looking at, since you mentioned PDC and economic development,
 What's the potential economic impact of fully utilizing Delta Park? And I'm guessing it means filling all the hotels in Jansen Beach and in the surrounding area or maybe leveraging more hotels there because I can tell you again as a soccer dad, the ideal situation is to have a world-class venue with a hotel walking distance. That's heaven. And we are losing so much business to the north, and I can tell you southern Washington is all over this.
 And we have a chance to be best in class. So I hope that's an integral part of what you're looking at. Thank you. Good points. Other questions? Great. Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Then let's take a roll call vote, please. I enthusiastically support this study and am grateful that Commissioner Fritz is leading this effort. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Just as parks programming is more than fun and games, parks facilities is an economic asset, which we need to make sure of how to make maximum use to benefit the taxpayers. Thank you for your work. Aye. Hales? Aye.
 I agree with that statement, but I also, of course, and I think we all do, agree with the need to balance that need for revenue against all those other considerations, and that's why I brought up the groups, the four of us who've had
 The chance to be parks commissioner all have park stories, but one of my favorite is that when we put together the 1994 parks bond measure, it included some funds for the creation of that softball complex. But meanwhile, some years before, the softball association had partnered with Commissioner Lindberg to fund that complex in the levee that was shut down by measure five.
 So they had their hopes up, and then they had their hopes dashed. And I'm struggling to remember his name because it was 20 years ago. Kerry Thorpe was the president of the Portland Softball Association, and he'd gotten an amendment to their bylaws passed after the collapse of the earlier levy strategy that every softball player in Portland would pay a $15 surcharge.
 and it would go into a fund to help pay for this complex. This had been in place for like seven or eight years. And he also inserted a provision in their bylaws that that bylaws provision could only be changed by a unanimous vote of the softball association board. And then he stood on the board to keep an eye on the growing pot of money. And by the time the 94 bond measure came along, it had grown to half a million dollars.
 So that's why we built a million-dollar softball complex at Delta Park. So some of these partners literally have a lot of investment in these facilities, and it's important to check in with them, too. Good luck. Look forward to seeing the results. Hi. Thank you. Thank you. $6.99. $6.99.
 Authorize Portland Parks and Recreation to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the Portland Development Commission to fund the Charles Jordan Community Center roof repair project. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. This ordinance is to approve the IGA, the intergovernmental agreement with the Portland Development Commission. Mayor, thank you very much to you and your staff for making this get done quickly. The Charles Jordan Community Center is a popular venue.
 typically hosting 50 to 60 events per year. It's one of the few centers to offer five-day-per-week drop-in activities, and the gym roof has been leaking for the past two years, creating safety concerns and impacting programming. We need to replace the roof in order to continue the excellent programming at this facility. The project has the added benefit of
 improving worker safety through installation of roof safety anchors and ladder across the roof, consistent with OSHA standards. Construction is scheduled to begin July 1st, so that's why it's an emergency ordinance with an anticipated completion date of later this fall. Introducing Kia Selly, the Parks Planning Development and Asset Manager.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. I'm here today to request City Council approval of an intergovernmental agreement between Portland Parks and Recreation and the Portland Development Commission for the repair of the Charles Jordan Community Center roof in the amount of $603,000. Located within the interstate corridor urban renewal area, the Charles Jordan Community Center is a hub of activity in our community, as Commissioner Fritz described. Thank you.
 I would just add that on a daily basis, I have witnessed that it provides not only a place for children to play, but also a place for a lot of kids to do homework in a very safe environment. The roof over the gym has been leaking for two years, and this has really impacted community programming. So we conducted recently a third-party review of the roof by professional roof consultants.
 They recommended that we replace the roof and provided a few options, and we have now, of course, made the decision to replace the roof based upon their expertise. The design has been completed, and the project has already been bid for construction. The successful bidder is Interstate Sheet Metal, Inc., and with approval of this intergovernmental agreement, we're actually going to start work next week, as Commissioner Fritz described, and we are thankful that it's particularly dry right now and warm. It's perfect weather for roofing.
 Just a note, you probably already know this, but the Portland Development Commission, their board actually approved the IGA yesterday with an eighth amendment to the interstate urban renewal area to allow for investment in a public building. So this is the next step in our process. And thank you. If you have any questions, I'm happy to answer them. Thank you, Kia. Questions? Yes.
 anyone want to speak on this item i would expect that community members would want to know if this is going to affect any of the programming will the center have to be closed as part of the repairs the gym will need to be closed during repairs that's correct so for most of the summer the gym will be closed but it will be reopened in the fall for community programming this is actually a kind of low season for the gym right now so this is the perfect time both from a weather perspective and from a community programming perspective
 for us to do the work. But there will be some customer impacts. Meanwhile, those kids can go cool off in the Dishman pool, assuming we can get them there. Right. Thank you. They can actually cool off in the park adjacent to Charles Jordan, too. Yeah, that's right. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Roll call, then, please. Thank you.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thanks to Key and the Parks team. Aye. Hales? Very much so, and I appreciate the Portland Development Commission being a partner to the Parks Bureau, as they should, and also that this is another example of their commitment to equity, so I appreciate Patrick Quinton's cooperative creativity. Aye. 700? Aye.
 amend Portland Parks and Recreation's Smoke and Tobacco-Free Parks Policy Enforcement Strategy. Second reading. Roll call. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. The Smoky Man starts in Portland Parks on July 1st, and I very much appreciate everybody's support of this amendment to make the enforcement more reasonable. Aye. Hales. Aye.
 Thank you. We're adjourned. Were you inhaling something? Not yet. Not yet.