Council will please come to order. Welcome to City Hall. Carla, how are you? I'm good, thank you. Carla, for the record, I just want to say that last week when I called in on a particular vote and I made apparently a lame effort of humor in saying that I was calling in from the former Soviet Union,
 where I was watching soccer. I actually never left my apartment, and I was watching soccer on television, so I regret if I misled anybody. But I am hoping to be in France, I think next year, the year after, for the Women's World Cup, because my daughter is, like, poised to get some tickets. So...
 Carly, you want to kick us off? Yes, I'll do the roll call. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Fish. Here. Well, welcome, everybody. We have a lot to cover today. The mayor is out, so the council president, that means me, will be serving as the presiding officer today.
 We have a tradition of beginning every meeting by having our council read the rules of the chamber, and I'll ask you to do that first. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. So let me do a little housekeeping just so everyone understands the run of the show today.
 First, with respect to our agenda, colleagues, the auditor has asked that Council Item 703, which is a time certain for 10-15, be set over for two weeks for a time certain. Carla, is that possible? Do we have a time certain two weeks, either Wednesday or Thursday? Yes, they'll be 10-30 a.m. on July 18th. Would you please read Council Item 703, and I'll formally set it over? All right.
 703, initiate foreclosure action on four properties for the collection of delinquent city liens placed against the properties. Without objection, that will be set over for two weeks, time certain at 10.
 $10.30. $10.30. Thank you, Carla. Yes. In addition, on our consent agenda, the Mayor's Office has asked that Council Item 706 be returned to his office. Carla, would you please read 706? Authorized settlement in the sum of $25,965 in the Tyler S. Bechtel v. City of Portland et al. lawsuit. Without objection, that will be returned to the Mayor's Office.
 A couple other things. As we gather this morning, we've just received news that the Supreme Court has issued its long-awaited decision in Janus. For those of you who have been following this case, this is, in my view, a significant blow to workers' rights, which sweeps aside 40 years of settled law at the federal level. Notably, the case was decided 5-4, which means Neil Gorsuch was the deciding vote.
 And for those of you who followed this matter a couple years ago, Mr. Gorsuch occupies a seat that was effectively stolen from President Obama, withheld from the President, and was given to his successor. I want to just acknowledge that the Council has previously issued a resolution of solidarity with our labor partners, and I want to thank and acknowledge Commissioner Udaly, who took the initiative to bring that forward.
 So what we're going to do today is we're going to begin with communications. Each person who we call will have the customary three minutes to speak on any topic of their choosing. We will then vote on the consent agenda, and then we'll move to the regular agenda. It looks like we have a pretty thin calendar, so I expect that somewhere around 11 o'clock we should be concluding our council deliberations. Following the morning session, I will take a five-minute recess.
 And then we will reconvene informally for the purpose of hearing a panel of concerned citizens address the issue of ICE and the President's policy of separating children from their families at the border. That particular part of today's agenda, again, an informal process, will be chaired by Commissioner Eudaly.
 With that, Carla, I think we're ready to move to communications. Would you please call item number 697? A request of Dorothy Carol Holland to address council regarding social justice and housing. Is Ms. Holland present? Present. Please come forward. Welcome. All we need is your name, and you have three minutes, and thank you for joining us. My name is Dorothy Holland, and I live in...
 housing project building now for Home Forward. And next year, our building is going to be coming under HUD for project-based. Now, according to their rules, they would come under HUD, and Ben Carson is putting forward a 300% rent hike for HUD tenants. Now,
 We come under the voucher system in that project area. And then people like me who are older citizens and on a very fixed income, they won't be able to live in the buildings. They'll have to go somewhere else. And the only somewhere else is out on the street. And so what do we do? And I'm requesting that you don't.
 or talk to someone who is actually in power, power, like the mayor and so forth, to not pass this bill, you know, or talk to people in power and try to ask them not to pass this bill because we don't have any other place to go.
 Ms. Holland, thank you very much. As you noted, the mayor also serves as the housing commissioner.
 Because you've already filled out a communications request and you've listed your phone number and your email address, this information will be referred to the mayor's housing liaison, and you will get a response this week to your concern. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for joining us. And then the second thing I would like to talk about, and then that would probably be it, is...
 Well, three things actually. The second one is our management system in Home Forward. They don't seem to be getting good managers, and their managers treat us like we're second-class citizens.
 And also like we're crazy and we don't know what we're talking about when we try to communicate with them and tell them what is actually going on in the building that they don't know about. And so, you know, I don't know what to do. We've gone crazy.
 As far as I could, you know, and I have no idea of how to address that problem. Ms. Holland, you're also at the right place because the city nominates and appoints a number of board members of what's now called Home Forward.
 So that also will be included in a referral to the mayor's office. I would note that your earlier concern about Dr. Carson and the decision to raise rents in federally funded facilities and to also make changes in the HUD Section 8 program, those are changes that are generally opposed by the Oregon congressional delegation. We happen to have two champions in the Senate, as you know, Wyden and Merkley, who will be opposing those changes.
 Again, though, your concerns specifically will be given to the mayor's housing liaison, and you will get a response this week. Great. And then the very last thing I want to talk about is I live in the northwest part of Portland, and
 And it used to be really, really nice, and you could get by on the sidewalks. But now we have so many homeless people that are actually camping out on our narrow sidewalks that you can't get around them. And you ask them politely to move, and they get belligerent.
 So you have to either go backwards and try to go a block around them to try to avoid a bad situation. And it's getting to where you can't go to the grocery store anymore. Ms. Holland, thank you very much. And, again, I will ensure that you get a response to your three inquiries this week. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you for joining us.
 Carla, would you please read Council Item 698? Request of Susan Mader to address Council regarding social justice and housing. She's not here. All right. She's not able to join us. Could you please read Council Item 699? Request of Thomas Goetz to address Council regarding social justice and housing.
 Is Mr. Goetz present? No, he's not here either. Okay. Could you please read Council Item 700? Request of Jacqueline Jackson to address Council regarding social justice and housing. Not here. Ms. Jackson's not here. Okay. Would you please read Council Item 701? Request of Lou Church to address Council regarding social justice and housing. Mr. Church, welcome. Good morning. Good morning.
 Nick, Amanda, Dan, and Chloe. My name's Lou Church. Currently I'm organizing for the new chapter of Portland Gray Panthers. And I was asked by a minister who's working in our coalition to ask a couple procedure questions. I have two versions. One's pretty short, like Dorothy did. One's a bit longer. I think it's about five minutes. This is Mark Knutson. He's working on Measure 43.
 Specifically asked, there's a personal story that I want to do, but it takes about five minutes. And it's fine if you all say no. Lou, let me just be clear. Our rule is three minutes. So whatever you want, you have a full three minutes. Mark just asked me to ask that. That's fine, Nick. Thanks. That can be put in the record if you'd like, if he has something. No, you have copies. Okay. Yeah. It's the first article from the Tribune in favor of Measure 43. So it looks like there's two minutes left for the alternate version.
 Let's see, make sure I'm in the right place. I wanted to thank Dorothy for coming. Sally and Dorothy and I were planning to do a radio program last week on housing and social justice. Dorothy was in the hospital and wasn't able to come, so I'm glad she was able to come this morning. I also appreciate the comments, although we supported Julia DeGraw in the primary, that Nick made initially on the political issues, both for Labour against Gorsuch and the other comment as well. Thank you.
 I want to thank Ted, who's not here, the mayor, for having Portland police not try to evict protesters and occupiers with ICE. It looks like outside there's 20 federal DHS cops today, this morning. And I also appreciate, Chloe, sounds like you actually got to go visit Occupy physically yourself. There are developments, of course, good and bad today in the broad sense.
 In New York City, I'm sure that the council noted that DSA was able to win a campaign in the primary with what may be the youngest member of Congress, Alexandria Cortez, against a long-time incumbent. She had $100,000 or so in dollars, and the incumbent had 20 times that. That was a positive development. What else?
 One of the things that we're working on, Great Panthers in Portland in the past, some of you who've been around longer, like me, may have met Bobbi Gary. She was an organizer for Great Panthers after Ron Wyden. She's someone that I knew personally from the food bank when I did fundraising for Interagency Food Bank. So we're trying to carry on in her tradition in terms of...
 what Bobby Geary worked on and Maggie Kuhn, the original founder, did of having Grey Panthers be an activist, radical, militant group, an additional group on the left in Portland and hopefully with the network nationally of other Grey Panther chapters. There's about 20 of them at the moment.
 So the issues we hope to, with 20 seconds left, to work on, and some of us have worked on these for a long time, housing transit, Measure 43, which is for gun safety, gun control, supporting Joanne in the city council runoff. I think that's probably close enough. I tried to stick to your three minutes. Thank you. Thank you very much, and thank you for the handout. Make sure it's put in the record. That concludes our council communications. We're now going to take up our consent agenda.
 As I've noted, item number 706 has been returned to the Mayor's Office. Carla, have any other items been pulled? No other requests. Would you please call a vote on the consent agenda? Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. All right, folks, we have one time certain this morning at 945. We're right on track. Carla, would you please read Council Item 702? Aye.
 Conditionally exempt the construction of certain accessory dwelling units from parks and recreation, environmental services, transportation, and water system development charges. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you. What do we call you? Just president. Privacy of my office? Well, that's just between you and me. Okay.
 I think it's Council President. Council President. We get to be called Madam President, so I wasn't sure if there was a... Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. All right. So a lack of upcoming council meetings due to summer schedules has created a circumstance where implementation of this program would not start before the other program expires. In addition, this ordinance would create a new position, and therefore we need to correct some technical errors in the ordinance. Because of that, I would like to introduce the following...
 Very thrilling technical amendments to be added to the ordinance. So everyone brace yourselves. Number one, amend the end of the ordinance to state section two, the council declares that an emergency exists because a delay will create a gap in programmatic services. Therefore, this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage by council.
 Number two, amend Council Directive D of the Ordinance to State, Portland City Code as amended as shown in Exhibit A, to take effect August 1st, 2018. Amendment three, amend Exhibit A, Section 17...
 Point 14.070, letter F, number 4C, to change the processing fee date from July 1st, 2018 to August 1st, 2018. Number 4, amend Council Directive C to state the Revenue Division shall request an increase in appropriation funded by increased revenue associated with program fees in the fiscal year 2018-19 fall supplemental budget process.
 And finally, Amendment No. 5, amend ordinance title to say, conditionally exempt the construction of certain accessory dwelling units from parks and recreation, environmental services, transportation, and water system development charges, and authorize the creation of a revenue and tax specialist five position in the revenue division to perform waiver compliance. Second. Second.
 Thank you. Okay, we have a first. Let's take a tentative vote so we can put the amendments on the table. Carla, would you please call the roll? Actually, would you mind if we wait until, I think we've put them on the table because we had an instance where we were then not able to change it. Okay, so the amendments are now on the table. They all seem to be fairly technical in nature, although the most substantive is that we are slapped. We would be adding an emergency clause to this matter. Commissioner Daly, do you have a panel?
 Yes, we have a couple people from BDS. Matt Wickstrom, and I'm sorry, I don't know your name. Morning, my name is Tyler Wallace from the Revenue Division of the Tax Division Manager. Well, that's why. You're not. Okay. Welcome. Welcome. Okay.
 Hi, I'm Matt Wickstrom. I'm from the Bureau of Development Services, and this is Tyler Wallace, and he is here to answer any questions about the program and the position that would be created. Is that correct? Pretty much sum it up. Okay, and then I also want to let you know that there's a lot of folks from other bureaus here as well. So we've got Sarah Huggins from Parks, Rich Eisenhower from PBOT,
 Elizabeth Reese Cadigan from BES, and Erin Mick from Water. Are they here as resources? They are here as resources for you, yes. Thank you. Okay, so this ordinance is about the ADU SDC waiver program, and here's where we're at with ADUs and the SDC waiver so far. So system development charges have been waived for accessory dwelling units since 2010. In 2009, there were 24 ADUs permitted
 And by 2016, there were 650 ADUs permitted. And at that point, ADUs were accounting for about 10% of the overall permits issued for dwelling units in Portland. Research by PSU found that 25% of ADUs are rented as short-term rentals and $1.
 The current program to waive ADUs is set to expire on July 31st, 2018, and that requires a final inspection and certificate of occupancy needing to occur before June 30th, 2019. On May 2nd, City Council issued a resolution directing staff to extend the ADU SDC waiver.
 to involve six bureaus, the Bureau of Development Services, Bureau of Environmental Services, Water, Portland Parks and Recreation, and that should say, and the Revenue Bureau. And the resolution required a covenant acknowledging that the ADU will contribute to housing capacity rather than contributing to the short-term rental market.
 for a period of 10 years. And it also asked the Revenue Bureau to incorporate covenant administration and biennial reports into its work program. So six bureaus worked to create a framework for an ADU SDC waiver program. The Revenue Bureau is going to administer the covenant, and they'll also enforce violations.
 SDC bureaus will monitor the covenant for recording, and there will be a program application and a fee for the program of $400 to enter the program. And that fee will help support the position that's being created in the Revenue Bureau. The waiver program waives SDC fees for property owners provided a covenant is signed.
 It does allow those without a covenant to still rent ADUs as short-term rentals. They're just not part of the ADU SDC waiver program. They would have had to pay SDCs, in other words.
 It helps fund the position in the Revenue Bureau, and it assesses violations at 150% of the current STC rates. So if you violate the covenant and you're found liable for doing so, you need to repay the STC fees at 150% of the current STC rate. And it's important to note that we've made a point in the covenant to acknowledge that post-COVID,
 posting or listing the ADU or house on the site on an accessory short-term rental platform constitutes a violation. And that is something we learned from
 Mike Liefeld, who is in code enforcement in the Bureau of Development Services, is one issue that they have is people will call and report an ADU for not being registered with the city because they've seen it on a website. But just by seeing it on a website isn't enough for them to be able to enforce a violation. They need to actually find that money has exchanged hands. So this we just want to make it clear. Just don't post it.
 the adu or the house on the property on a platform or register it with a platform it's that's off limits for 10 years we've got a lot of next steps still ready to go to get this program going we are working with our tracks programming group in the bureau of development services on some some programming in tracks to help incorporate the revenue bureau into the the review of the covenant
 We will work with the Revenue Bureau to create an application, as well as handouts and website materials, so people can be informed of the ADUSDC waiver program. The Revenue Bureau will prepare biennial reporting on monitoring information, which includes rents charged for accessory dwelling units that are part of the ADUSDC waiver program.
 And then we need to develop our process and protocol for how violations are enforced and communicated among bureaus. Commissioner Udaly has already gone through the...
 I'll put amendments on the table. These next two slides basically capture those amendments. And I have, if it's helpful, I have copies of the ordinance and Exhibit B that have the changes highlighted if you need to see those visually. And then the next slide also repeats what Commissioner Udaly has already brought forward.
 And so the direction, in addition to this being an emergency, the council direction would be to adopt the ordinance as amended, including creating a revenue and tax specialist five position in the revenue division, granting the revenue division read and write access to tracks and its successor databases.
 The Revenue Division shall request an increase in appropriations through fiscal year 2018-19 fall supplemental budget process. City code would be amended, as amended, in Exhibit A. And then there is a Portland Parks and Recreation Policy document, PRK-401, 4.01, that would need to be rescinded.
 And that's the end of it. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. Did you have a question for Sarah Huggins? If you could just tell us what PK 4.01 is, if you could just come up to the microphone. Thank you. That was a very clear presentation. Thanks.
 Sarah Huggins with Portland Parks. PRK 4.01 was a policy document that we put in place previously to waive the SDC fees for ADUs. So when the prior council resolution directed bureaus to waive all ADU fees, that was the mechanism that we used to waive them. Thank you. Thank you, Matt. We've lost our president. Well, I guess I'm back at president, so let's go to testimony. I have one person signed up. Jim Wittenberg.
 Okay. And who's, how many people signed up? Welcome, Mr. Lightning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity Watchdog. The only issue I have on this is that I would like to see the 10 years reduced to five. I think you're extending out on the 10 years. It's too long. I think we should get more data provided before we would go out that long a term. Okay.
 I think we can do that within the five-year time frame and then extend out if necessary, if it appears to be working. Again, from my position, I think that although you're removing the waivers themselves, the SDC waivers, the fees themselves, I think that by deterring the short-term rental aspect of the ADUs is that...
 In my opinion, a lot of people want that additional income or that option of having that additional income in various forms. And in my opinion, I don't think that should be taken away from them. If you're going to not charge anything for the fees, just do it across the board and allow them the option to still do the short-term rental aspect of it. And again, I don't think we have enough data provided yet
 to really make a determination on how it's really affecting the overall market. Because what we're seeing here is we're seeing a lot of different permits being pulled.
 close to 600 recently. And so it's really being positive throughout the community at this time. So I don't really want to throw anything in there that kind of deters people in any way. I think the way it's going right now is in a positive direction. And again, so what I ask right now is just to shorten up the timeframe a
 from the 10 to 5 until we have more additional data to really substantiate going out for the 10-year time frame and limiting the potential of what someone can do with their ADU, again, on their property. So I think you're kind of limiting the property owner's rights. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Wittenberg. Hi. Welcome back. I want to go to see you. I'm up here for a funeral. This man died.
 a month ago, and he was one of my favorite people. I'm going to go on record saying this is my last time ever before the City Council. So it's on record now. So you've got it now. I'm just only here for a funeral. What we did was Bruce Hunt work, was a doctor here in...
 in Portland. He also served 40 years ministry in Iran. All his four children were born there. So you all know Ann Hutt work, the social worker that spent six months in jail at age 70 for violating some rulings she had. I don't know what
 Maybe it was in Atlanta. I can't remember. But Bruce is now dead, and he's buried. He's one of my favorite people. He was worth coming up here to Sacramento for. It cost me almost $400 so far. What we considered doing was building a little...
 home for them on the Peace House community property when Bruce got Alzheimer's back in 2007, I think. And of course, Anne was hurting a lot then, losing her partner to Alzheimer's. And so we tried to go through the paperwork, but it was just enormous. We couldn't do it. So we gave up and put him in one of the rooms in the house, and I moved out.
 But I'm glad to see that you're streamlining some of these rules so we can have another form of housing in the communities. And Bruce would have been happy to live there because he was happy with everything.
 Thank you, Jim. Thank you very much. And this is not the first time you've said this would be the last time we'll be hearing from you. It's on record now. No, no, no. I'm going to make a bold prediction, and you are always welcome in this chamber. You know that. I'm working on housing in Sacramento right now. They've got 300 tents down there now of people displaced. We hope whenever you're back in Portland you'll join us. I'll be back at Christmas maybe. Carla, anyone else has signed up to testify? No.
 That's all who signed up. Okay, colleagues, we have two matters now before us. The first is a package of amendments which has been seconded. Let's take a vote on that, and then we'll vote on the amended ordinance, which has an emergency clause attached. Carla, would you please call a vote on the amendments? Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Fish. Aye. The amendments are adopted. Now we're going to move to the ordinance as amended, which is now an emergency ordinance. Carla, would you please call the roll? Saltzman. Well, I am going to support this ordinance. I just wanted to get some comments on the record. Conversation I had yesterday with Commissioner Ewe Daly. When this was last before us, or when it was first before us, I very much advocated that I would come back with an amendment that would
 require these accessory dwelling units to meet ADA standards, Americans with Disability Act standards, the visibility standard. Visitability standard, excuse me. And I was hoping we would have one fee for people who want to build ADU units that do not comply with the ADA's visibility standard, and that we would have a lower rate for those units that do comply, that build doorways wide enough, that build stairways...
 short enough and have bathrooms, you know, have a bathroom on the first floor. I've had good conversations with Commissioner Daly, and I know in her heart of hearts she supports this idea too, but from a pragmatic point of view, it just seems like it's hard to achieve right now to do this, particularly when you consider how small many of these accessory dwelling units are. The idea of having an accessible bathroom on the first floor may not always be possible.
 But I still believe that this is a policy goal we need to work at very hard because there are so many more people that need accessible units and need them now and will need them as we want to encourage people to be able to age in place in our city.
 So I do hope that future councils, when they take their annual look at this, will at some point see this has been wildly successful, we hope, and the people will be building ADUs and getting them financed accordingly. But I do hope the council will, and I know many of the ADU builders are striving to make their units as accessible as possible. So I do hope the future councils will take a look at this on their yearly check-in on this.
 And there may come a time when we need to institute something a little more aggressive than what we have now to achieve that outcome of more accessible accessory dwelling units in the long haul. You, Damie? Well, I want to thank my colleagues for supporting this project.
 especially those that are giving up SDCs for the time being. Portland continues to have one of the lowest vacancy rates in the country. We're in the eighth year of an unprecedented housing crisis. Really wish we were unprecedented, but it's unprecedented. We are coming up on two years of a declared housing state of emergency. ADUs are a promising opportunity.
 component of addressing our housing shortage and housing crisis. However, there is currently no loan product available for ADUs, which means that average Portland homeowners, most average Portland homeowners can't afford to develop them. So I see this waiver as really a way to kind of
 incentivize building housing that we need as well as acknowledging the challenges in financing ADUs currently.
 To be clear, people are still free to develop ADUs for short-term rentals. We're simply not going to subsidize them. And to me, as far as I'm concerned, that's a fair and reasonable decision. We don't need more short-term rental units. We need more housing units. And we should not get into the business of subsidizing ADUs.
 people's businesses. If we were to do that, I'd be hard-pressed to argue why we shouldn't waive the SDC charges for any small business in Portland. So this is a very targeted targeted waiver meant to encourage people to develop the housing that we actually need. So we are going to be receiving a
 yearly reports from the Revenue Bureau on this program, and we will certainly revisit it as the situation we're in evolves, whether we end our housing crisis, which is unlikely to happen anytime soon, or we're able to bring a loan product to the market that makes a
 this opportunity to develop ADUs more accessible to more Portlanders. So thank you again, and I vote aye. Fritz. First, thank you, Commissioner Udeli. You and your staff in development services have done an outstanding job of implementing the resolution that we passed in May, and I particularly appreciate Matt Wickstrom and Mike Leefield noticing the loophole about the posting on the website and fixing that loophole. That's brilliant.
 Of course, somebody will think of another way around the things, but I'm glad that you were going to be adding a person in revenue to make sure that the waiver does go only for when they are real homes and not short-term rentals. So that took care of one of my concerns. Thanks to Sarah Huggins for her amazing work in parks on system development charges. We will be bringing back to council fairly shortly.
 revised code now that the courts have upheld our new methodology in parks for both how we assess the system development charges and are reducing the fees for smaller homes, increasing them for larger homes. So I'm very proud of the work that Sarah Huggins and the staff in parks have done, recognizing that this policy does improve
 detract from parks' ability to provide parks in places that don't have them and to provide more amenities in parks where there's a lot of development close by. Accessory development units, while providing housing, do tend to take up space in the backyard, making it even more important for having adequate parks close by. I voted no on the resolution.
 partly because of the lack of time that I felt council had to look at the issues. As I just noticed, I do believe that the staff has done an amazing job in a very short turnaround to refine these regulations.
 This is a trade-off. I support creating options that increase the overall supply of affordable housing. I am concerned that there's no expiration on the waiver, and the policy is still experimental on many levels. I'm hopeful that the reports from the Revenue Division will give the council a clearer picture of whether the qualifying accessory dwelling units are actually affordable. And that's something that I know we all share that value.
 In the interest of respecting the policy passed by Council in May and also Commissioner Udalli's great work on this, I vote aye. Fish. Aye. Bjorne. Oh, excuse me. Before it's adopted, there's a few other people I want to thank. Elizabeth Reese-Cardigan and Joe Blanco from BES, are you here? Raise your hand. Thank you for your good work. Rich Eisenhower and David Nassif from PBOT, are you here?
 Thank you both. Aaron Mick from Water. Aaron, thank you very much. And Tyler Wallace from Revenue and Financial Services Bureau.
 Good. Thank you all for your good work, and I'm pleased to vote aye. The ordinance as amended is passed. Colleagues, I got my signals crossed on one item previously, and so I'm going to make a motion to reconsider the action we took on item 706, and I would like it moved to the regular agenda. Second. Is there a second? Second. Carla, would you please read 706? Yes.
 Authorized settlement in the sum. Can we ask the vote to reconsider first? Excuse me. All right. So would you call the roll on the motion to reconsider? Selksman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. The motion is granted. So now, colleagues, without objection, I'd like 706 moved to the regular agenda and heard at the end of our agenda. Without objection. Carla, let's move to our regular agenda. Would you please read Council Item 715? Okay.
 appoint Kent Yu, Mark Tobin, Josh McDowell, Trent Nigel, and Clinton Ambrose to Structural Engineering Advisory Committee for terms to expire June 26, 2021. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning.
 I now have the pleasure of bringing forward five new appointees to the Structural Engineering Advisory Committee. The Structural Engineering Advisory Committee is a citizen advisory board. It advises the Director of Bureau of Development Services and or the Appeals Board in technical structural engineering matters relative to reasonable interpretation and to alternate materials and methods of construction. Amit Kumar from BDS will present the proposed appointees.
 Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Amit Kumar. I am a Senior Structural Engineer with the Bureau of Development Services. I am here today to present to you the proposed appointees to the Structural Engineering Advisory Committee. Portland City Code Title 241085 specifies that members of the Structural Engineering Advisory Committee, consisting of six members licensed in Oregon to practice structural engineering, be appointed by the Mayor and approved by City Council.
 Members may be appointed to no more than two consecutive three-year terms unless the Director recommends approval of the longer term and the Mayor and City Council approve the extended appointment. Memberships on the committee have all expired. There are currently no positions filled. The first appointee is Dr. Kent Yu. Dr. Kent Yu is a Ph.D., P.E., and S.E., and is a principal and owner of SEFT Consulting Group in Portland. Hello.
 Kent has 18 years of structural earthquake and tsunami and forensic engineering experience. He is well known for his expertise on seismic design, performance-based design, advanced finite element analysis.
 Kent has served on the national and state committees, including on the Board of Directors for Applied Technology Council, as chair of the Oregon Seismic Safety Policy Advisory Commission, ASCE, that's the American Society of Civil Engineers, Seven Tsunami and Load Effects Committee, ASCE, Infrastructure Resilience Division Executive Committee, and he was a primary author of the 2012 Oregon Resilience Plan.
 The second appointee is Mr. Mark Tobin. Mark is the principal with KPFF Consulting Engineers with over 20 years of experience as a practicing structural engineer. Thank you.
 Mark's career has focused on seismic renovations, seismic evaluations, school buildings and high-rise buildings, including advanced nonlinear and finite element analysis. Mark has served on the City of Portland URM Seismic Retrofit Projects Technical Standards Committee and on the Oregon Seismic Safety Policy Advisory Commission on Critical Buildings. The third appointee is Mr. Trent Nagel. Thank you.
 Trent is a principal with VLMK Engineers in Portland, Oregon. He is a registered structural engineer with over 22 years of structural engineering experience. He has vast experience in seismic evaluation and upgrade of existing buildings and use of alternative materials. Trent serves as a commissioner on the Oregon Seismic Safety Policy Advisory Commission,
 He has served as the President of the Structural Engineers Association of Oregon and served as the Chair of the Critical Buildings Group for the Oregon Resiliency Plan. He has also served on FEMA's Project Review Panel for FEMA P1026 and is a voting member of the American Concrete Institute's 551 Committee.
 The fourth appointee is Mr. Josh McDowell. He is the Principal and Director of Structural Engineering at McKinsey, a local architecture planning and design firm. Josh is a practicing structural and civil engineer with over two decades of experience. Josh oversees the structural design for a range of projects, including commercial, retail, and industrial facilities. He has an extensive background in assessment and remodel of existing structures involving seismic strengthening and code compliance.
 Lastly, the fifth appointee is Mr. Clinton Ambrose. He is a principal and founding member of ABHT Structural Engineers. Clinton has over 25 years of experience as a structural engineer. His portfolio of work includes structural consulting for a wide variety of projects such as wastewater facilities, recreational facilities, educational facilities, office buildings, seismic evaluations, retrofits, and multi-story mixed-use residential commercial facilities.
 ABHT Structural Engineers, and Oregon Certified MBE and DBE firm. Thank you. Are any of our appointees here today? I don't believe so. Okay. Well, before we move on, I want to address a glaring issue that my colleagues...
 raised last week about the lack of diversity on some of the BDS technical advisory bodies. I obviously share this concern and did some digging into the issue with our team, and I just want to share the results of that.
 It is definitely true there's a lack of diversity in engineering fields. Structural engineering is even worse than the overall civil engineering field when it comes to female representation. Nationwide, women only make up 6.7% of members for the Structural Engineering Institute, a national professional organization that's affiliated with the ASCE, where women make up 11.8% of the general membership. Okay.
 Locally, there are roughly 500 members in the Structural Engineers Association of Oregon chapter. Less than two dozen of those members are female. The structural engineering team at BDS employs five of them. So I'm proud of that particular statistic.
 The Structural Engineering Advisory Committee advises BDS on highly technical matters related to structural engineering and code-related issues. Members serving on this committee are required to have a structural engineer license and significant experience as a structural engineer. As part of our outreach effort to fill the vacancies on the Structural Engineering Advisory Committee, BDS advertised the vacancies on Structural Engineers Association website.
 The ONI website, the BDS website, and the BDS plans examiner email newsletter. In addition to these announcements, BDS staff personally reached out to specific individuals and engineering companies employing women and people of color to request that they apply to serve on the committee. In response to these outreach efforts, the city received only six applications. Unfortunately, none were women and only one identified as a person of color.
 Director Rebecca Esau also personally reached out to her contacts and successfully recruited one additional person of color who was also a small business owner. Still, no women expressed interest in the assignment. Based on the lack of diversity from applicants, we're working with our equity and policy development section to further strengthen our outreach efforts to these communities.
 BDS is continuing to develop and implement proactive measures to engage and incorporate representatives from all of our community and is dedicated to continuing to improve on these issues as we look to fill new positions over the next three years. So I want to thank Amit Kumar for all this information and for all his great work.
 I'll entertain a motion to accept the report. May I just comment? Sure. Thank you. First of all, thank you for the presentation. Thank you very much for that statement and for addressing the concern that I expressed last week. Did I hear you say that there are six members of this committee and we only have five being appointed? Yes, there are five that have been newly appointed and one is being reappointed. One has been reappointed. Okay. And if somebody is watching this and wants to volunteer, how would they –
 go about doing that? So they can always submit their interest form through ONI's website or they're more than welcome to submit their interest to me personally. Great. And just one final suggestion. I met with Rachel Whiteside yesterday, the representative of the Professional Technical Employees Local 17. They have members who are engineers and I'm sure that...
 I am very pleased to hear about the diversity of the staff in BDS. Congratulations on that. Perhaps getting, since you and I both know that when you're in a field that is male-dominated, you tend to know the other people in the field, perhaps having those folks reach out to some of their colleagues who aren't city employees might be helpful. But having been in charge of development services, I know that this has been a challenge and really appreciate your addressing it head-on. Okay. I'll entertain a motion to accept the report. Thank you.
 So moved. Second. Motion to accept the report and a second. Carla, please call the roll. So moved. Well, good job to Commissioner Udaly and Amit for recruiting. It looks like an outstanding field of candidates, and I just want to thank them in advance for their service to the city. Aye. Udaly. Well, thank you to our new appointees and the reappointee.
 I'm sure this is not the funnest advisory committee in the city to serve on. And we just really appreciate you lending your expertise and your time to the city. I think serving on all the committees is fun because you get to help make decisions.
 And if I was a structural engineer, I'd be like, yeah, all right. So thank you for the work that you do. Thanks also to Rebecca Esau, the director, and Dora Perry, the equity and policy manager, who have been addressing this for many, many years. And I appreciate the fact that Commission New Daily is revitalizing many of the committees in development services, some of which have been not needed for a while, and so it's good to know that they are now needed. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. The report is adopted. Thank you very much. Carla, would you please call item number 716? Accept bid of 2KG Contractors, Inc. for the Peninsula Park Community Center Pool Improvements Project for $3,679,000. Mr. Palat, welcome. Good morning. Thank you very much. I am Larry Palat.
 with apparently a very big voice, procurement services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to 2KG Contractors, Inc. for the Peninsula Park Community Center pool improvement projects for $3,679,000. The engineer's estimate on this project was $2 million, and the Bureau's confidence level was moderate.
 On February 28, 2018, Council approved Ordinance Number 188832 for procurement services to competitively solicit this project. The project was advertised in the city's electronic procurement system. Bids were opened May 1st. One bid was received in response, and 2KG Contractors is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $3,679,000, which is 83.95% over the engineer's estimate.
 The original budget was developed, keeping some of the current equipment in place. It was later determined that replacing that current equipment and accepting the bid alternates, which include some new but significantly more efficient equipment, would provide the city with both energy and maintenance savings, as well as greatly enhance the overall community experience. Sufficient funding is available in Portland Parks and Recreation's budget cost center, P30128 and 30482.
 Portland Parks Recreational and Procurement Services identified an aspirational goal for certified disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business contractors, subcontractors, and suppliers at 20%. There is a total of $223,718, which is only 6.68% of disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business participation for this project.
 including certified subcontractors, an MBE at the full 223.718 doing shoring work. 2KG Contractors is located in Portland, Oregon. They are not a state-certified DMWESB contractor. They do have a current City of Portland business tax registration number, and they're in full compliance with the city's contractor requirements.
 If the council has any questions about the procurement part of the project, I can answer those. Or I was expecting Joe from Portland Parks and Mario from 2KG, they may just be running behind. Honestly, I don't know. Actually, I got designated to talk for parks if anybody has any questions. All right, colleagues, any questions? So, uh...
 How unusual is it that we only get one bid on a project? Pool improvements and rebuilding is a very specialized field. One bid is unfortunate, but frankly the work is very specialized.
 A limited number of contractors. There is a whole lot of pool. I was on the board of directors for Dalton Hills Park and Recreation, not truly a competitor, but sort of a competitor for 12 years. We have nine pools, and I've noticed that we'll get one bid. Another pool might be two bids. Then back to one bid. It's pretty specialized work. As a general matter, are we obligated as a city to accept a bid when there's only one bid? Is that just going to stay that way?
 We're never obligated to accept it when we are more than 10% over. We go to what's considered value engineering, what's called value engineering. It was attempted with this project. The contractor did have some ideas. Portland Parks Recreation determined that the ideas, while effective, may not have been fit fully into the experience they're trying to generate. Okay. Thank you.
 Other questions or comments? I'll entertain a motion to accept the report. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Carla, would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? We had a full presentation on this project before, including explaining why it's a relatively large amount. It's not just resurfacing the pool. It's greatly improving the accessibility of it. We're adding a wheelchair lift, lighting improvements, and various other improvements
 amenities that's going to make Peninsula Park Pool great for the next 100 years, as it has been. Thanks very much to the voters who approved the 2014 Fix Our Parks Bond, which is largely funding this improvement. Aye. Fish. Aye. The matter is accepted. Thank you very much. Thank you. Carla, would you please read Council Item 717, and then I have a few opening remarks.
 Authorize a borrowing of not more than $57,700,000 in anticipation of the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund levy for fiscal year 2018-19.
 Colleagues, these were the remarks the Mayor would have read had he been here. This ordinance authorizes the City to issue up to $57.7 million in tax anticipation notes to finance the annual cash flow deficit in the Fire and Police Retirement and Disability Fund.
 The city issues tax anticipation notes each year to fund retirement and disability expenses incurred prior to the receipt of property tax revenues in late November. Because FPD&R cannot legally carry over sufficient fund balances to pay these early fiscal year expenses, it is necessary to issue tax anticipation notes to avoid a cash flow deficit.
 The city expects to sell the tax anticipation notes to a competitive bidding on July 10th. The notes will be repaid on or about June 26, 2019. Mr. Johanson, did I miss anything? I think you got it all, Commissioner Fish. The only update I would give is it looks like the actual issue size will be closer to about $36 million rather than the $57 million that's authorized as a tax.
 matter of carryover balance that we did have in the fund. So it is a smaller issue than we've authorized. So the way this is drafted, it's not to exceed $57 million, but you're telling us it's likely it will be closer to $36 million. We're limited by the IRS to how much we can borrow for this purpose, and we're limited essentially to the amount of the deficit that we expect to incur there.
 And what's the interest rate environment out there today? Interest rates this year are higher than they were, say, a year ago when we did this borrowing. I think we sold last year at about a 0.9% interest rate for one year. This year I think we're probably closer to about 1.6%. So higher than we were last year historically, though, still a pretty favorable short-term interest rate. Okay. Colleagues, questions? Carla, do we have anyone who's signed up to testify? No one signed up.
 Okay. This is an emergency ordinance. Carla, would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? When I first started doing these 10 years ago, it was an absolute sticker shocker. Why are we borrowing millions and millions of dollars? But it is just a matter of accounting and the way that the police and fire pensions are set up. So this is not something to be alarmed about, citizens. Aye. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Carla, would you please read Council Items 718 and 719 together? 718.
 718 authorized a contract with ch2m hill engineers inc to provide design permitting and construction support engineering services for the columbia boulevard wastewater treatment plant secondary treatment expansion program project number e07947 in the amount of 28 million 300 000
 and 719 authorize a contract with Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. to provide program management, project controls, and construction management support services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Secondary Treatment Expansion and Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant Improvement Programs, project numbers E07947 and E10970 in the amount
 of $21,800,000. Thank you very much. Colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services operates the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant and the Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant to provide wastewater treatment for the city of Portland.
 BES is implementing large capital improvement projects at both plants with similar timelines to ensure the city is in compliance with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality applicable permits. Paul Sudo, Principal Engineer, and Muriel Gisatoitufel, Senior Engineer from the Bureau of Environmental Services, are both here with a presentation about these projects. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning. For the record, I'm Paul Sudo with BES. We are here to request approval for two consultant contracts to support the two large programs at both of the city's wastewater treatment plants, Columbia Boulevard and Tryon Creek, to improve reliability and capacity. Both programs are necessary to maintain permit compliance into the future and are both the largest at the two treatment plants in at least two decades.
 One contract will be focused on design consultant services specific to Columbia Boulevard, and the other is a focused program support contract that will support both the Tryon Creek and Columbia programs. Muriel Gaysa-Teufel is here, and she's a program manager for the Columbia Boulevard program, and she'll present the details of the contracts. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. For the record, I'm Muriel Gaysa-Teufel. So the – excuse me.
 So I'll give an introduction of the two treatment plants. The two treatment plants are located north and south of the city, as shown on the map in the upper right corner. So you can see the map, Columbia Boulevard is to the north, located near Smitten-by-Bee Lakes, and discharging treated water to the Columbia River. The Triant Creek wastewater treatment plant is located in Lake Oswego and discharges to the Willamette River.
 Both plants have served the Portland residents in watersheds for over 54 years. Columbia Boulevard was constructed in 1952. It was expanded in 1972. It is the largest treatment plant in Oregon. It treats a combination of sanitary sewage and stormwater flows. Because of this, there's a really large difference between average daily flows and peak wet weather flows during storm.
 The facilities cover about approximately 80 acres, where most of the treatment units are located on 37 acres to the south of the Columbia Slough. The Triant Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant, which is shown on the bottom figure in the slide, was constructed in 1964, expanded in 1976, and located in Lake Oswego.
 The plant is owned and operated by City of Portland under an agreement with the City of Lake Oswego, where flows from the two cities are treated and discharged to the Willamette. In 2017, the two treatment plants treated more than 32 billion gallons of sanitary and stormwater, protecting water quality on both the Willamette and the Columbia River. So we have two authorization requests today. Thank you.
 I will start with the contract authorization focused on services related to improvements for Columbia Boulevard. While the Columbia Boulevard plant has reached retirement age, we have plans to keep it running for a very long time. In 2011, the city entered into a mutual agreement and order with Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, Oregon DEQ,
 The order relates to the collection of combined sewer overflows and its treatment at the Columbia Boulevard plant. The City has complied with every requirement of the order to date. Last year, BES proposed to comply to the last part of the order via the addition of two new secondary clarifiers.
 The photo on the slide shows the existing secondary clarifiers. The clarifiers are large tanks where the microorganisms that are grown on pollutants are allowed to settle. In essence, they're clarifying the water. And the clean water goes to disinfection before discharge. So the main core, the core of the program is the addition of more secondary clarifiers similar to those shown on the picture here.
 The expansion proposal was accepted by DEQ along with a compliance schedule to complete the improvements by 2024. So the core of the program relates to the addition of the clarifiers. You can see those big circles on the picture is illustrating graphically where those clarifiers would be put.
 So you can tell that there are many other facilities in that same location. And most of these facilities were built in the early 70s. So at the time of looking at the program planning, we incorporated other needed projects in that area that were already planned so that we could minimize our overall risks of construction when we add these new clarifiers.
 So the background photo you see is a plan view of the main campus of the treatment plant. You can see the existing clarifier about the middle of the page to the top, where you can see eight square shapes. One of them is empty for maintenance. Those are our existing clarifiers. The highlighted area represents the main area where we're going to put the new clarifiers. Okay.
 So the total program covers approximately four to five acres, including underground utility tunnels, electrical equipment, mechanical equipment, structural improvements, civil site improvements. So this is a complex design and construction project with heavy site civil, mechanical, electrical, instrumentation and control aspects and risks. So at the same time...
 In October 2017, Council authorized the use of a construction manager-general contractor approach to minimize these construction risks due to the complexity of the project. At the same time, BES solicited services for two professional technical and expert services to support the delivery. So this photo provides a different view of the clarifiers and a side view of the structures and facilities needing demolition. You can see the silos in the back.
 So these are big structures, and they will need careful demolition and replacement to maintain plant operation. A few firms have the qualifications to provide engineering services for these programs. So a solicitation was advertised for competitive qualifications in September 2017. BES received two proposals and conducted interviews in December. The selection committee recommended award to CH2M engineers.
 The negotiated fee for the contract is $28.3 million. It has an optimal level of confidence. The scope of services covers pre-design, detailed design, CMGC optimization support, guaranteed maximum price development assistance, construction engineering, and startup and commissioning.
 support. The certified disadvantaged woman-owned and emerging small business participation is at 25 percent. For a contract of this size, it is a significant amount of participation.
 The consultant and BES have worked to identify and develop meaningful subcontracting opportunities, including architectural design, electrical studies, wastewater operations support, environmental permitting, sustainability design, instrumentation and controls, programming, and also a task specific for DMWSB development support.
 So the program budget for item 718, the total program cost estimate in 2017 was $146 million, with construction cost estimates of $100 million. Since no design has been completed, those cost estimates have a low level of confidence. The project will extend over seven years due to our MAO. Thank you.
 The photo here just shows an area of the tunnel where you can see the level of complexity of the equipment that is in some of the facilities that we have to deal with. So the program schedule has design occurring between 2018 until 2022 and construction starting in 2020, early 2020, 2021.
 extending to 2024. This is when we realized that we had the two programs going concurrent between Tryon Creek and Columbia Boulevard and that it would put a strain on the resources at BES staff, but also a certain skill set was needed to manage these large programs. So at that point, this is at that point that we're selected to issue solicitation for program support.
 So Program Support Services Item 719 was an approach that was successfully used on the CSO program. It would support both Columbia Boulevard and Tri-Creek Water Treatment Plant programs. It provides the expertise in large implementation program and CMGC delivery and additional staff support to BES. It was also advertised in September 2017 and Stantec consultants were recommended for award.
 The negotiated fee in this case is $21.8 million with a high level of confidence. The DMWSB participation is also 25% for this contract, and Stantic is using a different model where they are truly mentoring a certified firm as a deputy manager into program controls and providing CM and inspection support.
 The scope of services will also include CMGC support for community benefits agreement, which will come from the CMGC contract. So a big part of the role for the program support consultant will be to monitor and provide QAQC assistance as part of the program execution.
 So for the two items combined for 718 and 719, the Triune Creek and the Columbia Boulevard programs total about $261 million, with construction estimates of $169 million currently. They both have low level of confidence because of where they are in design. So Triune is a little bit ahead in the design, but Columbia Boulevard has not started. We wanted to...
 just bring up past council actions to these two programs. In October 2015, we had authorization for the planning efforts on Columbia Boulevard. September 2017 was the authorization for the CMGC contracting method. And in the future, we will have reports on the CMGC Guaranteed Maximum Price and Community Benefits Agreement. I'll try and create a few more actions.
 2012 was when the planning effort started. 2016, the consultant contract authorization with Black & Veatch. 2016 is the CMGC authorization. And future actions include amendments for the Black & Veatch contracts and reports on the CMGC actions.
 So we are here today to recommend approval for the contract with CH2 Engineering for pre-design, design, construction assistance related to secondary treatment expansion program in an amount not to exceed $28 million.
 Item 719, approval of a contract with Stantec Consultants to provide support services and program management, program controls, and construction management related to both programs, secondary treatment expansion and try and create improvements in an amount not to exceed $21.8 million. Well, let me kick things off, Muriel and Paul, by thanking you, actually. This slide says thank you, but these are incredibly complicated questions
 engineering issues. And, you know, I've been spoiled over the years, colleagues, because I get a preview of these PowerPoints before they come to Council. But I really think you have established a standard for the way that you present this information. It's highly technical information. You do it in a way that I think invites the Council to follow clearly what you're doing. It doesn't mean the Council will agree with everything that you always propose, but you lead us along. And then
 I especially appreciate at the end that you include prior council actions so council can be reminded of where we are in the timeline. So I personally, and I'm obviously, as the commissioner in charge, I'm biased, but I believe that you do the gold standard in how you present these PowerPoints, so I want to thank you for that. Colleagues, questions? Just a second.
 I just have one, and I agree with that. Very, very well done. And minimizing the use of acronyms, so well done on that. Yeah.
 Are you planning to have just one contractor, general manager, to do both of the projects? No, they will each have separate. The Triumph Creek is under negotiation, almost finalizing that contract. And the Columbia Boulevard, we've gone through the first step solicitation, the qualification step. We have three firms shortlisted, and we'll go through the RFP this year. Great. Thank you.
 Okay. Carla, has anyone signed up to testify on these matters? No one signed up for either. All right. These both 718 and 719 proceed to a second reading in two weeks. Carla, would you please read Council Item 720?
 authorize 14 grant agreements and intergovernmental agreements related to the Community Watershed Stewardship Program and neighborhoods to the River N2R Program for $126,930. Colleagues, I'm very pleased to bring forward these 14 agreements to support the Bureau of Environmental Services' efforts to protect our community watersheds.
 BES's Community Watershed Stewardship Program provides many grants to support activities like natural area revegetation, environmental education, and watershed stewardship. Grantees include Verde, DPave, Johnson Creek Watershed Council, Friends of Zanger Farm, among others. These partnerships strengthen both our watersheds and our communities. Jennifer Devlin is with us, Jennifer, and B. Kostra-Nimici.
 from the Bureau of Environmental Services, are both here to give us a brief presentation about the grants. Esmeralda Sanchez will be available to answer questions from current grantees. Following the presentation, we'll hear from a couple of grant recipients, Terrence Moses and Pat Updike from Neighbors Helping Neighbors, Matthew Lee from Verde and the Columbia Slough Watershed Council, and Matt Kuhn from the Columbia Water Resources Council.
 And then after the testimony, colleagues, I'll be asking you to consider an amendment to add an emergency clause so that we can begin the work this summer. Jennifer, welcome. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. My name is Jennifer Devlin. I'm managing the Community Watershed Stewardship Grants Program, which began with council authorization in 1995.
 Each year we bring a slate of grants that we'd like you to authorize so we can work with folks for the coming year. This grant group will include our 300th grant.
 The program really develops partnerships and is also a model of partnerships itself. The program delivery is done by students from Portland State's Indigenous Nations Program. And I have two of our staff people here from PSU, Esmeralda Sanchez and B. Castron Michi.
 Esmeralda is just here in case anybody has any questions that we can't answer. But Bea is going to be giving the presentation about the upcoming grantees. Bea has been doing some amazing outreach to all kinds of people throughout Portland this year. And so she's got an interesting group of people. Welcome. Okay.
 Osiyo, good morning. My name is Bea and it is an incredible honor to be here with you this morning. I am a student at PSU and I'm here with the Indigenous Nation Studies Program. And I wanted to take a moment this morning with your permission to highlight three of our grant recipients for the upcoming year that serve as a model of the work that this program accomplishes for the City of Portland. The first is a group called Neighbors Helping Neighbors PDX.
 This grant project will collect trash from Portlanders experiencing houselessness and also provide ecological education to minimize the negative impacts of camping. The Kenton Neighborhood Project is led by the Spirit of Portland Award winner Terrence Moses and also a longtime neighborhood activist, Pat Updike. They have been a joy to work with so far.
 Recently, I published a case study about past QISP grants that funded work that included unhoused Portlanders to inspire more cohesive community work for environmental benefits. The second project I would like to highlight is Verde's Kali Community Rain Gardens Grant. This project will provide resources, education, and assistance for low-income residents in the Kali neighborhood.
 Verde will work with residents to plan, install, and maintain nine rain gardens in the neighborhood. The project is being spearheaded by Nestor Campos of Verde. The third grant I'd like to briefly describe is the Columbia Slough Watershed Council's project that is being led by their stewardship director, Matthew Lee.
 Mr. Lee will engage the industrial and residential community to restore a natural riparian buffer along an industrial area of the Columbia Slough, and they will also be removing invasive species and planting native species in their place. So unless there's any questions right now, we'd like to invite our community partners to say a word. Well, that's wonderful. Thank you very much. Thank you, Pete. So we'll welcome Terrence Moses and Pat Uptike and Matthew Lee.
 and the Columbia Slough Watershed Council to join us. We'll take a moment here just to get the technology right. Carla, we have a blue screen. Who would like to go first? I think we'll go first. Okay, sir. Thank you, Commissioners, and thank you for hearing us out. My name is Terrence Moses, and I am one of the Neighborhood Helping Neighbors organizers, and I wanted to come before you today to talk about what we do.
 One of the majority of the things we do is we provide our houseless neighbors with food, hygiene items, clothing, and water. But the most essential part that we do is we provide them with trash relief. We pick up about 3,200 pounds worth of garbage and trash from encampments, roadsides, RVs, and along the Columbia Slough and Willamette Rivers.
 And we do this because the impact that it would have if it was to reach our waters would be immensely great. And on another note, we also talk with our houseless folks and engage them. And one of the things that we ask that they do is when we provide them the trash bags is that they bag their trash.
 And they do that and they also load our trailer so that we can haul it away. And they receive this with great appreciation. Thank you.
 So we come before you today to thank you for hearing us and for hopefully providing us the necessary funds to get a new trailer that will allow us to continue to pick up these large amounts of garbage and remove them from our neighborhoods and continue to build this bridge between our houseless and our housed neighbors.
 And also what we do is we also educate them on the need to recycle, the need to, if they do have a substance abuse problem, to use our approved containers to put their discarded needles in. And they are receptive to that as well.
 And also what we do is working good with the Columbia Slough watershed, we're able to locate these waterways where encampments are and remove the trash in a timely manner. And without this funding, the trailer that we're currently using will not last much longer or survive.
 take the strain off of the people that are volunteering to unload it down at the dump facilities. I want to thank you again, and thanks for your time. Thank you, Mr. Moses, for joining us. Thank you. Who's next? Commissioners, my name is Pat Opdyke, and I also am connected with Terrence's work, Neighbors Helping Neighbors, PDX. Thank you for the opportunity to be here today. Thank you.
 And I just want to give you a little bit more background. The person sitting here next to me on my left is the one who started this all on his own spring of 2016. He became involved because he became aware that there were some people who were housed, two men in particular on the Peninsula Crossing Trail, who were threatening our houseless neighbors.
 And so approached them and said, you know, approached the houseless folks and said, we're here to help. Tell us what you might need. And the first thing that they said was, we need some help getting rid of this trash. That was the start. And now, two and almost two and a half years on, Terrence's work continues today.
 And I joined in helping, and I'm now doing sort of like program management and community organizing, which is sort of my background. Okay.
 And hoping to expand that and to bring our neighborhood volunteers together to help Terrence. Anything from going around and helping with the loading and meeting with the houseless folks to making peanut butter and jelly sandwiches each week. We distribute on average about 160 of those sandwiches each week.
 And basically, we have several desired outcomes that we're looking for, looking to achieve with this program. We've been able to isolate those based on Terrence's experience over the last two-plus years.
 The first is to reduce waste that gets into either our stormwater systems or into our waterways, the Columbia Slough and the Willamette River in our area that we work in in North Portland. This not only impacts water quality and preventing water pollution, but also affects wildlife habitat.
 The other goals are more directly related to our houseless community as well as our housed neighbors. One is we want the houseless community to have a healthier and a safer environment in which they live. Unsheltered though it may be, we can at least rid them of trash that might attract rodents and other things that are health risks to them. The second thing is neighborhood livability.
 By removing 3,000-plus pounds of trash from our neighborhoods and our industrial and commercial areas each week, we increase the likelihood that our neighborhoods are cleaner and that there are more enjoyable places to be in. Following out of that is that we reduce the hostility and friction from our housed neighbors.
 And then the fourth is equally important. One of the things that we aspire to is that through the interaction of our volunteers who are housed and as they come to know and understand that many of the houseless folks are just like them but for different circumstances, that there will come to be a mutual understanding and respect.
 and slowly and organically that this can maybe spread out in our community. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thank you very much. Mr. Lee, welcome.
 Hi, thank you for having us. My name is Matthew Lee. I'm the stewardship director with the Columbia Slough Watershed Council, and I'm here to talk about the other two projects, the Verde-Cully Rain Gardens project and the Industrial Restoration Riparian project. The first, Nestor Campos, who couldn't be here to speak on that project, was –
 a continuation of a project he created or a program he created through Verde. The Columbia Sioux Watershed Council partnered with them this past year through the Quist program to install six rain gardens in the Cully neighborhood. And it really epitomizes the
 the intent of this program, this grant program, because it brought together four community organizations in the community to address stormwater issues. So it built rain gardens on low-income homeowners in the Cully neighborhood. So those households were identified through Habitat for Humanity.
 The actual installation of the rain gardens was conducted through the Multnomah Youth Cooperative, which is an alternative learning academy through the Reynolds School District. And that provided youth to be able to learn technical skills around stormwater management and engineering to be able to install the rain gardens on the properties. And then it also brought in the technical expertise of Nesta at Verde and then the council's support through advocacy and outreach. Thank you.
 So seeing that this program would be continued into the future with nine more rain gardens installed in the neighborhood, would be addressing both great environmental issues that the neighborhood needs, as well as bringing a lot of community organizations together to really further the mission of the program.
 The second project is doing riparian restoration work along the Columbia Slough in a very industrial part of our watershed. The council has an initiative to do greater outreach and partner with more of these businesses and landowners to be able to do the restoration work needed to improve water quality and wildlife habitat. The site that we are potentially doing the project on is Alaskan,
 is a landowner called Hedro, formerly known as Sapa. And they own three additional industrial properties that are adjacent to the slough. So this project would be a really great example and a model for other businesses, not only for Hedro, but also for other businesses in this very industrial area of the city. Thank you.
 to partner and work with the council to provide resources, volunteer labor, to be able to restore our waterways so that they're healthier for the community and also healthier for the wildlife. That's wonderful. Questions, colleagues? Yeah, I have a question for Neighbors Helping Neighbors. Who pays for the trash disposal? Okay.
 So Peninsula Odd Fellows actually contributes $120 a month and has been supporting us since last year. The average dump fees, anywhere between $40 and $75, so we're saying it's about $60 a trip. That's two trips a week. And we also accept donations. For a long time, Terrence had the deep pockets and supported that, and we still thank him.
 And then also we've made an arrangement with Metro's Regional Illegal Dumping Program. Stephanie Rossens coordinates that. And so they send a team over to Terrence's house every Tuesday morning and unload his trailer and truck and put it in their truck.
 And then they take it away. And that's about a savings of $3,000 a year for us. So if somebody either in this room or watching at home would like to, doesn't necessarily have the time or capacity to go out and help pick up the trash, but would like to help you in this worthy cause, how would they donate to you? Thank you. They would, we have a Facebook page, and it's just Neighbors Helping Neighbors PDX.
 And on that, they will find information on how to do that. And then the other way that they could do that is through the Peninsula Odd Fellows. At the moment, we're using their website. And so it is keepportlandodd.com, I believe. And on that, they will see a donation page. Thank you. Thank you for asking that.
 I want to thank you for taking the time to come share your inspiring stories. And by way of background, I think it's important I acknowledge the other recipients. So if I could just take a moment. Neighbors Helping Neighbors PDX in this particular ordinance before us would receive $10,000.
 Lower Columbia Estuary Partnerships Vernon Stormwater Phase 2, $10,000. Friends of Zanger Farms Farm School, $8,285. Depave's Depave Project Enhancement and Education Program, $10,000. Lent School PTA Garden Committee's Lent School Watershed Studies Program, $7,400. $10,000.
 Spring Mountain Christian Academy's Spring Water Corridor Bike and Cleanup, $1,000. Johnson Creek Watersheds Council's 11th Annual Johnson Creek Cleanup, $5,819. Camp ELSO, which is Experience Life Science Outdoors Adventurers Program, Summer 2018, $10,000. Wilshire NatureScape Group and Friends of Wilshire Parks, Wilshire NatureScape Project, that's quite a mouthful. Thank you.
 $9,125. Friends of Tryon Creek's Tryon Field Ecology Internship, $5,000. Portland State University's Native American Student and Community Centers Restoration and NASCC Rooftop Garden, $10,000. And Tryon Creek Watershed Council's Watershed 101 Mobile Training Program, $8,400. All very worthy recipients and
 and very inspiring. In addition, N2R program funding will support the following community-based projects, Verde's Cully Community Rain Gardens, $10,000, and Columbia Slough Watershed Council's Hydro Series 2, $9,930. So thank you all very much. Thank you. Carla, has anyone signed up to testify? No one else signed up. Colleagues, because this...
 we would like these projects to begin this summer, I would like to offer the following amendment. To Section 2, quote, the Council declares that an emergency exists because it is necessary to award agreements without delay in order to begin community watershed projects during the summer construction season, semicolon, therefore, comma, this ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its passage by Council. Second. The amendment has been seconded. Carla, please call the roll.
 Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Aye. The amendment passes, and now, Carla, would you please call the underlying ordinance as amended? Saltzman? Well, I want to thank Bureau of Environmental Services for their continued support of community groups doing good things for our watersheds and our water bodies, and certainly evidenced by the great presentations we had today by fantastic organizations. Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 Thank you to the presenters. It's great to hear stories like this. I'd love to hear many more. I vote aye. Thank you very much for all of your work. It is good to hear that there are things people can do to improve their watershed, their neighborhoods, and I appreciate that very much. Thanks, Jennifer Devlin and your predecessors in this program. As some council members will know, I got one of those first grants back in 1995, and I think you helped me with that, Pat.
 So thank you for your ongoing dedication. That grant was $3,500, and I believe that the leveraged amount by the end of the project at Markham Elementary School was close to $50,000. So what's not clear in this is this very small amount of money in many cases gets lots and lots of volunteers, donations, in-kind contributions. So it...
 It's definitely good use of ratepayer money. Commissioner Fish, thank you for keeping this program going with me throughout the recession when various mayors tried to cut it. I remember. Yeah. It's days like this that you feel happy to have a vote on the council, and I do right now. Aye.
 I want to thank Jennifer B. and Esmeralda for joining us today and for coordinating the presentation. I want to thank our outstanding community partners that took time today to come share their inspiring stories.
 This is a very small investment with a big impact on our community, and it is a beloved program in our community. So thank you very much. I'm pleased to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. All right, colleagues, just a quick update. We now have three consecutive second readings. We have one item pulled from the consent agenda, which will just take a couple of minutes. We will then take a five-minute break.
 And then we will reconvene to hear a presentation on ICE and the Trump administration's policy with respect to immigrant families and children. So, Carla, the next three are second readings starting with 721. Thank you.
 Authorized grant agreement awarding up to $73,000 in fiscal year 18-19 to Southwest Neighborhoods, Inc. to provide outreach, technical assistance, and community involvement for watershed projects in Portland's Westside sub-watersheds. Vote only. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Aye.
 The matter passes. Carla, please read item 722. Authorize contract with Tetra Tech, Inc. to provide engineering services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Main Substation Replacement Project, number E10897, in the amount of $650,630. Vote only. Carla, please call the roll.
 Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Council, excuse me, Carla, please read Council Item 723. Amend fee schedule for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement Noise Program.
 Vote only. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Eudaly. Well, I'd like to thank our noise officer, Paul Van Orden, for presenting last week. And I also want to thank and acknowledge the good work of the Noise Review Board and appreciate them bringing this forward. I vote aye. Fritz.
 I second all of those thanks and also Mary Seip who I think is our community expert on noise issues. I appreciate your continued attendance here at Council. You made some good points and I know that Commissioner Daly will take those into account. Fish. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, we have one final item this morning and then we'll take a brief recess. Carla, would you please read pursuant to the earlier motion to reconsider item number 706. Aye.
 authorized settlement in the sum of $25,965 in the Tyler S. Bechtel v. City of Portland et al. lawsuit. We have Karen Moynihan to make a very brief presentation to counsel, our esteemed lawyer. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioners, we are seeking approval to settle a matter that was in litigation for the amount of $25,965. This was litigation related to a public records request, and under the public records law, the...
 government entity does have to pay attorney's fees in the event that any of the records that were withheld in fact were supposed to have been disclosed. We had a split decision from the court regarding some records that the city had withheld. Therefore, we are subject to attorney's fees. The attorney fee request has been sent to the city attorney's office and this amount is a compromise figure that we believe would...
 obviate the need, we know would obviate the need to further litigate the matter. And Ms. Moynihan, can you tell us why this is an emergency item? Yes.
 Commissioner, primarily because these funds, two reasons. One is in order to settle for this amount, the attorney who is seeking the attorney's fees has agreed to take a little bit less if we pay him a little bit faster. So we would like to get this done immediately and to get it taken out of this year's, the fiscal year resources. Colleagues, any questions? Is this in relation to the...
 Siting of shelters? Is that what this is about? No, Commissioner. This is with respect to the, I may not have heard you, but it's with respect to the Southeast Foster Shelter. Yeah, that's what I meant. Is that what you said? I'm sorry. Yeah, siting of shelters, yeah. Sorry, I didn't hear. Okay. Okay, any questions? Colleague, excuse me, Carl, anyone sign up to testify? This was pulled from consent. I don't have a sign-up sheet. Anyone wish to be heard? Seeing none, we'll take this to a vote. Please call the roll. Okay.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. All right, so we are going to take a five-minute recess, and we'll be reconvening. And Commissioner Udailey will be chairing the next portion of our council proceedings. We'll take a five-minute recess. One last question here.
 Calls. We're self-reliant. The country is officially... Okay, we're back. Welcome, everyone. Welcome.
 first of all I would like to thank my colleagues for extending this courtesy to me. This is a public meeting because we have a quorum but it's kind of a unconventional gathering in the chambers today. We are going to be hearing from a couple panels. We're not going to be taking public testimony today. We need to
 wrap this up around noon, but because of the timeliness and urgency of this matter, I wanted to give community members a chance to come express concerns and state their demands to council. We'll be reconvening in two weeks, and it is my hope and belief that we will be bringing something forward at that time.
 Next, I want to thank the occupiers and the protesters for what you've done. We know that our immigrant and refugee communities have been...
 fighting against these forces for a long time and now they are more vulnerable than ever and perhaps not comfortable or safe to take the kinds of actions and participate in our grand and long-standing tradition of civil disobedience. So I want to thank you for standing up for them and standing with them. As many of you know, I visited the site on Monday
 And I joined the growing chorus of voices calling for the abolition of ICE. I do not have an update for you on that, but we have several members of Congress working on legislation to do just that.
 I'm tempted to read a little history of ICE into the record, but I don't want to take up too much of our time today. There's definitely a lot of misunderstanding in the public, though, about what ICE is, how long it has existed, what its function is. We've been getting some interesting phone calls from constituents today.
 expressing their concerns about what would happen if we did abolish ICE and the fact is it's only existed for 15 years and we've been dealing with immigration for a long time a lot longer than that so before I call the panels up I want to address a few of the concerns and demands expressed by sorry, social democrats democratic socialists
 I apologize. So, and a particular question about the site that ICE is currently leasing. So in 2011, council voted to overturn the portion of the hearing officer's decision denying the conditional use for a detention facility. In order to revoke this permit, we have to demonstrate that the conditions of approval have been violated.
 My office is currently exploring that path and in conversation with the city attorney. So there's no promise that we can revoke it. But if we have any grounds to do so, I want you to know that I will pursue that wholeheartedly. As to universal defense, it was one of the highlights of this budget cycle that
 the city and the county did fully fund the request of Oregon Ready for standing up their
 universal defense program, and that was $500,000 each from the city and county. And now I'm very committed to helping them leverage those dollars and seek funds from other jurisdictions, such as the state, who have also declared sanctuary status and should be putting their money where their mouths are.
 The Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs was the second request or recommendation advanced by the Sanctuary City Task Force that we convened. And we are actively exploring the most efficient and effective way to stand up an office, whether it's a standalone office or within an existing bureau, as well as how we can offer additional support
 services and supports in the meantime. So although that is going to take longer than finding funding for universal defense, it is a high priority and it is, um, an active conversation on JTTF. I've met with the FBI. One of the weirdest moments of my tenure here so far, uh,
 to understand the scope of the city's involvement with JTTF. I also met with representatives from ACLU, Council on American Islamic Relations Oregon, and Brandon Mayfield to hear the concerns regarding the city's involvement with the task force. I'm concerned by many of the points expressed by advocates, but want to acknowledge that there are also
 immigrant and refugee community leaders who are against the city withdrawing from JTTF and feel that we benefit from having a relationship with them. I am completely open to this conversation. I have no idea where my colleagues stand on it, and ultimately it's something that we would have to persuade the mayor on. So that's where that stands. And then...
 I think the final item. Unfortunately, the mayor's not here today. I don't know if we have a spokesperson from his office, but as far as I know, his stance on using police resources or interfering with the occupation of the ICE building remains the same. We're not going to commit any city resources to that. And there was also a request...
 Around Homeland Security surveillance and I'd like to hear more of that because I'm not up to date on On what's happening and if we are somehow aiding that I don't believe we are but I want to hear from community members so yeah, just Just a moment so many things to cover. Um, I
 Yes, before I introduce the next panel, Commissioner Fritz, and if any of my colleagues want to make comments, please do. Well, thank you very much, everybody, for being here. Thank you to the occupiers, people who are standing up, and thank you for letting us get the rest of our agenda done this morning. I greatly appreciate that. As an immigrant, I know that we don't have compassionate, reasonable, enforceable immigration laws. And until we do, this ICE is stupid and...
 Watch that get into the newspaper. It's not reasonable, compassionate, or enforceable. So that's the underlying problem, and Congress needs to change the immigration laws so that people can be with their families, so that somebody like me, who comes here on a legal visa, falls in love, could actually marry an American legally, which I did, by the way, but that was a long time ago. Yeah.
 I was on the council when the conditional use happened with the current building on Macadam. The fact of the matter is the federal government can do it anyway. So partly what we did in having that conditional use process was to try to put some sideboards around what they can do. So I think that needs to factor into the consideration of whether or not to revoke that conditional use permit. They can just tell us they can do whatever they want.
 I have voted against accepting the report of the Joint Terrorism Task Force every year since the first time it came back. I hoped when I voted to go back in that we would find out more information about what they're doing. We have not. We have found out less. And I don't support spending Portland taxpayers' money in investing police time.
 doing whatever they're doing, which we don't know, even as a council member I don't know, with the Joint Terrorism Task Force. And then finally,
 I have to mention the New Portlanders program that started in the Office of Human Relations is now in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and Portland United Against Hate. So it's been very clear for a long time that immigrants and refugees need to be welcomed in our community and that Portlanders do welcome them. We've expanded the Parks for New Portlanders program within Portland Parks and Recreation while I've been a commissioner in charge of that program.
 So there's various different ways that we can be supportive. I very much appreciate what Commissioner Udeli did in leading the council in getting the money for universal representation. That's clearly necessary. All of us can do something, and each of you is doing part of your something this morning. I just want to thank you very much for being here. Anybody else? Okay. So thank you for being here, and thank you for being –
 friendly and respectful, and I want to encourage that to continue. On this issue, I really feel that we, although we may not entirely agree as a body what the next steps are, that we are all on the same side. And we really want to hear what the community's priorities are in order to help us
 kind of advance in their next steps towards protecting our immigrant and refugee communities. So with that, I'm going to invite our first panel who are all members of the new Portlanders Policy Commission that Commissioner Fritz just mentioned. We have co-chair Sho Dazono, he's come up, Jamal Dar, and June Schuman.
 Welcome. Please state your name for the record. And I did ask everyone to keep their comments to three to five minutes. Good morning, Commissioners. Thank you very much for this opportunity. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for forming the New Portland Policy Commission. My name is Shoto Zono. I'm one of the co-chairs for the commission.
 Last night we met in City Hall and voted unanimously to have two people speak on our behalf in support of what is going on in our community. June Schumann and Damara Jarr will be speaking on behalf of the New Portland Policy Commission. Thank you very much for your time this morning.
 Good morning. My name is June Arima Schumann. I am a resident of Portland, Oregon. I am here this morning as the chair of the Advocacy and Education Committee of the New Portlander Policy Commission, which was established by the city in 2017. Most of us on the commission are immigrants.
 or refugees along with those who are native-born Americans. We are immigrants who have been in the United States most of our lives, as well as more recent arrivals from all parts of the world. Thank you.
 We are all Portlanders now, and we are here to raise our voices to address grave crises in our country that threaten the lives of people, as well as the democratic ideals on which our country was founded. We are here to stand in solidarity with migrants arriving at our southern borders, seeking better lives for themselves and their families, just as we did in all who preceded us.
 We are here to decry the criminal violations of human rights by our government by separating migrant children from their parents and using the abduction of the children to create fear with the intent to deter further migration by people of color. We oppose in strongest possible terms policies and practices that are designed to exclude certain people based on race, national origin, and religion.
 We expect better from our government. Principles of fairness, equality, and justice ought to guide the U.S. immigration policy. The guarantees of due process ought to be accorded to each migrant as the norm and as the law requires.
 Our country flourished on the ideals that all are welcome and that immigrants bring new vitality and creative energy and contribute to the economic life of the community. And in the process, the presence of newcomers enriches the lives of all.
 We know from our country's past that terrible wrongs were committed when government leaders acted based on racial stereotypes and deeply held myths and fears. The crisis at our southern border and the separate detention of children and families without due process reminds us of the incarceration of people of Japanese ancestry during World War II.
 120,000 people, children and elderly included, were imprisoned in America's concentration camps. Decades later, we learned from the findings of a presidential commission that the Japanese incarceration was caused not by military necessity for security, but by racial prejudice, wartime hysteria, and a failure of political leadership.
 Native American children taken away from their families to be educated and raised in distant places run by white people is another example of racist policy with long-term consequences that should never have happened. What is happening now on our southern border and the presence of migrant detainees, including young children separated from their parents in our city, should not be happening.
 When people of Japanese descent were taken away from Portland 76 years ago, Portland City Council actively assisted in the process while good people remained silent. Let's not repeat the mistakes of the past. Let's not allow bullies and lies to dictate what is right and what is wrong.
 Let's get beyond the superficial pronouncements and do all we can to resist and turn the tide of hateful policies in action. Thank you for this opportunity to present. Thank you. Counsel, Commissioners, my name is Jamal Da'ar. Assalamu alaikum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuh. Peace be upon you all. I'm part of the New Portland Commissioners.
 policy, as well as the African Union Community Organization, as well as the seven Muslim countries that's been panned to come into the United States. I'm a Somali Muslim who arrived 200 years ago from the largest refugee camp in the world. I'm extremely lucky and have nothing against the about except the great thing about this country is what it has done for me. I believe in an American dream. It contribute our economy and building
 healthy and welcoming nation from the first day. I lived through that dream and have witnessed that dream. Civil rights and religious advocacy groups across the country reacted to the court's decision yesterday. In a passionate chaos, they call it hateful, historic, and faithfulness of values to discriminate a ruling that will go down in history to come to the Supreme Court in great failure.
 The Supreme Court has given a green light to religious discrimination that is okay to hate. Let's face it, there's no higher authority than the Supreme Court. Is that right? I'm not sure. Excuse me. The human rights watchdog Amnesty International declares this hateful policy is a disaster around the globe, not only the United States. I cannot stress it strongly enough that...
 Currently, American policies is promoting religious discrimination for many Muslim countries. American people care deeply about their own freedom, particularly their religious freedom. Freedom lies at the cores of founding of our countries, and it's the model of which we continue to strive. But concern of religion, freedom, and other human rights reflect a value that are not exclusively in Americans.
 ITAD were committed to do the right thing, to protect ourselves, our people, our religion, and respect everybody's dignity and faith. There are universal values recognized by almost every country around the globe and expressed it at the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Yesterday's message to more than 70 million Muslims said, you are not welcome here. We don't want you here.
 We want you and we pay you. You are not welcome to travel, to join your loved ones, live in the United States. The same message also went to send more than 2 billion Muslim people around the world, particularly over 3 million living in the United States. I was so strong until yesterday, but I felt so weak, hopelessness, frustrated, but never give up hope.
 I thought the Supreme Court would do the right thing. We know the United States. We know America. And I felt our Constitution is strong and fair. But I wonder, since I'm a Muslim, am I not American? At worst, we thought the Supreme Court would approach conditions, something like meaningful and maybe in the middle, but also something to say that U.S. citizens can have visas to their families.
 America has changed. This administration is building hate in many people's hearts. And our morals and American dreams have been questioned both here and around the globe. The Supreme Court's decision will shock many of us who want relatives in our own homeland schools to join us. What would you say to the five-year-old
 who was born in the United States, but never seen his dad, but knew that his dad would pick up his visa from a disabled embassy, United States, located in Ethiopia, Monday, July 2nd. Is that changed? Yes.
 is a child, American child, would ever see his dad. That's the question. What would you say the mother who raised four young daughters who has been shot and dead in front of them by extremists in Shabab, in Somalia, who waited over four years for this moment, completed all the paperwork, and did not receive the visa? Nearly two million people were killed.
 More than 30 years, for the past 30 years, those four or five countries that's been, they were looking for opportunities. They were looking for the American dreams that we all hear. We live in America. This is a land of immigrants, parents and children who want to be reunited with their loved ones are shattered than ever before. But you know what?
 what they are, they are resilient. Resilient people and if they survive 27 years in the refugee camp, two more years are nothing. The American dreams will prevail and their dreams will prevail and we will not give up for hope. Thank you for your time today. Thank you. All right, our next panel is from Occupy PDX and Portland Democratic Socialists of America.
 Olivia Cappy Smith, Jacob Barreros, and Christian Calzada, please come up. State your name for the record. Three to five minutes. Thank you for being here today.
 Hello commissioners, thank you for allowing us time to speak today and thank you especially to Commissioner Eudaly. My name is Olivia Catby-Smith and I'm here with the Democratic Socialists of America. I'm also here as the concerned daughter of an immigrant. ICE didn't even exist when my dad came here but since its creation they have destroyed millions of lives across the country
 ripping babies from their parents' arms, sending people who are just seeking asylum to their deaths. This is how ICE functions by design. They are a terrorist organization. And they, along with everything that was established with the same suite of legislation, including the Department of Homeland Security and the Patriot Act, need to be abolished.
 but we realize that's not a demand we can make of city council. There are some things you can do though. We sent you a list of actions that you can take right now as Portland City Council to protect our city's vulnerable residents. I encourage you to review that list. I want to focus on one of them in particular.
 As someone from a Muslim family, I am personally begging you to withdraw the city from the Joint Terrorism Task Force. The city has withdrawn before, and it can easily do it again. ICE is a member of the JTTF, meaning Portland's pledge to be a sanctuary city is threatened by Portland police officers participating in the task force.
 Portland was not a part of the task force from 2005 to 2011 based on the inability of the police chief and police commissioner to have the same top secret clearance as the officers they oversee. That issue has not changed. President Trump has made it clear he plans to target people based on their religion, national origin, and political beliefs. Any JTTF activity along these lines violates Oregon law. The city of Portland cannot participate in the JTTF and call itself a sanctuary city.
 JTTF operations have resulted in surveillance, profiling, and false accusations against members of the Muslim community. Innocent people have gone to jail because of JTTF operations. A leaked ICE memo has shown that ICE informants are impersonating lawyers, journalists, and doctors. And the vast majority of ICE detentions happen after the detainee has had contact with the local police force.
 This man, Jabril Jarju, is a Muslim man from the Gambia who married a U.S. citizen and had no criminal history. In the early morning last month, he was ripped from his wife and young daughters in Vancouver by ICE and deported. Six inches from the mic. Sorry? Just move the mic back a little bit because the sound gets real. Yeah.
 The travel ban targeting Muslims was just upheld by the Supreme Court yesterday. This is a time when the Muslim community needs white liberals to stand and say no more. That time cannot come tomorrow. That time cannot come next week. That time must come right now. I already saw a bunch of emergency resolutions happening today.
 I know that the City Council has heard from the ACLU, the Council on American Islamic Relations and many other well-respected organizations urging you to withdraw from the JTTF. You cannot say you support immigrants and refugees and people of color while leaving out the millions of Muslims who are affected by these policies. If you truly believe that the JTTF makes this city safer, we want to know why. We want to see a report. We want to know what they're doing that outweighs the danger of our communities are being put in through our city's participation.
 participation in this task force. Portland cannot continue to participate in this task force without recognizing that you are complicit in whatever actions ICE and the FBI are taking to harm these communities. Please listen to your constituents and do the right thing. And while we appreciate the time to speak, we also recognize that this is not an official part of the agenda, so we urge you to make this an official part of your business.
 Please discuss this as a part of your agenda at the next meeting. We also urge you to hold an evening hearing so members of our community can properly weigh in on the crisis of ICE in our community. Thank you. Hello, Commissioners. Thanks for having us here today. Thank you, Commissioner Udeli. My name is Jacob Barreros, and I'm with Direct Action Alliance and a member of this community and a father.
 and the son of an immigrant. I grew up in the Philippines till I was 15. I was lucky enough to be born here, so my residency here has never been threatened. But I lived there my whole life, and moving here was very difficult. And what I wanna talk to you about today is just the power that you have. So many Portlanders right now
 are livid. So many Portlanders right now are terrified. While family separations at the border is a new policy, family separations in our own city have been going on for a long time. How many dreamers don't have their parents to support them? How many dreamers don't have their uncles, their aunts, their grandparents? How many dreamers have been deported themselves? Family separations are an everyday activity of ICE.
 Not too long ago, we fought a war over the exact same thing, people hunting down people for not having the right documents. That's happening right now in our city, and all of us want to do something. So many people are down there putting their freedom and their liberty on the line right now. We're getting threatened with federal charges, but what can we do? What other recourse do we have? Thank you.
 We are breaking laws, but what about the laws that our federal government are breaking? What about the laws about amnesty? What about the crimes against humanity that they are committing? Right now, we cannot respond the usual way. Desperate times call for desperate measures. Justice Kennedy just announced that he's retiring. This is a major, major blow to us. The federal level is crumbling. I'm watching the country that I immigrated to and grew to love.
 fall apart in front of me. And the only thing that we can do is act locally, and we need you to act locally, not just walk the line, not just do the bare minimum. We need you to take extraordinary measures. Commissioner Udalli, what you're doing, looking for a way to get them out of this city, thank you. That's what we need. We can't just do the usual. There are families being torn apart.
 This is your city. This is our community. This has happened over and over and over again in our past with Native Americans, with Japanese Americans, to my countrymen in the Philippines. When Americans came over there and colonized, this is an old practice, but you have the chance to say, not in our time, not in our time, not in our name, not in our city, and I ask you to take extraordinary steps.
 extraordinary steps to do what it takes to defend your community. Please withdraw from the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Please do everything you can to support the recommendations of the Sanctuary City Task Force. As long as we cooperate with the modern-day Gestapo, we are complicit. We cannot stay complicit and we absolutely cannot be complicit. You have so much more power than all of us because you voice the collective power of Portland. Please voice our outrage. Please step up. Thank you.
 Hello, everybody. My name is Christian Calzada. I am undocumented. Growing up, I always grew up with fear, fear of not knowing what was going to happen next, if I was going to go home and see my family. I grew up seeing how my parents were treated as criminals, when in my eyes, they were nothing more than heroes.
 Here it was because they took a brave action of traveling across the border through the deserts, me as a baby, carrying them in my arms, carrying me in their arms, sorry, through a hard journey where many people have lost their lives, seeking more than an American dream.
 but once getting here realizing that the american dream does not exist for me as long as my skin is brown and not white this system will do everything in its power to make sure that i am viewed as a criminal the city of portland can make a drastic change uh real soon we can be a leader for the rest of the united states showing the power that this city holds
 to the rest of the world, um, that we will not stand with eyes. Uh, eyes is a terrorizing group as other people have taught, uh, have said, uh, they separate families for a living. Um, and ripping families apart is considered genocide when you don't have, uh, a plan to reunite them. The Supreme court yesterday, not the Supreme court, a federal judge yesterday, uh,
 gave 150 days to CBP, Homeland Security, and ICE to reunite the families. This is not enough. We need to make sure that you with power and also our white allies, our white people that say that they stand behind us, take actions that show that they really mean it. We don't have time, like was stated earlier, to be passive. Families are being separated. We need to make sure that we're being passive.
 Many people are happy just liking a post on Facebook, retweeting something, but we don't have time for that anymore. If you really say that you have our backs, you with privilege will come out with us, march, stand, and occupy with us.
 You will contact your elected officials and make sure that they know what's happening in the city of Portland. The city of Portland is housing eyes, is housing terrorism. Knowing this is an embarrassment. We can also ask you and other allies to please donate to groups that support our migrant families. And fight your own biases.
 I know that many people say that they're not racist, that they're for immigration, but check that on a daily. Make sure that the actions you take are not speaking otherwise. Once again, I am undocumented. I am directly being affected by this. So please, with a lot of urgency, take action. Be brave. Use your privilege. Use your power. If not,
 the city of Portland will respond against you, and we will make sure that those seeds are being seeded, are being used by people who really do care about us. Thank you. Thank you for your courage in being here today. I appreciate it. Thank you, everyone, for coming.
 Oh, sure. Commissioner Fitz? Thank you. And again, thank you to Commissioner Udaly for leading this. Thanks to Commissioner Fish's chief of staff, Sonia Schmansky, who worked with the other chiefs of staff to help develop the concept. Just in terms of next steps, we don't have a meeting next week. And then for the following two weeks, I'm going to be in England visiting my mother, who's 88.
 So, you know, I recognise the urgency and I want to make sure you know that you may need my vote if we're going to discuss JTTF. So Commissioner Newdaily made the point that much is dependent on what Mayor Wheeler chooses to do. And we will have a new commissioner in January. And so I think the key to this to me is...
 endless pressure endlessly applied, which is used in the environmental movement by Mike Houck. But for all of us, we are in it for the long haul. We are united against hate, and we must be united against hate. And while we have had differences of how to go about doing that, we have to show love even when we have differences, especially amongst each other. And so thank you for
 joining together, figuring it out. It's bewildering to see what's happening at the national level, and every minute it seems like there's something new coming in to get despondent about. When I see you here and see Commissioner Eudaly's leadership, my colleagues on the council sitting and listening respectfully, it does give me a glimmer of hope that we can do things differently here in Portland, because we have to. So thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Hey Dan, fuck you, you piece of shit. Don't spoil it, don't spoil it. Okay, let's not end this on a negative note. All right. We came so close. Dang it. But, you know, people care a lot. We recognize that. I think I understand how angry people are. I understand that some people are looking for a...
 Target for that anger. I hope that we've demonstrated today that we do have a sincere and earnest desire to hear from the community and act on these issues. Where's Ted? It doesn't feel like he does. Okay, no more disruptions, please.
 Ted had a planned absence weeks ago. And frankly, we have almost as much power as the mayor. So the notion that somehow this is a less desirable body to speak to because the mayor is not here is a little bit insulting. So I'm going to return to my remarks now. You give me hope.
 I can't imagine what I would feel like today if the results of my election had been different. My source of hope really only comes from the power that I have now as an elected to serve and help my community. And I just want to acknowledge that.
 what a privilege that is. Oh boy, that did not sound good. Sorry, I want to thank the panelists again. It was very moving testimony and I want to repeat what I said on Monday, which is our federal government is violating human, civil, and constitutional rights of people in our country. And I don't care whether they are
 undocumented or documented, legal or illegal. It's not acceptable, and the city of Portland should not be condoning or supporting that in any way. Our federal government is sending a message that immigrants are a threat when we know that's a lie. We know that immigrants are less likely to commit crime. Yeah. And we know that...
 Although I don't think someone's value should be based on their contribution to our economy, we cannot disregard the fact that our immigrant community gives so much to us, whether it is economic, cultural, religious, spiritual, moral. You bring so many gifts to us, and it really...
 painful to think how you must feel right now living in this country. It's just a shameful episode in our history. I don't have many updates. I have been trying to gather a little information as the panels progressed.
 I just want to reiterate, I'm very open to the JTTF conversation. Although I said that I met with all these groups and individuals, I still don't feel like I have a real working understanding. So let's work on that. And my office is initiating a review of the appeal on the conditional use permit on the ICE facility. I don't want to get anyone's hopes up
 Uh, but I don't know. I just got a strange gesture from the back of the room. I don't want to get your hopes up that we can, that that avenue is going to be successful, but it's one of many, many avenues we can take. So, um, I'm going to adjourn the meeting and maybe I'll see you guys outside. Everybody not awake.