Sorry, I got that. All right. Good morning, everybody. This is the June 20th, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Welcome, everybody, on this beautiful day. Carla, could you please call the roll? Fish. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. Good morning.
 good morning welcome to the portland city council the city council represents all portlanders and meets to do the city's business the presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome comfortable respected and safe to participate in council meetings you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject you
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping keep your Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe.
 All right, thank you. And I apologize. I just wanted to make sure I got the sequencing right here for when Commissioner Fish is going to join us. He'll join us for items that we're going to add two items right after communications. So first up, Carla, is communications. Could you please invite the first individual, please? Item 658, request of Francisco Holdman to address council regarding homeless, houseless issues and solutions. Good morning.
 The microphone slides around. When you have about 30 seconds left, you'll see the yellow light light up. When your time is done, it's the red light. Okay, thank you. Thank you, sir.
 My name is Francisco Holdman. I'm an employee of the Multnomah County Library. While researching the right to return for a patron, I discovered what the Oregonian called zombie houses, and I was interested in purchasing these zombie houses for the amount that is owed and converting them to low-income Section 8 housing.
 Also, as I was researching this, I found that there's surplus properties from the Water Bureau. And I would also like to develop these properties into low-income housing and veteran housing or disabled veteran housing. I found that the easiest way to approach the city council would be to come here and speak because...
 Like just to approach you individually, there's a long wait to get scheduled unless you're an organization. And I don't currently have an organization, but I would form an organization if this was feasible. I know it's just a drop in the bucket. It's not a lot of housing. But as anyone has known, drops in a bucket can eventually fill the bucket. It's a complicated issue solving homelessness, but this could be one of the processes to reduce homelessness in Portland. Okay.
 So if that's even something that the city can do, I know if you want to sell it to developers for a profit, but developers are going to develop the properties for the highest amount of profit. And that's not going to be to serve low-income people. So that's basically it. If you think that that's something we can work on, I would just like to be able to meet with you in person and develop a plan to make this happen.
 That's it. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you very much. I worked on the zombie houses with Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Hales. And it turns out it's a lot more complicated due to state laws about what the process has to be to make sure that property owners are not unfairly having their property taken.
 And then it has to go through like a year's wait and there has to be a process for offering it on the open market. Yes, we saw that. And we don't want to take any properties away from people that want to maintain their properties and try to keep them. We're just, if the original owners are not going to pay for them, then we would like an opportunity to use that housing to develop for low income. We have actually, for the first time in decades...
 gone through that process and it turns out that once the foreclosure process seems to be in earnest many of the owners do show up and start making the changes to their properties so it hasn't resulted in as many actual turning over the property into more productive uses. And regarding the surplus Water Bureau properties and the Environmental Services Commissioner Fish is out today but he would tell you that he established a process for declaring those properties surplus when they are
 And again, it has to go through a full process of, unfortunately, it does have to go to the highest bidder because of the rates having purchased the property. They have to get as much return on those properties, but they can't dedicate them to affordable housing. Well, I understand that. But I also understand that, I mean, we're trying to solve a problem. And if going to the highest bidder just makes the problem worse, which it will because they'll
 they're not going to make low-income housing. I know Commissioner Fish shares your frustration because he has been working on the affordable housing crisis for a very long time, and so I'm sure he'll continue looking into that, and I appreciate your coming to talk to us about it.
 Okay. Yeah, I want to thank you for your initiative. And if you'd like a further follow-up question on these issues to get a little more detail, since you took the initiative, I think it's the least we can do. I don't know who is actually – I guess Jennifer is staffing these. Wave your hand again, Jennifer, so we can see you. We'll connect you with the appropriate person in our office who deals with these housing-related issues. Okay. Yeah.
 Dive as deeply as you want to. All right. I think your ideas are good and they're sound, and I agree with Commissioner Fritz. There are unfortunately formidable obstacles in both of those cases, but we should at least have the conversation, and what the heck, maybe new ideas will be sparred. All right. Thank you. Thanks for coming in. We appreciate it.
 Next individual, please, Carla. Item 659, request of Craig Rogers to address counsel regarding trust and local government. He will not be coming today. Next individual, please. Item 660, request of John Petty to address counsel regarding Airbnb issues. He is also not coming. I'm feeling like a little jilted today. Next individual, please.
 661 request of Dana Lynn Lewis to address council regarding gather make shelter a citywide collaboration with the population Experiencing homelessness very good. Welcome. Thank you for being here. She said my name is Dana Lynn Lewis I want to this can you hear me? Yes, I bet just want to play this video because it says a lot about the project I started this project in October
 I'm Dana Lynn Lewis, and I'm an artist and have been in Portland for the last 30 years. Gather, Make, Shelter came about because I feel like I've been feeling this real disconnect between people walking down the street, not looking at each other, not talking to each other. And I wanted to create an art project where people are encouraged to meet each other at their base level of humanity on a more regular basis.
 Recently, I've been engaged in a project in Senegal, and there I taught some women who are potters how to draw and how to paint, and it turned into a new income stream for them. When I came back to Portland, I thought, how could I make something happen here? I am working with 10 different social service agencies at this point. There's potters all over Portland that are making pots. People are really excited about contributing to this project.
 Then what I'm going to do is take those ceramic bowls into 10 different social service agencies and teach some drawing and painting skill workshops relative to working on pottery with people who are experiencing homelessness. Those artists who are working through the social service agencies, they're going to be paid to do this project, and that's a really important piece of this project for me.
 So in the end, after we do all these wonderful workshops and everyone's made all these incredible bowls, we're going to have festivals in the fall. You'll come and you'll bring all your friends and you'll buy a bowl. And the end point of that festival is all those bowls that are going to be sold and everybody that's come together to produce them, they're going to be creating this big fundraiser because we're going to sell those bowls and all that money is going to be turned right over to get people into housing.
 I have been so honored and inspired that so many people are interested and engaged and think that this matters and that the actions that we take through Gather Make Shelter are going to make a difference. I don't want to squander my three minutes, so I'll just tell you a few more things. The final events are actually taking shape right now, and I was invited, or Gather Make Shelter was invited to have our final event at Pioneer Courthouse Square, which is a
 which is very exciting. Another event that we're going to have, and that's going to be the big public event where we sell the bowls and everybody comes. There's also going to be food there, and it's a cross-pollination of chefs in town working with youth experiencing homelessness to teach them some culinary skills. There's music that's coming on board. It's getting bigger and bigger every day. In addition to that, I'm teaching 60 workshops between May and September. I personally am teaching those workshops every,
 Ten social service agencies, that was the count in April when we made this video. Now it's probably 12, and then there's a couple others, Right to Survive and Right to Dream, and a couple other individual groups that have called me. I get calls every day about people wanting to jump on board.
 At this point, the project is completely funded by the citizens. I need money, and I would love for you guys to spread the word. Dig deep in some pockets if there are any. Inform everybody you know. GatherMakesShelter.org is the place where you can access our fundraising campaign. And...
 gathermakeshelter at gmail.com is where you can arrange a meeting with me, and I'm happy to meet with everybody and their mother and father and sister and brother to talk about this project.
 Not only are the housed citizens funding this project, the people who are currently experiencing homelessness have given me money for this project. And people are shocked when I offer them a stipend to participate in this. And the elevation of people's morale around thinking that what they're doing makes a difference is growing daily. So thank you for your time. I appreciate it. Thank you. Could I ask you a question? You mentioned the big event at Pioneer Square. Do you have a date? Yes, September 23rd. September 23rd, what time? Yes.
 We don't have a time on that, but there's going to be a lot of publicity around that. There's also going to be an artist-only party because the painters and the potters are really interested in each other. I bring in photo albums with me every day when I teach to show this person made this pot, this person signed this pot, you're collaborating with this person, and as much as I can, I text the potter and say, look what happened today. And it's pretty great.
 But there's an artist party. The artist party is going to be artists only. And there's rumor that it's going to be very close to this room, but we're not sure yet. Awesome. And just to, if I want to know more, I go to gathermakeshelter.org. Is that correct? Yes, please. Yeah. Very good. And gathermakeshelter at gmail.com gets you access to asking any questions. And also I want to say another thing is that I'm having these superpowers.
 open studios once a month. And that ranges from anybody who wants to come, who's participated in the project or curious about the project, the next one's tomorrow night. So if you're interested in that, my studio's not far from here. And it's from 6 to 7.30. Gather and Make Shelter at Gmail. You can get all the information.
 Commissioner Fritz, then Commissioner Eudaly. Thank you for your leadership. We have a special appropriations process where people can apply for small grants for projects just like this that get going starting in the summer. So you could look out for that because that's the place where we, if we do have any spare cash available,
 you can apply for it. Okay, so I've been in touch with Commissioner Udaly's office and also Commissioner Fish's office, and actually I've been at your office too. Great. So who do I follow up with on that? Same people that I'm in touch with? Yeah, you could get in touch with the Mayor's office because his staff in the Office of Management and Finance will be starting that process. Okay, great. Thank you so much. Commissioner Udaly. I just wanted to point out in case...
 people missed it, that Dana is the artist who created the installation in the north atrium at City Hall. That's great. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Good. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you for your time. I appreciate it. I'm on my way to the Southeast Industrial Business Association. I'm speaking with Mark Jolin and people from Central City Concern about the positive things that are happening in the city relative to people who are working with people experiencing homelessness to make it better. So I just spent two hours with them.
 at a different event talking about progress around homeless services. It is a small town, isn't it? Say hi to them for me. They're probably sick of me already. Yeah, well, it's really great. And I'm really honored to be part of that too. Thanks. Thanks for coming in and sharing this with us. It's really exciting. Okay, thank you. Very good. Have any items? I believe I pulled one item off of the consent form.
 Agenda 671. Are there other items that have been pulled, Carla? I've had no other requests. Very good. Please call the roll. Fish. I'm sorry. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. And now we are going to invite Commissioner Fish in. And so I believe I have the appropriate script that I need to read.
 Pursuant to PCC 3.02.025, Commissioner Fish is participating by telephone because he is traveling. Failure to allow participation of the absent City Council member by electronic communication would jeopardize the public interest, health, safety, or welfare. All other City Council members are physically present in the Chamber.
 Do any of the council members who are physically present object to having Commissioner Fish participate by telephone? And although it's not part of the script, colleagues, I believe he is just participating for items 679 and 680. And I'm getting a head nod on that. Seeing no objection, let's go ahead and ring him in. Commissioner Fish, are you there? Yes. Thank you, Carla. You're welcome. Okay.
 So my understanding is we're going to do $679,000. Is that correct? And $680,000. And $680,000. Very good. If you could read those two together, please. $679,000. Add a new per-night fee assessed on booking agents or transit lodging intermediaries for the privilege of facilitating a short-term rental occupancy.
 and 680, amend Tourism Improvement District Code to include short-term rental hosts who use booking agents to advertise or accept reservations and other housekeeping changes. Colleagues, we had extensive testimony and presentations on this last week. These are both second readings. Is there anything else that people would like to raise prior to the vote?
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. We had a discussion about whether to change to a percentage rather than a flat fee. So it would be a percentage fee rather than a flat fee. And so I did some research. And in Portland, you can rent a room for $15 per night. You can also rent an entire apartment for $1,200 per night. And either way, under what we have on the table, the proposed fee would be $4. Okay.
 The percentage fee on the $15 room is 27%. The percentage fee on the $1,200 apartment is 0.3%.
 If we went to a 3.25% fee, which is estimated to raise a similar amount of money for the housing investment fund, the fee on the $15 room would be less than 50 cents, whereas the fee on the apartment would be $39. It seems to me to be basic fairness to avoid regressive impacts on people as much as possible. And the person renting the $15 room is going to be much more impacted by a $4 charge than the person paying $1,200 for a night.
 And I believe we should take the time to get it right. At the very first public hearing I ever went to at Metro on the 1995 green spaces bond measure, six little citizens from southwest Portland made the point that they had missed the whole of southwest Portland and Lake Oswego in crafting their bond measure. And the person who had been in charge of the committee said, well, we've been doing this for two years and this is the last hearing and you're too late.
 And Judy Wires, who was the Metro presiding officer at the time, said, there's no point in having a public hearing if it doesn't matter what the public says when they show up. These people are my constituents. They've made a point. And what are we going to do about it? And she would not let them...
 before they had that discussion. And I believe this is really important. We had a tremendous public hearing in which we did hear from both the platform companies and the hosts that they're open to participating in the system. They have some suggestions on how to make it better. And I believe it would be worth taking the time to make it better. Very good. Item 679.
 Is there any further discussion? Well, I'm confused. Did you just propose an amendment? I thought we should have some discussion since we had a public hearing. People asked for this, and we said maybe there would be an amendment. I thought we should have some discussion. So Commissioner Fritz and I have come to similar conclusions independently. I also would prefer a percentage. It's my understanding that there –
 And I'm a little confused why we would be moving forward with the vote without talking about this. It was my understanding that we were going to look a little more closely at this because we've had a request to delay implementation from one or more of the platforms until the end of the summer. So is that not the case? Yes.
 Okay, well. So I'll speak up since I don't see staff here for either of these items. It is my understanding that the implementation will not actually take place until October 1st. This is an interesting conversation, but I was persuaded by Commissioner Fish's amendment, which says,
 allows us to go into a data collection and dissemination mode. Therefore, we have the ability to evaluate the policy. There are pros and cons and tradeoffs to flat fee versus a percentage fee. My personal preference would be not to delay this further. Actually, the effective date is August 1st. August 1st. Thank you for correcting me. But there's been a request to delay it until after Labor Day. So, I mean, what I'm suggesting is if we are going to delay it for...
 two months that we look into the question of percentage versus flat fee. Mayor, can I be heard for a second? Commissioner Fish, sure. I can barely hear you. I'm in the former Soviet Union watching football. Here's one option that we could pursue. The second item today, I think we have consensus and we're ready to move on.
 I believe there are both practical revenue and legal issues relating to whether you do a flat fee or percentage. I would actually love to be present for that debate or at least the discussions with my colleagues before the next debate. Would the mayor consider a brief set over of the first matter so that we can just...
 see if we can reach consensus. I share his view that the, based on what I've been briefed and learned, I think the flat fee is the better way to go. But if there is a, if the implementation is not until August or later, I would see no harm in a very brief set over so we could have those conversations, which I'd like to be present for, and then we could just take a vote on the second item. I would also like to be present for and included in the conversation.
 My understanding is anything we try to implement above $2 puts us at risk for one or more of the platforms to pull out. And I'm not convinced that a flat fee is more desirable or a safer bet than a percentage. And I was compelled by the testimony given last week, especially from the smaller hosts offering lower end services.
 rooms. If I could also just add, Mayor, there's a set of legal issues as well about what is the most defensible. I don't want to have that conversation by telephone.
 um but if if it seems to me if two colleagues feel strongly about this mayor a brief set over of this item so we can catch a vote on the second and see if we can reach consensus maybe it is in order uh it does that work for you um so i i am certainly happy to do that i want to be crystal clear i'm ready to move forward i think it is a mistake tactically
 to delay this any further, but I'm hearing my colleagues, and I want to honor the wishes of the majority of my colleagues. Therefore, Item 679, we will set it over. The next opportunity where we actually have a full quorum would be July 19th. Carla, if you want to pencil that in as a time. I'm not hearing July 19th. 19th is a Thursday? Yes. I'm hearing Commissioner Fritz is not available for that.
 Can we do a time certain here? Yeah, we're looking into that, Commissioner Fish. On the 19th of July would be 3 p.m., Thursday, July 19th, 3 p.m. Does that work for everybody? Commissioner Fritz is out. Yeah, I'm out. Oh, no, no. I was trying to stop that. Okay, no. So when is the next date when we are all available? August 22nd. And we could do this as an emergency.
 Because I agree with, I concur with the Mayor, it is important to do this. I just think it is important. Can we find a date in July and have a colleague who's not here phone in, or are you going to be in England? I'm going to be in England, sir. Although I could phone in. My mum has voiceover internet. She doesn't have the internet, so it would be challenging to actually watch the... If there's any way we could keep a July date, I would just urge us to do that.
 On the 25th, Commissioner Fish, you're out. You're the only one out if you want to call in on the... I will make myself available on the 25th. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, both for being willing to delay it and also for being willing to have flexibility. Thank you. Sure. Commissioner Fish, do you prefer a morning or an afternoon for... If we could do it time certain in the morning, Carla. Okay, it would be 10.45. Okay.
 july by the way carla has assured me that the photograph superimposed over my seat is my high school graduation picture can can people confirm that for me i'm not seeing anything commissioner actually that's probably probably that's probably even better all right so colleagues let's do this because we can spend the whole council session comparing councils let's hold this over we'll sort it out with staff so our staffs will will work on this we'll hold over 679 we'll leave the item open
 680 please call the roll I'm very pleased that we're moving forward with what I'd hope with both items but I think a brief delay is in order in the first item and I want to thank the mayor for the leadership that he's shown on both items I think we're heading in the right direction I vote aye
 Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? So this is to add the 2% tourism improvement district to the short-term rentals. And I was not fully understanding how that works.
 That fee is used until I was reminded that it's to publicize Portland as a whole as a destination. It doesn't say stay at particular Hotel X or even list the hotel options. It basically just says Portland's a great place. Come and visit us. And so it does benefit the short-term rentals as well as the hotels, and I appreciate that they're willing to accept this. Aye. Wheeler. I'm ready to go. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you.
 Thank you, Carla. You're welcome, Commissioner. Thanks, Commissioner Fish. Next, items 662 and 663. Could you read those together, please? 662 and 663. Adopt the supplemental budget for the fiscal year 2017-18 over expenditure process and make budget adjustments in various funds.
 And 663, authorize temporary operating loans between various funds to provide interim funding to cover lags in federal, state, and other grant reimbursements and other negative cash and fund balances. Thank you.
 All right, very good. We have our budget team here. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. And we have a couple of amendments, I understand, as well. I'm going to introduce several, and then Commissioner Fritz has at least one. Great. I'm Claudio Camposano, Interim City Budget Director. I'm joined by Jessica Eden, our Budget Monitoring Process Coordinator.
 Today I'm presenting two items, a supplemental budget ordinance and a loan resolution. I'll start with the supplemental budget, or the over-expenditure ordinance as it's known. The over-expenditure ordinance is the third of three scheduled mid-year adjustments to the city budget. The focus of this action is largely constrained to addressing areas where actual expenses have a reasonable likelihood of exceeding current appropriations. I'll briefly highlight some of the changes and take any questions. Then I believe there are several amendments, as the mayor mentioned, that may be moved.
 So in the general fund, there are several items of note. Two items to ensure that the city remains compliant with state budget law, not over-expending current appropriation levels. So the first is an increase of $1 million in discretionary appropriation to Portland Parks and Recreation to address projected under-collection of fee revenues.
 The Bureau is largely discretionary funded, but has a considerable fee revenue budget as well, and that's primarily from recreation fees. So to the degree that these revenues do not materialize, discretionary general fund fills the gap. So this action addresses that possibility. This year we've been seeing a little weakness in the revenues, and while they were projected reasonably, we're seeing a little under-collection.
 So Bureau leadership has been working to address that shortfall, and there's a reasonable likelihood that the additional funds will not be needed, but we just want to make sure that we don't overexpend. Are there any questions on that one? So who controls that decision about whether those funds need to be spent or not?
 Well, they'll be spent if the Bureau actually has expenses that exceed their – so they've got a discretionary budget. If the expenses are in excess of the discretionary budget, which they will be, but then you've got the non-discretionary portion that fills that gap. If the non-discretionary does not come in, we'll just need to – we'll need to have other revenues to back the expenses that happen.
 So at this late point in the year, we've got very little opportunity to turn it around. So it's going to land where it's going to land at this point. But I know for the fiscal year that's –
 For the current fiscal year, 17-18. So really, I know that the Bureau of Leadership has identified this issue several months ago and has been working to address it, and we've been working closely with them to identify the reasons for it and also to address the situation.
 Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner, you may remember that we did the same thing about three years ago. And then in the fall bump, the report comes back to council. And in that case, we were able to not need any of the million dollars at that point too. So I'm hopeful that that's the case.
 And it's also important to note that to the degree that any of the resources are needed, bureaus that overspend would be responsible for a one-time reduction to basically make the general fund whole. So it's a net zero across years. Okay. Thank you.
 So next is an increase of $25,000 in the city budget office to address unanticipated costs associated with the vacation leave payout for our outgoing director. Once again, the expectation is that this additional appropriation will not be necessary based on our current projections. It's really just a conservative measure to ensure that we don't overspend.
 So in both cases, as I said, the bureaus would be responsible for one-time reductions next year if they actually do need to use those funds.
 So it should be noted that unrestricted contingency stands at roughly $353,000, so it's not sufficient to cover these items, but we do have $15.9 million overall in contingency, and that's including several policy set-asides. And so those set-asides are already funded again in the next year, and so any repayment from any cuts that would be necessary would refund those set-asides in the following year.
 Okay. So in addition to the general fund, we've got two reductions that have been included. In addition to the general fund, we've got two reductions that have been included for carryover into 18-19. We've got Commissioner Udaly's office has carried over $15,000 to fund neighborhood coalition budgets in ONI, the Office of Community and Civic Life. And the discretionary portion of this has already been included in the 18-19 budget. Okay.
 The Office of Management and Finance is reducing $288,307 to carry over funding to 1819 to fund an executive recruitment strategy to fill a number of director-level vacancies, and I believe Council is aware of that. So outside of the general fund, there are a number of actions described in Exhibit 2 to the ordinance. Most notable is a shift of $15.1 million.
 from the Development Services Fund contingency to fund the Interfund loan to the Portland Housing Bureau. It's an interim financing mechanism for affordable housing projects, and that's really the only major one. But if anybody has any questions about other items in the exhibit, I'd be happy to answer. Okay. So we've received a couple of amendments. So if folks want to move those. Yes, so I've got three colleagues that I'd like to introduce. Number one, I'd like to move...
 The following language adjustment in the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. This is Fund No. 223.
 of $175,000 to ensure the arts, education, and access fund is not overexpended in the external materials and services major object category. Funding is provided via transfer of existing appropriation from contingency to external materials and services. This update exhibits 1-4 as needed to reflect this change. Do I have a second? Second. Okay.
 This one is equally exciting sounding. Amendment number two, reduce Commissioner Saltzman. Go ahead and introduce him. I'll ask a question or two. Thank you. And staff will be more than thrilled to answer all of your questions. So number two, reduce external materials and services in the Mayor's Office general fund appropriation by $23,000.00.
 and set aside the resources in program carryover contingency to be reallocated during the fall supplemental budget process. The $23,000 will be used to pay for two vacation payouts that are due in 2018-19. This would update Exhibits 1 to 4 as needed to reflect this change. Can I get a second, please? Second. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Number three.
 increase Bureau expenses and revenues in the Bureau of Human Resources for Kaiser payments in PPA Health Fund 707 by $120,000. This update exhibits one to four as needed to reflect this change. Could I also get a second for this, please? Second. We have a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Saltzman has some questions. On your First Amendment, Mayor, so the arts tax has a revenue, has a fund set up.
 I guess it's Fund 223. I'm reading the amendment correctly. Yes, that's correct. And are we taking, by this action, taking general fund money? No, this really aligns the tax collections because the external materials and services is the disbursement to the entities that receive the tax. So to the degree the taxes are higher than anticipated, the expenses are also higher than anticipated. So we need to increase that expense to account for the larger collection.
 But it's still arts fund money? Yes, it's still arts tax funded. It's all within the same fund, yes. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions on these amendments, colleagues? Commissioner Fritz, you have an amendment.
 I do. I move to make the following adjustment to the supplemental budget as proposed. Increase bureau expenses in personnel services by $75,000, internal materials and services by $60,000, and external materials and services by $65,000 in the Portland Parks and Recreation's Portland International Raceway Fund to ensure that these categories are not overexpended by year end.
 Funding is provided by a decrease in appropriation of fund contingency and updates Exhibit 1 through 4 as needed to reflect this change. Second. Thank you. So basically this is just moving money around within the Portland International Raceway. Some of these expenditures are related to the IndyCars coming Labor Day weekend, but it doesn't require any general fund investment in that fund. It's just...
 making sure we do everything. That's correct. I believe it's an accelerated expense. It was anticipated in the next fiscal year, but so since it was done this year. But the revenue associated with the IndyCar event will be coming next year. And I certainly appreciate the City Budget Office paying attention to all these different funds and to assure the taxpayers that we are looking after your money very carefully. Colleagues, I have one more. This is a scrivener's error, but we might as well. Actually, I'm sorry, Mayor, that's for the next item.
 Oh, you're right. Okay. But we've read them together, so I'd like to put it on the table, if you don't mind. It's just a word change. So this is related to Item 663, which has been read. This is to address a scrivener's error to change the repayment date from June 30, 2018, to June 30, 2019. Can I get a second on that, please? Second. Thank you. So we now have one, two, three, four, five amendments on the table. Very good. Thank you.
 Is that the end of your presentation? That's the end of our presentation for that item. I can talk about the loan resolution. No, we don't need that. Carla is grabbing the list. Are there any questions? In the meanwhile, while Carla is out of the chamber, we can talk about Carla while she's out of the chamber. I have a lot of questions, but none of them are about these items, Mayor. Very good. All right. Well, Carla will get back, and let's see who has signed up for public testimony. There she is, the lovely Carla. Thank you.
 A 662 or 663, please. Yes, no one signed up for either. Very good. So with that, any further questions before I call the roll on item 662? Please call the roll.
 So, Mayor? I'm sorry, the amendments. Thank you, legal counsel. This is a vote on Wheeler Amendment No. 1, adjusting the Bureau Revenue Financial Services Fund 223. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Okay.
 Amendment 1 is adopted. Amendment 2, reducing the external materials and services in the Mayor's Office General Fund. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. So Amendment 2 is also adopted. Amendment 3, this is the increasing the Bureau expenses and revenues in the Bureau of Human Resources. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's on the table. Commissioner Fritz's item that increases the Bureau expenses and personnel services. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. The amendment is adopted. And last, pertaining to item 663, the Scribner's error. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted to the main motion, item 662. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz.
 You, Daly? I want to thank you for getting the new name of ONI correct. However, it's not necessary until July 1, which is when we're actually going to roll it out. All right. Which is why I will continue to say ONI until then. I think we have to do a code change, too. Yeah, we're working on that as well. Yeah, yeah, so I'll look forward to that. Thank you.
 So the changes in the Portland Parks and Recreation allocation and the contingency funding really is evidence for why we're doing the cost recovery projects, why we're doing the financial sustainability program and looking at how parks has been funded over the last several decades.
 and how it needs to be funded moving forward. We are hopeful that with the cost containment measures that have been implemented and the increased revenue at the end of the year, which is what always happens in parks, that we will not need the allocation. It really points out that there aren't any reserves in parks, and that is something that needs to be addressed.
 And so the whole council will need to be involved in those discussions over the next year so that we collectively put parks on a more sustainable financial path moving forward. People love their parks. They're willing to pay for them. We've got to figure out how that is all going to work together. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Next item, please call the roll on 663. Saltzman. Aye.
 Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Next item, please call item 664. Accept Disability Power PDX 2018 Report. And this is a report, Commissioner Eudaly. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 I am pleased to introduce the Disability Power PDX report. Disability Power PDX is a community engagement and leadership program that operates out of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement.
 Through Disability Power PDX, Portlanders with disabilities were able to build relationships, learn about existing resources, and develop skills to effectively engage in Portland's community and civic life. I'm looking forward to hearing more about this year's program from staff, but especially from participants of this year's cohort.
 With that, I will turn it over to Joanne Johnson. There she is, who's the Disability Program Coordinator at ONI. Welcome, Joanne. Excuse me. You have to talk into a microphone, otherwise the captionist can't. Thank you. Of course. Thank you for the access reminder. We're all on the journey. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. I and the members of Disability Power PDX truly appreciate your unwavering support and dedication to uplifting disability issues and access. I feel hopeful when I think of the ways that each of our commissioners and our mayor has contributed to disability equity and justice in our city. Thank you.
 Please allow me to continue by sharing with you a little bit about the structure of Disability Power PDX and how we strive to create a welcoming, equitable environment. Could the members of Disability Power PDX please raise their hands and show us all who you are? Thank you all for being here, and thank you for what you've created together.
 To gather this powerful group of people, application materials were translated into 10 languages and a variety of electronic formats. Disability program staff shared disability power PDX materials with numerous disability and culturally specific organizations. Our most powerful recruitment tool was, of course, word of mouth.
 The people before you today cross disability, culture, language, religion, race, gender, and generations, and demonstrate the power of community sharing and coming together. For any group to do its most powerful work, members must be supported to show up fully.
 Supports like stipends, transportation tickets, child care, accommodations and disability access, and language access are essential for any group to sustain this level of dedication and support for equitable and sustainable participation in any of our groups. During Disability Power PDX, we developed shared community agreements, and we practiced creating access and supporting each other.
 We did this during lighthearted moments, and we did this during complex conversations, like the ways racism, ableism, cisgenderism, and heterosexism impact members and contributors to our group. Our 16 members came together for eight sessions over just a few months, including five five-hour Saturday sessions.
 Beyond the sessions, members worked in pairs to set up meetings with government organizations and community organizations. Sustaining this level of dedication is possible when we provide practical supports and strive for an accessible, equitable environment. In this way, we can recognize, receive, and truly honor the gifts that each person brings to our communities.
 I am thrilled that you get to experience just a small part of our group's thoughtfulness, commitment, and passion today. Next, graduates of our 2018 Disability Power PDX will each share with you a little bit about the different parts of Disability Power PDX and how it impacted them.
 It is my privilege today to introduce to you Mohamed Asraf to share with us what is Disability Power PDX. Thank you, Joanne, and good morning to everybody. I want to start by saying thank you for our city council for allowing us to have this presentation and before that the program, PDX Disability Power. Thank you.
 and we are here because of you, so thank you very much. Throughout the program, we were very... We started discovering the program by actually going through it because we thought it would be like any SEVIC engagement program, but we...
 The moments that we have together in that program, the discussions that we had, it basically uncovered how unique it is. And let me share with you some of the jewels of that program. I would say this program has the diverse people that made a variety of communications together. I mean, look at us. We are from different backgrounds. Yes.
 We're from different religions, different languages, different ages, and we all come around the concept of respecting each other, understanding what access needs for everybody, and talking together as a community to see what's better for us.
 Throughout this program also we had an introduction to government and services and how to access this and how to participate in government as a participator, not just as somebody who receives services. Throughout this program also we felt that this space gave us, the underrepresented people, a voice and a space.
 I can say for everybody in the group that we all felt important in that room when we had our voices being heard and our concern being addressed among each other. It's not surprising to say we had hope. I know it sounds weird in this time period, but we literally had.
 In that room, we had hope and we still have it and we're going to continue holding on to it because through us, through our participation, we know that we are the future and hope is a key to that future. I want to start talking about another segment of our presentation, which is like the topics and the subjects that we have through the program. So...
 Through our discussions, as Joanne said, we had multiple sessions in regarding of covering so many topics, including disability, filmmaking and addressing issues related to disability, art and disability, services and disability, and participation, including also subjects about safety, health,
 Being a person of color and disabled, being a queer or LGBTQ and a disabled, and what that means to be in a community that mostly does not understand where you're coming from as a person. So we explored various topics. Obviously, all of us has different responses to the topics that we discussed, but all of us have had the opportunity...
 to speak their mind and be part of the ritual of brainstorming and have more agency on their opinion and how to express it. We also had an opportunity to discuss with presenters, and some of us had very close conversations
 interest in some of the stuff. Like, for example, we had a filmmaker who was talking about disability. And one of our members actually is a filmmaker and he's going to speak to you just very soon. Everybody had, you know, like none of us knows everything. So throughout these discussions and these topics, some of us had the chance to listen and to participate in
 topics that they have not or they may have not considered even like giving it a chance. So that was like a win for Disability Power PDX. So I want to end this. This is my piece. And thank you very much again. Before I end, I want to ask you to ask us questions. We are eager to answer your questions. We will be happy to talk to you as well.
 That's my piece, and I want to introduce my colleague, Dean. Thank you, Mohamed. Hello, my name is Dean McRae, and I'm very happy to be here today representing our committee and speaking of the work we did with community and government meetings today.
 As an exercise, these activities had two primary purposes. The first purpose was to raise awareness among those of us participating in the academy as regards to the depth and breadth of resources available to the disabled community here in Portland. The second purpose was to provide an experience for each of us in identifying a community resource, arranging and scheduling a meeting, preparing for and actually participating in that meeting.
 We were divided into teams of two, and we each chose a resource to explore and eventually schedule a meeting. There was a wide variety of experiences. The meeting I was involved with went very, very well and exceeded our expectations. Others reported back that their meetings were not all that fruitful for a number of different reasons. Each small team reported back to the full committee regarding our individual experiences.
 As I stated, there were a variety of issues that impacted the value of each of these meetings. Some issues were logistical, some were matters of accessibility, and some were cultural. My meeting turned out to be very interesting. My partner, Rene Henriquez, and I chose to meet with Commissioner Udaly's office. Commissioner Udaly's staff member, who was scheduled to meet with us, ended up not being available that day.
 of the meeting. But rather than reschedule, they assigned another staff member to our meeting, and that was Josiah Barber. It was interesting that Josiah came to the meeting prepared to walk us through the process of how city council works. We came with a completely different agenda. We shared a list of questions with him. He adapted very quickly and ended up providing us a very beneficial meeting. Um...
 We were both very impressed. The value to me in having participated in these meetings can be measured on a couple different fronts. I would highly encourage those that plan the 2019 Disability PDX to continue to include this activity for their committee members. I think it's very valuable. And now I'd like to turn it over to Allison, who's going to talk to us about what's next. Thank you.
 Hi. We say nothing about us without us in this community. Disability Power PDX provided a place for us to explore what exactly we want to say about ourselves. It provided opportunities to determine what the about us is actually about, how to use our shared experiences to build understanding and contribute to making Portland the best it can be for all who live here. For some of us, the struggle is just to stay alive and not give up.
 And others have the luxury of enough bandwidth to take on additional issues. So from this pool of 16 graduates, you had a documentary filmmaker, a therapist, a blogger with a unique perspective, a grad student determined to improve healthcare for the disabled and aging, someone working to improve relations between Portland police and marginalized citizens, another concentrating on intersectionality, students who will focus on their education,
 several who are now reinvigorated to meet with elected officials, others with increased strength and ability to advocate for themselves, and at least one who now has hope to reach his dream. We will take action with momentum created by our time together, and it's already happening. One of the outreach groups we connected with was the Disability Arts and Culture Project. They're planning a Disability Pride March this summer, and you can bet we'll be there and we'll be actively helping promote it.
 We plan to stay in touch with each other, and many of us also hope to stay in touch with you. Perhaps projects will come up where our skills and experience will come in handy. We have so much to offer, and we are so keen to offer it. So please utilize this solid resource that truly you helped create.
 And as Mohamed said, after Luam speaks, we'll have time for questions, and we sincerely hope you'll ask a few. In closing here with me, one of our members wondered what it would take for us to function as a group out in the world as well as we did around our table. And being around that table was not always easy. There was a sliding scale of annoying glitches from, oh, well, to you've got to.
 Kidding. Yet we persevered. We cared enough about each other, the work we were doing, and our disability community to keep going. And another reason we functioned so well, as has been mentioned, was because of the encouragement to succeed. We did our best to try to make sure everyone had what they needed in order to fully participate to the best of their ability. We were valued and respected and we experienced concrete examples of equity around that table.
 There's a lot more work to be done before that ethos becomes commonplace in the world at large. But by building upon what we've gained from Disability Power PDX, we hope to start by seeing the City of Roses become a leader in creating an equitable environment for all her people. And we look forward to playing an integral part in making it happen. Thank you. And now here's Luam with closing comments. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Johannes. Disability Power PBX has helped me grow, has helped me mature for my future. I met different people a lot, learned a lot. We met...
 people will keep working with us. This is the beginning. We can make it better for people, different people with different disabilities. I should like to tell you, it's everyone that made this possible.
 And we made our people to have different experience. And that's it. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, I want to congratulate Luam on her recent graduation. And, yes. Thank you.
 And also note that she is the sister of Winta Yohannes, and we've now had three Yohanneses come to City Council, so now we're only missing Mom and Grandma, I think. Are they here? No. Okay. Thank you, Mom. You're welcome. I have a question. What's next? Oh, yeah. Okay.
 Because I know that part of this training was so that you are then going within your communities and also continuing to contribute. I can speak to that for myself in that...
 We, as you heard, besides the meetings that I spoke about, we also had guest speakers come in each session and topics. A wide variety of guest speakers. But one of the speakers was a woman named Cheryl Green, whom I knew by reputation, but I never actually met her before. She was a great speaker.
 And she showed one of her films and talked about the work that she's doing, which is producing documentary films around and supporting disability. I'm a filmmaker. I've been a filmmaker for a long time and kind of converted what I'm doing into purely documentary about three or four years ago.
 After that presentation, I met with her. We then subsequently met two other times outside. But I pitched a project to her that it looks like we're going to move forward with, and it will be a disability. Essentially, it's not completely fleshed out yet, but essentially what we're going to do is try to demonstrate what it's like
 for disabled people in Portland, mobility issues, blind issues, mental disability issues, what it's like to navigate Portland as a disabled person. And I think we have some real interesting ideas. From my own personal experience, I can tell you that in my circle, my family and my friends,
 they see my struggles each day, but they don't understand exactly how deep they go. The example I used when we were talking around the table was sidewalks in my scooter. There's plenty of places I can't go in northeast Portland for one reason or another, but the average mobile human doesn't ever register to them
 There's a number of restaurants in my neighborhood I can't get into. So that's going to be the purpose of what we're doing, and that's how I'm moving forward. That's the next step. Thank you. We're forming a Facebook group, and that will be a way for everyone to stay in touch with us as well. And as I said, the Disability Pride March is coming up in August or September, so that's probably the next time where we'll be able to be physically in a similar space.
 we know how important it is to keep the connection going. And we're doing a lot of outreach with each other through email just every time there's an event. We just had the Reel Abilities Film Festival in Portland, which is our films by and about disabled filmmakers and or disabled actors. And everybody was invited to all those. We're just trying to really keep up with letting people know all the things that are happening.
 I expect that each of you got on fire about a particular aspect of something that you learned that you'll now pursue in more depth. Yes. I'm very excited about the police accountability commission you've planned, and so that was already something I was friends with James Chassie, and I have dealt with some issues with. That would be very helpful. Thank you. So I think I can present a good example because I don't look like somebody who would have troubles with people. Thank you.
 Could I ask a question related to that? And this was obviously the part that was, well, it's a fantastic report and a fantastic group, and I'm really energized by the work you're doing, and we obviously want to continue to support it. But I'm interested in the conversations.
 that you are having with the police on interactions with people with disabilities. And as mayor, lucky me, I also get to be the police commissioner. I am very interested in moving that conversation forward. So if you could let me know how best to approach that from your perspective.
 and what your needs are with regard to how best to have that conversation take place and what space makes the most sense for you to have that conversation, I'm all in.
 Related to that, we are beginning our process. We're in the early stages of reengaging through our settlement agreement, a community engagement piece. I very, very much want your perspective around that table. And so if we could talk about that at a later date. And finally, later on this morning, we're going to take up what are called our –
 public safety support specialists. These are non-sworn police folks who are going to be engaged in a lot of administrative work, but I feel like there's going to be some intersects as well with the needs and interests of your community, maybe not on interactions with the police directly, but on other issues, and I'd like to start that as a fresh start
 meaningful relationship from the get-go. So if we could all work together on that, I'll take your lead on it and in the way you want to approach it, but consider me a partner who's all in any way that you think is useful. Great. And will you tell me the name again, the Public Support Safety Officer? Yeah, the name keeps changing, but it's currently Public Safety Support Specialist. Okay, PSSS. Yeah, thank you. Okay.
 It was originally called Community Service Officers, and then we ran into some labor problems. Oh, okay. Nothing's easy around here. I think that wraps up our presentation. Thank you, everyone. Yes? Can I have one second? Yes, sir. We forgot to thank Joanne. We cannot forget to thank Joanne and Alexis and every person who was in Disability Power PEDEX. I'm so proud to be a part of that.
 And thank you again. Thank you all for being here. We sure appreciate it. I'll accept a motion. Thank you. I'll move to accept the report. Second. Please call the roll, Carla. Saltzman. Well, thank you very much for your uplifting report, and I wish you all the success in your future endeavors and providing more discussion for council on issues around people with disabilities and how we help them be successful. Hi. Udaly. Udaly.
 So I want to highlight the process and thoughtfulness that went into planning for this year's cohort, because I think it just keeps getting better and better every year. Disability Power PDX's structure and content were informed by feedback from last year's Disability Leadership Academy, which is what we called it last year.
 And as a result, we have a cohort that models the cross-disability, cross-cultural, multiracial, and multigenerational approach that I'd love to see in all of the city's programs. We as elected officials cannot do our jobs well if we don't have representative voices who are informed and empowered advocates. And I include myself in that.
 In that, I am a disability advocate, but my experience is as a parent around a very specific set of challenges that certainly does not reflect the broad spectrum of needs and challenges experienced by the larger disability community. So while I might be real aware of curb cuts and accessible playgrounds, I can't serve...
 the entire community without your input. So I want to just acknowledge that and encourage you to continue. I appreciate the work that Disability Power PDX is doing to build that pipeline of powerful advocates, and I'm pleased to hear that the participants want to continue working with one another and with the city, and I look forward to finding additional ways my office and my bureau can support those efforts.
 When I spoke at the Disability Power Kickoff, I emphasized one of the lessons I've learned in my own work as an advocate. As many of you know, I went through a similar program for parents and adults experiencing disabilities called Partners in Policymaking. And while I may have forgotten 90% of what we learned in that program,
 In that program, I haven't forgotten the relationships that I formed, and I'm still in touch with a large number of people that I went through that program with.
 All of us became better advocates for our kids and for ourselves and for other community members. Some of us went on to work with disability organizations. Some of us went on to found organizations. Some of us went on to elected office. So...
 the cohort and we've supported each other along the way. And I want to point out that Nico, one of the participants here, is the child of a friend of mine who I made during that period of time. And I've known Nico since he was in kindergarten. And I think he just finished his senior year. No? One...
 Yes, okay, same as my son. So maybe you could talk Henry into participating in this program next year, Nico. I don't think I'd succeed with that. So I also want to thank Joanne for her work. She's always disappearing on me. There we go. Always here. Yeah.
 to facilitate Disability Power PDX. I've seen in the report and heard from the participants how meaningful the relationships built through this process have been, and that is a testament to your good work. And I just wanted to say, about the sliding scale of annoying glitches you described, welcome to City Hall. Thank you.
 It's just a fact of life here. So finally, I especially want to thank the participants and the presenters for being here with us today. I vote aye. Fritz? Well, thank you to everybody who came for this report and participated in this program.
 Sometimes it gets a little discouraging on the council where you think you're not making any progress, but just in this past week I announced that we're going to be building the third fully accessible playground that I've been able to announce since I've been in charge of Portland Park for Recreation in Gabriel Park in southwest Portland. We opened the Spring Garden Playground, which also has accessibility features in the Spring Garden Park.
 The Mayor and I celebrated the opening of Green Hop Cannabis business on Saturday, which provides...
 is getting a grant that's going to provide support for another disproportionately impacted community. Last night, Commissioner Udeli and I celebrated 10 years of Som Subedi being in the United States, and he's had this meteoric rise to establishing the Parks for New Portlanders Commission. And then just earlier today, Commissioner Udeli and I voiced a concern, and the mayor heard it, about short-term rentals. So...
 This program is another example of something that you think of and it turns into something wildly more wonderful than you ever thought it might be. And so I want to thank Amalia Aliconda-Morris and Nicole Chiron, who previously helped guide the disability program within the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement and had the good sense to hire Joanne Johnson after Nicole moved to the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 And Joanne Johnson, you have just taken this program along with Commissioner Ewe Daily to incredibly wonderful new heights, expanding this particular program and building on what's been done before and just making it so much better. So I'm so grateful. And Joanne is everywhere. It's not that you don't see her because she's just everywhere.
 representing the city and disability community in such a charming and wonderful way. And I really appreciate it. You look like you're coming forward to say something.
 I desperately want to add something. Is that OK? May I? I'd like to yield a little bit of my time to Joan Johnson. I want to reiterate that this could not have been done without community. I mean, sure, I put in a lot of work. But the cross-disability, cross-cultural, cross-religion, cross-generation, that is because our community has come around us.
 and spread the word and encouraged and supported each other. We have members in the audience today from last year who were supporting members this year. So I really deeply appreciate your kind words, and I just want to say, this is us. It's not me, it's us.
 And this is us. This is all of us. And this is how it's supposed to be. And so, yes, my final piece was going to be thanks to the communities. And it's many different communities, as Commissioner Eudaly noted. Each of us has challenges. Some of them are seen and some of them are not seen. And together we are so much better than the individuals and the sum of our parts. Together we can do really great things. This is a really great thing. Thank you very much for leading it. Aye. Wheeler.
 Well, this is a fantastic collaboration, and thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for bringing forward a great report, fantastic presentation.
 it to me opens up a world of opportunity, and I look forward to seeing where this will go over the course of the next year. And I certainly expressed my narrow hopes and dreams for how I see a potential partnership unfolding here around some public safety interaction issues. Joanne, I just have to add, you know, I know you don't like being singled out, and I agree with you that this is a community effort and this has been a group effort,
 But I want to talk about an important aspect of you. And I never get a chance to really say this in public. Being mayor is a very challenging job. Some of you may have noticed that. And I don't always, I usually do, but I don't always walk into City Hall going, so glad I'm back. It's always fun to be in City Hall. Wherever you are in City Hall, you have an attitude that inspires me.
 You've got a can-do attitude, and you have a really uplifting attitude. And even when we just sort of pass in the hallways, the way you smile, the way you say hello, the way you ask me how things are going, you're just a really good person. And I think that's part of the reason you were successful in convening these important policy issues. So I didn't want that moment to pass. I certainly vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you, everybody, for fabulous work.
 Next, item 665. Accept report on 2018 Summer Free-for-All Program. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, this is an annual report on Park Summer Free-for-All Program. This program has been going for many years, and it provides fun summer activities and services to children and family throughout the summer, including lunches at some sites. The activities also include live music.
 representing the cultural diversity of Portland, family-friendly movies, free lunches for kids, as well as arts and crafts and sports and games. There is something free and fun for everyone in our parks this summer, and everyone is welcome. Everyone is welcome. And of course, it's not free. It's taxpayer-funded and funded by volunteers and donations, and we appreciate that it's a
 Somewhat similar to the previous item, it's where everybody gets together and city staff helps support the community. So Summer Free Fall has partnered with 49 community groups, including local businesses, neighbourhood associations, culturally specific communities and non-profits across the city. One of the core services is the lunch programme. Thanks Commissioner Saltzman for your ongoing support of that. You kind of were the glue that kept it together during the recession and making sure that those children get their lunches.
 Summer free-for-all will serve more than 100,000 lunches at 25 different sites this year, which will make a big difference to the kids and families most in need. But again, anybody who shows up can get one. This wouldn't be possible without the partnership of five local school districts, Meals on Wheels, Urban Cleaners, and Oregon Food Bank, who we thank for your collaboration. And now Portland Parks and Recreation Services Manager Eileen Argentina will guide the rest of the presentation. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm joined today by Sue Pack, our Arts, Culture, and Special Events Manager, as well as Kelly Torres, our Development Manager. In 2017, Portland Parks and Recreation conducted a community needs survey. The 2003 participants who responded were statistically representative of Portland, both by neighborhood coalition and by race and ethnicity.
 When participants were asked to rate the importance of recreation programs, outdoor arts and culture events rated the highest, with an average score of 3.8 out of 5. So we thank Council for the $500,000 of general fund support for this beloved program. With the cost of living rapidly rising, these community gatherings for free events are all the more important to the city's livability and to families that may not have access otherwise.
 Minimum wage increases now through 2022 will improve livability, but these increases significantly impact summer free-for-alls operating budget, which has gone from $850,000 last year to $1.1 million this year, a 29% increase, largely due to accelerated minimum wage increases and newly represented seasonal staff.
 On to the next slide. Not only are free outdoor arts and culture programs in high demand among Portlanders, Summer Free For All is an important program advancing the City of Portland and PPNR's racial equity goals. This summer, we'll provide job opportunities for 110 Portlanders, including youth, and hire 315 local performing artists. As a citywide program, we're ensuring that Summer Free For All staff reflect the community and kids we serve.
 This year, 50% of seasonal staff supporting the movie and concert events are people of color. And 39%... Eileen, I'm just going to interrupt you because we actually don't have a quorum at this point. So if we could just wait until we do. Of course. Thank you, Commissioner. Sorry. That didn't happen at the time. We've got a really interesting slide with lots of information on it. Here we go. Great. Sorry.
 Well, this summer we'll provide job opportunities for 110 poor unders, including youth, and we'll hire 315 local performing artists. As a citywide program, we're ensuring that summer free-for-all staff reflect the communities and kids we serve. This year, 50% of seasonal staff supporting the movie and concert events are people of color, and 39% of free lunch and play program staff speak a second language.
 As you can see in the Summer Free For All guides in the packets in front of you, the program lineup reflects our city's rich and diverse culture and communities. We've also forged new partnerships this year to increase access and engagement with communities of color and immigrants and refugees. And as always, the guides are produced in nine different languages to provide the greatest access. So we thank you again for your continued investment in Summer Free For All and the important services it provides to the community. And now, Sue Pack, Arts, Culture, and Special Events Manager, will talk to you more about our new partnerships.
 Thank you, Eileen. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Morning. So the mission of Summer Free For All is to build community and to celebrate Portland's diversity. Our movie and concert events are all organized with community partners. Each partner group hosts an event, choosing their park location, selecting the movies and musical talent, and bringing people together from their community. Historically, Summer Free For All community...
 Community partnerships have been defined by geography, with the majority of our partners being neighborhood associations and groups. As Portland gentrifies and communities are displaced, with the greatest impact on people of color and immigrants and refugees, we have actively worked to expand the definition of community to include culturally specific and identity-based groups that span a citywide geography. Thank you.
 Some of our new community partners this year include APANO, that's the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, hosting a film in English and Vietnamese at Harrison Park as a part of their annual Mic Check series. Black Parent Initiative, hosting the Dawson Park concert series. Bollywood Dreams, hosting our first Bollywood movie in Hindi and English at Laurelhurst Park in celebration of India's Independence Day.
 The Tongan community hosting the movie Moana as part of the Tonga Day 2018 at the new Gateway Discovery Park. And the artist collective Young Gifted and Brown or YGB Portland hosting Black Panther at Lentz Park.
 And our ongoing partnership with Latino Network continues with the fourth annual Festival Latino featuring the movie Coco in Spanish with English subtitles at the new Cully Park built in partnership with Verde. Our free Lunch and Play program is sited in neighborhoods where more than 50% of the kids qualify for free or reduced lunches. This summer, we are pleased to add an additional Monday through Friday lunch site at the new Lewitt View Park.
 And in East Portland, in areas without parks, we have the mobile play program, with staff traveling to apartment complexes, providing fun activities and positive social engagement for kids most in need.
 This program is community-driven and evolves each year with decisions being made in collaboration with an advisory committee made up of the partners listed on the screen. As you might recall, this group was honored to receive the Equity in Practice Award at the 2017 Spirit of Portland Awards. Partnership is critical to advancing parks' equity goals, and we are proud of Summer Free For All's commitment and efforts in this area.
 Now I'd like to turn it over to Kelly Torres, our development manager, who will share with you how we are leveraging general fund dollars to make Summer Free For All possible. Thank you. Thank you, Eileen and Sue, for highlighting so many positive aspects of Summer Free For All. Sharing our diverse and impactful program options with potential sponsors in 2018 has been a privilege. Our team has had the confidence to fully deliver on our mission, and the results of that confidence are tangible.
 From a development standpoint, the idea of cultivating community encouraged many sponsors, grantors and individuals to lean in a bit more this year. We also acknowledge our philanthropic partner, the Portland Parks Foundation, who's joining us here today. We also acknowledge the dozens of community members who have been raising funds, and you will get a chance to hear from one of those community members today. For every general fund dollar designated to Summer Free For All, we have leveraged 65
 in cash and $3.27 in in-kind program support. I would like to draw your focus to the sponsor page in our summer free-for-all guide. This highlights the commitment of local businesses and contributors such as Elmer's Restaurant, whose local owners, in their own words,
 love supporting programs that allow families to enjoy time together making memories. We are proud this local business is also a new premier sponsor this year and we are excited for you to hear from Jill today representing Elmer's restaurants. We would also like you to notice the foundational support of program partners at the base of that page. These partners represent school districts, arts organizations, local nonprofits, and corporations, all of whom fill the gap to provide critical services throughout the summer.
 And now Eileen Argentina will introduce our invited guests. Thank you. Thank you, Kelly and Sue. As you know, community partnerships have become the heartbeat of Summer Free For All, and I'm proud to introduce two community partners to share their heartfelt testimony today. First, I'd like to invite Jill Ramos, Vice President of Elmer's Restaurants. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I am Jill Rommels, the Vice President of Elmer's Restaurants. It's my pleasure to be here today to share our excitement in joining Summer Free For All as a premier sponsor this year. As a group of independently owned and operated family dining restaurants, we know how important it is to give back and build strong connections in the communities that we serve.
 In 1960, when Walt Elmer opened his first Elmer's restaurant here in Portland, it truly was a family affair. Walt and his wife Dorothy and their three sons wanted to create a place where families would enjoy spending time together, making memories over a quality, fresh, homemade meal. 58 years later, our local owners continue to strive towards that same goal and deliver on our mission to delight our guests.
 Our local owners enjoy keeping marketing dollars in the local community, but are very selective when considering programs to support, preferring to do more than just simply write a check. We want to participate and engage and build relationships and extend our mission outward to delight the community.
 Summer Free For All's mission and values align with ours, and the programs offered reach an audience that mirrors our guests and team members. Diverse, hardworking families and individuals that deserve some free entertainment, fun, and more opportunity to connect and make positive memories together. It's a bonus to us that these programs also include free access to lunch for children, as well as encourage people to get outside, explore their beautiful parks, and interact with each other.
 Our team is looking forward to attending the summer's events as a sponsor and also as community members. We have chosen to participate at the movies and concerts closest to our restaurants in order to truly connect local owners, managers, and team members with their local communities. We look forward to interacting with the community outside of our restaurants, making a few new friends along the way, and growing our Elmer's family. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you so much. I want to just thank you in particular. Elmas has been a family favorite of ours, particularly the one on Stark and Washington. And it's actually the place that I traditionally go for my election morning breakfast. I'm really pleased that you're joining our family here and for your personalized support. So thank you for being here this morning as well.
 Wonderful. I'd like to invite our other speaker today, Kalini Fusitua, a program coordinator at Asian Family Services, leader in the Tongan community, and a member of the Tonga Day 2018 Executive Committee. Yes. Good morning. My name is Kalini Fusitua. Yes, I'm a program coordinator at ERCO. That's my 9-5 job. And my 24-hour job is being a leader for my community. Thank you.
 I'm happy to be here to support Movie in the Park and Free Fall. And I just want to share our experience with the program and where it is and where it started from. Last year, they reached out to me that they want to invite us.
 the Tongan community we part in the movie in the park. That started in Southwest Portland with a movie, with the Moana movie. It was excited for our community because this is the first we're invited to perform in a movie that's about us. And when we were there, we had Q&A during the session and a question from the audience was asked,
 how do you guys see and perceive Moana? Because it's a Hollywood movie, and then sometimes it doesn't reflect the community or the people they're trying to portray. And I told them that this is the best Hollywood movie that portray us. This is as close as has ever been.
 to pass. This is real for us and we appreciate it. We feel like Hollywood is reaching out and doing their homework before they start selling their product. And we feel that this is what Portland Park is doing. They're reaching to us. They want to hear specifically from us how we, you know, what it is for us to be part of the movement in the park.
 Because of the political climate, sometimes parents and families hesitate to go in the public area. But this event has brought multi-generation grandparents, parents, children.
 to the park and have a family bonding. This is very important for us because we're a very collective community. That's just part of our culture. And this program does provide culture specific because they're reaching out to us. The last year when we went to the park,
 Not only we perform, we had a Moshe Moshe Kolah, a tongue and string band, but we had a young man that was hired from the program that was part of the set up team. So that's something new. Not only we got invited, but they also hired somebody from our community. Moving on for this year, we are again partnering for 2018 for our Tonga Day in August 18.
 Thank you Commissioner Fritz for joining us last year. Sorry that your scheduled time to speak was not on time. And I'm hoping that our mayor will join us. I know you were not available last year. Hopefully this year you can join us with the rest of the commissioner. And we appreciate everything. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much, Kalini.
 Mayor and Commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to report on the 2018 Summer Free-for-All Program. We're excited about another amazing summer ahead in Portland's fabulous park system, and all of us are available to answer any questions that we have. So I had a question. So it's around the free lunches, and I know we've talked about this literally every year. I mean, the summer programs end, according to what I'm reading here, like August 17th or August 31st.
 And, you know, there's still quite a bit of summer there left for kids that no longer have access to a free lunch. School's not started yet. So I thought we'd solve this. Have we? Yeah.
 It is a perennial problem. Some of it just has to do with the availability of staffing and just being able to keep the program going. I would also, I'd like to bring up Charity Montez, who is the supervisor for Summer Free For All and has more detailed information on our Lunch and Play program. Good morning. Morning. Our partners, the school districts, work with us. They provide the lunches, and then our staff serve the lunches in the parks. Okay.
 And there is a timing issue with, even though they have, school hasn't started yet, they have switched their kitchens. At the end of the season, they switch their kitchens to start prepping for the school year. So the sites that end in August 22nd, that's because the Portland Public School District goes back to school soon after that. And then the August 31st, those sites are in East Portland, and the other districts go back to school after that.
 So we work with our lunch partners, the lunch providers, to create the best schedule that we can to make sure that we can service many lunches. So if I'm hearing you right, so somehow the fact that PPS is gearing up for the school year means they can no longer provide lunches?
 the meals to us for those two or three week periods? It makes it very difficult for them to have their kitchens make thousands of lunches for the summer programs while they're also transitioning to make the lunches for the school year.
 So I think the answer to your question, Commissioner, is that yes, we have the lunches for as long as physically possible. When the school kitchens are closed for cleaning and getting ready for the school year, there just isn't anywhere or any staff who are able to make them. But yes, we certainly understand and try to maximize the length of the serving of lunches. So have we – I see Meals on Wheels as one of the sponsors here, as is the children's levy. Have they been approached about –
 We've had extensive conversations with Meals on Wheels this spring, and we were not able to make that happen for this summer, but we're looking into that for next year. Thank you. Great. We'll entertain a motion. I move to accept the report. Second. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, thank you for a great report. It looks like an outstanding summer program, summer free-for-all. Thank you. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Thank you.
 Thank you very much for the report and more particularly for all the work that's done in partnership with the community. Like the previous item, this program has grown much of it under Commissioner Fish's leadership during the recession when people were taking more and more staycations and it became absolutely essential. Now that we have
 experience and more commitment to culturally specific events. I think you heard about the wide variety of things that are happening in the parks this summer so I do encourage everybody not only to go to your local park if you're fortunate enough to have one but try some of the parks in the other areas of the city that you might not be as familiar with. They are
 Good ways to meet people because you don't need an invitation to go to a park. You can just pack your picnic and go, and you're very welcome in all of Portland Parks. Bye. Wheeler. Fantastic presentation. Thank you. I vote either report's acceptable. Thank you for your really hard work on that. Next up, colleague 676. Thanks.
 Appoint Jeffrey Cordial, Aaron Fagry, Joshua Kleiber, David Posada, and Bob Sweeney to the Alternative Technology Advisory Committee for terms to expire June 19, 2021. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Mayor. I have the pleasure of bringing forward five new appointees to the Alternative Technology Advisory Committee, or ATAC.
 The Bureau of Development Services established the alternative, I'm just going to say ATAC, to provide expert advice on the viability of new sustainable technologies that aren't covered by the building code. The ATAC assists BDS in evaluating sustainable technologies by reviewing available test data, case studies, or any other relevant information submitted by an applicant. Based on the submitted information, ATAC will make a recommendation to the Bureau of Development Services on the use of technology.
 And now Mika Keenan from BDS will present the proposed appointees. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Mika Keenan. I'm with the Bureau of Development Services, and I'm here on behalf of Terry Whitehill, our building official.
 So Portland City Code 24 requires that the Alternative Technology Advisory Committee have a minimum of three members appointed by the mayor and approved by city council. The members shall consist of design professionals, construction contractors, and persons associated with a university with an engineering school.
 Our first appointee is Jeffrey Cordial to the ATAC. And Jeffrey has spent the last 19, I'm sorry, the last nine years of his career learning the ins and outs of sustainable building technology and green energy production. Jeffrey has been heavily involved in the solar and green energy industry in Portland through his role on PAC Northwest,
 district manager for CED Green Tech, and as a business member of both the U.S. Green Building Council and the Oregon Solar Energy Industry Association. The second appointee is Aaron Fagree. And Aaron has 35 years of experience in architecture and engineering and has worked on many innovative projects. He is the principal of his own firm working in Oregon, California, Washington, British Columbia, and many other locations.
 He is a physicist, architect, civil engineer, and landscape architect who specializes in work requiring sensitive cooperation between citizen groups, public agencies, and the business community with a particular interest in public and community facilities. The third appointee is Joshua Kleiber.
 And Joshua has over six years of code consulting experience in Portland and other jurisdictions, and 10 years experience in residential remodeling. Over the years, Joshua has worked with teams of architects, developers, engineers, plan reviewers, and inspectors on a daily basis. These teams run the gamut from residential owners to design teams of multinational corporations that are based in the U.S., China, Bangladesh, Canada, Guyana, and other countries.
 The fourth appointee is David Posada. And David has over 13 years' experience providing expertise in energy efficiency and sustainability strategies for leading architectural firms. David was the co-designer of the first Portland Metro Habitat for Humanity houses to achieve LEED certification. He served as passive house consultant for one of the first certified multifamily passive house projects in the U.S.
 And finally, Bob Sweeney is the last appointee. And Bob has over 40 years of experience in public health and environmental protection with emphasis on on-site water treatment regulations, siting, design inspections, troubleshooting, and training. He has extensive experience reviewing, approving, and applying for approval of innovative technology. Does anybody have any questions? Yes.
 Commissioner Fritz. There doesn't appear to be anybody who identifies as a woman on this committee. No. Why is that? I couldn't answer that specifically. I believe that the process for selecting ATAC members is to do an open recruitment, and then the applicants are reviewed based on skills. So it could be that maybe nobody...
 No women applied for this committee. I'm not really sure. I can get back to you on that and check on the process. You mentioned that there's a minimum of three. Is there a maximum specified for how many people can be on it? I don't believe so. So as we know, sometimes women don't volunteer because we think that we are not worthy or whatever or maybe just didn't...
 Would you be willing to do some additional outreach and bring back a couple of nominees who identify as female? Because it just is extremely troubling to me in 2018, especially for a technology committee, especially with engineering. Because we know from the experience with the Water Bureau and parks and environmental services, we do have female engineers. Right. Absolutely.
 And maybe people could take this who might be watching at home. So what is the time commitment for this committee?
 The committee I believe convenes on an as needed basis when there are applications that come in. So these technologies are outside of the building code so there's not really a code for them to follow. The committee was in place in 2006 and 2007 but was disbanded because there wasn't a need for the committee during the downturn in the economy.
 And so it was recently brought together based on need. So I think as applications come in, the committee comes together to review them. So could you give an estimate of if somebody was thinking, well, maybe I could volunteer for this, how often and for how long would they be meeting?
 Well, I know most of the committees work on an annual, or I'm sorry, on a monthly basis. Sometimes boards don't meet if there's no application, so I would say the most this committee would probably meet is monthly. And for an hour or two at a time? Correct. During their workday? Correct. And how would somebody get in touch with you to volunteer her services? Yes.
 Well, I would say that the best person to contact would be Terry Whitehill, who is our building official. I can work with Terry on doing additional outreach and get you some more information on how these folks were selected. Or somebody could call 823-4000 and say, I'd like to be on the technology committee. Correct. Thank you very much. If I could just add, there are a number of organizations that focus on partnership development.
 and leadership development of women specifically engaged in technology, and I think we should be very intentional in our outreach to those organizations. I'm sure they could connect us with a lot of potentially interested candidates. I share Commissioner Fritz's concern both about the lack of women as well as the lack of people of color.
 on the committee, given all of our other objectives and, frankly, the investments we're making through Prosper Portland to help facilitate growth in entrepreneurial and technology opportunities for women and people of color. It just feels like there's a disconnect here. Okay. And it's on us to address it, and I hear you saying that loudly and clearly, that that's your objective. So I'm glad to hear that. Okay. And thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for raising that. Any further items? Otherwise, I'll take a motion. Okay.
 Move to accept the nomination. And I'll second. Appointments, sorry. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, thank you to the committee members for their service. Aye. Udaly. Thank you, Mika, for being here, and thank you to our new committee members. I vote aye. Fritz. Well, thank you, Mika Keenan, having worked with you on the... Excuse me. Excuse me. This is a report.
 You can make anything a report. This is an interruption in violation of policy. Thank you, Mr. Keenan, having worked with you on the tree code. I know how hard you work to be inclusive. Excuse me, Mr. Walsh, you have been warned.
 Would you explain that? One moment, sorry for the interruption. Would you explain that? It is a fact. This is a report. There is no public testimony on a report. This is not a report! It says right in the agenda, right here, report. It is a report. You're not asking anything. Tell the mayor to throw me out. Throw him out! I don't think you're playing this stuff. Did I already call the roll? I'm in the middle of making my speech.
 I was hoping to not be interrupted again. So my comments are in no way disparaging you, nor the five people who are volunteering to serve on this committee. I appreciate them stepping up to serve. I just know that there are people out there who can add a different perspective. Go ahead, Amanda. Sugar words. Don't mean anything. You're a fraud too, Amanda. I'm leaving. I'm leaving. I'm leaving. Bye. Shit.
 Well, that shows us. Never a dull moment. It's really challenging to keep one's train of thought under circumstances like this. I think I'll just vote aye. Wheeler. Thank you. I think this is a great time to be involved in this committee, and I appreciate your very positive response to Commissioner Fritz's questions about the participation of women in particular on this committee. The city is...
 moving ahead in leaps and bounds to adopt technologies, to find new ways to engage technologies in all of our bureaus and in all of our activities. And I believe this committee is going to be the nexus of a lot of those opportunities. So thank you. I vote aye to the report. The report is accepted. We'll do a second reading, and then we have Commissioner Fish coming back. 6-7-7, please.
 677, vacate a portion of Southwest Falcon Street east of Southwest Barber Boulevard, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Colleagues, this is a second reading of an ordinance. This has been previously presented. Public testimony has been taken. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Saltzman.
 Well, I appreciate the presentation we had last week, and I'm very impressed with the plans the Gary Faloo family has for a property that they have owned for quite a while and property they've acquired over the years, too, to make an outstanding development for the people who live in southwest Portland. So I'm looking forward to it. Aye. Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for your work on that, Commissioner. So our staffs have been confabbing on item 679. I believe we have Commissioner Fish coming back on the line. Commissioner Fish, are you there? Yes, I am. So we'll take this up again without objection.
 So my understanding is our staffs have met and they have not successfully found a date any time in the near future where we have a full quorum on this item. So I'd like to have it be considered now, but I want to have a further conversation per my colleagues' discussions. I move to change from a $4 a night fee to a 3.25 percentage fee. We'd like to come back with the details on how to do that.
 Second for the sake of discussion. Very good. Should we take up your amendment, Commissioner Fraze? I said what I thought was persuasive to the majority of the council before, that it just doesn't seem equitable that a $15 a night room would be charged the same as a $1,200 a night room. And I think doing it on a percentage basis is actually more likely to withstand objections.
 So I'll just put in my two cents on this again. While I agree that a percentage is obviously a more progressive strategy, I also want to honor the fact that there's been months of work in this. This is legally defensible. We heard from the Bureau that they evaluated different strategies. They settled on this particular strategy, which I think is acceptable.
 Commissioner Fish put in an amendment which I supported, which I think makes a lot of sense to actually do the data collection and get the information. We always reserve the right as a city council if we need to revisit this under another structure to be able to do so. Any further discussion on the amendment? Commissioner Fish, I want to make sure you can hear us okay. Crystal clear. Very good. Please call the roll on Commissioner Fritz's amendment. Fish. No. Saltzman. Udaly. No.
 Well, I'm surprised to hear that there's been months of discussion on this topic because my office has not been meaningfully engaged. I'm frustrated in this moment. I'm in my conversations with revenue. I'm not convinced that a percentage puts us at a considerably higher risk of challenge than a flat fee. I vote yes. Fritz? Yes.
 We heard from 30-some people last week who said it was the first opportunity they had had to comment. And so I also was not involved in a meaningful way about any discussion of should we do it this way, should we do it another way. I'm starting to wonder whether it makes any difference if I show up, never mind if the public shows up. Aye. Wheeler. No, the motion fails. To the main motion, any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye.
 I'm going to vote aye. I'm proud to co-sponsor this ordinance. I think it is carefully calibrated. It has been reviewed by both the Office of Revenue and by legal counsel. It is defensible. I do not believe that it will trigger an exit clause by any of our platforms. And furthermore, we desperately need the proceeds
 to be applied to the most urgent issue of our time, which is affordable housing. And there's a lot of room for how we can define the different categories of urgency. So respectfully, I vote aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Well, I want to encourage my colleagues to actually engage my office on issues around affordable housing, short-term rentals, and tenant protections, since that is the primary reason I'm here and the most urgent issue to me.
 I want to thank all the people that came out last week and gave very insightful and reasonable testimony, especially the very small-time, short-term rental operators who are on the low end of the spectrum and especially those who are offering rooms in their home as a way to provide
 remain in their homes. And I'm sorry that your valid testimony was not taken into account in this item. No. Fritz.
 This is an example of where if we had had a work session, if we had had a hearing and sent it away for more work, we could have come back with something really good that everybody could have supported. And I am getting very frustrated with hearing time and again from people coming to the testimony table saying it's the first time they've had to weigh in when they are the people most affected. I also am getting frustrated with Commissioner Eudaly about not being included in discussions ahead of time. No. No.
 Wheeler. So I first of all, I want to express that I'm hearing what my colleagues are saying. And if there's more and better work that we can do around internal communications or the interrelationships between bureaus that are working on issues and commissioner staffs, I will absolutely commit to doing whatever we need to do to improve that process. So I want to start by saying I'm hearing and respecting what my colleagues are saying.
 Second of all, I do want to acknowledge that this has been in the works for several months, that there were different alternatives that were explored as per the staff testimony when we heard this item the first time. The revenues being raised from this are going both towards housing affordability and homelessness, something that is a priority for this city council.
 and I look forward to continuing to work on this issue both in the near term as well as the long term. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Next item, 678. Mayor, may I just make one last comment? Oh, I'm sorry. Commissioner Fish, I apologize. I just want to state a friendly objection. I understand a prior speaker got up and, as he was leaving the room, made a consulting comment directed to all five members of council. I would like it recorded that I was not present today.
 So noted. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you. We appreciate it. Item 678, please. Just to note, we are disconnecting with Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Sorry. Item 678, please. 678? Yes, 678, please. Adopt parking management manual to establish guidelines for managing public parking in the city of Portland. Colleagues, this is a second reading. Commissioner Saltsman. Yes, I'd like to have this returned to my office, please. Without objection. Thank you.
 Next item is 681.
 Accept bid of Interlochen, Inc. for the Sunnyside East Reconstruction and Green Streets Project for $2,926,743. Colleagues, Commissioner Fish asked I read a brief opening talking point to this. The purpose of this legislation is to authorize the execution of a construction contract for the Sunnyside East Reconstruction and Green Streets Project.
 Larry Pallott, Purchasing Manager, will give a brief presentation. Ruben Gonzalez-Baird, Project Manager from the Bureau of Urban... Sorry to interrupt. We don't have a quorum. We don't have a quorum. Let's take a 10-minute recess. We'll reconvene at 1140. People say, go ladies. I didn't understand. You're so literal.
 All right, we are back in session. Colleagues, there was a staff change-out, so I want to start my statement again on behalf of Commissioner Fish. I want to make sure I do it right. The purpose of this legislation is to authorize the execution of a construction contract for the Sunnyside East Reconstruction and Green Streets Project. Larry Platt, Purchasing Manager, will give a brief presentation on
 Emily Short, the product manager from the Bureau of Environmental Services, is also going to be here or may be here to answer any questions. Very good. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, I'm Larry Polak. Larry, is your mic on? Oh, okay. Very good. Thank you. Maybe I had the paper up. That's good. Anyway.
 You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Interlochen, Inc., for the Sunnyside East Reconstruction and Green Streets Projects, $2,926,743. The engineer's estimate on the project was $2,641,000. The Bureau's confidence level was high.
 On August 30, 2017, Council approved the Ordinance No. 188578 for Procurement Services to solicit the project. The project was advertised in the City's Electronic Procurement System. Bids were opened on May 8. Five bids were received in response. And Interlochen Inc. is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $2,926,743. Okay.
 which is $285,743, or 10.9% over the engineer's estimate. Portland Bureau of Environmental Services, along with Procurement Services, identified an aspirational goal for certified disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business subcontractor and supplier utilization of 20% of the hard construction cost for the project,
 There is a total of $604,475, which is 20.65% of disadvantaged minority women emerging small business subcontractor participation apportioned as follows.
 DBE, or disadvantaged business enterprise, $276,583, composed of four firms, providing trucking, traffic control, and saw cutting. There is a minority business enterprise at $319,750, one firm performing concrete work. There is an emerging small business, $8,142, performing pest control.
 Interlochen Inc. is a State of Oregon certified DBE and WBE-owned firm, and as such the total value to state-certified DMW ESB firms is approximately 80%. Because the prime contractor has met the aspirational goal of 20% or more, we did not ask them to be here for this presentation.
 Interlochen Inc., they are located in Fairview, Oregon. They have a current business, the City of Portland business tax registration number, and they're in full compliance with the city's contracting requirements. If the council has any questions relative to the procurement itself, I can answer those. We do have Ruben Gonzalez and Emily Short from BES in chambers to answer specific project questions if they're needed. That's my report. Very good. Excellent report. Thank you. Please call the roll.
 A motion to accept the report. I need a motion, sorry. Moved to accept the report. Second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. More good work on the disadvantaged minority businesses. Thank you very much. Aye. We'll keep swinging at it. Wheeler. I vote aye. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Report's accepted. 682, please.
 Ratify a letter of agreement with the District Council of Trade Unions to authorize a 4% wage increase to each step of the Water Bureau Operating Engineer 3 classification. Colleagues, Commissioner Fish asks that I read this introductory statement. This ordinance will ratify a letter of agreement with the City and the...
 District Council of Trade Unions, Jamal Anthony, Labor Relations Coordinator from the Office of Human Resources, and Danny Allison, Water Operations and Support Manager from the Portland Water Bureau, will give a presentation of the agreement. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. It's a pleasure to see you all again. Thank you.
 Based on the size and complexity of its water system, the city of Portland has long been classified as a level four distribution center by the state of Oregon. The Portland Water Bureau has historically asked that its operating engineer threes have a level two water distribution certification. A person with a level two water distribution certification can make decisions for population groups of
 1,501 to 15,000 citizens. In the past, employees who have obtained their Level 3 and Level 4 water distribution cert would receive a 3% premium for reaching Level 3 and a 4% premium for reaching Level 4.
 In the current, to better suit the needs of the Bureau, in February 2017, Portland Water Bureau changed the requirements of the OE3 classification, stating that employees in this position would now have to have a Level 3, increased from Level 2, certification, which allows an employee to make decisions for population groups 15,001 to 50,000 and is more in line with the needs of the city.
 To match the increase in both decision-making and level of responsibility, the city seeks to agree to increase the rate of pay for the OE classification by 4%. Lastly, the 3% premium that was formerly attached for having a Level 3 certification will go away, and the employees who have a Level 4 will now receive 3% premium versus the 4% that they received in the past. Do you all have any questions? So going from a Level 1 to a Level 2 does not get a 4%?
 premium or increase in pay this is only for level three and above or am i getting that right yeah so the minimum uh certification level for the oe3 position is a distribution two and so the premium levels currently would be for distribution three or distribution four so this change would make the premium only for distribution four
 Is it fair to characterize this, and I don't want to be too general, this is getting at some of the discrepancy between the private sector around engineering talent, is that correct, in terms of recruiting and maintaining employees? No, actually, I'm...
 Our management's thought process on this is that the operations operating engineer group is a very small group responsible for the overall operation and 24-7 operations of our control center and basically water system as a whole.
 And so this was our attempt to increase their decision-making capacity as far as the state regulations are concerned and better use our resources. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions before we open this up for public testimony? Is there anybody signed up, Carla, for public testimony? Yes, I have two people. Very good. Mimi Gurman and Charles Bridgecrane.
 Come on up. Gentlemen, if you just want to cool your heels for a couple of minutes, we'll take public testimony. A little bit. Yeah, thanks. Yeah, I'll just switch these and then you can come up. Charles, you need to turn that on so it got turned off. Thank you. Green button. And perfect. So...
 Good morning, distinguished commissioners. It's good to be in front of you here on World Refugee Day, UN-declared World Refugee Day, where millions of people around the world are having much greater water problems than we face here in Portland. When we talk about getting more fair market rate compensation for our water engineers, I think we need to be mindful, and hopefully there's even been some internal discussion in the Water Bureau
 about the blooming algae and the cyano bloom down around Salem and a loss of public confidence, really, in government. So I hope that while we give these people market rate pay, we also make sure that the skill set and the public transparency is in place for citizens to still be thrilled with our bull run water, which, of course, you're going to mix less and less well-filled water with that awesome bull run water.
 The water is, of course, also an issue for people that are facing immigrant detention. Hopefully our president is flip-flopping again, and you'll be able to refrain from sending any police forces down there to the ICE prison detention center on South McAdam. We can all live in peace and quench our thirst. But I do think that even though this 4% pay raise...
 Whenever we have a market adjustment pay rate, we want to make sure that the DCTU, which usually does a great job, has also been able to get all its other represented classes up to good pay. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Hi. I want to acknowledge also World Refugee Day and to all of the people who are at Occupation ICE PDX.
 Fortunately, this morning the message was that they are all good on the waterfront, but they do need other supplies. And one of the things that I have to say is that I want to be sure that our sanctuary city is not using our police force here, our money from Portland to go to the police to work for ICE.
 over at the detention center. They need to be removed regardless of the Tesla property that's in the back or anywhere else that our police in the sanctuary city cannot work with ICE and that we need to abolish ICE from Portland, from Oregon. Maybe you could speak to the governor and say Portland no longer has any use of ICE or for that building, and we could open that building up for ICE
 actual houseless people on the streets who need housing, turn it into apartments, and we would have a new building that we could use for a much more humanitarian purpose, including good pipes for good water.
 Um, so that's really what I wanted to testify to today, to say that we need to make sure that our sanctuary city is not using any of our money for police efforts to support ICE and that we need to abolish ICE from Portland. Can you address that? Um, I want to stick to the agenda, but I will briefly go off script because I know people want to know my feelings on this and I'm happy to give them the current policy.
 Being enacted by the federal government around the separation of very small children from their parents is an abomination. It is very un-American. And I'm glad to see, as was mentioned earlier, the president seems to be reconsidering this very ill-conceived policy. And so I hope that happens forthwith. I drove by the demonstration yesterday. It seemed to be very peaceful. And I was pleased to see that.
 And I want to be very clear, I do not want the Portland Police Bureau to be engaged or sucked into a conflict, particularly from a federal agency that I believe is on the wrong track, that has not fully lived American values of inclusion, and is also an agency where the former head suggested that people who lead cities that are sanctuary cities like this one should be arrested.
 So if they're looking for a bailout from this mayor, they're looking in the wrong place. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony. Any further discussion on this item or questions, please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for your great work on that. Next item, 683 from the House of Boroughs.
 6.83, direct the Portland Housing Bureau to create an expungement pilot program to reduce barriers and increase access to housing opportunities. Colleagues, we know that a criminal record can serve as a permanent barrier to housing employment and other opportunities. We also know that as many as 100 million U.S. adults, nearly one-third, are in the U.S.
 of our entire population have a criminal record of some kind or other. Additionally, we can't ignore the disproportionate impact that interactions with the justice system has on marginalized communities. In an effort to increase Portlanders' ability to access our historic investments in housing and the increasing economic opportunities being created in our communities.
 This is an important step forward. The Portland Housing Bureau is aiming to pilot an expungement program aiming to help residents who are eligible to having their records expunged access these services.
 Here to discuss the details of the ordinance are Cupid Alexander. He is a senior policy advisor to me as mayor. Victoria James, who's a senior policy analyst in the Portland Housing Bureau. And Juhi Agarwal, who's an attorney with the Metropolitan Public Defenders. Welcome and thank you all for being here today. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Cupid Alexander. I am one of the senior policy advisors in the office of Mayor Ted Weber.
 Over the past few years, the City has mobilized its resources to achieve record levels of affordable housing production. With the recent addition of the housing bond and other revenue sources to support increased affordable housing development, there is every indication that this trend will continue. As we continue this level of investment in creating more affordable housing, who will be able to access the housing is the pressing equity question we still must address.
 As the Mayor mentioned, nearly one-third of Americans have a criminal record of some sort. These records carry long-term collateral consequences. Just an arrest alone with no conviction can appear on a background check and create barriers to accessing housing, education, employment, receiving a license, and even volunteering opportunities. It is impossible to ignore the disproportionate impact this has on marginalized communities.
 Oregon maintains the seventh highest African American incarceration rate in the country. And in Multnomah County, African Americans currently represent just under 6% of residents, but 27% of the inmate population. Through intensive outreach work during the application process for the preference policy, for example, the Housing Bureau has had the opportunity to hear directly from community members about the barriers they face to accessing housing.
 Among the concerns they have shared is the fear that something in either their background or a family member's background may prevent them from being eligible for housing or from being able to live together. Increasing access to expungement services can help mitigate the impacts of past criminal justice involvement to applicants for city housing and programs. While there is a growing general awareness around the city's resources for those who have been impacted by cannabis laws,
 as well as efforts through other government entities to expand expungement services to youth and families, we know many families who interact with the housing services we provide continue to face these barriers due to their histories. It's important to create a point by which those eligible for some kind of relief can access these services. To take us through how the expungement process works, I will hand it off to Victoria James from the Portland Housing Bureau and Juhi Agarwal from Metropolitan Defenders.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Good morning. Carla is pulling up my PowerPoint here. Yay. All right. So I will just be kind of clarifying what an expungement is and sort of how that process works. And then if you have specific questions, we're all going to look at Chuhi at the same time because she's going to be the expert on any specific questions you might have. So what is an expungement? An expungement is a motion to set aside a conviction or a record of arrest –
 And once that expungement is approved, it officially kind of seals off any record of that case, and it is inaccessible without a further order from the court.
 To get an expungement, a person needs to make a motion with the county circuit court or a municipal court in the area in which they were convicted or arrested. So, for instance, if you have an arrest with the Portland Housing Bureau, you're going to need to file a motion with the Multnomah County Circuit Court. The expungement process essentially has three steps. Step one is that a person needs to file a motion and an affidavit to the court.
 Step two, the district attorney will receive a copy of that motion, and then they have the opportunity to object. In the event that they object the expungement, the applicant is informed, and then the applicant has the chance to request a hearing. If they go through with that hearing, the court basically hears the case and rules on it. At that time, the applicant may be represented.
 If the district attorney does not object to the expungement, the applicant still receives a notice of that decision. And thereafter, the court mails them the order setting aside the conviction or the arrest record, which essentially means they have been expunged, that arrest or that crime has been expunged.
 After an applicant files the paperwork to request the motion for expungement, it's sort of up to the district attorney how long that process is going to take. But generally, if the district attorney is objecting or not objecting, it's around four to six months for an applicant to know that decision. A person is eligible for expungement three years after that initial judgment.
 they are eligible for expungement if they have no other convictions in the last 10 years, if they have fully complied with and performed the sentence of the court, and if they have no pending charges.
 There are a couple of things that cannot be expunged off the record, and generally that is A and B felonies, and A and B felonies are the most serious types of felonies. So it would be aggravated assault, manslaughter, that kind of thing. Convictions for traffic crimes of any level are also not eligible for any sort of expungement, and pretty much...
 Every sex crime, elder abuse, and child abuse crime is not going to be eligible for expungement. And that is expungement in a nutshell. Any questions? So I understand that the Metropolitan Public Defender has also received a grant through the city's cannabis tax program. How will this program interact with that one, or will it?
 Yes, thank you, Commissioner Fritz, and to the mayor and the rest of the commissioners. For the record, my name is Juhi Akarwal, and I'm an attorney at Metro Public Defenders in the Community Law Division. We're known for our criminal defense, but in the past few years, we've been working to reduce barriers to folks' access to their housing and employment opportunities.
 With the recent award of the cannabis grant, we will be working to find the folks who have marijuana-related crimes on their record and working to expunge them. And we're hoping that the outreach pieces of both that grant and this funding can be used together to reach the communities most impacted by marijuana crime, cannabis crimes.
 criminalization, and that for folks with eligible crimes, they'll be able to work with the attorney funded under that grant. And if they don't have a crime eligible to be funded under that grant, they can work with the attorney funded under this program.
 And presumably if they're getting expunged for a cannabis crime, that same attorney can work on any other eligible expungements at the same time? Correct. The process required is that the attorney does the analysis under Oregon state law to determine what crimes may or may not be eligible or dismissals and then files the motions with the court.
 Thank you. And how many people do you hope to be able to help with this allocation? With this program, we're hoping to make outreach to at least 300 households and then hoping to provide services to as many of those as possible. Great. Thank you. We also have some invited testimony with Ian Davey, who is the Chief Operating Officer of Home Forward, who also uses Metropolitan Public Defender to help some of their clients.
 Thank you, Victoria. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. My name is Ian Davey, Chief Operating Officer at Home Forward. And I want to talk a little bit about a prior role I had as legal aid attorney in New York City and just tell a quick story from that.
 Fortunate to represent Miss Allie Walton at one point. Miss Walton grew up in the Jim Crow South. Like many African-American families at that time, they immigrated to the Northeast for opportunities. She remembers and recalled to me getting on a train in Athens, Georgia, and getting off at Penn Station in Midtown, New York.
 She eventually resided in public housing in the Patterson Houses in the South Bronx. And she lived there for, and still lives there, for well over 40 years. She recalled the Batanzas Houses being built back when the federal government took the novel approach of investing in public housing. She recalls when the Mauritania Air Rights Houses went up.
 when the Andrew Jackson houses went up. And she told me that she could tell the age of development based on how tall the maples were. Were they small saplings or were they nearly as tall as the 15th, 16th story? And then after over 40 years of an unblemished tenancy, she received an eviction notice and ended up in my office. And that notice was because her grandson, 19 years old, had pled guilty to two possession of marijuana charges.
 Not on property, not within her apartment, miles away from her apartment. He didn't reside in the residence, but he had received mail at the residence. And the New York City Housing Authority thought that was a reason to evict Ms. Walton. Now, we were able to save her tenancy, but this really stood out to me as a stark example of the collateral consequences of involvement with the criminal justice system.
 And we know that those don't just hit housing, they hit immigration, they hit employment, they hit the child welfare system. And we also know that there are disparities, that they affect people of color disproportionately, and that they plague people for years, for decades.
 And so I want to just say that at Home Forward, we thought a little bit differently about our role as a housing authority. We tried to focus a little bit more on what it would be like to partner with a social justice agency like Metropolitan Public Defenders. Jacqueline Eaton from our office developed a program that focused on a few primary goals. People being able to access our housing.
 people being able to move to opportunity neighborhoods, and ultimately people being able to depart our housing to move into the private market, to move into unsubsidized housing, to have the opportunities to do so. And these approaches have been very successful. Metropolitan Public Defenders, with our funding, has served over 1,000 unduplicated individuals, and nearly 70% of those are people of color. This is a success.
 These are not approaches that traditionally come to mind when you think of a housing authority, but in my view, these are the steps that matter, that address historical inequities, that impact current disparities, and I urge your support of these initiatives. Thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes. We have three people signed up. Very good. Mary Seif, Shedrick J. Wilkins, and Charles Bridgecrane Johnson.
 Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Is it morning? I just want to say that I strongly support this. I think it's a great pilot program. I hope it's so successful that it just spreads all over. You know, with the work that I'm doing now with Oregon Harbor of Hope and really focusing on some of the issues of trying to get people into permanent housing, people that live on the streets...
 Many of the things that we do in the privacy of our homes, because they live their lives in public, they can do the same things, and yet it's a crime, and they can be arrested for it. And that's just another barrier for them getting into housing. One of the things that I've noticed in the affordable process is that people are more likely to get into housing
 project that I live in is that they have completely revamped their eligibility in the last couple of years because we have a four-year waiting list. They can be very selective now. And they just blanketly, if you don't have two years' worth of rental history, if you have $1,000 or more in delinquent debt, if you have any kind of criminal background record whatsoever –
 It's just automatically you don't qualify. You can't begin to get there. So I think this is a great program, and I really strongly support it, and I hope that it will...
 become kind of a part of every shelter that we have in the city at some point so that they have the ability within the shelter to do to You know bring somebody in and do this. I know I helped a friend of mine who when she was very destitute She got arrested three times for shoplifting and I helped her go through the expungement process and it was Daunting so I support this. Yeah, I'm I'm cedric j wilkins and I support this also because I think that uh,
 marijuana was passed on the west coast recently in Washington State 2012, Oregon 2014 and California so it's kind of this medical idea and a lot of people were involved with marijuana when it was illegal but it wasn't really that bad so there's a lot of stuff there that people were persecuted when they were making a little money off something that eventually became legal anyway it's like bootlegging in the 1920s
 So it's important to recognize that. On housing, if you don't see me around here at City Hall, I prefer the governor, Kate Brown, is an urban Democrat from southeast Portland, and I prefer her re-election over Newt Buechner, who lives in Bend, which I don't know is an urban society or something like that. It's probably a truck stop to go to.
 The east part of the country. But she lives, she sees people. And on some of these issues, too, on June 14th, I went to the Democratic Party of Multnomah County, and it was packed. Trump's got a lot of people. Kate Brown's got an army because Trump's got a lot of people coming out of the woodwork. So I want to help her. If you don't see me around, I'm doing that, helping Governor Kate Brown get reelected, who's an urban Democrat.
 and our opponent is a rural republic where there's less housing issues thank you good afternoon good afternoon commissioner good afternoon commissioner charles bridge crane johnson for the record and uh i think the first and maybe most important point i want to bring up about this uh in light of the other testimony we had earlier today on 664 is intersectionality
 We did have a very clear expression of how there's a disproportionate impact for people of color and our black neighbors. This specifically was mentioned that somehow in a county or city metropolitan area where only 6% of the people are black, we're incarcerating them at a rate of 27%. Another group that this initiative needs to interact with is people with disabilities. Only this year did we have a deaf person run for seat on city council.
 But there's probably an unknown number of people that have physical and cognitive issues that have been caught up in the criminal justice system. Back before the former treasurer of Oregon became our mayor and M. Daly came here, some of our city council crafted a citizens review committee for police and put a former prosecuting attorney on there. My interactions with that former prosecutor from Michigan...
 have gotten me to meet some of the women of the justice system. First Judge Rita Cobb-Batz. Then Judge Immigrant signed a warrant for me. Today I got to meet Judge Kathleen Daly. And this is for a white guy splashing a cup of water on a white guy two years of criminal justice process now. So it's great to see that the Housing Bureau is finally going to be able to work with the defenders to
 really correct over enforcement mistakes of the past. We're talking about expungement but when we talk about them we really need to say those were bad public policy decisions and we need to make sure that we're also not repeating them. While we fund the expungement we need to continue to work with Chief Outlaw and a vision for a more responsive more community based policing so that less and less people will ever have to deal with the crazy time consuming, resource consuming system of expungement. Those resources
 should be better channeled, less into the judicial system, more money for Home Forward and for the Housing Bureau. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion before I call the roll? Please call the roll on the resolution. Saltzman. Well, thank you, Mayor and the Housing Bureau, for bringing forward this pilot. And I think it's a very important thing that we figure this out, how we can help more of our residents keep or get into housing. Aye. Aye.
 New Daily. Well, I'm keenly interested in this issue, and I'm grateful that the mayor's office has recognized the urgent need to evaluate how criminal histories are preventing people from accessing permanent housing. Expunging records as part of increasing access to housing is a key element and complement to the work that we're doing in my office.
 around housing discrimination and tenant protections. Our office, in collaboration with Commissioner Fritz's office, helped lead a grant process with last year's cannabis tax allocation that just awarded an additional $120,000 specifically to expunge cannabis records.
 In addition, our office has been working on a screening criteria proposal for over a year, and we've done a tremendous amount of work around improving the use of federally required individualized assessments so that criminal histories can't be used as a blanket prohibition to housing.
 So far, we've worked with 23 community partners and held 17 community workshops and presentations, including the landlord industry, to develop a draft that accomplishes the goal of access to housing in an innovative and objective way that is fair and equitable for renters as well as landlords.
 We still have 13 upcoming organizational and partner workshops scheduled to continue the work this summer and would greatly appreciate the collaboration of the Mayor's Office as well as any of my colleagues who wish to engage. I vote aye. Fritz. I'm really happy that this augments the funding that is available through the cannabis tax allocation. It's been an honor to work with the Commission and you daily on that process. And I'm glad that this allocation will expand the number of...
 offenses that can be assisted on something so basic that if you're eligible for this program, you need the resources to be able to do it, which then makes the rest of your life so much easier to navigate. So thank you very much to everybody involved.
 I want to thank Shannon Callahan, the Interim Housing Bureau Director, Matthew Scheibold and Victoria James over at the Housing Bureau, Cupid Alexander on my team, and Kyle Chizik, who is also on my team, to help craft a pilot program that aims to increase the access that Portlanders have in connecting them to the necessary resources.
 Additionally, I'd like to thank Home Forward for coming to the council to share their successes with a similar program. I want to thank my colleagues for the great work that they are doing around this. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted.
 Colleagues, I'd like to dice this up a little bit in terms of the path forward. I promised Commissioner Fritz the other day that we'll take a poll at 1230 to see what people are feeling like in terms of either moving forward or setting items aside. So think on that for the next 10 minutes. I'd like to do Commissioner Udaly's item, which is item number, where did I see it here, 687, next 430.
 I'd like to follow that with item 671 because I see A.C. Davis is sitting over there, and I need to get him on the road. I would like to take up the four-fifths item, which is a multi-project after that, and then hopefully we can get through those quickly, and then let's see where we are as a council if we want to continue or hold these other items over. So please, Carla, if you could do 687.
 next. I'd appreciate it. 687, amend fee schedule for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement Noise Program. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Mayor. The noise program located in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement is responsible for managing the city's noise regulations. Today's council action, which has been approved unanimously by the Noise Review Board, is to increase noise fees by 5%.
 These fees are not intended to provide full-cost recovery, but are critical to our ability to enforce Title 18 noise regulations. I'd like to introduce our noise officer, Paul Van Orden, to walk us through this item. Thank you, members of the council. Paul Van Orden, the city's noise control officer.
 Today before us is a standard increase in our fees by 5%. This is pretty traditional for the noise office. We have explored higher fees in the recent past, but right now we're just sticking with a basic 5% increase in our fees. There is one notable item that folks should take a look at, which is our administrative review fees had previously been increased.
 in some cases, higher than our actual citation fees for people to review cases. And so we have lowered those down to a more reasonable rate of $25 from previously $250. So that is the only notable change that we have before us. This set of changes was reviewed at the last Noise Review Board meeting, and the Noise Review Board members did not have any challenges or concerns with what's before us at this time.
 And we expect that in the next several years, the noise office will be exploring additional changes that may be higher than this. But at this time, we are really just bringing forward a standard 5% fee increase from our fees last year and last fiscal year. And it's a pretty straightforward proposal on the table. I'm not sure if council members have any specific questions. Commissioner Saltzman. I mean, I don't have a question about the fees, but since you're here. Sure.
 We have had quite a discussion a few months ago from many of our residents about pile driving. And I was under the impression you had prepared some rules that were acceptable to both the construction industry and certainly the residents. And these rules haven't come to us. So where are they and what are they?
 Why not? Yes. So on the question of pile driving, the noise review board is comfortable with changing the standards in our code that require or that have previously not required a specific decibel level for pile driving. And the board wants to move forward with removing an exemption from pile driving to require that pile driving comes before the city's noise review board.
 and management and ONI and the city's noise staff have looked at the situation. There are so few pile-driving projects that what we want to do is bring back to council in the fall a proposal that clearly has the industry on board because at this point, the industry is trying to abate the sound and fix the challenge, and what they want to do is work hand-in-hand with the city's noise office and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement so that we're all on the same page
 about where we're going with the project. So we will be coming back to council, we anticipate, in the fall. We only anticipate at best one project that could potentially start between now and the fall in the Pearl. So the number of pile-driving projects that actually happen in the city are quite small, and we have worked collaboratively with that industry, even without the regulations having changed. So the...
 management in ONI and the city's noise office do not feel that in our busy season or with all the other things on the plate to serve all the citizens in the city of Portland, that making the changes at this point is the most prudent thing to do when we're already headed in that direction. So we'd be looking to actually make the formal changes in the fall. And worst case scenario, if the one project comes into fruition, we feel confident that we would be able to work with the developers and do the same thing that we did last year
 for the White Street Properties Project that impacted one of the kindergarten classes and schools down in the Pearl. So we're comfortable that we're not going to have any significant issues between now and when we present the project to Council. And so when you do present in the fall, it will basically make sure the pile-driving projects do fall under the purview of the Noise Review Board? Yes, and what we anticipate is...
 Much like we've done with leaf blowers and other pieces of equipment, there would be a phase-in period where we would propose coming back to council once a year for the first year or two just to make sure that everything we're doing is working. So we would remove it from the exemption, report each year to council on how it's going, and then possibly even formalize specific methodologies for abatement at that point.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on the amendment to the fee schedule specifically? Yes, we have one person, Mary Seip. Come on up. Should I sit down or is it? You can just stay there, just Mary. She might have a follow-up question. One of us might. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Yeah, it is afternoon, isn't it?
 I oppose this request. Simply increasing the fees by 5% every year does not adequately address the inequities in the structure of the fee schedule. Last year, I testified about the April 2016 proposed permit fee schedule revision that was projected to generate as much as $90,000 in increased revenue for the noise program and assess fees more equitably.
 I also told you how after outreach to stakeholders and special public meeting, the proposed fee schedules seemed to be moving forward, but then in August, the Noise Control Office advised City Council that they would simply propose a nominal increase of 15 percent to the existing schedule. That was in August of 2016. No explanation was ever given as to why the changes to the structure of the fee schedule were not included.
 On an August 23, 2016 email from Kathy Couch, advised stakeholders, quote, this fall the noise office will be conducting a tracking study to present to city council in the spring of 2017, identifying actual time staff costs that are associated with the variance process. The noise program is interested in exploring new and creative ways to increase funding the noise control office.
 My question is, was that study ever conducted? Was anything done with it? I'm not aware of any results of the study being presented to City Council. Are you aware?
 City Council should deny this request and direct the Noise Control Office to report to you the results of that study and what new and creative ways they plan to increase funding for the Noise Control Office. The current structure of the fee schedule greatly favors construction, which is currently the most disruptive and widespread noise in our city. And as you'll see, I did some PowerPoint slides, and as you'll see –
 For the motor vehicle racing, the annual Labor Day vintage car races, they pay a total for a three-year variance of $5,465. This comes to approximately $600 per day for their total of nine days racing. Now, a construction noise variance permit for, say, 30 early morning concrete pours, which is not unusual,
 The way the fees are structured, they have a maximum of $1,080 for a 12-month period. So they can do 30 pours in a 12-month period, and it comes out to $36 a day. Now, if pile driving required a noise variance permit, a 55-day project like the Block 20 would have cost approximately $19 per day.
 But then, as we all know, it doesn't require a noise variance permit, but hopefully it soon will. So with the current fee schedule structure, the more days that a construction project makes noise, the less they pay per day. This doesn't make sense. It seems to me that if we're going to give variance permits, we should be charging a fee for each day that they make noise. Thank you. Very good. Thank you.
 And Commissioner Saltzman, did you have a question? No. Very good. So any further questions, colleagues, before I move this to second? I just would like to say in response I would support some changes and more cost recovery at the Commissioner in Charge's direction. I'm certainly interested in cost recovery, however I –
 I think there's some obvious reasons why we wouldn't charge as much to a construction project as we would to a racetrack at a time when we're trying to incentivize building as much housing as possible. It's just kind of an apples and oranges situation. The racetrack has their own noise meters. They do most of their own enforcement.
 They also pay into a fund. That's not a correct statement. Mary, it's not a debate. You gave your testimony, and I'm responding. Thank you. Very good. And obviously, I know from my experience, it's a lot more complicated than it might seem. So that's why I say I'll take your lead. Thank you. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you all for that. So per my promise to Commissioner Fritz, I'd like to just take a breather for a second.
 Colleagues, what I would propose is 671. It is an emergency ordinance, and we've got AC Davis cooling his heels. I'd like to do the four-fifths item, which is a multi-project. As you know, those are required to come to the City Council before we can execute.
 We have a couple of second readings that we can dispose of quickly. The BES has informed me that 684, they have invited testimony that's been sitting here patiently, so I'm hopeful we could get to that. 685, if necessary, they said they could move that, but it's not a long item. What is your will? Why don't we just get started and see how long?
 It looks like it's going to take. All right. I'd like to leave by 1. Absolutely. I'd like to wrap this up by 1. We had a long Wednesday last week, and I think we all agreed that the wall-to-wall really robbed the afternoon of some of the energy and the consideration that it should have had. So eight hours straight just doesn't work. So with that, we will then move to 671, please, Carla. Thank you.
 671, create a new represented classification of public safety support specialists and establish an interim compensation rate for this classification. Very good. And colleagues, I'll probably say most of what needs to be said on this. The public safety support specialist positions are foundational to my and Chief Outlaw's vision of a community-centered police borough.
 These positions are also foundational to the community's vision of the police bureau in recognition of the fact that police officers are not always necessary for every type of call. The role of the Public Safety Support Specialist, or PS3, is to respond to non-emergency calls for services that don't require a sworn officer.
 This position was first called a community service officer, but the position name has been changed to better reflect the goals of the position, which are to enhance public safety service and community engagement for the public.
 Among other duties, public safety support specialists will respond to non-injury traffic collisions. If you get into a fender bender or your car breaks down, PS3s will be dispatched to provide immediate aid. They will also be made available for pedestrians, bicyclists, and other community members in need of assistance. They will follow up on property crimes, where there's no suspect information, placing an emphasis on victims' rights.
 These specialists will attend your neighborhood meetings and community events. They will respond, as I said, to pedestrians, bicyclists, and other community members in need of basic assistance where a sworn officer is not always needed. The public safety support specialist will ultimately increase the bandwidth of sworn officers and better enable the Bureau to engage in a community policing model.
 They will support sworn officers by taking some of the administrative duties currently done by sworn officers. This is a pilot program, so we're initially planning to deploy 12 PS3s with the intention of growing that number as the success of the program is assessed through data. Thank you.
 I'm excited about the opportunity this presents for the Portland Police Bureau. Thank you to the Portland Police Association for collaborating with us on what this program will ultimately look like. I'm looking forward to the first appointment of public safety support specialists. A.C. Davis, welcome and thank you for your patience.
 Thank you. I don't really have anything to add to that, but I'm here, and Elizabeth Nunes is here from the Bureau of Human Resources. I don't know if she has anything, but I'm here for any questions that you might have. Colleagues, any particular questions on this item? Seeing none, is there any public testimony on this item? I didn't have a sign-up sheet. This was pulled from consent. I was just curious how the number of 12 was arrived at. Is there some magic to having 12 people, public safety support specialists, versus –
 24? That decision was made before I got involved in this, so I'm not sure, but I can try to track that. I know where it came from. It was budget resource. That's what was budgeted. I don't know my guess. Yeah, there was no magic to it, but 12 is, of course, an ancient number, seeped in history. Very good. Seeing no public testimony, please call the roll. Seltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 Well, I appreciate the clarification around the name and the function of these positions. There's been a lot of confusion in the community and, I think, inside the building. There's also been a lot of anticipation in the community. I'm hoping that this goes well and that we bring on board...
 Many more than 12 because I'm quite certain that we are overloading our officers with work that could be delegated to non-sworn staff. I vote aye.
 Fritz. I'm very glad that the Chief Outlaw and Mayor Wheeler are supportive of this program. As some will remember, Commissioner Fish, Mayor Hales and I took considerable grief from the community about the contract that we approved for the Portland Police Association, which specified that these positions would be allowed. I'm grateful that they have worked with staff, with administrators,
 human resources not only to define what these positions will do but also to make sure that there isn't any overlap with the park rangers we did not want our rangers to be headhunted to these better paying positions but i'm satisfied that the job descriptions are really different and that our park rangers will want to stay being park rangers because that's what they really excel at
 So I'm glad that we're finally getting it going. I'm a little bit disappointed that the starting age is 21, but I think having the probationary period being 12 months is definitely the right choice if we could only have one or the other, because, as we all know, we need people out on the streets as soon as possible, and we need people to be able to get out of the house
 helping Portlanders when trouble arises. So thank you very much, Mayor. I appreciate your continuing to push this. I also want to thank Tim Crail, my Chief of Staff, who at every single meeting with any Portland Police Chief or Mayor has raised this issue, and I'm very happy to see it started. Bye. Wheeler.
 It takes about a year and a half to two years to certify and properly train a police officer. And it's pretty obvious that you do not need a sworn armed police officer to go to every kind of circumstance in the community. So I believe this will serve both the function of enhancing community connectedness and community trust.
 with our police bureau, and it will address some of the fiscal issues facing the police bureau, including the overtime costs. So I'm certainly enthusiastic about this. I'm glad we're getting it going. Thank you, A.C. Davis, for your hard work on this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for your patience as well. Next up, the four-fifths item, 688-1.
 Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for the project 5434 Southeast Milwaukee located at 5434 Southeast Milwaukee Avenue. Colleagues, this apartment building, 5334 Southeast Milwaukee, will make all 28 units affordable households earning up to 60% of the area median income for 99 years.
 as part of the inclusionary housing program. The project itself is subject to inclusionary housing requirements and it will be a receiving site for another project that is also subject to inclusionary housing. In addition, this project has voluntarily opted to provide the rest of its units as IH units, restricted at 60% of area median family income for 99 years.
 All units in both buildings are proposed as studios, and therefore all the IH units will also be studios. The owners, Main Street Development Incorporated, are building a total of 28 new units in this project and are also the owners of the...
 at 5605 Southeast Milwaukee, which has 30 total proposed new units. The multiple unit limited tax exemption or multi-program is one of the financial incentives provided to inclusionary housing projects. Choosing to make financial decisions
 to make units affordable rather than paying the fee in lieu. Each multi-application comes before the City Council for approval. In addition to the 10-year tax exemption provided by the multi, this project will receive an exemption of the affordable housing construction excise tax and system development charges that otherwise would have been due on the affordable units.
 This project will join the other 32 private sector projects in the inclusionary housing permit approval pipeline. Again, 32 private sector projects in the inclusionary housing permit approval pipeline, making a minimum of 177 units affordable in otherwise market rate developments. We have Interim Director Shannon Callahan here to answer any questions or add any further commentary.
 Thank you, Mayor. Shannon Callahan here to answer any questions. Very good. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Sounds very good. Aye. Aye.
 Hugh Daly. Great. Thanks. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. I want to thank everybody who worked super hard on this. Cupid Alexander in my office, everybody in the housing bureau, all of my colleagues, particularly Commissioner Saltzman and Fritz, who helped lay the foundation for this very good program. I vote aye. Good teamwork, everybody. Thank you. Next item, I believe it is 684. Okay.
 Authorized grant agreement awarding up to $73,000 in fiscal year 18-19 to Southwest Neighborhoods, Inc. to provide outreach, technical assistance, and community involvement for watershed projects in Portland's west side sub-watersheds. Caller.
 Colleagues, Commissioner Fish asked that I read this brief opening statement. The Southwest Watershed Resource Center at Southwest Neighborhoods, Inc. has been providing technical assistance and outreach services for watershed programs since 1999, and this grant agreement will continue that good work. Becky Tilson, Environmental Program Manager from the Bureau of Environmental Services, will present an overview of the grant.
 Good afternoon. Hi, thanks so much for having us. I'm going to just hit a few key points, and then I want to give most of the time here to our invited testimony members of the public. Like he said, I'm Becky Tilson with the Burt Bureau of Environmental Services. So kind of big picture, the Watershed Resource Center provides technical assistance and grant support and other sorts of services.
 support to the community. Their mission is to inspire awareness and action on behalf of watershed health in Southwest Portland neighborhoods. BES recognizes that partnering with private property owners and assisting with their restoration efforts in Southwest Portland is critical to meeting our watershed health goals and our permit requirements. And the Watershed Resource Center enables us to have an exponentially larger reach
 in the community than our current staffing levels would allow. So here's an overview of what the program provides, and you'll hear a lot more from these folks in a second. Again, I'm going to just kind of buzz through this. Southwest Portland has some unique watershed characteristics that...
 call for this sort of support in this region and the Watershed Resource Center provides sort of a critical key part of the network of organizations and groups including BES that are providing services around stormwater management and watershed health in southwest Portland.
 The budget is $73,000. It's included here. The breakdown of the budget is included in your ordinance packet. It's included in BDS's budget for this year, and the work plan is also included in your ordinance packet. So, again, that's a super brief version of my presentation, but I want to give Michelle Mahan here and Vicki McNamara an opportunity to speak. So thank you for having us, squeezing us in under the wire.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, I suppose, at this point. I'm Michelle Mahan. My husband Brian and I were one of four households in the Southwest neighborhood to receive a Stormwater Stars grant. I'm truly grateful to have the opportunity to come here today and share with you what an incredibly remarkable resource it is that we have this in our neighborhood.
 Hilary, Lorena, and Sylvia out of the Sweeney office have been just incredible. They have boundless energy. They have enthusiasm for the project, and that's been incredible and contagious to all of us around them.
 Not only do they have this wonderful enthusiasm, but their knowledge is limitless as well. And they've shared that with me. And in particular, five of the key practices that I've learned that are a part of the Stormwater Stars Project enabled the community to limit the runoff of water and thereby preventing water pollution in our community. The practices improve the infiltration of water on site and they really limit these damaging overland flows. In our site in particular, in our yard, we were
 We were able to remove an amount of grass. We were able to do quite a bit of native planting. We were able to amend the soil, touching on three of those five practices. And since the project came to our site, an understanding of what we can do to improve that watershed has encouraged us
 to remove additional hard surfaces, to put in permeable pathways, to look at use of container plantings. And those have been a wonderful asset that we really were unaware of prior to this project. Beyond the fact that we have a beautiful section of our yard now, the other remarkable thing is that we've really seen a community coming together around these ideas.
 We were able to canvas the neighborhood, share these ideas in our community. On the day of the site, we were able to bring in a lot of people who, in turn, have become new advocates from the program. And since then, our neighbors have continued to come and ask, how is it going and what's happening, and visiting the site again, which has been quite nice to see. Finally, it is incredible to have a resource in our community that is dedicated to providing resources.
 a resource to help improve the health of our watershed. And I encourage you to support them in every way possible. They're really making a difference in our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Of course. Good afternoon. I'm Vicki McNamara, and my husband and I have lived in the Southwest area for over 20 years.
 And as you know, Southwest Portland is a water haven, a watershed haven, I should say. The Southwest Watershed Resource Center has been involved in multiple projects in the Southwest area. And their expertise in developing and implementing creative and engaging programs.
 for the entire diversity of our community has been outstanding. This past year, WRC was involved in an educational environmental program at Jackson Middle School. Through that program, they engaged over 25 students throughout the year in environmental education, being at the core of their work, but also involving the kids in rehabilitation of a trail area that is accessed, and I'll explain that later.
 They were very, very instrumental in engaging our diverse community students in this project and eradicating ivy and blackberry along this well-used trail. In April, they asked community involvement to reconstruct this trail that had become a walkable mudfield
 what we called our sloppy walking area, to a walkable wood chip trail. It's a trail that comes off of Southwest 39th on the back side, south side of Jackson. If you take a right as a student, you walk about...
 30 to 40 yards to access jackson middle school if you take a left as an adult you walk about 50 yards uphill to southwest 40th which then takes you to the barber transit center so this is a trail that's used by kids and adults in the community as well it's accessed every day by at least 100 individuals students and adults like like i said the trail had become very muddy um
 WRC was instrumental in getting the wood chips donated and pulling 75 community members, children, and families, including the diversity of our Muslim and East African families, to work on an April Saturday and reconstitute the trail with wood chips. So we now have a walkable wood chip trail instead of a sloppy mud trail. And of note, the Father's Day downpour that we had last Sunday, we'd have been back to mud.
 But on Monday, it was walkable and doable. And we still have neighbors talking about it and asking how it was done. In addition to the work on the trail, they planted 70 new plants along the trail and marked them and identified them along the trail. And the kids on that day made what they called clay rocks. And they dried them and they placed them along the trail. And the community is having a great time moving them around because they're decorated and redecorating the trail every day.
 So I want to thank kudos to the WRC for their efforts and inclusion and the hard work they did in making this a community effort. And to let you know that they also have fabulous walk-in resources that are free for our neighborhood. They have their free tool library, which I think is a fabulous idea, walk-in resources, the native plant swap, and the workshop water series that you were involved in.
 Kudos to WRC for all they've done for Southwest neighborhoods. Thank you. Very good. Thank you for being here I wish you'd bought pictures. I should have they were in the Sweeney newspaper. They were some great ones What the sort of prep day at Jackson middle school up here on the screen That's great. They had a blast and
 I like weeding. I can't keep a plant alive to save my life, but I'd be happy to come help you rip some out. We have lots of them here. You're welcome to come any time you like. Very good. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one else signed up. Very good. This is a first reading of an on-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you for being here. Thank you. We appreciate it. Next item, 685, and then after that we just have a couple of second readings.
 685, authorized contract with Tetra Tech Inc. to provide engineering services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Main Substation Replacement Project, number E10897.
 in the amount of $650,630. This ordinance will authorize a contract to provide engineering services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant main substation replacement. Paul Sudo and Clarence Thompson from the Bureau of Environmental Services will give a brief presentation about this project. Okay, good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. Clarence will run through the...
 The presentation quickly on Paul Sudo, BES. So I need, okay, here we go.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. For the record, I am Clarence Thompson, engineer with BES, and here with me today is Paul Sudo, principal engineer with BES. The purpose of our presentation today is to request approval of the ordinance to authorize a contract with Tetra Tech Incorporated to provide engineering services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Main Substation Replacement Project. This slide provides a picture of the project location.
 The map on the left shows the location of the treatment plant on Columbia Boulevard. The aerial photo on the right shows the location of the substation on the treatment plant property. The main substation is a primary electric power interface between PGE, which is Portland General Electric, and the treatment plant.
 This is a picture of the exterior of the main substation. An electrical substation takes power from a utility or point of electric supply and distributes it to the circuits of a facility by means of switches, also known as circuit breakers, which control the flow of power to various parts of the facility. The substation at our plant was built during the 1970s.
 It is a critical component of the main 12,000 volt or 12 kV power distribution system for the entire plant. It is the primary facility to receive power from PGE and distribute that power across the plant. Failure of this substation could cause a plant outage that would last six to eight weeks.
 Because the substation is so old, it is becoming unsafe for plant staff to perform routine maintenance on the substation while it is energized. This requires extra coordination with PGE in order to work safely. This slide shows a picture of the inside of the main 15 kV switchgear house, which is part of the substation. And on the left, you can see the circuit breakers and relays.
 Tetra Tech has been selected as the successful bidder. We have negotiated a contract amount of $650,630. The contract estimate level of confidence is optimal. The construction cost estimate is around $4 million and the level of confidence for that is low because the project has not been designed yet.
 The project schedule consists of four major phases, pre-design, design, advertising and construction. Near the end of the design phase there will also be a pre-purchase phase for the procurement of equipment with long lead times prior to the start of construction. Pre-design and design will be complete by July 2019 and we plan to advertise for construction in October 2019.
 Following completion of the design portion of this project, we will return to Council to request approval to advertise and award construction contracts. Construction is planned to be complete by August 2020. There were four engineering firms who submitted proposals for the project. These firms were evaluated by a qualifications-based selection process.
 which ranks architectural and engineering firms on the basis of technical qualifications. The highest ranking firm is selected as a successful proposer, and once the selection process is made, the city negotiates a project scope of work, schedule, budget, and consultant fee. Tetra Tech was selected as the most qualified firm. The DMWESB participation is excellent for this project.
 DMWESP stands for Disabled, Minority, Woman, and Emerging Small Business. Tetra Tech did an excellent job identifying subcontractors for design portions of this project. The amount of $384,994, which is 59% of the contract, is allocated to these subcontractors.
 The percentage of this contract that is designated for DMW ESB firms is significantly higher than the average for city contracts. And I have representatives from Tetra Tech here today if there are any questions as to how they achieved that level of participation. I don't have a question. I just want to say thank you. Yeah, I'd just like to applaud that. Good job. Thank you.
 Today, therefore, we request an ordinance to approve a contract with Tetra Tech Incorporated in the amount of $650,630 for engineering services. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? Any further public testimony on this item? Carla? No one else signed up. Very good. Excellent. Well done. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading.
 Thank you. Well done. All right, just a couple of cleanup items here. Second readings. Make sure I don't miss any of them. The next item is 679. 686. I'm sorry. Is 686 next? I'm sorry. That's really weird. All right.
 I must be having vision issues. 686, yes. 686, amend contract with InfoTech and Consulting, Inc. to increase the not-to-exceed amount to $1,545,000 for the implementation, support, and maintenance of a new environmental compliance information management system. Colleagues, this is the second reading. We've already had a first reading testimony and a presentation. Please call the roll.
 Seltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted, and last is 688, second reading also. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Please call the roll. Question. Commissioner Fritz. Is this the one that the person was going to do some extra work on, that we had the objection? Is there anybody here representing the auditor? No.
 So there isn't, but this is the property that Mr. Bell had? And I thought the idea was that it was going to be a month and we were going to get a report on what the outcome was. Mary Sipes says I'm remembering correctly. So maybe could we defer this one, please, Matt? That's good. Should we bring it back this afternoon and see if we can get the auditor engaged? Get some clarification. I believe that was done because my impact statement has a different –
 amount in it. Okay, so why don't we hold this off until this afternoon at 2 p.m. Have I missed any, Carla? It looks to my eyes like we've covered everything. That's the last one I have. Very good. Colleagues, thank you. We are adjourned.
 Okay. All right. Very good. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council, June 20th, 2018. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Wheeler. Here. Here.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during the City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of the ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. All righty, good. And colleagues, just by way of a run of show today, we're going to do the time certain 2 p.m. first.
 Commissioner Saltzman has an excused absence in about a half an hour, and I want to make sure we get through that first. Then we will bring the item forward from this morning's session from the city auditor. It's my understanding somebody from the auditor's office will be here to discuss that. We will move into the time certain item 690, but we will not have sufficient time.
 quorum to be able to take a vote that we will open the record and we will take testimony on that. And then we will continue that item Thursday at a time certain that I'll mention later. And then we'll do 691 as the wrap-up. Does that square with people's understanding and expectations? Very good. So without further ado, item 689, please.
 adopt the Enhanced Transit Corridors Plan and endorse a list of Enhanced Transit candidate project locations for submittal to the Metro Regional Enhanced Transit Concept Pilot Program to help advance project development. Colleagues, I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman for bringing this item forward today. This represents an opportunity on how we improve transit corridors to prioritize transit and active transportation.
 Fundamentally, these projects can transform transit connection, particularly in East Portland. One thing I've heard consistently as mayor is that East Portland needs better transit service on 122nd, Outer Stark Street, 82nd, and Sandy. And I'm excited that these projects are identified as Tier 1 projects. So I'd like to thank Commissioner Saltzman, and I'd like to pass this to him right now. Okay. Well, thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 I'm pleased to introduce this item on the Enhanced Transit Corridor Plan. The Enhanced Transit Corridor Plan is an important step in the city's efforts to help make transit better in our city and to increase transit ridership. We need transit to be quicker, more reliable, and more frequent. The recommendations of this plan will improve the experience for current riders and make transit a more attractive and competitive option for new riders.
 We've already received many emails and letters in support of the enhanced transit corridor plan prior to this hearing. I want to acknowledge the letter received this weekend from the Portland Bus Lane Project, urging us to implement bus lanes quickly, or probably more quickly. I will work hard to see that PBOT has the resources to do the studies and outreach needed, but right size to quickly deliver projects that improve transit performance.
 I want to express my support for adopting the Enhanced Transit Corridor Plan and endorsing the list of Enhanced Transit Candidate Project locations for submittal to the Metro Regional Enhanced Transit Corridor Pilot Program. As the Mayor said, unfortunately, I do have to leave at 2.30, so I will not be able to stay here for the vote on this item, but I'm sure I trust my colleagues will deliver on this. So with that, I'll turn it over to Art Pierce. Sure. Sure.
 All right, good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. My name is Art Pierce. I'm the Policy Planning and Projects Manager for the Bureau of Transportation. And really am pleased to help introduce this item today. This is an item that I personally have worked on for a number of years. So I'm really pleased to see this come together to this moment here today.
 So today what we have for you today is a recommendation to adopt the plan itself and also the specific list of projects we want to forward on to the regional conversation for enhanced transit corridors. And so we'll be bringing you more information as we go through the presentation on those two items. Okay.
 One of the realizations that really has come to me and to our staff, and I think now at the regional table, is realizing that transit and the degree to which you can navigate the city through transit does face a real crisis in terms of the opportunity that it provides. The more that transit is...
 hampered by congestion and other things, the harder it is for us to navigate the city and navigate the city freely. And particularly, I think, for youth and elders and people with disabilities, this is of critical importance for us and for Portland to take action on.
 Through our transportation system plan, we have really clearly articulated that single occupancy vehicles is the least efficient way to move people throughout the city. And that we need to prioritize, well, people first, people walking. But then prioritize transit mobility as well as cycling and walking. And we really need to bring that level of intentionality to all of the work we do here at the Bureau in bringing transit.
 more strongly into the four is really the purpose of this conversation today, that this is really an important modal need that we have to really emphasize. Some evidence behind this, over the last 15 years, we have seen a pretty rapid increase in cycling usage from 2% to 7%, but over that same time frame, our transit ridership and particularly bus transit ridership has essentially stayed the same.
 And so when you think about how the tools we might deploy to answering continued growth and continued influx of people, we need transit to be a competitive option that works well for our citizens.
 you look at some of our really most critical bus lines, line 75 or 72 or the line 4, and you start seeing how over time bus speeds are declining. We are losing ground with each passing year in terms of how competitive our transit service is able to be. And what's really, I think, important for us to acknowledge and for the community
 city to acknowledge is that this is really something that is in our hands, the city's hands to resolve. TriMet can do their piece of adding more buses to the line, but if we are not prioritizing right-of-way to get the transit through on the streets, we're not doing adequate service to the intention there.
 One way that we have been looking at this is about the reach you might be able to accomplish as a transit rider from a specific location. So in this specific instance, we're looking at 82nd Avenue and Foster. How far can you get within Portland in 45 minutes? And you'll notice that the area in red is the area that is essentially shrinking.
 between 2009 and now. So it's not a radical shrink net yet, but it's moving slowly to less and less of a mobility that you might be offered by the transit system in that time period. And we really see that as a reduction in mobility
 sort of world offerings, life choices that might be accomplished there. So you look at, from these different locations, this means less access to specific job opportunities, less access to specific residential opportunities, based on the mobility you would have for that 45 minute time period. So why is this happening?
 There's a couple of key messages. One of the main ones is traffic congestion. The use of our roadways is increasingly becoming congested and demanded by many uses, and we are not prioritizing the use of the buses enough through the system. The other is the degree to which we're updating the operations of the system in terms of how the stops are organized and also the dwell time allowing buses to stop in the lane rather than pulling over. That's a big one.
 the buses are losing time with each of those successive steps.
 One of the interesting realizations is this is not just a Portland problem. This is actually a regional dilemma. You'll see that there's red on this map in terms of areas where transit is most delayed. That is happening throughout the region. So this is something that is occurring certainly in an acute manner when you look at inner Portland, but it is something that's happening in East Portland and Washington County, so in many different areas. I'm sorry to interrupt. Oh, sure. That's fine. Right.
 But I've got this thing in my head that's stopping me from listening to the rest of the presentation. Let's keep going. Yeah, yeah, yeah. If the percentage of the mode share stayed the same at 13%, but we've got more people, that means actually more people are riding buses. More people are riding buses, but as a percentage, you're right, they are not increasing. Right. So pretty much all the buses I ride are always jam-packed full. Right. So I don't – I'm struggling to understand why this is a – why the –
 speeds are a problem when it may be that people just don't like standing up on the bus. Right, right. And this is part of the importance and why we have some special guests including Doug Kelsey coming today to talk about the partnership that is as we bring greater intentionality to how we're providing the system, TriMet is bringing additional bus service and additional buses to try to lift the whole system up. So it is a paired effort for sure. So you're not saying that the number of bus riders is down, in fact it's up?
 The number of bus riders has increased over that period. The share of their ridership has stayed stagnant. So in terms of how we're thinking about where new growth is going, transit has not been able to capture as much of that new growth as we believe that they should be capable of. Thank you. I can concentrate now. Yeah, sure. Good. I'm glad I was able to answer your question.
 And so as I said, this is a regional effort. This is one that definitely Portland advocated very hard. And I thank Commissioner Saltzman for his work at the JPAC table in advocating to add 5 million as a regional pilot program and bring that together. And so we have support from throughout the region and from TriMet and other partner agencies to take this intentionality to a regional level and really look at how this service can be improved.
 One of the reasons why that's very important is, of course, these lines, many of them traverse jurisdictional boundaries. And so as a rider, it is less important to you whether you just came from Gresham to Portland. It's more important that the line is being improved. And so we really do need this to be a regional-scale conversation to really get it right.
 We have some great examples of some peer cities, not to spur the competition of West Coast cities, but we have some great examples of our neighbor cities, Seattle, San Francisco, Vancouver, BC, that are very aggressively using paint on the roads and a number of other tools to really bring transit priority to the fore. So this is the type of examples as we're visiting these other cities that we really think we need to bring these tools to Portland.
 We really believe that apart from the transit model, Portland has really not brought the level of intentionality that we need to in terms of specifically for buses and giving buses the space they need. And I think it's, again, very, very important. We had an interesting dialogue about a year ago when we brought this concept to council where it was really raising the question again for us, you know, who gets to decide if we produce a bus priority lane? And the answer, of course, is that this is the city does. Right.
 So as much as TriMet would like us to, or would like themselves to make the choice about the road, the way we have set up our governance structure here, this is a Portland-based decision that does, we need to do in concert with TriMet. So it's very, very important for Portland to start seeing itself as a transit provider beyond just the streetcar and the tram system that we have so far.
 So before we move on to that, we have some invited guests that I want to be very respectful of their time. So I think we're going to invite them up to join the conversation. And then after they speak, April Bertelsen will come up and give more details on what the specifics of the plan. So I'd like to invite up Doug Kelsey, Ian Cannon, Chris Smith, if he has arrived. There he is. And I'm not sure who our BPS represents. Oh, there he is. Eric, I'll hop out of the way.
 Good afternoon. Well, good afternoon. My name's Doug Kelsey. I'm Mayor, Council Members. I'm the General Manager at TriMet. I'm proud to be here to share with you TriMet's strong support here today for this great idea from Commissioner Saltzman about the city's enhanced transit corridors plan. Thank you for your leadership. It's very important and a really important time. We do appreciate all the hard work that's kicked off in what has become a regional movement.
 It's taken a couple of years to advance the concept to this stage, and I also would particularly like to thank our collective staff. It takes a lot of time and effort to put these things together, so I'd like to thank them. We're very supportive and excited for the city's enhanced transit concepts, the candidate projects submittal to Metro. We're looking forward to this important partnership, and we do believe it does take a partnership. TriMet supports allocating HB 2017 funding for transit towards capital projects...
 to help fund and build enhanced transit projects, as well as enhancing transit safety and access to transit improvements, while still recognizing the role of HB 2017's Transit Advisory Committee, the TriMet Board of Directors, and the Oregon Transportation Commission, who all are required to support and approve. TriMet intends to develop a new type of service, that's what we'll refer to perhaps as the Frequent Service Plus, with more frequency and more capacity.
 This type of service is best suited for corridors with what we'll refer to as ETC treatments, including things like queue jumper lanes, transit signal priority, and yes, even HOV lanes, or high occupancy vehicle lanes. We'll target lines with high ridership, high equity benefit, and also where local jurisdictions help make improvements to increase transit reliability and reduce travel time for our collective customers. It's vital that the region reduce customer travel times.
 To do this, we need to reduce what I'll refer to as points of friction to keep our customers moving. TriMet is committed to working with the city on critical transit performance issues and establishing an ongoing partnership that is mutually beneficial and advances our common goals for transit.
 This will include regular updates on transit travel times and ridership so we can quickly and collectively diagnose issues with the system and also, most importantly, implement the adjustments and needed solutions to keep our riders moving. Yes, we need to be faster and we need to do it together. Transit needs to share in the importance with cycling and walking with the city. Both are great contributors to a healthy and competitive city and region.
 I believe it's a very exciting time here and we applaud the ETC vision and efforts to date. This program is timely and important and we want to work with the city to implement these projects quickly. We need to be bold. The speed of implementation is important as this is key as the population continues to ground all of us. Thank you for your time this afternoon. Thank you. Thank you. Are you going to be staying?
 For a little bit. I have another commitment I'm booked at, but I will stay for a few minutes after. After the other two panelists have spoken, I have some questions and comments. Sure. I'm Ian Cannon. I'm the Transportation Director and County Engineer for Multnomah County. Multnomah County is pleased to partner with the city and other agencies on this regional enhanced transit corridors plan to improve transit reliability and efficiency. There are projects identified on both the Hawthorne and Burnside bridges.
 We feel that the project supports transit reliability and service to traditionally underserved communities, sustainable mobility, enhanced safety for cyclists and pedestrians, and travel by modes other than single-occupancy motor vehicles on our congested roadway system. And so we're happy to support this project. Thank you. And, Ian, it's good to see you again. Nice to see you, Mr. Wheeler. Thank you for what you do.
 Good afternoon. Chris Smith, Vice Chair of the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission, here today presenting the Commission's recommendation. We're enthusiastically supportive of this package. We have been pushing through the entire comp plan process for better service for East Portland and for transit in general. Happy to see the city and TriMet responding. To Commissioner Fritz's point about...
 absolute ridership versus the mode share. I'll just remind you that our newly adopted comp plan, or newly effective comp plan, I should say, sets the target by 2035 of 25% transit mode share. So if we're just hanging in there at 12% or 13%, we're not going to get there. So it's vital that we adopt measures
 measures like this that respond to our strategy for people movement in the TSP, which says that we have to give transit priority over single occupancy vehicles. We're just not going to get there any other way. This is an important first step.
 I do want to add a couple of caveats around equity that the PSC wanted to express. The first is just in general that as we're assessing the projects, we make sure that East Portland continues to get extra focus. The other is just to make sure in the big picture of how we're allocating the resources, we had a very stringent prioritization process for the TSP project list.
 We'd like to make sure that as amendments are made to the TSP, as these projects advance, that that same overall priority scheme is assessed and adhered to so that we're doing the same balancing that we set forth in the comp plan. Sometimes the shiny new project can bolt to the top, and we just want to make sure you keep it all in context and balance all the equity objectives. Thank you. I urge your support for this. Thank you.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. I'm not challenging the assumption, Commissioner Smith, that we need to increase the mocha. I'm challenging the assumption
 assumption in this document that doing so means speeding up the service. And I'm wondering what kind of polling was done to reach the conclusions that are in this recommendation that is speeding it up. So maybe that's a question for staff, but particularly for TriMet.
 We have had an extended discussion on the division rapid bus service and the East Portland Action Plan withdrew support because of not having enough stops to get people to it. So this document says that transit is the optimal mode for trips that are more than three miles long. For shorter trips, most people can go faster by bike and sometimes even by walking. Well, no.
 I just, having the assumption that one has to walk three miles to get to a rapid bus doesn't seem reasonable to me. So I'm wondering, what is TriMet doing to increase the frequency of the buses? Well, this is part of frequency. Unlocking the network allows more buses to turn and move quicker. So part of HB 17's funding, plus the employer payroll tax combined, plus some of our own internal growth,
 combines for, you'll see over the next number of years, we anticipate growing the bus fleet and the services from approximately 600 buses. It goes up and down as buses retire, but directionally 600 buses to over 900 buses. So you're going to see, as part of HP17, more buses, more frequency, more,
 We'll be looking at hours of service, even extending hours of service, and where, based on the allowed funding, can we remove the barriers to when those buses themselves are running, so whether they sit or they run, the cost is the same. The fixed cost is the same. The variable cost can be based on miles traveled.
 So we want to make those assets work hard. And the more you can turn the buses, the more volume we can compare you, the more, you know, it's like an airline industry, the more seats you can reuse and free up the network. But there are going to be more buses on the streets? Oh, no question. Okay. Literally, we're going to grow by 40%, 50% here in the next number of years. Great. And number of buses which get to all of those things, in addition to adding amenities.
 not just the bus hours and service, to support people wanting to use the service. Thank you. You're welcome. I'm sorry, follow-up. 30% to 40% over what number?
 It'll be about approximately eight years. Very good, thank you. And we haven't completed the HB17 2017 consulting around how fast do people want to go, what does the trajectory of electric buses do, because there's a cost between an existing diesel bus and electrification. That's a premium right now until the marketplace matches itself through technology advancement. So that will come out of the total pool of...
 of the net choices moving to a sustainable bus fleet. Great. And have you developed a strategic plan in terms of how you're going to prioritize the deployment of those new buses? Yes.
 We are in the process of developing that right now, and that's part of the outreach consultation we're doing with the HB 2017 Advisory Committee, plus my own personal community forums that we've been doing as we formulate that plan, which we plan to bring back to the TriMet board through the Advisory Committee and ultimately submit to the OTC, or Oregon Transit Commission, this fall. Great. Thank you. Appreciate it. You're welcome. Mayor. Commissioner Eadley. Yes.
 I just want to raise an issue that I'm concerned with, and that is the impact of gentrification and displacement in areas where we have really excellent...
 mass transit service. And, you know, part of the issue on our roads right now are workers that have been forced out to the edges of the city or outside of the city altogether. There's simply not enough time in the day for them to take public transportation in and out of the central city. So I just hope that we can address that issue as well as we move forward, because it's my feeling or my belief
 hunch that part of why we're not seeing that overall percentage go up is because of this phenomenon?
 Commissioner Udeli, if I may, PSC, of course, is in the middle of residential infill right now. I think it's one of the goals we have discussed is that those additional units are able to create inner neighborhoods, may hopefully be populated by people who would be transit users as opposed to bringing a car with them. Agreed. And it's part of my concern leaving East Portland out of RIP is that we need to achieve greater density in East Portland to support more mass transit. So –
 So many moving parts. You're quite right, Commissioner. There are many moving parts here. And part of what we also need to look at is also north-south travel, east-west travel, not just travel in and out of a central business district. I think the world is changing, travel patterns are changing, and that's part of...
 unlocking not only the frequency through the enhanced transit corridors, but we need to address those other elements as well, which liberate people to be able to move around the city in faster times, not slower times, which chew up into their livability. Absolutely. Thank you. You're welcome. Very good. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Eric Engstrom. I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I think I'm the final invited person to speak. I'm here representing Director Anderson who couldn't make it this afternoon. As was mentioned earlier a few weeks ago, the city's new comprehensive plan took effect as well as your final vote on the accompanying transportation system plan.
 The 2035 plan emphasizes developing complete neighborhoods and organizing growth in centers and corridors that are well served by transit. So transit is key to achieving our goals, particularly goals related to access, mobility, and climate impact. The share of trips by transit, as Commissioner Smith also mentions, needs to more or less double from what it is today, increasing to 25% by 2035.
 And not only do we need to be investing in the continued build out of the more capital intensive aspects of transit like the light rail system, but taking these tactical approaches to our existing bus lines to keep them moving. That's a key element of being able to get us to that goal. And literally without the approaches in the ETC, there's a risk that transit will be stuck in traffic in 2035. And that kind of unravels all these other goals.
 Commissioner Udaly's comment about the relationship to housing, I think the Bureau would absolutely agree that we need to be treating, as we work on transit planning, we need to be treating housing infrastructure as an accompanying infrastructure that goes with that and it will not work otherwise. So I have a question. Eric? Eric?
 For you and Art, I'm interested in the resolution where you call out three of the comprehensive plan goals and policies. The ones that are in here are 9.22 public transportation, 9.24 transit service, and 9.25 transit equity.
 Why did you not call out 9.23, transportation to job centres, which speaks to Commissioner Udali's concern, Policy 9.26, which is about transit funding, including looking at decreasing fees and fares, or Policy 9.27, transit service to centres and corridors?
 I guess I was not involved with writing the resolution, so I'd have to defer to PBOT, but I think those policies are also supportive of this. Yes, so as a planner, and I know that you are too, these are intended all to work together. They're not one, some are more important than others. Is that correct? Correct. Thank you.
 That's a fair comment. I think April, who prepared the resolution, I'm sure really is supportive of all of those policy intentions. As she was picking one she thought were maybe most salient. Yes. So I think I'll turn it over to April, who can talk more about what's specifically in the plan and the recommendations for the regional, and then we can have an ability to answer additional questions. Okay.
 Thank you. So since we were here last year, I believe it was July 13th, that we had a midpoint presentation to you around enhanced transit, I thought it would be good to have a little refresher. So a quick, what is enhanced transit? And we are defining it as...
 improvements that help to increase the capacity, reliability, and transit travel speed through moderate capital and operational investments that are flexible and context-sensitive and can be deployed relatively quickly, and that can include bus or streetcar.
 And that these could come in various shapes and sizes, the projects themselves. It could be a series of hotspots or improvements throughout the network of bus and streetcar lines. Or it could be a series of improvements along a corridor that serves one or multiple bus lines.
 or it could be a full line improvement. So we really want to work from the ground up of understanding where the delay is and the problems are, and then shape projects based on opportunity for funding or where the needs are most, and then scale and right size of project. So I bet our key mantra is capacity, reliability, and quicker buses.
 We developed a capital and operational toolbox of enhanced transit treatments, about 20 tools in there that could be applied on the street and to transit fleets to help make those improvements, and it is included by reference as an appendix to the recommended plan. Just to highlight a few of the tools in our toolbox –
 I have a few slides here. One is a dedicated bus lane, and this, I would say, is a premier treatment where a bus has exclusive use, or any transit has exclusive use of the lane. Our primary example of that is the transit mall on 5th and 6th Avenue, and there are small spots elsewhere in the city where we have some dedicated bus lanes, such as in southeast between Almsy and Milwaukee, southeast Milwaukee.
 Bolt Avenue in addition there but business access and transit lanes another example where it is a shared space with buses having priority to go through but other vehicles are allowed to use that lane to access adjacent properties or make right turns but they couldn't continue through so a blend
 it's still providing transit priority I'd just like to say having the collaboration would really make a difference my office looks out onto the transit mall and it's really sad how many people don't understand or just don't get cued as to which lane they're supposed to be in so I like that a lot
 I agree. And there's many of us who are interested in seeing deploying red treatment in lanes in Portland. I would highlight that it is currently an experimental treatment. And there's a federal study underway now to evaluate that treatment. And some cities have applied to request to experiment and apply the red treatment. So Seattle is an example of that.
 We are, one of the action items in our plan is to recommend applying to participate in that study or start using it once it's approved, if that happens sooner. So we're working with Metro and TriMet to coordinate on an effort to start that application process. Great, thank you. You're welcome.
 Another tool is a pro-time transit lane. We'll talk about those a bit. We actually have one on the street, or a couple on the street. Here is a picture of southeast Madison approaching the Hawthorne Bridge, where it is parking except for during the a.m. peak hours, where it becomes a bus lane, enabling it to pass by the queue of traffic.
 Additionally, there could be queue jumps, so some tools could be used just to really focus on congested intersections at points. Any other questions about the tools and what is enhanced transit before I move on? So then I want to highlight some of the recommendations from the plan.
 We really have a three-pronged implementation strategy. That was to develop a 20-year regional transit vision with a strong enhanced transit component and implementation, as well as to adopt policies and actions to better support transit vision.
 and then strengthen an ongoing monitoring of the frequent lines and transit performance. One, to understand where new problems may arise, but also to track our success as we make improvements to the system.
 So our new vision includes really three elements to the approach. We have been largely focusing on high-capacity transit as well as growing transit, and now we want to really elevate enhanced transit. But this will continue to be a three-prong strategy that we will be working on all three of these fronts.
 Growing transit is really focused on the areas where there's new lines proposed or recently opened, such as on 162nd Avenue, as well as lines that are less than frequent today but plan for frequent service.
 and what can we do to make sure that we're removing barriers in the transportation system to make it safer and easier to access the transit as TriMet then also increases frequency on those lines to get to frequent.
 And then enhanced transit is more that focus on the already frequent lines or planned frequent and focusing on that reliability and speed. And then high capacity being, of course, the largest carrying vehicles and going the longest distance and the greatest amount of exclusive right-of-way.
 We see all of these investments working in a virtuous upward spiral and that we may even do them together, both rowing transit and improving access and safety, as well as addressing transit reliability and speed. And depending on where a particular spot or line with the needs are, we want to tailor our solutions, our diagnosis solutions, to the right mix of those. So some may have more of an emphasis on,
 On the reliability side, some may have more emphasis on the access and safety side. But we'll be working on both. Just reinforcing, our enhanced transit corridors are building primarily on the existing and planned frequent service network. But there are other needs in the system we also will address.
 Through this planning process, we've identified an initial network of enhanced transit corridors through an evaluation process using criteria to identify where is it most needed now and the most potential. We use criteria including equity, future growth,
 and transit ridership today, as well as understanding transit performance, so where is transit being slowed down, and scored on each of those criteria, and this is the total. We then use this to help us prioritize which projects are needed sooner for recommending to be added to the regional transportation plan, as well as the transportation system plan in future updates.
 We then incorporated this enhanced transit network into a broader vision for transit, and this is what we're sharing as our new vision for transit in Portland that includes growing transit, enhanced transit, and high-capacity transit improvements. And this is coordinated with TriMet as well. And other things to highlight, it does include the need for addressing transit on Powell Boulevard through a future refinement plan.
 as well as addressing some key bottlenecks, particularly through the central city, with hopefully a future regional connector.
 We then took those projects that formed the vision and have recommended timeframes for inclusion in the regional transportation plan. The ultimate timeframes for how these may be integrated into the transportation system plan may indeed rely upon that process for updating the TSP and the criteria that Chris Smith references in terms of TSP prioritization.
 Then the other element is a policy and actions to better support transit. And so I'll highlight a few things from our recommendations chapter, but there are certainly more. One, the focus on longer trips, particularly transit trips as being the preferred mode for trips over three miles. This is not to say that we also, that people will also take transit that are less than three miles. Absolutely indeed. We know that to be the case.
 But the focus on having the longer trips is
 how can we make transit more competitive with the automobile and driving so that it becomes a reasonable and logical choice and more competitive. In addition, it's thinking of, as we understand, people are living further from their jobs and the current affordability crises that we are in,
 some people are taking longer trips than they were and that there's an equity component to making sure that they can get to, make those longer trips in a quicker time frame. The challenge with that, April, is that you've got to get to the longer trip. And so if we focus on the longer trips without concurrently
 the connector rides, people are still not going to take, to get to the longer trip, because you're not going to walk three miles to get to it. I think it could be very clear, this isn't emphasizing that someone would walk that far to access transit, this is making sure that for a longer trip it is competitive, we're making it fast enough. So the coverage-wise, someone would still be walking a half mile or less in terms of our target for transit network coverage. Well, it's unfortunate that both the numbers are three miles, because that's,
 Both are in your report. But the challenge is many people might not be able to find housing that's on the direct line. So they may well be connecting to it. And so there has to be convenient access to it. And so I'm just concerned about only focusing on the longer trips without recognizing that many people are going to be changing buses.
 I completely agree, and we should unpack this more indeed. So we know that people are transferring as well, and so as Doug Kelsey was also referencing, they're going to be increasing service. They know the need for north-south improving service. And the more frequency we can get both on those frequent service lines as well as the other connector lines,
 the quicker people can make those transfers and the more reliable we can make these trips where there's lines that are having delays. People can better make those transfers and not miss their transfer points. So we think that overall, by increasing the frequency across that whole network of transit lines, that we will improve people's overall access.
 Now, on the walking trip, there may be spots where there's less stops, but they're likely only walking a couple blocks at most, more in those circumstances. But we're hoping to build out a grid of bus lines that provide overall access to more places. And was there any polling done to find out what bus riders actually wanted? No.
 Yes. I can speak to the Division Transit project. There certainly were surveys and bus rider outreach directly to the bus riders on the lines. But TriMet also conducts broader surveys. And through that, having buses that were faster and more reliable did score high in the responses. And we can invite someone from TriMet if we want to hear more robustly about that.
 But I mean, a very clear message. Yeah, you know, transit is my preferred mode, which is why I'm waiting in a lot here, because I feel like I actually know about this. From a rider's perspective, I know what entices me to use my car versus riding it on weekends. The bus just doesn't go often enough or late enough, those kinds of things. And for all, you know, having ridden transit for the last 10 years to and from work, nobody
 outreach has ever been done on the bus or elsewhere, would you like to take a survey? I've got the annual pass. Nobody's ever asked me if I'd like to take a survey. So it just seems like there could be more data gathering as we move forward so that we're not making assumptions like I think we did in division, that people would be willing to walk those extra two blocks, whereas in fact when it push came to shove, the community said no, I don't
 would prefer to be able to get on closer to where I'm getting out of my shelter. One thing that we have heard through multiple processes is that for an individual, kind of wherever you live, you're making choices based on what's most efficient for you and what's the fastest choice at that time. And so part of the intention of laying this out this way is being really clear that unless we make transit competitive with driving, someone's going to choose to drive. If it takes 20 minutes to drive and it takes an hour to take transit,
 Your choice is very clear. And so the priority for making transit a fast and efficient choice is trying to really appeal to people's daily choices about how they might navigate the city. And I would be happy to follow up, too, with more of some of the survey findings that could help inform it. Thank you.
 So moving on to the other points here, we also are making the case that we need to make space and time for transit in the right-of-way and prioritizing that for better transit performance. And so that would mean reallocating space from other things such as on-street parking or motor vehicle capacity. But that is indeed a part of the recommendations. Okay.
 We also are looking to integrate enhanced transit tools and treatments into our design guides, our capital projects, and our development review requirements, our performance measures,
 This is really about changing the way we do business and acknowledging that transit performance is a part of something that we do and how can we integrate that into our business practices and transportation projects. That it's not just a standalone project over here where we do enhanced transit, but it's a part of the way we do business.
 We are also recommending more future funding to help support enhanced transit and several points around forging a deeper partnership with TriMet.
 Could we possibly expand, Dee, because we do have policy 9.26 about transit funding that says consider funding strategies and partnership opportunities that improve access to and equity in transit service, such as raising metro-wide funding to improve service and decrease user fees and fares. What we found with YouthPass is that when you don't have the barrier of however much it costs to buy the ticket, lo and behold, people...
 ride transit more. The young people told us they did. Their surveys showed they did. Along with not wanting to stand up for a three-mile trip or five-mile trip, there's also the issue of can I afford that? Although
 Studies show that it's actually more expensive to own a vehicle. In the moment, if your gas tank happens to be full and you don't have five bucks to put in the fare slot, it's, again, maybe more likely that you're going to get your car out rather than taking a bus ride. So I do think that that's part of and has to be part of it. And I realize that this is just one aspect to the whole how are we going to support transit. I just...
 Every time you bring it here, I'm going to probably say the same things over and over again because I do think that there's multiple ways that we need to do, even as we're looking at enhanced transit. To make it more affordable for riders. Yeah. Understood. Thank you. And I would give a shout-out to our regional transit strategy. That is a part of the vision at the regional level, is including making transit more affordable. Thank you.
 And our third-prong strategy is ongoing monitoring of transit performance. And so we have developed a framework and recommendations for how to launch our ongoing program for monitoring transit, looking at the frequent service network and streetcar lines, and looking for how establishing thresholds and performance measures and having that guide future improvements and how we partner with TriMet.
 In concept, the idea is that we want to monitor lines and intercept them as we see decline in their speed and reliability, and have the thresholds in place that will be triggers for us to talk and take action, and then make those improvements and continue to evaluate how they perform.
 I'll highlight one of our performance measures that will be our first tier performance, and that's transit peak delay, which is how much transit and all the people on it slows during the peak congested time of the day and establishing some thresholds that will be those triggers for us to take a closer look at.
 and calling those out that if we have over 75% delay variation between the peak and the off-peak, that those are urgent priorities to take action on.
 If it's 50 to 75, that's also where we want to be taking action. If it's below 50, we're saying that could be acceptable and that there's going to be delay during congested times, but that we may take a closer look if there is some other cause for concern. But really, to summarize, if it takes over 50% longer to take a trip during the peak...
 we're saying that we should intervene and try to do something. And then I wanted to shift over to the how. We have already begun implementation, but we're starting to think through a framework. And we wanna acknowledge that doing this is challenging, it's gonna come with trade-offs.
 But we have some policy to guide us. The Transportation Strategy for People movement provides policy support for prioritizing transit over single occupant vehicles. And our ETC plan provides tools for where and how to achieve that. The plan really starts by showing us where the need is the greatest, where we most need to get started.
 So this policy can help guide us as we start to evaluate the benefits, impacts, and make tradeoffs. We know that we'll need to reallocate space and time in the street in a manner that is guided by policy. So in addition to the transportation system plan, we also have our Vision Zero and Complete Streets policies to consider.
 We want to be informed by data and grounded in that and sensitive to context and consider efficient use of the space so it's not a one-size-fits-all solution. April, could I ask you to go back to the triangle? Yes. Where do people using wheelchairs fit into that triangle? I'm assuming it's walking? Yes, walking. Okay. Okay.
 There are a variety of ways through once we have identified projects, through which we can start to deliver them. And whether those are the ones we've already identified or ones we identify in the future. We have a transit spot and priority, transit priority spot improvement program that is one of our ten transportation system plan program areas. We are already implementing projects through that and we will continue to do so.
 And in addition, some projects may be delivered as standalone major capital improvements that are delivered by the city, or they could be in partnership with Metro TriMet.
 On the far end, there may be some projects that come out of this process eventually that warrant federal funding, similar to say the division transit project. But we're really looking at that whole spectrum of how can we implement projects and be agile as well as make larger moves. We are also looking for opportunities to integrate, as I said earlier, how can we integrate this into the projects we already have going or projects coming up.
 I wanted to share some examples of some early implementation, highlighting from our spot improvement program. We have made an improvement along the Line 12 on Northeast Sandy inbound from 74th to 72nd, approaching the signal there where we added parking restrictions and allowed the bus to use the right turn to get around the queue to go through the intersection. Okay.
 similar treatment on the line 14 on Southeast 50th approaching Powell where we had some parking removal to allow the bus to get around the queue and use the right turn. On Morrison, where we already have a pro-time lane, we've enhanced that to also include a protected bike lane, and we will continue to look at ways to improve that.
 On Burns side, during construction, we initiated a business access and transit queue jump lane for the buses to get around the traffic approaching the bridge. And we are planning to leave this improvement in place and, again, looking for opportunities to provide additional transit priority services.
 Coming soon this year in 2018, we have a project working with Streetcar, which will benefit Streetcar and the bus line 6. It's a business accident transit lane on Grand approaching Burnside and then to Northeast Everett, the I-84 on-ramp. And this will help the transit get through the congestion there.
 And then another way in which we want to advance implementation, we're very excited to participate in the regional ETC pilot program led by Metro and their team.
 This is an opportunity for us to take some of these locations where we know there is need from a fat line and concept level to further evaluate and develop projects and identify promising projects where we can then take to full design and construct. We want to identify projects we can construct within two years and fund those as well as develop a pipeline.
 of projects that we could seek future funding for. This will help us put a sharper pencil to those on that. So this is highlighting the locations that we are submitting to Metro for consideration outside the central city and inside there, and those are Exhibit B attached to the resolution. Can I stop you for a minute? Yeah. Eagle Council, do I need to take a recess while Commissioner Daly is out of the room? Let's just take a two-minute breather. I don't mind.
 I'll back up and can study the exhibits. Folks who are going to testify, I believe we have quite a few people testifying. We have a very full agenda this afternoon, so think two and a half minutes in terms of testimony time. And I will highlight that these are my last couple slides, so we're near the end of the presentation. Thank you.
 Go ahead. Okay, thank you. So really, my last two slides are focused on Exhibit B, which is in the packet, the council documents of the locations that we're submitting to Metro, both outside the central city on this slide and within the central city on this slide. Okay.
 We will be looking for opportunities to advance some of these projects underway, including the Central City in Motion. So the projects that advance through the planning effort led by our project manager, Gabe Graff, has its own publication.
 public engagement process as well. We hope to come back to you this fall with recommendations on prior projects to advance in the central city, including hopefully some of these lines on this map, as well as more information about what we might be able to do.
 And then in terms of that timeline, we are looking to do project development and advance to 15% design by the end of the year on a select number of these, and then complete design on a set where we can commit funding to.
 So we'll be back sometime in 2019 with a recommended projects of which ones to advance past 30% design and to commit funding to. So this process will help us narrow down which are those ones that we can build in the two years and with what funding. And we come back with an IGA that we would execute with your support. And what kinds of funding sources would be used? Sure.
 We have a number of projects could be eligible for transportation system development charges. In addition, we have some funding for the Central City in Motion project already, including regional funds.
 122nd Avenue is another example where we have fixing our streets funds, roughly 2 million, and enhanced transit could be incorporated into that project and also could be eligible for system development charges. Our transit priority spot improvement program could also be a source and we'll look for others. Great, thank you.
 Thank you. And just ending on the slide again, our recommendation for council action today. Thank you very much. Very good. Thank you for your presentation. We appreciate it. Public testimony. How many people do we have signed up? Carla?
 12, possibly 15. Okay, so why don't we do two and a half minutes for either 12 or possibly 15 folks. So the microphones slide around. When you have 30 seconds left, you'll see a yellow light come on. When the red light comes on, that means stop. Your time is up. Don't make me be my cop. Thank you.
 Name for the record. We don't need your address. We do need to know if you're a lobbyist. Thank you. So it is 15. I've got a clarification. Very good. Thank you. So the first three are Terry Parker, Kim Marks, and Joe Rowe. They'll be followed by Rena Jimerson, Doug Allen, and Ashley Henry. Thank you.
 Terry, you want to kick us off today, please? Yes, sir. My name is Terry Parker. I'm a fourth-generation Portlander. Over the next 20 years, car trips in the Portland metro area are expected to increase by 49 percent, regardless of how much mass transit service is added. Per TriMet's latest survey, congestion road maintenance and the need to increase roadway capacity was among the top priorities not directly related to transit.
 Only homeless and housing issues scored higher. PBOT, however, has been reducing motor vehicle capacity with road diets and street design changes that create more congestion, which in turn leads to engines idling and running longer and thereby increasing fuel consumption and emissions.
 Many of the tools in the ETC plan will not fit within already constrained right-of-ways without doing more of the same, and or removing on-street parking that locally owned small and minority businesses rely on, even adding curb extensions that allow buses to obstruct other traffic and travel lanes when stopping for passengers add congestion. I call this artificial congestion.
 With the high volume of traffic, Sandy Boulevard is a major traffic street, a freight route, an identified ETC transit corridor, and a high crash corridor. The Rose City Park Neighborhood Association has twice voted to retain two full motor vehicle lanes in each direction on Sandy, along with retaining on-street parking. Also suggested is the development of alternative bicycle routes. The loss of either travel lanes or on-street parking would have a negative liability impact on the neighborhood.
 One two-axle bus does as much damage to the streets and roads as 1,200 cars. Transit fares only cover 25% of the operating costs. Instead of attempting to dictate how people travel and just representing the alternative mode users that don't pay their share of infrastructure costs,
 When will the City Council put reality over fantasy, demonstrate transparency with motorist-inclusive committees, consider the results of the TriMet survey, and start equitably representing drivers who are the primary financial stakeholders that actually pay the taxes and fees that fund the majority of TSP projects?
 When will City Hall see the light and make room for more cars, which includes requiring adequate off-street parking for all new residential development? The most efficient way to jointly speed up transit service and reduce congestion at the same time is to straightforwardly make entire streets and corridors flow better. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Is this working? Yes, sir. I would like to ask for a few extra seconds as an accommodation while I read my statement. My name is Cal Marks. I'm with the Rosewood Initiative, and I am a paid lobbyist. With all due respect to the hardworking people who worked on this plan, it will not achieve the goals or the desired outcomes. The reason is simple.
 I do not believe there will be the political will to find the funding or support the transformative changes needed on these corridors. Thus, all that will happen will be tinkering along the edges that will not have any long-term discernible impacts on either congestion or on bus service as more cars fill the streets along with the buses.
 When the issue previously came up before this council last year, I provide a testimony regarding one of the tools identified in this plan, and that is consolidation of bus stops. I still have these concerns, especially given the division transit prospect and its devolving nature.
 The executive summary almost a whole page is dedicated to stop consolidation. Nothing close to that is spent on dedicated bus lanes, so it is not hard to see where the bias is. In the name of optimal systems efficiency, a lot of people will be required to walk further.
 and not just a block or two, as the author of the summary suggests.
 The need for good grid is included as almost an afterthought. I want to remind you all of a few facts. Significant portions of this city do not have a good grid system. In addition to not having a grid, the streets in much of this city do not have sidewalks.
 Drainage is nonexistent on these streets. Adequate lighting is a dream. These are the conditions people have to walk to just to get to the street with a bus before they have to walk, quote unquote, an extra block. When they get to there, they will probably find an overcrowded bus system. I'm just going to cut to the chase and not read the rest of this, if you'd give me a second.
 There's going to be a lot of people, especially in East Portland, that are going to lose bus stops. Division Transit, we lost 50%. And if you look at how they're trying to design or redesign those stops, they're not even platforms anymore. They're talking about people walking into the street across a bus or a bike lane just to borrow the street. So frankly,
 This plan isn't worth the paper it's worth. It was written on. I'm sorry. This is very emotional for me because I am a bus user, and I'm going to be living with people and using a system that you're targeting or Trinet's targeting to eliminate stops and create very unsafe situations for people. Thank you. Very good. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. And as you discerned, about six inches is about the right distance. These are very sensitive microphones. Good afternoon, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fritz, and Mayor Wheeler. Thanks for your time. This is a very hard decision to make, and Commissioner Fritz, I really sometimes don't understand your statements, but the one I did clearly understand, which is I think 90% of our residents would agree
 keep their cars in their garage. I'm a cyclist and a bus owner, sorry, a car owner and a bus rider, but 90% of us, I think, share your vision of we would rather leave the car in the garage or not even own a car if the buses got us to work at an equitable time, equitable to a car commute. So here is my speech. I urge the council to commute only by bus for a month. Same for all city and state staff and most tri-met facilities
 including the board, talk to people on the bus and drive. So while you're on that bus, talk to people and ask them, do you drive, do you bus? Those are the people who are going to guide your decisions as city council members. I observe that when I'm on the number four bus, it's trapped behind cars for about 40% to 80% of that travel time.
 That 45-minute map on page 6 doesn't show the damage of people driving alone and blocking buses. I think the elephant in the room is that we have to admit the problem in Portland is people driving alone. Those people are nice people. I do it sometimes. But we're forced into that situation. It's your job as a leader to force them out of that situation. Coroner ship is a $9,000 burden on low-income people. That's data I've researched from universities today.
 How's that for some moving parts, right? Cities care about equity, and they liberate low-income people by investing in transit, by keeping cars from blocking a bus with 50 people. If you really care about equity, you need to make these hard decisions. Also, the city in TriMet can't keep blaming Salem for a lack of money. It's what you do with the dollars that you have. I'm running low on time. Other cities are very aggressive on public transit. Portland is a passive coma state.
 Seattle has grown to 25% of trips by bus. New York has drastically reduced their deaths. You need to take bold action on policy and budget, and you're doing neither. You're not taking bold action on budget. The budget for the ETC, when I went to a meeting last year, they wouldn't tell me until I begged them. $75,000 a year for the first year. That's pitiful.
 We need you to take bold action with budget and policy. Many of these things are free. You just need to make the hard decisions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, all three of you. Next three, please. Are Rena Jimerson, Doug Allen, and Ashley Henry, and they'll be followed by Bradley Bondy, Brad Baker, and Jillian Detweiler. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. We only had three people. We've already heard completely diametrically opposed testimony. Help save us.
 My name is Rena Jemerson, and I work for the Central East Side Industrial Council and the TPAC Advisory Committee, Transportation and Parking Advisory Committee Program Manager. The Central East Side and its surroundings is currently the most dynamic and evolving part of Portland's central city. Over the past decade, the Central East Side has been an economic development success story, playing an important role in the city's economic and job growth.
 The Central Eastside is home to more than 1,400 businesses and 17,000 jobs, more than any other district in the downtown core. Industrial use, largely family-wage jobs, and creative businesses sit side by side. While the scale and types of businesses are rapidly evolving, the Central Eastside remains an important center for Portland's manufacturing sector.
 Just two important examples include France Bakery and Produce Row with Pacific Coast Fruit that moves 4 million pounds of produce and 100,000 packages a week into and out of the Central East Side. The company's 60-plus trucks load and unload products 24 hours a day, serving places as far away as Victoria and Vancouver, B.C., but as close as Fred Meyer's stores locally.
 An industrial district thrives or dies depending on how well it is served by freight. And in Central Eastside Industrial District, nearly every business in the district receives raw materials and ships their products by freight. But just as the first page of the Enhanced Transit Corridor Plan says, we have to get better at sharing the space that we have.
 So that's why the Central East Side Industrial Council, as well as the Portland Freight Committee, Pia Welsh is sitting here as well, have agreed to ask Council and the report to recognize our request that dedicated bus lanes that are a large part of the plan also allow for freight transportation.
 While we agree with improved transit, the reason we're asking for this is through our many conversations, it's clear to us that the enhanced transit corridor plan will narrow certain streets, which would hinder freight transportation and the use of dedicated lanes for freight would be much easier.
 Also, during non-peak hours where there are fewer buses in these lanes, freight would travel more efficiently, which should have an impact on the congestion. And lastly, we have witnessed many businesses move out of the district because of roads and lanes that are too narrow. So we truly believe that this is vital. That's an interesting idea. So I have a question for you. In this context, how are you defining freight? Well, like I said, everything... I assume you don't mean all trucks.
 Well, it could be trucks. It could be small vans. I mean, like I said, the way they're divided here, small vans, box trucks, flatbeds, semi-trailer trucks. All we're asking is that they share the lane. You know, like I know that they do speak of exclusivity for bus, but I do think it would help, particularly in the Central East Side, if they could share that lane. That's an interesting question. Yeah, good. Thank you. Commissioner Udali, did you have a comment? No.
 No, I was just kind of listening in. I do think it's interesting. I'm just kind of thinking ahead, you know, whether that would require a permit, whether we would allow them just on specific roads, ways that are most vital, you know, connectors to the Central East Side.
 Thank you. Thanks. Interesting idea. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Ashley Henry. I'm the Chief Collaboration Officer for Business for a Better Portland. And I'm here today on behalf of about 50 members of ours who signed on to a letter that I shared with the clerk that goes into more depth about our support for enhanced transit corridors.
 It shares a simple message that our city's economic health requires a dependable transit system and that that system desperately needs our help.
 As our city's population has grown, people riding the bus to work have become subject to ever-increasing commute times, wasting hours each week unnecessarily stuck in traffic. If we're serious about supporting business, reducing pollution, and creating economic opportunity for all, it's critical that we free the city's buses from traffic gridlock.
 For a model of how we can transform our transportation network, we should look to Seattle. Over the past decade, Seattle has seen the country's largest increase in bus ridership. In 2016 alone, ridership grew by 4.1%, double that of any other city.
 So what is Seattle's secret? It's inexpensive, targeted improvements to fix bottlenecks, resulting in streamlined service that is fast, efficient, and reliable. They have succeeded in creating a bus service that scales with population growth. Meanwhile, here in Portland, bus service has gotten worse as we've grown. Despite carrying far more passengers, our buses are stuck in traffic alongside personal vehicles and rideshare services.
 As a result, bus service has particularly degraded along arterial roads carrying commuters from East Portland and other neighborhoods far from our urban core. Thankfully, you have a plan in front of you to significantly improve service without huge increases in spending.
 The Enhanced Transit Corridor's plan will make targeted fixes to improve service on some of the city's most critical bus lines. The plan is smart, and it's tailoring its solutions for different locations.
 As business owners and employers, we recognize that a dependable transit network is key to ensuring that our employees, customers, and families can get around without losing time stuck in traffic. It's also important that freight is able to move freely and trucks are easily able to access areas to load and unload in the central city. Thankfully, PBOT has actively engaged with the region's freight industry as they develop this plan and are still having those conversations.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners, my name is Doug Allen. I want to thank the City of Portland for taking on a leadership role in attempting to reverse TriMet's declining ridership. And I want to emphasize that the ridership in absolute terms is declining, which TriMet clearly shows on their website year over year for at least the past five years, and it's been pretty flat for the last decade.
 and I think the enhanced transitor corridors program is an excellent start in reversing this trend, but perhaps equally important, it's provided leadership for working on a regional program, so I want to congratulate the city for doing this. I have a couple of suggestions for improving the program, and I also want to say that having followed this program, I believe that already a number of suggestions that have been contributed have been followed. I've seen the program...
 as I see it, change from oriented towards hiring consulting firms to do projects on long stretches of streets to something that's more embedded within PBOT, particularly the spot improvement program is great. And I think it would be great if you renamed it Enhancing Transit Movement or something similar rather than corridors. I think corridors reflects a mistaken idea about how transit should work.
 Because effective transit is not linear or one-dimensional. It must serve origins and destinations throughout a two-dimensional surface region. Amongst other suggestions I'd make, I think really it should be concentrated on trips under five miles rather than trips over three miles.
 Trips over five miles are probably better handled on transit waste system, light rail, and whatever we come up with in the future to improve our light rail network. And also, I think the Division Transit Corridor is an example of something that was unfortunate that came before the Enhanced Transit Corridors Project. So as Kim Marks has mentioned, they've removed them.
 Unfortunately, too many stops from the plan. But overall, I'd like to see this project move forward and continue to improve. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three, please. Are Bradley Bondy, Brad Baker, and Jillian Detweiler. And they'll be followed by David Bouchard, Orlando Lopez, and Keith Schultz.
 Good afternoon. Hi. I'm Brad Baker. I'll be brief. I ask that you please adopt the plan before you.
 Additionally, I ask that you please, with the corridors that were outlined that are experiencing great delays during peak hours, move forward with minimal outreach. You're going to, of course, hear a lot of crying about the changes. Incumbents, the folks who currently drive along those routes, people who use it now, are going to complain, obviously.
 But once it goes into effect, it will make the system better. And yeah, I just ask that you rely on the experts who have done the analysis and can see the system as a whole rather than individuals who are focused on their own individual personal situation. And then finally, I'll just say, to your point with people standing, this is a great solution. It is a pain to ride the bus sometimes when you have to stand up for a mile ride and you're stopping and it's a workout. So...
 By allowing the buses to move quickly, you can address that. So thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Bradley Bondy. Is this a good distance here? Yeah, that's great. Thanks. When I heard about the ETC plan, I was very excited about it because as a transit rider, I know how slow buses have become. However, this plan is not what I hoped it would become. It's too timid.
 As currently written, this plan focuses too much on traffic impacts, parking studies, and the need for a public process around anything that might inconvenience drivers. Unless this changes, this plan will not accomplish a significant improvement to transit, I don't think.
 This plan into what the city really needs. I ask that you have PBOT prioritize bus lanes whenever a bus line fails to meet the metrics contained within the plan. So if a bus line is failing and the road has two or more redundant traffic lanes in the same direction, or if there is parking, some of that should be reallocated towards bus lanes as a matter of policy.
 so I ask that you guys be bold and make the hard decisions to make the transit in the city what it needs to be
 Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jillian Detweiler. I'm the Executive Director of the Street Trust, and I am registered as a lobbyist. Thank you. The Street Trust urges the adoption of this plan. The plan documents the need for transit priority. The loss of job access for people alone is compelling. The plan identifies tools that are available to expedite transit service. There are many. There is money available.
 There is money at Metro. There is money at TriMet, both new money through HB 2017 and cost savings. The plan documents that $1 million to $2 million a year are being wasted just trying to maintain current headways as buses are stuck in traffic. But this plan overstates the difficulty of implementing these measures.
 If you're committed to mitigating displacement, to expanding economic opportunity to low-income people, and to making growth tolerable, you must get buses out of traffic. And the Street Trust is eager to be a partner with the city and TriMet to elevate the voices of bus riders who are stuck in traffic and need relief.
 We stand ready to help work out the details where there may be a conflict between bus service and bikes. We don't want this effort to be like sitting on the number 12 bus on the Burnside Bridge. Everybody knows where we want to go, and we don't know when we will get there. We do urge you to amend the resolution, to have a date certain for PBOT to come back with a plan. April showed a schedule.
 It was heartening that there is a schedule, but we think that this IGA with TriMet should be back here maybe by January 30th, and that we should be providing relief to bus drivers by this time next year. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three, please. Our David Bouchard, Orlando Lopez, and Keith Scholes. And then the last three I showed sign up are Alan Kessler, Tony Jordan.
 And Ariel Hines. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. So my name is David Bouchard. I am the chair of the Bus Riders Unite Research and Advisory Committee and am also a member of its steering committee.
 And I'm here before you today to express preliminary support for the plan as it moves forward. I believe it is a step in the right direction. There does need to be more work done to prioritize bus movements in dedicated lanes and to avoid—
 the removal of bus stops. I actually just, you know, personal story. I had my appendix removed last week and, um, as I recover, uh, very well, I have to walk slower. Uh, so I end up taking the bus a little bit more, uh, I use it a little bit more heavily than I already do. And I use it a lot as it is. So I can appreciate the, the need to have bus stops close by to, uh,
 because you never know when you might need that. So I'm just putting that out there. And another thing to think about as this conversation
 you know, plan moves forward and how you're going to fund it. Chicago has done something really interesting, and that city has instituted a tax on ride-sharing services that will pay for transit improvements. So that is something that I really think that the council should look at in the future is how to –
 get the most out of the ride sharing services that are here and to ensure that they pay their fair share for, you know, mitigating the congestion and also to induce more transit demand by continuing to make ride sharing services and other services which rely on use of an automobile more expensive and harder so that we, in conjunction with increased transit service, of course.
 So that's really what I have to say around that, and good first step. Let's make bigger steps in the future. Thank you. Appreciate it. Okay. Hello. My name is Keith Schultz, and I've been a resident of the Portland area for over 40 years. I'm a transit-dependent disabled senior who purposely lives on one of the major bus lines. This makes it easier to do the volunteer work I spend my time with.
 Most of my work involves transportation with Bus Riders Unite and housing with Community Alliance of Tenants. Both of these issues are intricately connected. Uber and Lyft are ride-sharing services which claim to reduce congestion when actually the opposite is true. These services take riders off mass transit and taxi services.
 Uber and Lyft should be paying their fair share, considering the amount of congestion they are adding to our streets. I can't tell you how many times the number 4, number 9, and number 72 have been running late because of traffic. This has caused me to arrive late to several doctors and other appointments, and I hate getting there late. Reducing transit stops also is a false...
 solution. It would negatively impact the elderly and disabled folks. And we need to invest more on street improvements and traffic signals that prioritize buses. And these additional vehicles on the road have also been adding to our air quality problems by emitting more carbon and other toxic pollutants.
 Let's meet our climate goals together by investing more on our public transportation system. Thank you. Thanks all three. Oh, I'm sorry, you have yet to testify. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Hernando Lopez, and I am a community organizer with Opal Environmental Justice and Bus Riders Unite. And we are here to show our support for the enhanced transit corridors, as long as we prioritize bus lanes and not the consolidation of bus stops.
 My job is to talk to folks on our transit system and how we can work together to make our transit system better. It was our group that pressured TriMet to create a low-income fare, and the fruits of our labor will be realized on July 2nd when the program goes live.
 This victory is part of a larger vision that Opal and Bus Riders Unite has to increase ridership in our region. For the past few years, we have seen a decline in tri-met ridership, which is due to a number of issues, such as gentrification, people being pushed from transit-rich neighborhoods, safety and security, hours of service, frequency, and reliability.
 The numbers that you saw earlier today on the graph that ridership was steady, that only covered up to 2015. But between 2015 and 2017, TriMet has lost 3 million rides and the numbers for 2018 are not looking good. So most of these issues are issues that TriMet can address, but prioritizing buses in areas of the City of Portland must show great leadership in.
 As more and more people move into our region and ODOT moves towards toning our highways, congestion will be moving into our streets and delaying our buses further.
 Where we differ from the recommendations of the Enhanced Transit Corridor proposal is the funding. Adding these projects onto the regional transportation plan to wait for funding may take years. The City of Portland should consider what other cities are doing to fund their programs, increasing fees or taxes on transportation network companies such as Uber and Lyft. Currently, Portland charges $0.50 per each ride that a driver gives, and last year Portland collected roughly about $6.5 million, which is about 13 million rides.
 Chicago, Philadelphia, New York City, and the state of Massachusetts, among others, have taken steps to ensure TNCs are paying their fair share.
 The city should not be giving discounted rides to Uber and Lyft users. As Lyft, because that's, I don't know if you all remember me, but I was here the last time. As a Lyft driver, folks who typically take rides during those times are people of means. It's not low-income people. So if you do an equity report about who is getting those discounts, it will show you that it's not low-income people getting those discounts.
 Studies by Northeastern University, Boston, Shaler Consulting and Metropolitan Area Planning Council and others will show you that Uber, Lyft are also adding to congestion. So they need to pay their fair share. That is all, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, all three of you. Next three please, Carla. The last three are Ariel Hines, Alan Kessler and Tony Jordan. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hello commissioners, my name's Tony Jordan.
 You may remember me, I was here last week on my birthday to testify in favor of... You look a little old. Yes, in favor of parking management. And unfortunately, I understand that that item has been pulled from its vote today, largely, I believe, due to concerns about access to lower-income people to the downtown and commercial corridors. So I found it appropriate to come today and say that...
 If we're truly concerned about access for people to downtown and the rest of our city, enhanced transit corridors, particularly bus priority lanes, are the way to actually do that. So I encourage and, in fact, expect that.
 that any commissioner who is truly concerned about access to our city for people will take the lead on strengthening this proposal and making sure that it gets funded so that we get these bus lanes. Because we can't spend our money on roads and parking garages. Transit is the solution to equitable and sustainable and safe city for people to get around.
 Following the bus lane project's recommendations of automatically triggering rededication of road space and parking space to bus lanes when quality of service degrades, it's critical if we're going to really do this. And I think this is, you know, spend the money on this. And I also find it ironic that just the – we don't – I feel like we don't look –
 at things holistically. I'm involved in this. I'm involved in parking. I'm involved in housing and infill. And it's interesting that I find that because these projects are proceeding at different paces, they're used as almost arguments to hold each other up. Oh, we can't, you know, we can't,
 increase the bus traffic. We can't prioritize the bus traffic because people can't live near the bus. But we can't build more infill because that will lead to more traffic. These solutions work together. If we were, for example, using performance pricing in corridors in downtown, that money would be used to
 subsidize transit passes. That money could be used to improve bus stops and to fund some of these projects included in this plan. So I just encourage you to really strengthen this, be bold, commit the money to mass transit because it's really our only way out of the messes that we're in right now. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Alan Kessler. I'm here with the Portland Bus Lane Project to support the enhanced transit corridor and to ask you to go a little bit further.
 We want to thank PBOT and we want to thank the city so much for the change we've seen over the last year in the consciousness about the importance of making transit work. We think that the plan is excellent. We are especially interested in the dedicated space, the queue jumps, the dedicated bus lanes that will make the system work better. We also share some of the concerns that you've heard and mentioned today.
 Going a little bit off script here, the Division Transit corridor has been a disaster. That's what a corridor process takes. Let's gentrify the area. Let's give it nice facilities. Let's do everything at once. And in the end, the numbers didn't play out, and it's actually going to slow down the corridor. That's not the right way to do it.
 Our allies at Opal, I think, have the right idea. We need to start with the hard things. We need to start with the dedicated bus lanes. We need to start with the Q-jumps. And we need to do those where the data says that it will free up, free buses out of congestion. As the report says, TriMet is spending a couple million dollars a year to just keep service the same because of all the cars in the way. And as soon as you get those cars out of the way, you free up that money to increase frequency.
 Commissioner Fritz's point of having to stand I live on the four so my experience may be a little bit different but I frequently see when I ride the bus and when it's congested the first bus I see will be packed to the gills and then one or two empty buses will be stacked just a minute or two behind them and that comes from the congestion from the lack of reliability so if we find all of those friction points
 and we start to ease them. The buses space out. They don't stack. They become more regular. And a great way to measure that is the variable speed difference between a segment. Like Commissioner Fritz, we are not that interested in speeding up the buses so much as increasing reliability and making the experience better for users so that you know that you're going to get where you're going, you know you're going to get there in a reasonable amount of time.
 So we would like you to do those two things listed in our letter. We would like you to amend this to direct PBOT that where there is a redundant car lane or where there is parking and we're in either that 75% or that 50% urgent zone that we need to fix it, we automatically dedicate that space. We don't need any public process to get there. We just need to do it as a matter of policy. Thank you.
 All right, colleagues. Thank you both. That concludes public testimony on this item. Do we want to bring staff back? If you have follow-up questions, are you ready to go? I think we're good to go. You can sit there while we take the vote. That's fine. Carla, please call the roll. You daily. So this is an interesting, challenging conversation for late in the day.
 Portland is at this, what I'm going to call an awkward phase, where we've had this massive increase in population, accompanying congestion on our streets, a transit system that has not kept up with the demand, and TNCs that have perhaps been able to swoop in and grab some of those customers that would otherwise be taking mass transit. I generally support this plan. I want to thank...
 bus lane project for bringing their concerns, Business for Better Portland and the Central East Side. I think you've all brought up really relevant points. My
 primary concern with this as is, is around accessibility for people experiencing mobility challenges. Adding another block or two of walking to these trips each way can be a hardship. And so I would really want to see a commitment to us using all the tools we have available. And I'll say, I somewhat agree with Bethlehem Project that
 more public engagement is not necessarily going to result in a better plan for certain aspects of this.
 but certainly we need to do public engagement around accessibility and make sure that we're not making our system less accessible. I'll say as a parent who sometimes attempts to use public transportation with a child in a wheelchair, we really have inadequate and unreliable accessible transportation already. Right.
 And sometimes people, especially wheelchair users, have to wait for a second or even third bus to get on the bus because those spots are already taken. So adding more commute time to an already lengthy wait, I think, is a hardship. So I want to call that out. I'm very interested in the freight conversation. I think that.
 should be looked at for a limited area. And, I mean, I'm always up for talking about how we can rein in the TNCs. There are too many of these cars on the road, and I'm not convinced that they are paying their fair share to offset the impact to our roads and to congestion. So...
 I'm going to vote aye, but I'm going to keep pressing the city on these issues, and I welcome your continued feedback and involvement in this process. Thanks. I concur with everything that Commissioner Day just said. Thanks to Art Pierce and April Bertelsen for your usual commendable process and also for bearing the brunt of my questions early in the session.
 I knew you'd be able to answer them, even though I hadn't raised them before. Thanks to Janine Gates on my staff, too, who has been looking out for the equity aspects of this in particular.
 I will not support reducing bus stops. So we had a long discussion about that on division, and I went back and forth, but it's very clear to me that, as Commissioner Udeli said, just a block or two is a hardship, particularly, as was mentioned, in areas that don't have sidewalks, don't have streetlights, don't have drainage. And to me, being able to get to the bus stop first and get on the bus in a short frame of time, that's the issue that's going to...
 in a lot of cases whether or not I take the bus. Yes.
 Once I'm on it, I'm in the dry, somebody else is driving. I actually don't agree with some of the assertions that were made in terms of people would use transit more because the alternative is sitting in your own car in traffic where you have to pay attention or you're still just sitting there stopped and it's really unpleasant. Mr Rowe challenged the council to use transit exclusively for a month. I use transit exclusively for six months every year because I don't see very well at night.
 So I would appreciate having late-night bus service. I think that's another reason that Uber and Lyft have been successful, is that the buses just don't go to the places that I want to go at the frequency that they want to go to.
 So I grew up in Leeds, England, which is about the same size as Portland. And I still know where the bus stops are. I know I don't have to look at the schedule because the buses arrive every five minutes. And so they're never very crowded. There's always a certainty that there's one going to be showing up. And if it does happen to be a crowded bus, you just wait for the next one. And so I...
 believe that it's the frequency that's the thing that gets people and the schedule and
 in terms of how late do they go, do they go on weekends? You know, there's one, you get people used to going on peak times, but not everybody's going downtown. And it was mentioned the north-south routes, but there's all kinds of different routes that people may actually need to use to get to where they want to go. I mean, 72 is one of the highest riderships in Portland, and because a lot of it connects East Portland with the jobs on Swan Island and along Killingswood, so...
 We have, by United States standards, a good transit system. It can be a lot better. And I appreciated TriMet management being here.
 It's been the last bastion of us not being able to work together very well in terms of governmental entities. That TriMet has not been receptive over the years to my input as a city commissioner. I don't think it's been particularly receptive to the community as a whole. So I'm pleased that the governor has appointed some new people to the board, some of whom actually ride the bus. We need people with lived experience of all kinds. You know, Commissioner Udeli is in Udeli.
 needing mobility services when she travels with her son. It's important to make it so that if you have bad eyesight, if you are 60 years old and don't necessarily want to be walking a mile to get to the rapid bus stop,
 There are choices available for us. So thank you very much for your ongoing work. I'm very interested in this as was evidenced, and I'll be happy to work with you moving forward. Oh, by the way, the other thing is this is a non-binding resolution. And so this is setting a framework, and it allows us as projects come in to say, yes, you've got it right here, or no, you haven't got it right there. It gives the Bureau some guidelines, so I think that's really important. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Yeah, I wanted to make that very same point. This is a resolution, and I see our folks here sitting here diligently taking notes. I think people raised really interesting points during their testimony, including a couple of new ideas, which I thought were provocative and worthy of future discussion. So expect that to happen. I think this has been a tremendous effort.
 effort. And I know that the Transportation Bureau and TriMet, many others have spent many, many hours putting this together, and it shows. I'm appreciative of it. I know Commissioner Saltzman wishes he could have been here to vote on his own work. But in lieu of that, I'll vote aye. The resolution is adopted, and we'll look forward to seeing what you bring back to council.
 And you know who the stakeholders are who are in the room who raised interesting issues, and we encourage you to reach out to them.
 Thank you. So, colleagues, we had one item that was held over from this morning. I don't know if we have somebody from the auditor who can address a specific issue that Commissioner Fritz raised. That was item number 688. Yes, we have somebody here. If you could call 688, please. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. So Commissioner Fritz had a follow-up question. This is a second reading, so we're primed to vote, but she had an outstanding issue she wanted to raise. My understanding was that you were going to be working with a particular property owner who was concerned about his assessment, and I just want to know what was the outcome of that discussion. Yes. So PBOT is going to be coming back within 30 days, I believe, to discuss their findings of the sidewalk charges. Yes.
 That's the only thing I know at this time. So this particular item that we're just about to vote on does not include that property? No, that property was removed. Just wanted to check on that. Thank you very much for being here. Very good. Thanks for the clarification. Carla, please call the roll. Udaly. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is time certain, number 690.
 Increase commercial solid waste fees effective July 1, 2018. Colleagues, when I first became mayor, the amount of trash on our streets, in business districts, and open spaces, frankly, it shocked me.
 During my first year in office, we undertook several strategies for cleaning up graffiti, picking up trash, and engaging businesses in the community to help us with Pick It Up Portland, which, by the way, is Friday and Saturday of this week in partnership with Solve. We've had some success. I notice there's less trash lying on the streets. People have commented on that, but obviously we have a lot more work that we need to do.
 Already, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is expanding the business districts where they're locating trash receptacles. Our cleanup of environmentally sensitive areas like the Springwater Corridor and other natural areas continues. And we're working with the Oregon Department of Transportation to clean up their properties as well through an IGA that we will be negotiating now that we have successfully worked with ODOT to pass legislation in Salem.
 In this year's budget, we increased funding for litter cleanup throughout the city. This ordinance amends the city code for tonnage fees to waste management companies collecting from Portland's commercial customers.
 For a few dollars on commercial customers, Portland will be able to maintain and expand the cleanup of our city. The extra funding will continue in removing a much larger amount of trash from important public spaces like our city parks and public walkways. Cleaning these areas up not only allows our residents to enjoy them more, but it's also a basic tenet of maintaining an environmentally conscientious city.
 Now we're going to hear from Bruce Walker, I believe first, representing the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. But before I turn it over...
 I also just want to add that obviously this is an emergency item. We need four commissioners present to actually vote. So today we're going to accept written and verbal testimony so people can sign up to testify. But since this item is an emergency ordinance and we don't have at least four city commissioners present for this meeting, we'll hold this item's vote tomorrow, Thursday, June 21st, 2.30, time certain.
 And with that, Bruce, I'll turn it over to you. Thank you. Mayor, commissioners, I'm Bruce Walker, salt waste manager for Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. As authorized by city code, BPS charges a tonnage fee to garbage and recycling companies for each ton of garbage collected from commercial accounts in Portland. The commercial tonnage fee supports the commercial waste and recycling programs managed by BPS for the city.
 Given the increased need for cleanup services on public properties and rights-of-way, this ordinance will raise the commercial tonnage fee to provide up to $1 million annually to the Office of Management and Finance Impact Reduction Program.
 Under an interagency agreement, BPS solid waste funds provided to OMF will be used exclusively to undertake cleanup activities and dispose of waste, such as cleanup crew costs and disposal fees. The ordinance would increase the fee that garbage and recycling companies pay from $9.60 to $12.60 per ton. This increase...
 would be passed along to businesses in the commercial sector via their garbage bills. So just one other brief item is a representative from the Portland Haulers Association signed up and will speak.
 present testimony later. At this point, I'd like to turn it over to Carmen Malou of OMF to provide more details. Thanks, Bruce. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Carmen Malou, the Deputy Chief Administrative Officer for the Office of Management and Finance. I am really delighted to talk to you about the revenue increase to help pay for the city costs to clean up increased trash and debris at city parks, other public
 public spaces and right-of-ways. To date, alone in this fiscal year, city vendors have removed over 2,300,000 pounds of trash. That's over 1,200 tons of trash from public spaces within the city. And the cost for these efforts have grown substantially over the last two fiscal years.
 This funding helps to stabilize the cost burden on our property-owning bureaus, and it's a truly appreciated contribution for the business community. Happy to answer any questions you may have. Colleagues, any questions? Public testimony? Yes, we have two people signed up. Shedrick J. Wilkins and Beth Vargas Duncan. Very good. Obviously, I strongly support this, so I'm eager to hear what folks say. Good afternoon. I'm not sure. I'm Mr. Shedrick. People call me J.,
 Shedrick Wilkins. I don't want to sign up and talk about something else, but I thought the issue here was waste being sent to China and stuff like that, not the gathering of the waste material. I would say this. I compliment the state of Oregon. In 2009, we went to a public recycling system for bottles and cans, and people do throw these things out instead of getting their deposit on them. So that kind of relates. People are part of the gathering process.
 And so I was, 15 years ago, haunted. I was put in the bottle machines, and I'm glad that we do have a system now of state recycling center. Fifteen years ago, it was more likely the supermarkets were responsible for bottles and cans, and now it's the state. The state will take these things. They'll even count them at night. Okay.
 We followed from California. Actually, we started the can and bottle recycling law. California did it by weight, did it better, CRV. And then there was such a problem with supermarkets that they decided to go for the recycling centers. And they do count them. And so there is a solution to these things, and you'll find it from this state. And that did work. In fact, I work at a Target store. And in 2015, we no longer take cans and bottles.
 So that's good. There's a recycling center on Gleason. Okay. And these things do get thrown out if people don't have a place to put them, though. There's toss them around. Great. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, I'm Beth Vargas-Duncan. I am the Regional Director with Oregon Refuse and Recycling Association, and in that capacity I represent the Portland Haulers Association today. And I just want to say briefly, the Portland Haulers Association has 12 members. There are 32 permittees that provide commercial solid waste services within the City of Portland.
 And the Portland Haulers Association members certainly appreciate and understand the intent behind this $3 tonnage increase. And I just want to say we look forward to partnering with the city and continuing to provide excellent service here. Great. Thank you for your testimony. Any further questions? Commissioner Fritz. This was discussed during the budget process? It was, yes. Because I know you testified in that process as well.
 It's included in the mayor's adopted budget as well. Yeah. So this is kind of just implementing what we've already discussed. Correct, Commissioner. Great. Thank you. Great. And we appreciate your testimony. Thank you for coming here, and thank you for your patience. So as I said, we will continue this until 2.30 p.m. tomorrow. Be there. Can I take a two-minute recess? Yeah, why don't we take a two-minute recess, and then we're going to come back and talk about straws and plastic. We're in recess. Okay.
 Good. All right. We're ready to roll. Are you ready, Carla? Yes. All right. In session, could you please read item 691?
 direct the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to develop a strategy to reduce single-use, non-recyclable plastic, including plastic straws. Commissioners, today we're considering a resolution to reduce single-use disposable plastics by directing the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to research and develop a strategy, including the consideration of public comments by October of 2018.
 Plastic straws are one of the top items that are found littered across U.S. coastlines. They are littering Portland's waterfront, our streets and our parks, and have a negative impact on wildlife habitats as they float through our rivers and into the ocean. We can't recycle them. Plastic straws are a single-use, non-recyclable plastic item that is not accepted in Portland's mixed recycling system.
 Reduction of single-use, non-recyclable plastics will result in reaching several city goals of improving and protecting land and water quality. To date, more than 100 Portland restaurants, bars, and businesses have pledged to change their straw policies, donate to the campaign, or volunteer time in various cleanup activities.
 Now, we'd like first to hear from Susan Anderson, who's the Bureau Director at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We'll then hear from Brianna Goodwin and Nancy Nordman from the Surf Rider Foundation and representatives from the business community that have already voluntarily taken action to reduce plastic straws and litter.
 So with that, I'll introduce Susan Anderson. Good afternoon. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, City Council, Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And as the mayor indicated, we're here today once again to ensure that Portland is doing its part to protect the environment and to protect the environment.
 promote a more resilient future. Over the years, we've known that cities in the United States can't depend on their federal government to make quick change on environmental issues. And we can think back to the 70s and 80s when we were all saying, think global, act local. And that still holds true. And it really represents how the
 on so many issues, not just environmental issues, but how the fire, the spark, often has to happen at the local level before it can take off nationally. So today we're here to ask you to start this process. It's a process to reduce the use of plastic straws and other single-use, non-recyclable plastic items like plastic forks and spoons. We all know that these plastic items end up everywhere, really, and they end up in our rivers and oceans, and we know that dolphins and
 Whales and turtles and others are all impacted by the hundreds of thousands on a daily basis. So why is this a problem? Well, as you probably learned in seventh grade science, plastics don't biodegrade.
 And that means they're pretty much here forever. They do break down into smaller pieces, which at first seems like that sounds good, but actually it means that the problem is worse. It means that the tiny pieces are then eaten by fish and other small animals, and then they become part of the food chain, and eventually that plastic is in their bodies and often eaten by us.
 So as the larger pieces also that are out in the ocean, and then you've all seen those pictures of the swirling masses of plastic in the ocean, those are often entangling animals and or piercing their bodies. In the U.S., we use about 5 million straws a day, and the research shows that if we continue on the path we're on, by 2050 there will be more plastic than fish by weight in the oceans.
 So here in Portland, this again, we often do these things that seem small and almost inconsequential, and the newspaper may have the headline of some crazy city council thing, and now they're doing straws.
 These things add up one by one. Hundreds and hundreds of cities start doing these things, and it begins to make change. And it's the kind of change we've seen in so many areas. You know, we were first with the first climate action plan in the United States, and then we had one of the first green building programs. We had the first home energy score. On this one, we're not first. We're definitely not first. Several cities and even some other countries changed.
 have started to restrict the use of single-use plastics, or they're developing similar regulations. So New York, San Francisco, Seattle, Boulder, Vancouver, B.C., they're all doing the same work and have either already adopted something or are in the process of,
 So today, our hope is that you will direct me and my team at BPS to come back with an ordinance by early fall with a recommendation. And during that time, we will research all the best practices, look at lessons learned from those who have already adopted regulations. We'll hold conversations with the public and with stakeholders, especially the restaurant industries, other business organizations, so that we can integrate their thoughts and concerns into what we adopt. Thank you.
 And then we'll also definitely be giving special consideration to those who actually really may need to use straws in such places as hospitals and other caregiving institutions. So we don't want to create any barriers for people who really do need to use them.
 So that's the plan. To get us going in the right direction, I gave you all presents that you just got. So you've got your own metal straw right there in front of you. And that means you really have no excuse from now on for ever asking for a straw again. How do you clean it?
 You can put it in the dishwasher. You can... But if you had a smoothie coming through this, putting it in the dishwasher is not going to help. Do they have little brushes that you can put down it? Oh, yeah, actually they do. Yeah. So I guess I could get one of those too. But I think in the dishwasher, they will work. The water's so hot. But that's why we're not adopting it today. And so I don't have the answer to that question when we come back in September. This may spark a whole new industry, I guess, of straw cleaner. Now, pipe...
 I have a drawer full of them because our child is still young enough. We used to have wax paper straws. This seems like it's not very resource. Well, you have it once. My daughter's had one for years, and she gives me, like, why don't you carry your straw, Mom? Are you looking at coffee cup lids? Yes.
 There's a lot more plastic in a coffee cup lid, and I actually see much more of those on the ground than I do straws. Right. We will be looking at that step by step. You all could agree to do that, and we'll bring forth that as part of the ordinance as an option, but that may be a step too far too quickly. You could be first, though. I know my colleagues here really like being first. It would seem like you could have a paper lid or cardboard lid
 just like, you know, I agree. And Susan, you might also just mention the Planning and Sustainability Commission is looking at a whole suite of items, including plastic where they're looking well beyond just the straw question. Right. Commissioner Udaly? How do we add to that list? Because while I certainly appreciate this initiative, it's only one thing that is made out of plastic that is optional. Right.
 And I have other items I would love to see. We'll be in your office ready to hear the list. I mean, straws are the easy one to talk about. Obviously, any other utensils. You know, India right now is saying the entire country is looking at all sorts of different plastic items. So I think it's a movement. Great. Awesome.
 I'll stop there and turn it over to some of the folks who have been pushing this for a while. Very good. We have some representatives from the Surfrider Foundation. I'll let you introduce yourselves. All right. Thank you so much for your time today. My name is Nancy Nordman, and I am here on behalf of the Portland Chapter of the Surfrider Foundation and the Ditch the Straw PDX campaign. The Portland Chapter of Surfrider is dedicated to the protection and enjoyment of the world's oceans, waves, and beaches.
 And we're increasingly concerned about the issue of marine plastic pollution and its impacts on our waterways and our marine life. Over 660 species have been impacted by plastics, and it's consistently in the top 10 list of things that we do find on our green streets cleanups and our beach cleanups. And so as one way to help address this problem, we developed the Ditch the Straw PDX program.
 and that began in August of 2017, in which we collaborate with businesses to help them adopt a straw upon request policy with a plastic-free alternative, like a paper straw or a metal straw or bamboo straw as an alternative for when straws are specifically requested.
 We offer table tens, buttons, and bill inserts to help inform customers of why the switch is happening. And that has been proven to be especially effective in creating a smooth transition and gaining customer backing.
 We also again work with the businesses to find the alternative that's going to work for them. So for some restaurants, that's been a metal straw. It's also been reusable stir sticks. That's another example of branching out to other items. We definitely hear from people that once they're interested in, once they learn about straws, they then start asking what about this item as well?
 So those are conversations that we've already started to have with businesses. And it's been really exciting to see the change and see how excited they are to take on the challenges. We don't promote bioplastics or other compostable straws as an alternative program due to the lack of marine biodegradability and our interest in supporting local composting programs.
 And so as of now we've had over 100 restaurants participating in some form and we're getting more every day which is really exciting. It's ranged from universities to coffee shops, fine dining establishments. And in our follow-ups with them, voluntarily taking on this policy, they've mostly reported very positive feedback, very little pushback.
 They often say that customers actually thank them for taking a step up and being leaders in this. They are also getting increasing requests of customers asking for their drinks with no straw, adding that to their drink order. And they've also seen drops in straw usage and cost savings as a result of taking on this policy.
 I'm not able to share all the testimonials we've gathered, but I would like to share this one. It was easier than expected. I and my staff worried that people would be confused or adverse to no straws, but we've had only positive feedback and very few requests for paper straw as an alternative. I think that putting a little blurb on the menu has helped prepare people for drinking out of the glass the old-fashioned way. So that's from Takariya Nauebe. That's awesome. Thank you. Thank you.
 My name is Brianna Goodwin. I am the Oregon field manager for Surfrider Foundation. So I am a paid staff member of this international nonprofit. And I wanted to provide a little bit more of a global and statewide context for this. It's already been mentioned that there are whole countries that are banning single-use plastics.
 I also want to point out that there are corporations that also have locations in the U.S. that are choosing to get rid of straws and other single-use plastic items. McDonald's in the U.K. is phasing out.
 single-use plastic straws and switching to paper. And it was just announced that KFC in Singapore is getting rid of plastic straws and you've probably heard that Alaska Airlines also is getting rid of plastic straws. So I
 There are corporations in the U.S. and internationally that are choosing to do this as well as countries. I mentioned that Surfrider is international. Here in the U.S. we have 84 chapters and over 25 of those chapters are engaging in programs similar to the Ditch the Straw program where they're working with businesses in their communities
 to move to straws upon request and quit using single-use plastic straws.
 Since this has been such an important movement within all of our chapters as an organization, we've come together to create a Ditch the Straw toolkit that all of our chapters can use to start their own program. And I'm very proud to report that Portland's Ditch the Straw program is the star example of how to lead a straws campaign. Okay.
 Within the state, we have four chapters. Three of those are working to address straws in addition to Portland. We have a program in Newport and also in Coos Bay. Right now, our Siuslaw chapter in Florence is working on plastic bags, but straws might come next for them.
 And as Nancy said, there's been a really positive response, and I can say that that's even happening in Newport. We're getting that positive response as well. And Coos Bay is just starting, but we do have some restaurants that have already switched to paper straws in Coos Bay. So there is support for this movement outside of Portland. And finally, I want to close on this effort.
 effort in Portland has been led by volunteers. I provide support as a paid staff member but
 Nancy, who was working and just finished her master's degree, led this campaign, which is really impressive. And she has a committee of many dedicated volunteers. So it's really Portland area community members that are driving this and worked with businesses to create business first approach and find ways that are going to work for them. So I'm very proud of my volunteers and I think
 being a volunteer-led effort really shows how much support there is. Great. Thank you. This is fantastic work. And one of the partners, of course, is Burgerville, one of my favorite places. Yay. Thank you. Thanks for your support. Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners, thank you very much for the opportunity to be here today. My name is Hillary Barber. I'm the Director of Strategic Initiatives at Burgerville.
 We're a regional company. We have 42 restaurants in the Pacific Northwest from Corvallis, Oregon, to Centralia, Washington. And our headquarters are across the river in Vancouver. Okay.
 Our mission statement is serve with love and it's really at the heart of how we do all that we do. It represents the commitment that we have to our employees and our guests, the farmers and ranchers we partner with and the communities we serve, and to the Pacific Northwest region.
 We employ 1,500 individuals, and close to 75% of our ingredients are sourced from within 400 miles of the Portland, Vancouver area. So we have about a $30 million spend on food ingredients in the Pacific Northwest.
 And for over a decade, we have been committed to environmental stewardship and to minimizing our environmental and business footprint. All of our waste oil is recycled into biodiesel, and 100% of our restaurant's energy use is offset with green power.
 In the mid-2000s, we helped to lead the industry on introducing compostable packaging and raising consumer awareness about the appropriate disposal of food waste packaging
 Unfortunately, the industry for compostable packaging failed to mature for a number of reasons and we were forced to discontinue that program. But since that time, we have consistently pushed on our suppliers and our partners, both big and small, to think big when it comes to innovation for packaging. We're deeply concerned about the impacts of plastics in particular on the regional ecosystem and the global ecosystem as well.
 So we're thrilled that the city is taking this on, and we want to be a partner. It completely aligns with our values as a company. And we appreciate the invitation to be part of a collaborative process to adopt policy that will open new conversations with the public and really expand consumers' choices.
 We see this as a tremendous opportunity both to reduce our reliance on single-use plastics and to improve our business practices.
 So, we have been talking in the news lately, you may have heard about going first, and no, we wouldn't be the first city to do this, and Burgerville wouldn't necessarily be the first company or corporation to do this, but for the region and for our size and scale, we would love to be a partner with the city on this initiative and collaborate.
 leverage our impact as much as possible. So thank you. That's great. We appreciate that very much. We appreciate the partnership. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you all for being here. I'd like to particularly thank Sir Fryder for not filling my emails like you did on plastic bags. So when it comes back in the fall, you don't have to get your people to send 300 emails from Utah and California and where else where you're making your point very well in person, and I appreciate that very much. Send them to Dan and Nick since they're not here. Thank you.
 Make sure that's in the notes. Couldn't resist. Great. Julia Person from Widmere. Come on up. Thank you. Good afternoon. Julia Person. I'm Sustainability Director at Wimmer Brothers Brewery. Wimmer Brothers was the first business to participate in the Ditch the Straw PDX program, and we are really excited to do so because we're committed to protecting Oregon's clean water. It's the number one ingredient in our beer. It's so important for brewing our beers if we want to protect our watersheds.
 And we piloted Ditch the Straw in August 2017. During that first month, we avoided using 1,883 straws. At that time, we were a full-service restaurant. And to further reduce our impact, we switched to offering only paper straws upon request. And these straws truly do hold up in customer drinks. We had a server that tested the paper straw through a whole seven-hour shift, and it was in good condition at the end of that time of paper straw.
 And a couple of positive impacts to our business include that we did receive positive responses from our customers. Some of them even thanked us for reducing our waste. And even though the paper straw is more expensive, by moving to the straws upon request only, overall we're using less straws. So it actually came out to be a business cost savings for us.
 So switching to the straws upon request only was a very simple way that we can reduce our impact on the environment, and we're also still maintaining a high level of customer service. It was a very positive experience with ditching the straw. We definitely support the city of Portland in expanding this ordinance and hope to see Ditch the Straw taken citywide. So thank you for your time. Thank you very much. And, again, we're very disappointed you didn't bring any product. We'll have beer next time, which you do not need a straw to drink beer with.
 Thank you very much. Kate Iacopini, General Manager of St. Jack's, you are our last invited guest, and we will, of course, have open testimony for those who would like to. Good afternoon and welcome. Hi. How are you? Great. So people have been talking about the challenges of switching from straws to a more reusable policy. Right.
 I'm happy to report that we haven't seen a single challenge. At this point in the year, we would have spent probably upwards of $400 on plastic straws at St. Jack. Starting in January of 2018, we switched to metal straws.
 We invested $60 upfront and I have yet to reorder straws. So that is a pretty tremendous statistic and I think it would make a lot of other restaurants very happy to know that. I am a nut case about asking my staff to report to me when people are unhappy with anything at the restaurant. And I'm also pleased to report that there hasn't been a single case of anybody being upset that they don't have plastic straws in their drinks any longer.
 It's been wonderful for us on a hospitality level. I think that the metal straws are a great way to go. They are clean, they're easy to wash. We use straight ones. I don't know if that makes a difference to anybody, but it seems to be super simple for us to get them clean and get them back in the drinks.
 We also have, for the most part, straws upon requests for all of our cocktails. Some of them do come with one of the metal straws. It's just nice to know that everything that we're serving in the drink world is reusable right now.
 The only thing that has been challenging, and I just am submitting this as kind of a question for everybody, is that I've done a lot of networking and reached out to a lot of other
 restaurants that I know of in the area. And while most of them are very enthusiastic about making the switch, some people have reported that they want to exhaust the supply of plastic that they're already working with. So what I pose today is to find a way that we might be able to give them another opportunity to put those plastic straws to use.
 One thing that I've been thinking about and trying to research, but I don't have a lot of time for it, is to have a piece of public art where people could put those plastic straws and give them a second life, which I think would be a very Portland thing to do. But that's the only negative response I've had. And for the most part, I would say that 90% of the people that I've met
 networked with have made the change and been happy to do so. So that's all I have to say about that.
 Well, Kate, thank you for being here. And I just have to say St. Jack's happens to be one of my family's favorite places to go. We love you guys. Well, it's mutual. And we happened to be there one day and we got one of the straws and we were very excited about it. We asked about it and you said you were doing a fundraiser for the Surfrider Foundation, part of the Ditch the Straw campaign. So we came to that and it was extremely well attended. Thank you.
 and I had a chance there to talk to other people who are engaged in this, and we've heard from some additional folks today. And there clearly is a strong consensus, in my opinion, around the need to go beyond plastic straws, plastic wear. And now the question is how do we all work together to make sure that it works. But I want to thank you in particular for your time.
 setting me up in this and with the Surfrider Foundation and really pushing this as an agenda of yours and St. Jack's, just the way the others have as well. So thank you for that. Well, we're clearly not the first, but we wanted to be really loud because in the food service community, you don't want to be behind the trends. So we kind of wanted to put the
 pressure on all of our peers in the industry to get with the program. So it seems to be working. And as far as the fundraiser goes, I think that we will be able to produce about $12,000 to this cause, which I hope makes an impact. We're really passionate about it. So thank you for doing this. Yeah, great. Awesome. Colleagues, any questions before we get open testimony? Okay.
 Carla, do we have anybody? Oh, actually, sorry. I'm sorry, Commissioner Udaily. Now is the time. You bet. So I just want to, first of all, commend all of you on this effort. I think 18 months ago, this was barely on anyone's radar. It was on a lengthy kind of wish list in my office.
 And one of the discouraging factors for us was that we don't have facilities to process the biodegradable straws, which seemed to be the preferred alternative at the time. So I'm glad to hear that paper straws are working just fine and the metal reusable straws. I do want to suggest a friendly amendment to this resolution that would specifically...
 include ADA considerations in the scope of issues in the analysis, accommodating diners with disabilities. There are many people with motor skill challenges or dysphagia, which is a swallowing disorder, who do actually need straws, and ideally they need
 A straw with a bend. And it's a small number of your patrons, but we shouldn't be creating barriers or embarrassment for them to enjoy the same amenities as everyone else. So I wonder if the attorney could suggest language because I don't have anything drafted. I mean, I'm just asking for something very...
 simple. I think it would direct them to develop a strategy so they've heard. Could that not just be included in what they... I guess I always prefer to see it included in writing. I know that BPS is aware of this issue. I trust that they will include it in the analysis, but I would personally prefer that it was actually included in the wording. And, well, maybe we'll...
 people chat about that. 30 years ago, which is really weird to be able to say, I got to watch the movement or the effort to eliminate styrofoam packaging in Portland hatch at my dining room table. Cause my housemate at the time was one of the people who was instrumental in that. And yeah. And, uh,
 It just goes to show you what a huge impact a small group of people that fit around a dining room table can have on a whole city and a national and even international movement. So thank you and congratulations for that effort.
 Very good. Commissioner Udailey, just for the record, I'm very supportive of your amendment concept. It looks like you have some smart people over there trying to draft something for your perusal. And people can think broadly about that during public testimony as well. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? One person. Well, that should be easy. So my admonition, Susan, is draft quickly. Okay.
 Very good. Shedrick J. Wilkins. Speak for a while. All right, I'm Shedrick J. Wilkins, and I understand that besides plastic, plastic water bottles are not recycled. They make park benches out of them. So I had this idea that there's a company called Solo Power on Marine Drive that makes plastic thin-film solar cells, and I wondered if they use recycled plastic, you know, we're using a lot of water bottles now, that they could turn them into solar panels. Right.
 It's possible that plastic is toxic in a roof fire and polysilicon glass ones aren't. That's a possibility. Another possibility is some solar panels have a shelf life. They're made – the pure silicon ones aren't. They're blue-colored. There's another change in this thing is –
 Solo World, a German company in Hillsboro, was bought out by a company called SunPower of San Jose, Silicon Valley. And Silicon Valley is where the plastic thin film flat screen comes from. And it's the same idea that instead of having polysilicon do something, you etch plastic and put little plastic wires in.
 Stuff like that. Solar power, I think, on Marine Drive was bought by a British company and still working. And, again, Solar World has made all the little glass ones you see all over the place. They folded and sold out to San Jose. So I'd like to ask them some questions. I'm going out to Washington County. There's a company called SunPower. So you won't hear the word solar power. You'll hear the word SunPower. I guess they've made too many.
 Polysilicon solar panels. So there's time for something new. And the third thing is, in the year 2013, I found out on my school roof at Harvey Scott, I saw Wellington Park's elevator, my old school. I looked down, I saw these solar panels on the school. And I, well, there's like 100 kilowatts of solar panels on it. Oh, big thing. So I asked the school district, and they're thin films. They're plastic.
 So I wonder what happens here with this thin film thing. It was obviously, I think they were installed in 2009, so it's probably an Obama-era experiment. I don't know if they have a shelf life. Remember, this plastic is rain-resistant. You know, there's plastic raincoats. And instead of throwing this stuff around and putting it in the ocean, put it on top of somebody's roof. We can keep track of it. Thank you, Senator.
 How's our drafting exercise going? While they're working on it, I actually had a question for you two, and that is, did you have paper straws when you were growing up? Yes.
 Stripey. Yeah, stripey ones. And there were some bendy ones too, right? Oh, yeah. So it seems like that should be a technology. And crazy straws. What's a crazy straw? I guess it's more my generation. Plastic. They go loopy-loop. But those weren't paper, right? Those were plastic. No, no. But they were reusable. Yeah.
 Although very difficult to clean. And perhaps inappropriately named. Okay. I just put you a few more minutes. I just was wondering. You can never accuse us of not bringing all the funny, fun stuff to the Bureau. That's what this Bureau is for, I guess. It could be as simple as at the end of the resolution, at the part where it says, now, therefore, be it resolved. Okay.
 That the City Council and the Mayor direct the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to introduce a single-use, non-recyclable plastic reduction strategy, including plastic straws. That will include addressing considerations of the ADA. Okay. Is that good enough? Yeah. Okay. Great. Second. Thank you so much. Carla, could you please call the roll on the amendment? Udaily. Thank you for the fast footwork. I vote aye. Fritz. Good addition. Aye.
 We look. All right. The amendment's adopted. The main motion. Any further question or discussion? I do actually have a couple. Commissioner Fritz. It seems to me that when we did the plastic bags, that we did allow people to use up their old ones as they phased in. Am I remembering that correctly? Somebody at the back is nodding. So given that we're coming back with this when? Yeah.
 Probably in September, and so we could maybe have it until whatever. We'll talk to the restaurant industry, and we'll talk to others and see what a reasonable time is. They could sell them to Vancouver, be Washington, you know, just ship them over there. And then secondly, again, thinking of the plastic bag changeover, what are you planning in terms of outreach, particularly to underrepresented communities who may not be on the Surfrider platform?
 email list who may need just some education about what this is, why, how we're going to help? Well, in terms of the businesses that are either owned by underrepresented communities and such, we'll make sure that we use the same equity lens that we do on all of our programs and target those organizations and those individuals. And we'll also look at translating some of the information.
 So there will be specific outreach to the restaurateurs who serve particular kinds of food. Great. Thank you very much. Very good, Carla. Please call the roll. You daily. Well, thanks again for your efforts. I vote aye. Fritz? Thanks to everybody. Aye.
 Wheeler. So first of all, I'd like to thank everybody who testified today, starting with Susan Anderson and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for your great efforts on this. Nancy and Brianna from the Surf Rider Foundation. You guys do outstanding work, and I'm very appreciative of that work, and I'm glad that we have a partnership here and that we can learn from your experiences and advocate together. And, yes, I would love one of your T-shirts. Thank you.
 Hillary, Barbara, Burgerville, awesome. Love the strawberry shortcake this time of year. Thank you for your leadership. Burgerville is frequently a leader in this community on a whole host of issues, and it was no surprise to me whatsoever when I heard that Burgerville was interested in being a key component of this resolution.
 Julia, I can't say enough good things about Widmere Brothers or the folks in the leadership at that organization. And again, I was not surprised when I heard that you were the first company to sign up to be part of the Ditch the Straws campaign. And we continue to be appreciative of your company's leadership.
 The significant contribution to the economy and just the culture of this community is greatly appreciated. Kate, thank you for the great work that St. Jack's does, and keep on doing the great work you are doing. We have a lot of work ahead. Packaging generally...
 is way behind where we need to be in terms of achieving our planetary recycling goals and our stewardship of our waterways and our oceans.
 And this is but a start, but I think it's a meaningful and important start. And I'm grateful to everybody being here today. I look forward to what you bring back to the council, and I hope it is comprehensive, and I hope it's on the edgy side. We need to move aggressively, but obviously we want to work with our private sector partners and our nonprofit partners, and as my colleagues indicated, we need to work
 hard to engage and bring the community along with us. I'd like to see this be something where when we ultimately adopt ordinances related to this resolution, the public is broadly supportive of what we are doing. Thank you. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended and we're adjourned. Thank you, everybody.