The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due considerations to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I'm going to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also ensure that decorum is maintained.
 Doesn't look like a real rowdy bunch today, but just in case. There are two opportunities for public participation. Well, this isn't true. This is a different. So today, people can sign up for public testimony either before or against. And obviously, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time. I say obviously, but it's not.
 apparently not obvious to a lot of people, please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please just close that. And if you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Individuals testifying for or against will have three minutes to testify. And that's going to be very firm because this is a special proceeding and we don't have leeway on the time periods like we do in a regular council session.
 When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light will light up on the desk there. And when your time is done, the red light will come on. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other testimony or interrupting during council deliberations, will not be allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting.
 If there is a disruption, I will issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass. If you'd like to show your support, please use a thumbs up or twinkle fingers. No applause. Thank you.
 or booing, as the case may be. If you want to express that you do not support something, thumbs down. Thank you, and let's get started. That is just such a weird way to start this meeting, but that's the reality. All right. Carla, could you call the roll? Yes. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Udaly? Here. So...
 First, the city attorney will make announcements about today's hearing. Yes, I'll let Carla call the item, and then I will start. Item 737, appeal of the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association against the hearings officer's decision to approve the application with conditions of Vic Remmers Everett Custom Homes for an 11-lot subdivision at 5920 Southwest 48th Avenue, LU16.
 1-5-9-3-3-0-L-D-S-E-N. And I should also let people know, if you want to sign up to testify, as the Commissioner said, those sign-up sheets are directly outside of council chambers.
 Okay, thank you. So this is an evidentiary hearing. This means you may submit new evidence to counsel in support of your arguments. For an evidentiary hearing, we begin with the staff report by the Bureau of Development Services staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first and will have 10 minutes to present their case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next and each person will have three minutes to speak to counsel.
 The principal opponent will have 15 minutes to address counsel and rebut the applicant's presentation. Excuse me, appellant's presentation. If there is no principal opponent, counsel will move directly to testimony from persons who oppose the appeal after supporters of the appeal conclude their testimony.
 After the principal opponent, council will hear from persons who oppose the appeal again. Each person will have three minutes. And finally, the appellant will have to rebut the presentation of the opponents of the appeal. Council will then close the hearing and deliberate and take a vote. If the vote is a tentative vote, the council will set a future date to adopt findings and a final vote on the appeal. If the council takes a final vote today, that will conclude the matter before the city council.
 For evidentiary hearings, I'd like to announce several guidelines for those who will be addressing the City Council today. Submitting evidence into the record. Any letters or documents you wish to be a part of the record should be given to the Council Clerk after you testify. Similarly, the original or a copy of any slides, photographs, drawings, maps, videos, or other items you show to Council during your testimony, including a PowerPoint presentation, should be given to the Council Clerk to make sure they become a part of the record.
 testimony must be directed to the approval criteria. Any testimony, arguments, or evidence you present must be directed toward the applicable approval criteria for this land use review or other criteria in the city's comprehensive plan or zoning code that you believe apply to the decision. The BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as a part of their staff report to council.
 You must raise an issue clearly enough to give the council and the parties an opportunity to respond to the issue. If you don't, you will be precluding from appealing the issue to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue. Applicants must identify constitutional challenges to the conditions of approval. If the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to the proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow council to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit court. Thank you.
 And now I will turn it over to Commissioner Udeli. Great. Do any members of council wish to declare a conflict of interest? No council members have conflicts of interest to declare. Do any members of the council have ex parte contacts to declare or information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose? I have an ex parte contact to declare. In late March, at the request of Brenna Hurwitz,
 the Land Use and Planning Committee co-chair of the Hayhurst neighborhood. I met with her, and she expressed the neighborhood's concerns with this development. Subsequently, she has met and talked with my policy director, Matt Grum, but I have not been privy to those conversations. And a member of my staff talked to a member of the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association.
 All right. Does anyone present in the council chambers wish to ask either Commissioner Saltzman or Commissioner Fritz about the ex parte contacts or information she or he has disclosed? Okay. Have any members of the council made any visits to the site involved in this matter? No. All right. Do the council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we begin the hearing?
 Pertinent to this hearing, please. Okay. So first up is staff report. Good afternoon. My name is Stephanie Beckman. I'm a planner with the Bureau of Development Services, and I'll give the staff presentation for the appeal hearing. Okay.
 I'm just going to jump right in because I have a lot of stuff to go over. So the decision was heard or the application was heard by the hearings officer who made the decision on this case and approved the application, which was for a preliminary land division plan for 11 lots, an environmental resource tract, and a new public street. It also included an environmental review for right-of-way dedication and street and stormwater improvements within the environmental overlay zone on Southwest 48th Avenue.
 The relevant approval criteria are listed here. They are all addressed in the hearings officer decision that was part of your packet. Thank you.
 The Hayhurst Neighborhood Association submitted an appeal indicating that a number of the criteria are not met, as listed here. You also have their appeal statement as part of your packet, which is in more detail. I will touch on all of these briefly in the presentation, but I wanted to note that there are also a number of other staff in the audience today that can provide more details if you have questions. Thank you.
 I should also note that for the most part, these issues were raised in the prior hearing and are addressed in detail in the hearings officer decision. This is a zoning map that shows the site dashed in red.
 The site is zoned R7, which is a single dwelling zone, and you can see the environmental conservation overlay zoning in the southwest corner of the site. This map is also helpful to see the surrounding street network.
 You should note there are three dead-end streets adjacent to the site. Southwest Pendleton abuts the site to the north where it terminates. A different segment of Southwest Pendleton dead-ends at the site on the east, and Southwest 48th runs along the western boundary of the site and terminates just south of the site where that kind of half-coldest sack is located. There's an aerial photo to provide a little more context. Okay.
 Again, note the two segments of Southwest Pendleton, both north and east of the site. Hayhurst Elementary School is located kind of just southwest of the site on Iowa Street. And there is a path that crosses private property between the 48th Avenue right-of-way where it terminates and Iowa, which we hear is a popular walking route to this school and you'll probably hear about in the testimony today.
 This is an existing conditions map. You can see that the site has moderate slopes and a low point in the southwest corner where there's a stream and wetland within the environmental zone. The existing house and garage will be removed. This shows the proposed layout. Note the street connection between the two segments of Pendleton.
 The entire environmental zoned area will be placed in an environmental resource tract, with the exception of an area that will be dedicated to public right-of-way on the 48th side, the western portion of the site. This is the preliminary subdivision plat, again showing 11 lots, a new public street, and an environmental resource tract in the corner of the property.
 I have a few photos to show you of the site and surrounding streets. This is Southwest Pendleton along the northern border of the site. The site is on the left. This project would result in dedication and standard improvements along this frontage. This is Southwest 48th on the western boundary of the site. Again, the site is on the left. You can see that 48th is currently gravel, and this project would result in dedication and standard half-street improvements along this site frontage.
 This is the terminus of Southwest 48th south of the site and beyond the wood fence, kind of the split rail fence there, is the pathway that crosses private property and connects to Southwest Iowa. To our knowledge, there is no easement allowing public access in this location. So a little later, are you going to show us on the map where that walking trail is? Yes.
 I can. Would you like me to go back now and do that? It would help me, actually, yes. And we've stopped the time so that it won't count against you. So on this map, let's see if I can get a pointer. So this is where Southwest 48th ends. And then where it says Southwest 48th, but you can see there's no right-of-way, that's where that path kind of cuts through there. Thank you. Mm-hmm.
 This is the eastern segment of Southwest Pendleton where it dead ends at the site, which is straight ahead. And the proposal would extend the street onto the site. And just a couple more photos. This is taken from the site looking up to Southwest Pendleton where it would be extended on the site. And you can see there is a fairly significant grade change between the current street and the site itself. And this is another photo of the interior of the site and the approximate location of the new street. Okay.
 So now I'm going to start touching on the appeal issues, starting with transportation. The appellants object to the street connection, primarily related to safety concerns due to increased traffic. As described before, the site is bordered by dead-end streets. In addition, a connection is identified at this location in the master street plan. Therefore, a connection is required to meet the connectivity approval criteria, unless there are significant barriers identified to a connection.
 The applicant has demonstrated it is feasible to build the street by gaining conceptual approval through the public works permitting process. And the applicant's transportation study, which was reviewed by PBOT staff, did not identify safety issues with the street connection. Additionally, PBOT staff do not anticipate a high level of cut-through traffic due to the new street connection and also do not view the street connection as a conflict with safe routes to schools.
 Moving on to stormwater, this map shows the existing drainage pattern in the area. Concerns have been expressed about existing stormwater issues becoming worse with the development. Currently, much of the stormwater is uncontrolled and there are flooding issues. Water comes from the north and floods properties on the west side of Southwest 48th.
 Water also sheet flows across the property and collects in the southwest corner of the site where it can flood into the street. This map shows the proposed drainage pattern with the development. Stormwater will be managed with planters, shown in green, and then much of the water will be directed to a storm sewer and carried to Pendleton Street and west toward a BES stormwater facility where it can be properly managed.
 With the improvements on Southwest 48th, water will be diverted away from neighboring properties, shown here, and directed to the new stormwater facility. And a reduced amount of water flowing at slower speeds will enter the public culvert down here before it flows onto downstream properties. And overall, BES expects that the development will improve stormwater conditions in the area and reduce flooding.
 Moving on to grading, tree preservation, and wetland impacts. This is the grading plan, which shows grading to build the new street and prepare the lots for development. Areas where trees will be preserved are highlighted in the green. The appellants object to the extent of grading and tree removal and raised concerns about potential impacts to the wetland from this activity.
 The applicant has indicated that the amount of grading is necessary due to a number of factors, including building the street on a sloped site, staying out of the environmental zone, draining stormwater from the lots to the street, and the home product that they desire to build.
 While extensive grading is proposed on the remainder of the site, it's important to note that the environmental zone will largely be undisturbed and very few trees will be removed from that area. Mitigation for tree removal and environmental zone impacts will be required with plantings in Tract A, which is the environmental resource tract, and a payment into the city's tree fund. The applicant was addressed to...
 asked to address impacts to the wetland from upland grading. And their environmental consultant concluded that sufficient hydrology would be maintained from groundwater and surface flows to support the wetland in the future.
 The appellants indicated that the applicant should have reduced density to reduce the risk of landslides. However, the applicant's landslide hazard study found that the development will not impact stability, provided their recommendations for site preparation and construction are followed. Therefore, there was no requirement to consider other development options, such as reduced density. Thank you.
 The appellants indicate that springs located outside of the environmental zone should have been protected. There is a requirement to protect springs. However, the features in question do not meet the definition of a spring, seep or spring in the zoning code. Therefore, the protection was not required. Can you explain that, please? Yes. So...
 The zoning code has a specific definition, which I can read to you. I actually have it here in case someone asked. Seeper spring, the point where an aquifer intersects with the ground surface and discharges water into a stream channel that flows into a wetland or other water body. So there was – essentially what happened is there were some –
 seen to be coming up out of the ground, groundwater essentially. And the applicant was asked to address that. And if it met the requirements, they would have needed to protect it in its natural state, that area in its natural state in a tract.
 was indicated from the applicant's consultant and BDS staff agreed was first there wasn't an aquifer, which is the first piece of the definition, and then second there was not a stream channel flowing between the seep area and the wetland. But there is an unnamed creek going through the wetland, right? Yes.
 There is, in this area, there's a stream here, and there's a wetland here, and there were some areas here, wet areas in this area in the red that were identified, but they were not, they said they didn't meet the strict definition of the code. And after the grading, is the water from that circle going to go to the southwest or into the basement? Yeah.
 It would go, so there is, I guess there's a retaining wall along that area. So the water would continue to flow off the slope towards the wetland there. There is a retaining wall, so the drainage from the retaining wall would then flow into the wetland area as well. Okay, thank you. Mm-hmm.
 So I just have one last slide. Your alternatives for making a decision today, I'm sure you already know what these are, but as quickly, the first is to deny the appeal and uphold the hearings officer decision as is. You could deny the appeal, uphold the decision with modifications, or you could grant the appeal and deny the application.
 I'm happy to answer any questions. And as mentioned earlier, there are staff here with expertise on the topics that we've discussed that can provide more details as needed.
 Excellent timing. I have a question about the street, but maybe we should bring someone from PBOT up for that. Sure. But I'm not sure when that would happen in the process. We only have six seconds left for staff presentation. Right. I think it's... They're allowed to give more of this in response to a council question. Okay. Yeah, if someone from PBOT is here.
 So we've heard that no significant concerns have been raised about the street. And I expect to hear more about that issue as we hear testimony. But has any consideration been given to permanent or temporary traffic calming measures? I mean, this is a major change to the neighborhood.
 Thank you. For the record, I'm Fabio De Freitas from PBOT. Good afternoon, Council, and good question, Council Member Udeli. So I can go on and on about that question. I'll try not to break up in my testimony as well. Thank you.
 So we've been at this game for two-plus years, and we've noted since day one the concerns from the neighborhood association relative to traffic in relation to pedestrians in the area, including children walking to and from Hayhurst Elementary. As staff, you know, we're focused on the approval criteria and making sure that we have had sufficient...
 documentation provided to us to support the application and to substantiate the approval criteria. In my review of this project for the length of time that we've been working on this project, sufficient evidence has been submitted by the applicant in the form of a professionally prepared traffic study. In our review of the analysis, as was mentioned,
 identified in our recommendation to the hearings officer and as confirmed in the hearings officer's decision, we do not foresee or expect safety issues in relation to the development of the property as proposed. From our perspective, the inclusion of standard street construction with sidewalks on both sides of the new street through the subdivision
 including a new sidewalk along the northern leg of Southwest Pendleton and the entirety of the frontage along 48th Avenue will be an enhancement to the pedestrian system in the area. Furthering my point to your question specifically in terms of have we given any thought to traffic calming, I would suggest...
 Given the orientation of the street that's proposed and the connection to the broader neighborhood, there are few, if any, opportunities for vehicles to be traveling at any reasonable rate of speed. We are talking about a circuitous neighborhood with twisty, windy streets,
 The proposed street in question will have grade, as Ms. Beckman identified in her presentation. There are significant grade differences here.
 Where we would typically see issues with speed and the potential for the need for traffic calming are along long stretches of roadways with higher speeds, where something like a speed bump or a series of speed bumps may be warranted.
 Given the security nature again of the street through the subdivision throughout the broader neighborhood, that also extends into less than standard streets per PBOT standards with no sidewalks, with narrow pavement.
 There's just not the expectation by either PBOT staff or as identified in the professionally prepared traffic study that there's going to be a resulting traffic safety issue that would warrant such measures. Whether or not Council wants to suggest that as a mitigation measure, that's certainly your prerogative. I would just say further and lastly that...
 PBOT doesn't place speed bumps haphazardly. They are typical mitigation measures that have to satisfy warrants. So even if there's a desire to place these, they typically have to meet national warrants to be placed. And lastly, again, with this whole speed issue and whether or not it's going to result in potential issues for pedestrians...
 And one of the other arguments that the Neighborhood Association has made throughout time is whether or not PBOT or the city could consider a less than standard street section through the subdivision.
 I would say that because the applicant will be providing a standard street section, which will allow parking on both sides of the street, it is recognized that on-street parking in and of itself is a traffic control mechanism. Great. Thank you. Probably much of what you said also applies to the issue about safe routes to school. Is there anything you would add on that issue? Because I know that's a concern as well.
 Thank you, Commissioner Salzman. Yes, much of what I just identified is relative to the concerns that the neighborhood has expressed in relation to the Safe Route to School program throughout the area.
 As I mentioned, we foresee with the inclusion of standard street section and sidewalks throughout the subdivision that safety will be enhanced as a result of this project. I've been out to the site on multiple occasions.
 to make some observations just to, for my own clarity, identify potentially with what the neighborhood was reacting to and voicing as concern. In my observations, which is consistent with the observations that were made by the applicant's traffic consultant, there are a handful of kids that were walking along 48th Avenue.
 One visit, I saw four kids walk into school. Next visit, there were eight kids. So, you know, one child in jeopardy is one child too many. I would suggest that with the low volumes of vehicles that are in the area today, if you noted in the maps that Ms. Beckman showed earlier in her presentation and she identified correctly, there are multiple dead-end streets throughout the neighborhood as well.
 We're just not seeing a high volume of vehicles, A. There's definitely not a high-speed issue here with vehicles. And as included in the applicant's traffic study, and I applaud their consultant for doing this extra effort, they provided us with an analysis of potential cut-through traffic, a very, very conservative analysis that was prepared.
 Even with those numbers that were thrown into the equation, it is absolutely not expected that there's going to be a high volume of additional vehicle traffic traveling through the subdivision as a result of the street connection. There's no reason from PBOT's perspective that completing a street network, providing for a street connection, has any...
 negative impacts with respect to the goals and objectives of a Safe Route to School program. And I have confirmed we've had multiple meetings with Safe to Route School staff in preparation for this hearing and for the hearings officer's hearing. And we are definitely all on the same page from PBOT development review and Safe Route to School. There's no reason to suggest that
 Traffic in relation to the subdivision is going to result in adverse impacts to pedestrians in the area. Thank you. The right-of-way of 48th and the new sidewalk, how is the water going to flow into the culverts and into the Green Street structures? How does it get across the sidewalk to get into this? I could take a stab at that, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for the question, but I would prefer that you would point that out.
 Question to BES staff. And do we have somebody from BES here, please? Bureau of Environmental Services. Thank you. I pulled up the map, but I don't know if there's a way to show that. Would that be helpful? Yes, that was the one I was going to ask. Thank you. Thanks. I'm Brett Winkler with Bureau of Environmental Services, civil engineer managing that group, Public Works. And it looks like the Green Street, the sidewalk is closer to the
 environment, it's on the property side of the right-of-way, right? And then there's a green planter on the west side of that? Yeah, that's a typical design where we have the stormwater planter located in the landscaped area and these plans were, this is sort of more schematic I'd say, so keep that in mind.
 We'll review the public works plans, and typically what we'd see in this location is we want to make sure there's a solid connection. We wouldn't be, you know, obviously running stormwater across the sidewalk. It'd be more of a piped connection with an outfall to the stream. Okay.
 And I will confess, I haven't seen the specific plan, so I'd have to confirm that. But that's our typical standard, and that's what I'd expect to be seeing at this location. Yeah, I'm concerned about that because I have seen water running across the sidewalks in this area of Southwest, not this particular spot. The other concern I have is where it was pointed out to us about the seep –
 which is not a seep or not part of an aquifer or whatever. And I note on page 28 of the hearings office decision, it says that BES argued that if the noted stormwater discharges do not constitute springs or seeps, as defined by the code, they should still be located in the tract in order to avoid potential impacts to the surface and subsurface flow of water that occurs across this site. And then it goes on to say...
 BES failed to identify any code requirement that could support such a condition. And I'm wondering why isn't the grading approval criteria, which I just had on page 21, existing contours and drainage patterns of the site must be left intact where practicable?
 I didn't see any discussion of that because I'm concerned about that seep and is it going to then be draining into the basements of the houses or how does it get where it needs to go? Yeah, you've managed to pick the one question that I think straddles several jurisdictions. So I'll speak to what I know and then I can also defer to one of my co-workers who's done a lot more on the seeps and springs.
 What I can tell you is just about the larger drainage pattern as a whole that I've seen and reflected in the drainage report, which is by and large we're directing water similarly to what was there before. The one exception is that we are, I'll call it intercepting some streets with the new proposed cut through. Those facilities are unlined, so there is an opportunity for water to maintain its connection to the subsurface flows.
 And then the retaining wall, my understanding is that it has weak walls. Okay. Well, obviously, maybe the applicants and also the opponents can go into more detail about that, and I can ask your colleague later. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Yeah, I would just add on that that the area in question is below where the homes will be, so it definitely won't be going into anybody's basement. It would be in the area where there's –
 there is some development which would be a retaining wall and some fill, but it is below grade of all the homes. Commissioner Fritz, if I may add as well to your question related to the construction of the street and how stormwater management is going to be dealt with. Hopefully this brings you some comfort and the rest of the council as well. The project has been through the public works process now for many, many months.
 we wouldn't have been able to get here nor to even the hearings officer if...
 the street design had not been conceptually approved through Public Works. So there's been a tremendous amount of work and technical review that city staff from PBOT, BES, and the Water Bureau have all invested in the street design. So if we hadn't gotten to that point of the applicant receiving conceptual approval from Public Works, we would not be at this stage today. Thank you.
 Next, we'll hear from the appellant. You have 10 minutes to present. Hello. I'm Peggy Hennessey here on behalf of the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association. And with me at the table are John Rhodes and Shane Latimer, who are experts in their respective fields. We've got a wetlands expert as well as a hydrologist. Thanks.
 And we'd like to begin by letting you know that the Neighborhood Association is not opposed to residential development per se. What they are opposed to is the plan that's been approved because we don't think it meets the approval criteria. And the first one with which we have issues is the city code requires inclusion of seeps and springs, right?
 City staff found additional springs, which they're not calling springs anymore.
 Then the applicant submitted additional information and said they really don't meet the definition of springs, therefore there's no need to protect them. John Rhodes, who's our expert hydrologist, reviewed the record and conducted a site visit, and we've submitted a 15-page report which explains why the newly discovered springs are indeed springs and entitled to protection.
 Mr. Rhodes is here today and can go into more detail with you and respond to questions you may have about the seeps and springs. With respect to tree preservation, your code requires you to protect the trees to the extent possible. And the hearings officer found that connectivity was absolutely mandated in this case. However, Phil Healy, who is a transportation planner with over 20 years of experience here,
 has submitted a statement into the record explaining why connectivity is not required in this case. He reviewed it against the code provisions regarding location of rights-of-way and connectivity and found that there's no compelling need for additional connectivity for cars in the area. The new street would be spaced less than 200 feet from 48th Avenue,
 which is a direct violation of your code. And the through street would be of minimal benefit compared to the adverse impacts it will create on the other natural resources on the site. And with respect to the environmental review, Shane Latimer will be addressing some of the issues related to the runoff, alternates for piping it,
 how it impacts the existing wetlands on site, and the outdated stormwater management technique of just piping it all away. How do you recharge the wetlands? It's not working to protect the environmental situation on site.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm John Rhodes. I've got about 30 years in my field in hydrology. I've submitted written testimony. Of note in my background is the work for my graduate degree was all on shallow aquifers and the fate of nitrogen in them in mountains. Going through the definition that's being used for what a spring is, it has to come from an aquifer that intersects the surface.
 One of the things that's been thrown around is whether or not the water that's feeding the spring is an aquifer or not. If you look up the definition of an aquifer, it's a water-bearing natural soil formation that can transmit water. When you see a spring, that's an indication of an aquifer.
 Some of the definitions that have been thrown out secondarily for an aquifer is that it's usually in terms of whether it can yield usable water supply. That's usually. That's not always.
 And as far as the water supply, the downstream water supply for the wetland is very important. It's usable for the wetland. It's usable for water supply further down in the important resources and fish habitat. It's usable further down for water temperature control. I went through the TMDL, the Chief of Cities TMDL. One of their main strategies is to protect seeps and springs.
 and to restore natural flows. In previous areas, do not do that. Just translate what TMDL is. I'm terribly sorry. It's a total maximum daily load. It's when you have very impaired water quality, as is the case with Fountain Creek. It's a formal way of setting out obligations.
 But it's also the resources within that environmental conservation zone. Part of the approval criteria is that they have to be protected, and an alternative needs to be selected that has the least detrimental impacts on that environmental conservation zone, which includes a wetland, it includes downstream fish habitat. So the water is usable. It meets the definition of an aquifer.
 The only other criteria is whether or not it flows into a channel. Well, the drainage maps all clearly show that it flows into the wetland. The drainage maps all show that the wetland clearly flows into the channel in the corner of the property. The channel clearly flows into a water body that is Phantom Creek. And these wetlands are an important part of water supply during low flow.
 If you look at the Phantom Creek Tributary Conservation Plan, which sets out the resources and the values that are to be protected in environmental conservation zones, and this is just background, they say that impervious surfaces permit less rainfall to infiltrate the soil. They reduce groundwater recharge. They lower the volume of water in creeks.
 contributed by groundwater. This can cause neighboring creeks to dry up early in the season, which can damage or destroy habitat for resident fish. So these are all key issues. The impervious surfaces also reduce low flows, as I mentioned in there. This is not in dispute in hydrology. That has adverse effects on the wetland. It also has adverse effects downstream. Those cannot be mitigated, and there are lower impact alternatives to this
 because it's known that the impacts are proportional to the amount of impervious surfaces. Reduce the impervious surfaces in an alternative, and you reduce the impacts. But again, the seeps, springs, need to be protected. They meet the definition under the code. I need to clarify, the impervious surface you're talking about, is that the retaining wall, or...?
 Houses, sidewalks upstream. Everything. Everything. They shunt water away. They prevent recharge. Okay. Happy to clarify. Can I just ask a clarifying question? Was the substance of the expert testimony that you've provided to us, was this submitted below? No. This is a de novo hearing, so it's new today. Okay.
 Okay. Well, we could also have been submitted below and today. So just clarifying, this is the first time this has been submitted? Yes. Okay. All right. Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm Shane Latimer. I want to just briefly address the wetland since it is the key element of the conservation zone and its positioning on the site. Okay.
 I think the thing that struck me about the proposed development was that the way the hydrology was set up for the site was to divert most of it off the site.
 We've come to a point in the development of Portland where, in fact, we have great opportunities to not divert stormwater into a pipe, but to continue to use them in situ as something to drive our existing ecosystem services, such as wetlands.
 And in this case, we are not only diverting that water away from the wetland, we are also perhaps reducing the hydrology that would feed and maintain the wetland. So, in fact, I haven't seen anything in the record that would quantitatively or qualitatively to some degree
 show that there's not going to be an indirect impact to the wetlands and the stream on site, nor to the other waters and similar related features or fish and wildlife downstream. The courts have found that water quantity is as important as water quality in terms of quality.
 prevention of harm to endangered species and I think this is a case where you're high up in the watershed, this is where we have great opportunities to preserve water flow and temperatures, water quality in general for those situations, habitats, species that are farther downstream. I think there are opportunities here with alternative designs that are practicable to
 maintain water on site, treat it on site, discharge it on site through the wetlands as it happens now, while still dealing with some of the flood control issues maybe from surrounding areas. Thank you. And I just wanted to add with respect to the transportation issue. The hearings officers found that the safe routes to school program,
 program was not really a relevant approval criterion. And it's not listed as an approval criterion, but it is relevant to your basic transportation issues. Under your code section 33-641-020, it says that the applicant must show that the system, including all modes, can safely support the new development in addition to existing uses. The existing uses are...
 school children getting to Hayhurst Elementary School. And PBOT says that this development will not really conflict with that. They'll have sidewalks. Well, it will also introduce trips generated by each of the houses and additional trips by people who don't live there who are going to be able to cut through on Pendleton for the first time. Thank you. I have to ask you, I know that area well, and I'm trying to figure out where would cut-through traffic be coming from and going to? Sure.
 down to Beaverton Hillsdale they might cut through just because it's easier why would you do that as opposed to just going down 45th to Cameron or whatever whatever street it is I don't know I'm not as familiar with it as you are colleagues any more questions? alright thank you next up we will hear from supporters of the appeal Carla do we have a list? yes we have about 12 people signed up
 The first three, please come on up, are Al Iverson, Drew Bradbury, and Randy Sachs. And they'll be followed by Susan King, Brian Theroots, I believe it is, and Nathan Hale. Welcome. Please state your name for the record. You have three minutes. Does it matter what order we go in? It does not. Okay, I'll go first.
 My name is Al Iverson. I live in the Hayers neighborhood. I'm a professional engineer licensed in civil and environmental engineering, and I've been involved in stormwater management policy issues for southwest Portland for some time now. This project will likely harm downstream properties. This is a common occurrence in southwest Portland. In the Spring Garden neighborhood, several older homes are experiencing stormwater problems for the first time after nine homes were built upstream from them.
 For this project, upstream stormwater runoff from 75 homes and a mile of city streets flows in a ditch through the southwest portion of the project site. The runoff neck crosses 48th Avenue in an 18-inch diameter culvert. The project proposes replacing this culvert with a 36-inch one, even though the amount of stormwater there will be slightly less after the project is completed than before. It is this aspect of the project that concerns me.
 During large storms, the 18-inch culvert restricts the flow, causing runoff to pool on the upstream side of Southwest 48th Avenue. Southwest 48th Avenue acts like a dike, and stormwater runoff overflows the ditch and floods a portion of the property being developed. The actual stormwater storage volume is unknown, but it has held every storm for the last 20 years without exceeding capacity.
 This observation contradicts the submitted calculations, which say that a storage capacity would be exceeded within two minutes during a 25-year storm. Using the same assumption and methods, a two-year storm would exceed the storage capacity in about four minutes. This has clearly never happened, so the actual stormwater storage capacity must be greater than the 2,300 cubic feet assumed in the calculations.
 The project has a substantial amount of fill dirt, and by increasing the culvert diameter to 36 inches, it won't matter if there is a loss of stormwater storage volume by inadvertently filling in some of that area. In part, this is what happened in Spring Garden. The developer's engineer responded to my concerns by saying that the prescribed culvert design method does not consider storage or attenuating impacts along the conveyance system.
 By replacing the 18-inch diameter culvert with a 36-inch diameter one, stormwater runoff will flow unchecked on the downstream side of Southwest 48th. This will negatively impact downstream properties and, I would think, be in conflict with City Code 17.38.035, which addresses downstream damage. I did not receive an adequate explanation for this.
 And this is why this does not violate the city code. And for this reason, I urge you to deny the permit for this project that it has now proposed. Thank you. Can you state your name?
 My name is Randy Sachs. I'm speaking as a neighbor and also on behalf of the Neighborhood Association. The first thing I wanted to do was expand upon Phil Healy's testimony. Phil is a transportation planner with over 20 years of experience. He currently works for the Port of Portland, which is why he couldn't be here today because he's at an all-day event.
 So I'm going to read a little bit of his testimony just in regards to the connectivity. So Phil said, I'm a transportation planner with more than 20 years of experience in Oregon. I reviewed and implemented street connectivity regulations for hundreds of residential land divisions during my previous employment in Washington County. My comments are limited to the proposal and requirement of a through public street for this subdivision.
 The Portland Master Street Plan Map 11.11.6 in the Southwest District, which I believe will be handed to all of you, shows potential street connection point and alignment uncertain chevrons directed southward from the northern southwest Pendleton Street to the south, along with a street connection point certain arrow in the middle portion of the site directed to the south towards southwest Iowa Street.
 This implies that a street connection must be carried through from Southwest Pendleton Street to Southwest Iowa Street. Because of scale of the map is unclear if the connection to the south is intended to be made along the existing Southwest 48th Avenue or through the development site or some other arrangement.
 The map also has a street connection point certain arrow directed from the middle portion of the site to the east. The exact meaning of these designations is unclear, but what is clear is that they need to be considered in concert with the street connectivity requirements found in 33.654.110. He goes on to say that there have been findings that made that there will be significant changes to the required terrain in order to construct the street, which is one of the aspects of the approval criteria.
 He comments that a pedestrian path could be constructed along the east property line with much less grading impact. 33.654.110.B1A requires that through streets and pedestrian connections should generally be at least 200 feet apart. The new street would be spaced at less than 200 feet from Southwest 48th Avenue. Again, a pedestrian path could be constructed along the east property line that would meet the city's space and guidelines.
 Testimony has been provided that there will be minimal use of the new street connection for through traffic. This information diminishes the argument for the need of a through street in the first place due to its minimal benefit to auto connectivity compared to the impact to site terrain and other natural resources described in the code.
 There's not a compelling need for additional connectivity for cars in this area. There is no significant reduction in vehicle miles traveled. In fact, it goes against the city's larger goals of trying to induce a mode shift from autos to active transportation. Introducing additional traffic on roadways. Can I finish the sentence? Or no?
 Very quickly. Introducing additional traffic on roadways which are not adequately surfaced and do not meet the city's engineering standards, while at the same time not requiring or assuring improvement to minimal standards is not a benefit to the neighborhood. This is included in the testimony that was handed in by the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you.
 I didn't get the letter. I got two pieces of the map. So the map is actually printed from the master plan, and then it shows you the key, basically, for what the icons represent. Maybe I don't have the right thing. Could you submit the letter as well, please? Yes, it's included in the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association's packet. Thank you. Exhibit 3. Thank you. Thank you. Please state your name for the record. My name is Drew Bradbury. Thank you.
 I don't have much to say. I signed in, but I don't want to be redundant. I have a – I'll say a couple of things. One is that I have a signed petition here by 306 signatures in the neighborhood. We have a lot of people here in the neighborhood, but there are a lot of other people who are not represented here today in person.
 whose voices we want to make sure are heard. They're not just clicking and submitting. They're actual comments from people who have lived in the neighborhood for decades that we feel are relevant, those comments are relevant. Particularly around the connectivity issue, I wanted to offer my thoughts as well. You know, there are standards that are meant to be met and meant to be discussed, but it's pretty hard to feel that introducing vehicles or vehicles currently are not
 would not introduce more peril into the neighborhood and into a safe route to school. The sidewalks that PBOT is proposing are not connecting to any other sidewalks in the area. They are islands unto themselves. And so there is a fundamental conflict conceptually that introducing cars cannot introduce more danger for the only, only pedestrian route from Cameron to Hayhurst Elementary.
 And to address your question, Commissioner Saltzman, simply because I have more familiarity with the neighborhood, cars would be – through traffic would be going from Cameron to 45th, from Cameron to Hayhurst, from people driving west wanting to go down to Cameron and then ultimately be from Hillsdale Highway. So there would be increased trips in general and also because of the increased homes.
 And I think that it's not overstating it to say that this is...
 the only safe route to school in the neighborhood. This is a pedestrian superhighway, regardless of what time of day other folks have witnessed pedestrians or not. Anybody you might hear from today in the neighborhood would certainly assert that this has been used as such for decades. And so it's not a small issue. It's not just a conceptual issue about a safe route to school going away. It actually is introducing danger to families and to people using this who walk, people who ride bicycles, people who are elderly. And
 If it were necessary, really necessary to this, I think there would be more understanding in the neighborhood, but these are not major arteries that need to be connected. This is a small neighborhood. It's not that we want to keep it that way. We understand change is part of life, and Portland is in bloom, and we get it.
 The need for connectivity is simply unnecessary, and any further delving into the details on this should show that. That's really all I have to offer today. I thank you for your time, and I'll be submitting this as well. Thank you. The next three are Susan King, Brenna Hurwitz, and Nathan Hale, and they'll be followed by Dennis Call, Leslie Hammond, and Peggy McSorney.
 Welcome. Whoever wants to start, please state your name for the record. Thank you. My name is Susan King. I am one of the co-chairs of the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association. I have lived on about one block from the site for over 37 years, first along Southwest 48th Avenue and now on Southwest Flower Court.
 Much of our official testimony will repeat what you've already heard today, but I do want to emphasize a couple of the points that have already been made so that you can understand the extreme concern that our neighborhood has for this proposed development, for this development as proposed. Our neighbors are very acutely aware of this site. As I said, I've lived there for 37 years. My child ran over the site with the children who lived there for years.
 And I can attest to the monad, his boots and clothes that came from walking through the seeps and springs that do exist on the property. You've heard about water flow, and we have communicated the presence of water flow on this property and in the environmental zone since the very beginning of this process. Our adjacent neighbors experienced drainage and stormwater problems resulting from the site, even today with approximately 200 trees that exist today.
 I want to repeat what has already been said. The Hayhurst Neighborhood Association is not opposed to development on this site, but it strongly proposed to this particular proposal. We understand the desire for the property owner to achieve a return on investment on the property. Let me just emphasize again two critical areas of concern. First, you've heard already, the physical character of the site, including the existence of seeps and springs outside the environmental zone.
 I would emphasize Chapter 333, 635, 100, which requires that existing contours and drainage patterns of the site must be left intact wherever practical. In fact, the proposed development is in direct conflict with this requirement, as the entire developable portion of the site is being regraded and all contours changed.
 The proposed home sites, together with the regrading and rerouting of runoff, will have a significant negative impact on the wetland portion of the site as well as the stream system. You've already heard about that. Springs that exist on the site flow into the wetlands, and water is discharged versus a stream channel through a culvert into a tributary of Pendleton Creek and ultimately into Fannel Creek.
 As noted by previous expert testimony, there are a myriad of negative effects that will result from this proposal on a watershed that is the subject of the city's own conservation plan, including water temperature, pollution mitigation, etc. The second issue critical to the neighborhood you also have already heard about, and that is the presumed requirement that two segments of Southwest Pendleton be connected.
 It is our opinion, our assertion, that no compelling reason for such connection to be required, and in prior testimony, PBAT staff has suggested that the connectivity goal supersedes other considerations on this terrain and whether traffic requirements exist.
 I'm just going to, if I may, conclude. I will leave my written testimony. The sidewalks that are proposed really only are on the perimeter of the property, and they connect to no other sidewalks in the area. In fact, southwest Portland is notoriously absent.
 or deficit, I would say, has a deficit in sidewalks. Okay. Southwest 48 from Southwest Cameron to the adjacent site is a substandard road. It's narrow, filled with potholes. I have to ask you to wrap up. You've gone well on ten minutes. And let me just say that the count that PBOT staff achieved in no way mirrors the actual use of Southwest 48 Street that occurs on a daily basis, rain or shine. I'll leave my written testimony, and I thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Ms. King, you mentioned the 200 trees that are currently on the property. Do you happen to know how many of those will be preserved under the plan? I believe we submitted that in the past, and it has escaped my memory right now, but we can get that information for you. Thank you. I have a question first. I didn't bring a picture, but do you want to show them? I want to show you a picture of 48th. Can she use my phone? I don't want to step over the thing. Is that okay? There weren't any pictures of 48th.
 Just give us your name for the record. Oh, sorry. I'm Brynna Hurwitz. I'm co-land use chair of Hayhurst. Thank you very much for having us here, and it's an honor to be here. So the main thing I wanted to talk about is Southwest 48th and the safe route to school, because what's difficult is with all the maps, there was nothing about Southwest 48th from Cameron to Southwest Pendleton.
 So if you have that little bad map ahead in front of you that I gave you for Randy, if you look at Southwest Cameron, thank you so much, I appreciate that, and then you look at Southwest 45th, Southwest 45th from Cameron to Southwest Pendleton is not going to be improved at all. That is your major safe route to school. That's your major way. There's no sidewalks. There's potholes. It has a steeper grade. It's 10% versus what's actually acceptable is 8%.
 And then, Mr. Saltzman, you asked Commissioner Saltzman about why would you skip Cameron, and that's an excellent question. And here's the funny thing. The church on Cameron and 48th, they now have a sign saying no cross-through because people go through the church parking lot to avoid about four seconds of a drive. So here you're going on 45th, right, coming from Vermont, and you're heading toward Beaversham Hillsdale, heading north.
 I think that is. And then you go, and there's a 90% turn, a hook like that, and you're at the top of Cameron, and you come down. If you could avoid that, and you're on 45th, and you go, I'm just going to go through this neighborhood, and I come out on 48th,
 I've missed a 90% angle of a turn and a flat downhill with no sidewalks where people sometimes walk. So it will be used as a shortcut. It really will be. What I'm worried about is we've been fortunate to have no fatalities, not many accidents so far. But just the other night I came home from care when I turned on to Southwest 48th, and I'm familiar with it, so I was driving super slowly
 But there's two people walking and another car put on the brakes. Okay, we're all fine. But those of us who live there every day, I'm thinking this is just an accident waiting to happen. It's unimproved. You're swiggling around to get out of the potholes. There's no sidewalks. And it's really a well-used path from southwest Cameron all the way to Iowa. Okay.
 So that's a really big concern. And I know, as I said, I wish I had a map we could all look at. But the new streets that are going to have the sidewalks have nothing to do with that major arterial. So if we didn't have to have that connectivity coming through, which will be a shortcut, and additionally all those houses will have cars that will use 48th. Because 48th is your closest way to Beaverton Hillsdale, grocery stores, Beaverton.
 Any of the major areas where you're going to go. And that is Southwest 48th. That's how you're going down there. Thank you. Thank you. I need to ask you to email that photo to Carla so it can be entered into the record. No problem at all. Thank you. Hello. My name is Nathan Hale. I am a licensed landscape architect in the state of Oregon. I currently live exactly catty corner to this piece of property. I live just northwest of that, the Pendleton 48th intersection. Okay.
 My family has owned and lived in the house I'm currently in since 1968, so we do have a lot of history in the neighborhood with the people who used to own the property across the street from us as well. I'd like to take a couple notes of stuff that kind of gets muddied up with all the terminology and all that stuff. Some things to note is, yes, definitely with a new construction, this portion of Pendleton will be safer.
 But nothing else will. Just this one block section of Pendleton. You're creating sidewalks that have already been brought up that have no connectivity. They're putting in sidewalks that earlier they stated that the safe route to school that my daughter uses goes through private property. But they're putting sidewalks to this supposed private property that nobody uses. I think a big question that keeps getting avoided is technically my address is Southwest 48th. And I have no sidewalks.
 I have no, there will be no improvements to my property other than the flow of traffic, other than construction, other than damage to my street. And my concern is, is that, yes, 48th or Southwest Pendleton will be safer. Can someone look me in the eye and say 48th will be safer? It can't. The additional traffic will not make it safer. Okay. I've walked to school with my daughter and her. She's very friendly in the neighborhood. So...
 with more than eight children at any one time. A lot of those people are in this room, and we're very good friends with each other. I think something that hasn't been brought up is also recently City of Portland PPS changed the school boundaries. Those school boundaries have extended more to the north, bringing more students through our neighborhood than ever before. And I don't think that's been accounted for in all this stuff, is that there has been a growing number of students coming to Hayhurst now.
 I think another note to make is that, yes, there are other ways to get to Iowa other than Southwest 48th.
 But I can tell you right now that none of those are the same. I had submitted them prior where every other way through to Iowa to the south of this property is a trail at best. A lot of those are on private property. This is the one that children on bikes can use, people in wheelchairs can use. It's the only really accessible route. The next route you know is Southwest 45th, but nobody can walk down. So another note worth saying is I don't think –
 We talk about water and all this stuff, and really the scale of the impermeable surface that we're trying to create hasn't been addressed. I mean, we have currently two houses, a house and a garage that maybe cover 3,000 square feet, and we're going to cover it with over 10,000 square feet of impermeable space. Thank you. Thank you for your time. I have a couple questions. Yeah.
 Is the preference of the neighborhood that the street be a cul-de-sac or dead end? Because it clearly needs a street. We've seen versions that would allow a mirrored image on Pendleton, which would allow six houses on the south side of Pendleton, and then on the upper portion of Pendleton basically creating a cul-de-sac with five more houses, which would still give you the number you want and not require a through street.
 And then my other question is, as in regards to the safe route to school, that is an unpaved path through private property? Or I'm not— That path used to be a through street with cars and traffic and everything. It's a gravel path, but I mean it's a road's width. So it's not a trail. It's a 10-foot wide single lane road that goes through there.
 Where is that in relation to the environmental area? It would be just to the west of that. That's what I thought. And then my final question is, as far as sidewalks and surrounding streets, I mean, that's clearly not the responsibility of the developer. Yeah.
 Are you saying that you would want the city to provide additional sidewalks?
 Walk on the sidewalk in front of 11 houses and then get back in the street. That's all that's allowed. It hasn't allowed for connectivity from Gabriel Park to Hayer School or Gabriel Park. There is no connectivity there. The connectivity is in the street. So people are forced to walk in the street. So this little bit of sidewalk, we're never going to be able to improve 48th, and I don't expect sidewalks to be everywhere. What I'm trying to say is that even though, yes, this one block will be safer, everything around it won't be.
 And I don't live on Pendleton. I live on 48th and Pendleton. So it does have an effect. All right. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Dennis Call, Leslie Hammond, and Peggy McSorley. And then the last three who signed up are Sarah Silke, Benton VanWormer, and Greg Zupan. Welcome. My name is Dennis Call, and I live at 5721 Southwest 48th Avenue.
 It's on an unimproved street of 48th. I have been at that location going on 50 years. So I've seen a lot of changes in the neighborhood. From the intersection of 48th and Flower Court to Cameron Road, the responsibility in care and maintenance of that part of 48th has been on the residents. Neither the city nor the county claims responsibility for the maintenance. That street is filled constantly with potholes. It is not...
 passable by two cars at one time, either going to and from. It is constantly filled with people, kids going to and from school, dog walkers, joggers, and bicyclists. And contrary to the report, there's more than eight kids going to school on that street. I see a ton of kids going through. They're on a daily basis. So...
 This project, as it's presented, an enormous increase in the daily car and truck traffic over unimproved section of 48th. So I'm asking the committee to consider the magnitude of this negative impact on the safety and wellness of this part of the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Leslie Hammond, and I have a house on the corner of Southwest 47th and Pendleton. And I would agree that by putting a through road, you're going to have a lot more traffic that comes through that part of the neighborhood because they will –
 cut the corner and they won't go up to 45th to come, they won't go up Cameron to 45th to come down. But I got involved with this because when I got noticed that the development was coming, I went down to the city and talked to Stephanie about what the plans were.
 and noticed that most of the trees were going to disappear. And most importantly, for me personally, there is a gigantic 50 to 60-foot western cedar that anchors the back corner of my property. My property runs right across the top of where the building site will be,
 And there's a big tree in the right-of-way that actually pushes under my fence that anchors that corner of my property. I have a retaining wall behind my property to make sure it doesn't fall down the ravine that's right below it. And so I asked if the western cedar could be saved instead of cut down. The entire right-of-way along my property is all trees and bushes and this big tree. And the tree, of course, is very healthy and in good shape.
 So I've been trying to work with the urban forester to see if that tree could be saved from demolition because the development is coming in. I am happy to accept new neighbors because I have been following the residential infill project and the affordability issues very closely for the last year and trying to sort out what I thought, what reasonable solutions there might be.
 Personally, I think 11 houses on the steepness of this ravine, and I encourage you to go out and look at it, is way too many. And I also think, so I would suggest that the number of houses be cut back. But if that's not possible, we don't.
 We definitely should do a cul-de-sac and not a through street, which will preserve the safe road for the kids on the other side. I didn't even know about the safe roads to the kids until earlier this year because I'm a brand-new homeowner in the area. But it is really, really valuable.
 Anything that this council can do to keep it the way it is will make it much, will keep it safe. Because we don't have a lot of cars that go down that street. And if you make it through street, we will have a lot of cars that go through. And of course, cars actually create the danger for the kids. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 Hi. My name is Sarah Silke. Peggy McSorley would have been next, but she said other people have said what she was going to say. I live across the street from the proposed development, and...
 I agree with most of what my fellow neighbors have said along the way here. I have to say I've spent a lot of time reading the city code and the approval criteria, because my understanding is it's not what the neighborhood wants. It's what the city code says. And what's really interesting to me about the city code and these approval criteria is that all of them say –
 to the extent possible, where practical, if there are not serious other considerations.
 And what the city staff have decided is that the vehicular, the car connectivity, is the most important criteria for this development. And in order to achieve that, we have to do extreme grading, which would not otherwise be permissible. We have to remove the vast majority of the trees. I don't have the exact number, but I think there's only like three or four that are the good trees that are going to be kept.
 western Red Cedar she's talking about is right in the line of this proposed road.
 So I would love to have new neighbors. I have young kids. They like playing with other kids. My sister wants to buy a house. There's nothing affordable. Like, new houses are good. But this street going through and making us sacrifice the trees, sacrifice the hydrology, sacrifice all of these other approval criteria, I mean, the language is there to allow you guys to decide...
 is allowable. Like, I can see that. But it's frustrating because they're saying, well, you know, we can't make any exception on the connectivity criteria. This must happen. But these other ones, well, there's this problem, and so we're going to go around it. And I wish I were a lawyer so that I could present this more clearly.
 clearly. But just take a look at the big picture here. We can have houses, we can have development. We're at a point in Portland where this is not a property you would develop if you had lots of choices. But we need more houses. It's a swamp.
 we have to develop our swamps now, but let's do it carefully. Let's look at it twice. Let's say maybe if we don't have to have a paved road that's heavy enough for trucks to go through, we can have a pedestrian and a bikeway, we can have a cul-de-sac, we can get 11 houses in there, and we can do it right. Thank you. Thank you. The last two who signed up are Benton Van Warmer and Greg Zupan. Welcome. Thank you.
 I guess it's just me. Yeah, you can state your name for the record. My name is Benton Van Warmer, and I just wanted to provide a kind of experience from me growing up there. I was actually a child who grew up in the neighborhood, so I just wanted to kind of give that experience. So I grew up in the neighborhood, and coincidentally, one of the previous owners of this property in question was my babysitter. So definitely, as you can hear from everyone here, a tight-knit neighborhood.
 I spent my childhood biking, walking, playing in this neighborhood. Not one time did I feel that I was unsafe, not many cars going through. I have to know that this is because there was dead ends at every street. There's no, you're only going to where you're going. You're not going to be able to go through. So more importantly...
 My parents didn't worry when I was in the street. And ultimately, I fear that this will no longer be the case if this becomes a through street. Not only will children not be able to use this area to be able to grow up and be able to play in the streets, but parents won't feel the same comfort that my parents were lucky enough to have with this street being a dead end. And that's all I had here, but I appreciate your time. Thank you very much. Okay. Next up is the principal opponent. Thank you.
 Welcome. Thank you, President Udaly. We're going to do this in order. Mr. Rimmers is going to start. I'll go next, and then Mr. Peebles will finish, and I'll give my name when I introduce myself for my testimony. Great. And, Lauren, just to clarify, it says 15 minutes. Okay. So, yes, you have 15 minutes. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, commissioners. Thank you for your time today to hear our testimony on an 11-home site subdivision in the Hayers neighborhood. My name is Vic Remmers, and I have been a lifetime resident here in Portland. I actually grew up in southwest Portland, not too far from this site. I'm also one of the owners of Everett Custom Homes.
 With me today we have our consultants, which include Mike Robinson from Perkins Coie, Mike Peebles from OTAC Engineering, Wade Scarborough from Kettleson Associates. And we're here to answer any of your questions that you might have and to explain why city staff and the hearings officer made the right decision approving the 11 home site subdivision. I just want to note that I work with your city staff on a regular basis and –
 I just want to commend them on doing an excellent job reviewing the approval criteria and making the correct decision of approving our subdivision. We intend to build 11 new homes here on this property that will blend in with the neighborhood. And you're going to hear from Mike Robinson as to why our development meets all their approval criteria and why it was approved.
 That's all I have. So thank you for your time today. Thank you. Thanks, Vic. Good afternoon, President Udalli and members of the City Council. My name is Mike Robinson. I'm here on behalf of the applicant today. So I'm going to do just a few minutes and then turn it over to Mike. So first of all, I appreciate the tone of the discussion. This has been a good discussion about how we implement the zoning code, and I think it's frankly been very helpful. So we appreciate...
 the opportunity to engage you in this. I remind you, as you heard today, that staff recommended approval of this application. The hearings officer approved it. And I think the first thing I want to note is he did so very thoughtfully. He has a 54-page opinion
 The first six or seven pages respond to every issue raised by the Neighborhood Association. He took them seriously, we took them seriously, and the staff took them seriously, and that's why you ended up with a 54-page opinion. With respect to traffic, he has eight or nine pages that deal with all the transportation issues. So I would commend you, and I'll ask for the record to be held open, and we won't waive our final written argument. I would commend you to take the time, if you've not done so, to read those pages.
 So let me just say a few things before I take too much of Mike's time. First of all, if you've noted the zoning map, we're developing in the same zone as our neighbors are located in, R7, and we're doing 11 lots, 11 new homes for families to occupy. I think the maximum is 12, so we're not even doing the maximum number of dwellings. And as the witness just testified to, housing affordability is an important issue in this city. Every time we ratchet down the number of units or make it harder to develop,
 The people that suffer are the home buyers, not the developer, not the property owner, but the people that have to pay for the home. We're doing what the code requires us to do. Thank you.
 Let me just talk then about a few issues. Traffic safety, you have in the record the only traffic impact analysis, as Fabio said, that was professionally prepared. It's done by Kilson and Associates. You have PBOT evidence as to why the criteria for traffic safety are satisfied. We've not seen Mr. Healy's written testimony. It's not a traffic impact analysis, but we'll be looking forward to responding to that.
 Tree removal, I think the only thing that would be helpful for me to say is if you look at the hearings officer's decision at page 17, he cites the criteria for tree removal. The very first criteria is consideration of the specific development proposed. So tree removal is not considered in isolation. It's considered in the context of what's before the decision maker.
 And let me talk lastly about connectivity. I don't think I've ever been in a hearing where people favored connectivity. Lots of reasons people like dead-end streets. But the reality is since 1991 when LCDC adopted the Transportation Planning Rule, our state's goal, the Metro's goal, and the city's goal has been to get these disconnected streets connected. And it benefits not just cars, but pedestrians, bicycles, emergency vehicles, all the people that use our street.
 And your criterion in 33654 absolutely requires, as long as none of the exceptions are present, and that's not the case here, absolutely requires connectivity. So the hearings officer made the right decision. His decision is based on substantial evidence. We agreed with all the conditions of approval in his decision. And if this council has additional conditions they'd like to suggest, my sense is we'll probably agree with those as well. Thank you for your time today. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Mike Peebles. I'm a registered civil engineer with OTAC. We're a consulting firm who's been working with Everett Holmes on this application. OTAC is providing in a collaborative effort the civil engineering landscape.
 stormwater management and land use planning for the application. As Vic mentioned, we also have a team of professionals on our team for geotechnical engineering, environmental traffic, and as well as an arborist. So a team that's worked very hard on this application. We appreciate the staff's assistance and input on the application. I wanted to touch on four key items relative to the appeal, the site design and alternatives item,
 stormwater management, the environmental zone, wetlands, seeps and springs, as well as the tree removal and mitigation. Stephanie's presentation sort of doubled up here, so I'll move through some of the redundant information. Existing conditions of the site from a constraint standpoint,
 48th Avenue on the west side in the southwest corner, there's an environmental zone that we had to avoid. Pendleton Street to the east side, as well as, as everyone has noted, steep grades on site. There's about a 38-foot drop from the east side to the west side, so there's a lot of grade within that existing ground sloped area. Yeah.
 48th Avenue to the west of the site being an unimproved gravel road. Pendleton to the north of the site being a paved road with houses to the north and a sub-street of Pendleton on the east side. And both Pendleton streets are both at about a 12% grade, so they're fairly steep running from the east to the west side.
 Our site layout incorporated roadway improvements along all the frontages as required by the City of Portland. And the key to the design is really as we're coming and connecting into Pendleton to the east, the ability to take the grade of Pendleton, have enough tangents. We can get down the grade. There's a big drop-off on that east property line. We wanted to use that road grade to get down before we made the turn to connect into the northern portion of Pendleton.
 That allowed us to match grade at the Pendleton Street we were connecting to.
 The improvements are to city standard, as noted. Planner strips, sidewalks, stormwater facilities. We're also providing sewer and water extensions to connect to existing utilities. All of the houses front on Pendleton Street are on the new Street A or the extension of Pendleton. You'll note we didn't have any...
 houses front on the 48th Avenue to the west. So we're not adding or having any driveways on 48th that might conflict with pedestrian traffic, although we are required to improve that frontage with the curb and the sidewalk and stormwater work. From a grading standpoint, again, the challenge with the grading of the site was to, A, avoid impacts in the environmental zone,
 We make the street connectivity between the existing grades of the Pendleton Stub and the existing Pendleton Street with the cul-de-sac and provide buildable lots. I think we have an advantage of this developer being the home builder, so we were able to work with Everett Homes on really tailoring the type of lots and what type of homes will be built on those lots to help build.
 with the grading. There is a lot of slope, but again, our theory is that because the home builder is also the developer, we can do this as one large grading operation. A lot of times, if you have a different home builder, you might just build the roads only.
 possibly preserve some more trees, but as then the homes get built, they take up their building area as well, and you end up having more disturbance in smaller chunks at a time rather than being able to do it once. That helps with erosion control, with staging of construction, and really minimizes the amount of time that is needed to construct the project. Thank you.
 This is just a note. There's a lot of talk about the grading on the site, and we do have some deep fills. This graphic shows with the plus marks the difference of grade between the existing grade and the proposed grade. And the real tall fills are down where we've stayed out of the environmental zone with the retaining wall. And that's basically based on the fact that the existing ground is so steep there and we're trying to match in.
 Alternatives, this is a layout that was done with a different application in 2014. It shows a cul-de-sac, lots fronting off Pendleton, a total disregard for the environmental zone, some lots that don't really have access. I don't know where it came from, but what it did is it provided us with,
 We got the early assistance notes and were able to understand what the city's expectations were for this site in terms of connectivity, street improvements, storm drainage, etc. And then we went through and with our application looked at other alternatives, taking the city's connectivity goals to heart. At one point, we had Street A connecting to the south.
 realizing there was really no extension possible in the future. We pulled that into a hammerhead-type ability, which provided some more turning radius for the street. But based on city code and discussions with PBOT, we actually pulled it into more of a 90-degree angle, allowed us to provide some more room on the south property line. On this alternative, you can see a lot of grading and tree removal at the south property line by pulling that 90-degree angle
 90-degree elbow up, we were able to, in our final condition, get away and leave some more buffer on that south property line. We also worked internally with alternatives of the Lot 5 and getting completely out of the environmental zone impact. Another alternative we... Could you go over that again, please, a bit about Lot 5? Because you considered not doing Lot 5. No, at one point we had impacts to the environmental zone from Lot 5.
 So we pulled with our final plan, I think if I go back here, you'll see that we've pulled Lot 5, any impacts out of the environmental zone. So we changed some grades, moved the street around with the 90-degree corner. We were able to provide the right lot size, frontage, and to keep Lot 5 clean.
 But this one shows the hatched areas and impact environmental zone. With the final plan, we don't have any of the lot within that environmental zone. Why did you choose to have the driveway so long on lot five? It seems like where you said the grading, it's also where the SEEP is, right? I can show a plan where that SEEP was identified in the future here. And so if I can come back to that. Okay, thank you. So this was a...
 I'll turn it by the Hayhurst Neighborhood Association that said, hey, why don't we keep the road to the east? The challenge to this is, again, you don't get down the hill fast enough, and so you end up actually, we looked at it, having more fill because you keep your road up on the east property line. Your road is, you know, the right-of-way is wide. It's fairly, the road is flat, and then you end up being up higher in the road with those lots, not to mention that we're down to eight lots. So we did look at quite
 quite a few alternatives in coming to our final plan. Stormwater management wise, it's been discussed. We did a comprehensive stormwater management plan, met the city of BES requirements. We've gotten through their 30% public works
 There's a large basin with few stormwater facilities in this part of town. We are providing stormwater facilities and upgrades to the culvert to manage the stormwater, as well as providing...
 Stormwater both on site. These are pictures of upstream on Pendleton Street. You can see there's no existing catch basins, no storm pipes. They all just go down the gutter line and flow over onto the property. The creek and the culvert down on 48th Avenue convey a lot of water, and we're improving that to city standards.
 So the stormwater facilities that we have on site are both for the public street runoff for those impervious areas, as well as the lighter green are individual stormwater planters that will be done with the house to manage the impervious area from the houses.
 You'll notice on lots four and five in the middle, we're actually taking the stormwater runoff after treatment from the rooftops and discharging it back into the environmental zone, which will go to the wetland area. Yeah.
 Where does the culvert go to in 4048? Where does it discharge? The culvert water is running from the east to the west, so it comes down the existing drainage. There's an existing 18-inch culvert in here now that crosses the gravel road, and then it discharges out with the picture that I showed. Oops, I'm going the wrong way.
 This picture up in the right, that's the downhill side of that 18-inch culvert. So it continues to go into a drainage and heads to the west. And what improvements are you doing into that creek, off that creek? So we are replacing, with the widening of 48th Avenue, we are replacing the existing 18-inch culvert with a 36-inch culvert to meet the City of Portland design standards.
 And it will outfall on the west side of 48th Avenue. And then it goes into a short open channel piece. And then there's a 18-inch culvert downstream of there that goes under a private driveway. And then it opens up again further. I can show you back here. Further to the west side.
 this is all open channel that goes back here. So are you doing any enhancements to the creek? We are not doing any enhancements to the creek downstream of our site, or on our site for that matter, with the exception of the, as we build 48th Avenue, we have to widen out and we'll build sidewalk and do some mitigation through there for environmental zone impacts. Okay, I'll ask BES about that afterwards. Thank you. Okay.
 I'm going to just talk briefly about the environmental zone. Again, we've minimized impacts. Those only impacts are for the 48th Avenue improvements, and we have an extensive mitigation planting plan that meets the city's requirements.
 This is the graphic that shows the overlay of the seeps and springs map that BES brought to us, and those locations are relative to our site plan. Greg Summers is here and can talk briefly about the seeps and springs within that area.
 Greg, if you wanted to. Hello. My name is Greg Summers. I work with Anchor QEA, and I'm a professional wetland scientist. Just a couple things on the Seepson Springs and why we don't feel that they meet the definition of Seepson Springs. Okay.
 We heard some talk earlier about it being an aquifer. I just want to be clear that an aquifer is typically an area that stores groundwater, and storage of that water is important. And most people think of aquifers that you drop a well into and draw water out for, say, irrigation or something. But you can also have perched aquifers, as was mentioned previously. But what's implicit in the definition of aquifer, though, is that it is stored water, which means it has water to provide.
 Now the areas that we saw, you might remember, I think most people remember, we had a little bit of rain this last winter. We had a lot of rain.
 And we were looking at these things in early March. By mid-March, there was no flow observed from any of these areas. If a spring or seep were indeed fed by an aquifer, or in my opinion, is it either a seep or a spring, you would see flow much longer into the year, particularly in a year like this. They can go dry, as is mentioned in the report, which I haven't had a chance to read all yet, but those are typically in droughty conditions. Obviously, we're not in a condition like that.
 So we'd expect those to be flowing much longer. And I just want to make a note that the only ones that were identified outside of the EC zone that would be unprotected were associated with a large hole that was dug for a PERC test. So that water was likely coming out due to that, not from natural sources, even though I think most of the flow we saw this year was due to an abnormally high water table as opposed to a seeper spring coming from an aquifer.
 Tree removal mitigation, we're meeting the standards of the 33-630 standard. And a quick answer, 208 trees are on site and 97 of them will remain. All right. Colleagues, any questions? Well, I guess I think it was alluded to in your – I think it was your testimony. So actually I'll save this for staff, all city staff. So never mind.
 Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. All right. I'm sorry. If I went over it too quickly, we were hoping that you would keep the written record open or continue the hearing, and we did not waive our final written argument. I apologize. I probably talked too quickly. No, I heard you say that, and I made meaningful eye contact with Lauren over here. Yeah.
 At this point, I would recommend that you continue through the rest of the hearing. The applicant does have a statutory right to final rebuttal and an opportunity once the record's closed to make any – submit any final written argument, not new evidence. But he's also asking to keep the record open. So –
 He's not entitled to keep the record open to submit any new evidence. If you do keep the record open, then you'll want to set an amount of time and an opportunity for a response to that. So perhaps you might want to get through the rest of the hearing and then decide whether or not it's just – whether it's keeping the record open for new evidence or just allowing him to submit his final written testimony as he's also requested. There's two things there.
 So will there still be a rebuttal today at the end? It sounded as though he's not waiving his right to submit a written rebuttal seven days following the closure of the record. So there will be a rebuttal from the appellants, but then the applicant can rebut that. Thanks. Sorry. So next up, we have any opponents of the appeal who have signed up? Show one more person. T. Rollman. All right.
 Welcome. Please state your name for the record, and you have three minutes. Good afternoon. My name is Tom Rollman, and I am here not as a representative of the developer, but as one of the property owners and on behalf of the other family members. This property was originally purchased in 1940, and since then, three generations have lived there in the same house and raised their families there. We have long-lasting friendships with many families in the area and strong ties to the community.
 With all of the competing interests and constraints placed on a property such as this, we believe the plan, as presented, will turn out to be in the best long-term interests of the neighborhood. Unlike other options that could be presented now or in the future, this plan includes single-family homes, a large conservation zone, and improvements required by the city. Due to the limited time, I'll focus my comments on three of the issues raised in the appeals form.
 Preserving most of the existing trees is one of the goals of the group. It should be recognized that a large number of the trees are being preserved in the conservation zone, unlike on other projects. Some neighbors have asked that even more of the trees be removed than is what's shown on the plans. Many of the trees are invasive species and others present safety hazards.
 This winter alone, more than a dozen trees and major limbs fell, six onto the surrounding streets. We don't need another fatality from falling tree limbs in the southwest area. We believe it is more important to plant trees more suitable for a residential setting. Some opponents of the project have claimed that there are water features present throughout the property.
 However, multiple visits by city staff, Oregon Department of State Lands inspectors, and others have failed to locate such features in areas that are to be developed. If such features existed, they would have been obvious during one of the wettest seasons on record. Now the group opposed to the development has challenged the formal definition of the terms they have been misusing since it no longer serves their purpose. Connecting the sections of Pendleton Street across the property,
 It's been discussed many times, but one thing it does offer is the residents in the immediate area to avoid that single lane section of 48th that people have said is substandard, and it's also supported by multiple city bureaus. While we may want to see changes to this plan, we should be honest enough to admit that no plan will make all of the parties happy. So the council is now being asked if the plan prepared by the design team
 recommended for approval by city staff and approved by the hearings officer meets the city requirements, or were all of these groups wrong? The project is well into the third year since the developers started working on it. People have had the opportunity to voice their opinions. Further delays will only increase the tensions between the neighbors and drive up the cost of the homes. Can I finish one more sentence? One more, very quickly. We think that the council...
 We ask that the council reject the appeal, approve the development plan, and allow the neighborhood to begin to recover from this process as they welcome 11 new families into this community. Thank you for your time. Thank you. All right. Finally, we have a rebuttal by the appellant, and you have five minutes. Okay.
 Hello again. Peggy Hennessy. Thank you. On behalf of the Neighborhood Association. And I'd just like to address a couple of things that Mr. Robinson brought up. First, he stresses the Kittleson Report and how they have a complete traffic analysis. Well, most of the Kittleson Report talks about capacity of the intersections and those kinds of things. Yes.
 trip generation from the houses. But we're challenging the interference with the safe route to school program, and we're challenging this because the code requires you to consider all modes of transportation. And we're talking pedestrians and bicycles, and it's up to you to interpret the code and what that means. It can be part of the transportation approval criterion. Okay.
 Mr. Robinson also said that staff recommended approval of this proposal. And the only thing we've seen in the record is staff's recommendation of denial because there wasn't enough information to show that there were no SEPs that were outside of the environmental zone. And that's clearly set forth in Exhibit 2 to our submittal today.
 And on another note, we'd like to point out that Mr. Summers is not a hydrologist. We have our expert hydrologist who can speak further to the issues surrounding the aquifer. Yeah, well, again, the definitions of an aquifer are fairly straightforward. It's a unit that can store and transmit water. The definition has kind of been in play.
 In my written report, I also cite even a groundwater textbook that was available at the time said, there's probably no term in hydrology that has more shades of meaning than an aquifer, which means it's a fairly broad term. It's contextual. I mean, I had professors in hydrology that were real sticklers for terminology. If you were walking someplace and you saw a spring and you said, well, I wonder what the size of that aquifer is and what the recharge is, they wouldn't go crazy going, you can't call that an aquifer.
 An aquifer is a water body that stores and transmits water. If you see a spring, it's been stored, it's been transmitted. It's fairly simple. Finally, Susan King again from Hayhurst. And the point that I would like to close with that was not made during my previous testimony is that the applicant has made no valid attempt to develop alternatives to this Levin Home proposal. Okay.
 As far as I know, even though I have not memorized the city code, there is no minimum number of lot requirements for this development. And in that case, Hayhurst did attempt, by way of example only...
 to provide some alternatives, and we would remind the City Council that fewer homes could be built on this property, which may not survive the economic interest, but certainly may address the issues with respect to the water on the property, the connectivity issues, and other concerns that we have for safety.
 and for that reason, of course, we are asking that you deny the application and support our appeal. Thank you. Madam President, I have a question if I could. Yes, Commissioner Fish. By the way, thank you for your excellent testimony. I...
 I'd like to give you an opportunity to address the connectivity issue from sort of the other side of the public safety ledger. And I understand the issue you've raised and the question of safe routes to school is near and dear to my heart. I have a seventh grader at home, formerly a seventh grader, soon to be an eighth grader.
 One of the benefits, though, of connectivity is it makes it easier for emergency vehicles, fire, ambulance, and others to get in and do their business. So would you address that for me? I mean, that's one of the values the city promotes through connectivity. And it does seem to me, looking at these diagrams, that there would be a benefit of being able to get emergency vehicles through the development with a connected road.
 Let me do my best, Commissioner.
 The slope, I think you've heard in prior testimony, the slope that would be required if the both ends of Southwest Pendleton are connected to each other. And I would say that the slope would play into your question of how easy would it be for emergency vehicles to get up and down. Obviously, this last winter is not a good indication of how difficult driving in Southwest Portland is, but I would point to that as an issue that may come into play with that.
 certainly there would be additional, there's no getting around it, there would be additional ways that fire trucks, ambulance vehicles, et cetera, could access the property. But the steep grade that you've already heard about, I think, should be factored into that answer as well.
 Okay, thank you. Can I expand on that? Hi, Randy Sachs again, Hayhurst Neighborhood Association. Almost adjacent to this site, there was another development that was built about 20 years ago known as Flower Place. Flower Place has a standard right-of-way, but the street, it dead-ends with a barricade. The barricade is removable for emergency access. The Hayhurst Neighborhood Association time and time again has requested that
 just looking at some sort of alternative, whether it's a barricade so that cars can't get through, but bikes and pedestrians can, but emergency vehicles could. I don't even know if an emergency vehicle would be able to make the turns. The streets are very tight. There's a steep downgrade, and then it's like a right angle and another right angle.
 But all that the Neighborhood Association has been asking this whole time is, can we look at an alternative? Can we look at building five homes on Southwest Pendleton without having the street coming through and having a cul-de-sac at the top of the property and maybe going from 11 homes to eight homes? There are other alternatives. Every plan that the...
 has submitted, they showed as alternatives, but they all had 11 homes. They have never looked at fewer homes, and that's been one of the major issues for the Neighborhood Association from day one. Okay, thank you very much. In addition to which, you do have the ability to limit the number of homes, too. Under your own code provision, when you're doing an environmental review, you can modify the standards and regulations
 set a limit on the number of homes if it's necessary to protect the resource or to expand the seep and spring to an environmentally protected tract. So that's within your power. I believe since it's a landslide hazard area too, that automatically sets no minimum density. Susan, you might want to come back for, please come back because I was going to ask you a question. And that is, has
 What would be the response of the neighborhood if instead of doing single-family homes, they did duplexes or townhouses in order to avoid some of the impacts that you're concerned about?
 We have not discussed alternatives in terms of higher density housing. I think our preference would be, if I can speak for what I understand to be most of my neighbors' concerns, our preference is to preserve the single-family home nature of our neighborhood, which is longstanding. Our preference is to protect the R7 zoning, and our preference would be for the applicant to consider some valid alternatives that might result in future
 fewer homes. We do have duplexes in our neighborhood under the current infill that is allowed on corner lots, and those have worked out well. But moving to higher density, I think, is beyond the scope of our testimony today. Yeah, I know you haven't had that discussion, and as you know, you can't put a duplex on a corner, so since they're creating several corners, that might be a way to have still single-family homes that are
 on their own lot perhaps even, that would be less expensive because we had several of the neighbors concerned about affordable housing and also potentially have less impact on the resource. But that was never discussed. The applicant never proposed anything like that. There have been no other, nothing besides 11 single-family homes has ever been discussed. Not 10, not 9, only 11 single-family homes. Thank you.
 And I have a question about the safe routes to school. I just want to make sure I understand. So currently this lot provides a route, traffic-free route for students. And if it's developed as proposed, those students would no longer be able to cut through. Would they then use the new street or would they be more likely to use the unimproved street? Okay.
 Let me see if I can answer that without a picture in front of us. Yeah, it's a little confusing. Currently, students and others walk along Southwest 48th, and they have two options. They can continue on Southwest 48th to the south, past the site property, and through a gate that crosses private property connecting to Southwest Iowa. Okay.
 And Southwest Iowa is the street on which Hayhurst Elementary is located. The other option that students have, which my son used almost exclusively, is to go from Southwest Cameron down Southwest 48th and make a right turn on Southwest Pendleton and actually cross the corner of the school lot and enter Hayhurst across the back part of the Hayhurst property.
 So I know of no proposal that precludes students, should this development occur as proposed, precludes students from continuing on Southwest 48 to Southwest Iowa to get to school. But there is another alternative, which is to go west on Southwest Pendleton and connect with the Hayhurst School property. Did that answer your question? Yeah. Can I add one thing to that? What I would add is that the reason that we're saying that the safe route to school would be changed,
 is that the street that, when you walk down Southwest 48th Avenue currently, you're walking into all dead-end streets. If there would be the ability for cars to come through the subdivision, as children, elderly people, people walking their dogs are walking down Southwest 48th Avenue, which is a hill and a blind hill, there could be cars coming now through from the development that could be basically intersecting at that corner of 48th and Pendleton.
 So that's why the route would have a problem. Okay, so the route would be the same or similar except for the addition of the... The traffic. The vehicular traffic, correct. But there are many intersections where there are cars going all the way.
 for children walking through. I'm with you, Commissioner Daly. I didn't understand why this would be so different from other intersections, crossroads, that kids might be walking along. Well, there are no sidewalks on most of the route. And currently, the only vehicular traffic that would be coming as people are walking would be from maybe 10 homes. But there's got to be other crossroads in the neighborhood that...
 I mean, it's a fairly wide catchment area. Sure. But this route where everybody walks from north of Cameron down Southwest 48th is the only pedestrian or the only street that you can walk through to get to the other side of the neighborhood. Everything else is a dead end that abuts like a wooded area. And the concern would be improving Pendleton without improving Southwest 48th.
 the portion that doesn't have sidewalks or wouldn't have sidewalks. Probably easier to show. But aren't they going down towards the private pathway, right? Where it crosses private property?
 It's not really. If you saw it in person, it's not crossing. It's privately owned, but it is like a big driveway. And the owners, actually, of that private property are here, and it's openly used by everybody. But the cars wouldn't be going down there, would they? Sure. No. So it's just at the intersection of Pendleton and 48th that you're concerned? And between Cameron and Pendleton.
 That's the area of concern. I'm going to need a map of the area. I'm happy to show it to you if you need me to. Thank you. I'd be happy to take a walk. So there was a testimony from Mr. Hale, I believe, about the school district boundary extending to the north. Does anybody – I just don't know if you know that offhand. I don't know personally because it was – I think that the Hayhurst boundary was expanded across Beaverton Wholesale Highway. Is that what it was? Right.
 With the boundary changes this past year where the Odyssey program was moved, they took the Odyssey program out of Hayhurst, and then they expanded the boundary to bring more students into the school. North of Beaverton-Hillston. Correct. Okay. All right. Thank you. I'd like to call staff back up, I think, for council discussion. It sounds like we have some questions. So PBOT, PIVOT.
 BDS and who else do we have here? BES, I think. BES, yes. I think we have six seconds left. Oh, sure. And I would like to request that the record remain open for all of us. Oh, you've gone six over, but yes. Oh, sorry. Okay. Did that go the other way? All right. Come on in for a second. Got it. I'm thinking. So you're requesting the record be open just like the applicant is? Yeah.
 Because it sounded as though they were debating whether to leave it open for written testimony by the applicant or whether, you know, it would be closed to everyone. And today we received a brand new packet from the applicant, new information we have not read and would like an opportunity to respond. Yeah, we've obviously got a whole pile of things that we haven't seen. So President, I was thinking that we would. Thank you. So I'd like everybody to comment on that. Yeah. So I just...
 I guess I'll ask our transportation staff this question. I've made a few changes. If we were to approve a cul-de-sac on the east side of the property, I know there would be a diminution of the number of homes that could be built. There would be violation of our street connectivity policy, but is there anything else that would be harmed by that in terms of transportation policies or stormwater policies or...
 Good afternoon. For the record again, Fabio DeFries from PBOT. I'd have to take more than the time that I'm going to give you at this moment to really digest that question in terms of the broader impacts of such a proposal. Certainly, by not providing the street connection through the site would not, in PBOT's opinion...
 be satisfying the relative approval criteria. And mind you, that is what we have to work with. The approval criterion about connectivity. Correct. There are the approval criteria that talk about safety for all modes, which has been mentioned today, about capacity at intersections, and then there's the approval criteria related to rights of ways and connectivity. So, yeah.
 By not providing that connection again, it would be our opinion that we would not be able to support such a recommendation. Which is why from day one, back in 2014, when the very first proposal came before us, we advised the applicant at that time that the city would not be able to support such a proposal with the Cul-de-sac.
 Commissioner Fish rightfully and respectfully identified a benefit that I didn't bring up during my prior testimony with respect to advantages to emergency apparatus, which of course would be diminished by not putting the street through.
 And I would lastly say, again, there's been this emphasis and direction by the Neighborhood Association with respect to the Safe Routes to School and the Safe Routes to School program.
 With all due respect, again, with staff's limitations to focus on applicable approval criteria, you'll not find language in any of the evaluation factors or approval criteria that refer to or identify the need for a project having to be consistent with the goals and objectives of the Safe Frontera School program. So our position all along has been consistent.
 It's a valid point. As staff and as a hearings officer also agreed in his findings, I believe it was the last statement that he made in his findings under the transportation section, that the safe route to school and Vision Zero are not applicable evaluation factors or approval criteria for his consideration in his decision.
 for his consideration, but it could be for council's consideration. Indeed. If I could, I have a question that may be directed to staff, BDS, or to council, because I'm struggling a little bit. Normally we conclude these hearings and then we deliberate. Now we have, I guess, the parties reserving the right to submit, make written submissions, which is fine. Okay.
 I guess the thing that I'm struggling with a little bit is the applicant, excuse me, the appellant has raised a number of objections to the decision of the administrative law judge, but hasn't in the course of this hearing laid out proposed conditions of approval. Since one of our...
 So we'll get that. So it's in the materials you gave us? Yes. All right. Actually, technically I'm not allowed to do that. So I'd like to better understand if there are proposed conditions of approval in the written submissions or if it is appropriate for the parties in their further written submissions to propose conditions of approval as part of their argument, perhaps even arguing the alternative. We think they got it wrong below –
 if you disagree, here are some proposed conditions for approval. It would help me sharpen my thinking about the record before us if someone actually put proposed conditions of approval. So is that appropriate? Yeah, so this is not the initial evidentiary hearing. Under Oregon law, for the initial evidentiary hearing, which happened before the hearings officer, anybody can ask to keep the record open, and it automatically gets left open. Right.
 Council, at its discretion, can decide whether or not to leave the record open for all new evidence, meaning anyone could respond with further conditions of approval coming from the appellants, or the applicant can suggest some. And after some brief conversation I've had with counsel for both parties, they are both asking for the record to be held open for new evidence, more things that they would like to put in the record. Including closing arguments? Yes.
 Then after that period, so they're requesting two weeks, and then after that period, everyone gets to respond to anything that's new, and then the applicant gets closing arguments. In writing? What's that? In writing. In writing, yes. So we don't have to have another hearing. We could reconvene, make a decision based on the written record. Yes. So we would go through this period, and I can kind of spell out the dates, and then come back.
 and council can just deliberate. So the council president will, in a moment, offer her view as to how she'd like to proceed. But I would just say, to salt the discussion...
 if it is my colleague's desire to keep the record open so people can respond to new evidence, if that is what you want to do, and then allow for a closing argument by the applicant, it would help me in the final submissions if people also, in the alternative, laid out proposed conditions of approval to give us some focus on how they believe that
 any issues that have been raised can be cured by the council. They don't have to, but I would find that helpful. So, Lauren, should we make that decision now and set a date and then continue this deliberation? Yes, you can do that.
 So, I mean, both the parties have requested the same thing. I'm not going to take issue with that. Yeah. So, and I'll just throw the dates out there. Also, I want to make sure they work for staff and Carla. Today is June 22nd. They're asking, the parties are asking to have until July 6th, which is two weeks from today, to be able to put new evidence into the record.
 And then until July 13th for anyone to respond to anything that's new in the record. So not put anything new, just response. And then the applicant gets the final seven days until July 13th. The applicant gets until July 20th for final written argument. And so then council will come back to deliberate at some point after that July 20th date. And I have not had a chance to check in with staff and see if that works for them. Okay.
 So possibly July 27th? I would request that it be after July 31st because that's when I'm back. Does the waiver of the 150 days continue if we take this route? If you can come forward and address that. All right, 120 days. No. Councilor?
 Do you want me to go ahead? Yes, you can go ahead. Sorry. President Udaly, Councilor Fish, we submitted a letter yesterday waiving both the 120-day period and the 365-day period. So this council has as long as it needs to deliberate and make a decision. So we're clean on that. And, Council, do we have the authority to limit the number of pages of the materials that are submitted to us? Or can we just encourage brevity? I think you can encourage brevity.
 So we have a lot of paper before us, and people have obviously been very thoughtful, both in the proceeding below and making arguments. We have a lengthy decision, and in the very thoughtful arguments we've had today and the written submissions, I would urge brevity, not just on behalf of our beleaguered trees,
 that are going to be sacrificed for further submissions and writing, but just so that you can focus us on the essential argument. And new evidence is also important. And new evidence. Repeating arguments is not necessary. Right. And if it's new, though, explain it in enough detail that we can understand what is being said.
 When Mayor Adams used to scale back from three minutes to two minutes or one minute, he always made the point that most people can say in two minutes what they would have said in three minutes or whatever. So brevity and economy, I would say, should be the touchstones of the final submission. So can we look at August 3rd? 3-10 is available on the 3rd.
 And we'd just be deliberating at that point. So we'd just be deliberating about a sense of the council, and if we were to get the conditions of approval, we'd be discussing that. The record would be closed, and unless it's the council's will, we would not be taking any more oral argument. Correct. Does that work with staff, that date? Or would you like more time, because we have waived all the time limits? So you'll tell us what works best for you. You're talking about August 3rd. I may be on vacation at that week. Okay. That's not for sure, but...
 The next week would actually work better for me too, but having been off for July. August 10th? I'm assuming at least an hour then. On the 10th, I have 3 p.m., and I show everyone in, council members in right now. Is that a Thursday? That's a Thursday. Does that work for the parties? So there is another land use appeal that day, so just an FYI. Oh, good. We love land use appeals. What's the next week, Carla? Um...
 The next week, Commissioner, Udailey is gone. So the week we're now on, the 10th, is there a difference between Wednesday and Thursday? Wednesday is also a land use case, the Inkeny Apartments. You know how long they would take. I don't have a time estimate here. Is that? That's the one we had yesterday. Yeah. They can't get through that in an hour. We've got big troubles. Yeah. So Thursday at 3? Could we make it Thursday at 4? No. Okay.
 Well, which one is, is it a new one on Thursday or is it the Ankeny? That is new. That's the press blocks. Goose Hollows Neighborhood Association. I thought it was going to be a long one. Can we? Goose Hollow. Yes. Definitely a yes. The staff is saying yes, it will be long. But wouldn't every message do it on the 9th, on the Wednesday, do Ankeny and then this one at 3 or 3.30? Okay.
 3.30 to be safe. Can we do that? 3.30, you think? We can try. It ain't getting an hour and a half again. I think we should seize the date. We may have to reschedule, but let's seize the date while we're all here. Is that work, Council? What date is that, sir? We're out in 2019. Summer of 2019. He's kidding. What's the date? August 9th at 3.30. That's a Wednesday. Does that work for the neighborhood? We have that date.
 Can you clarify what you're going to be? No, it's just that your opportunity would come to observe the decision-making. You already have other deadlines for submitting. And most likely you would not be able to talk again at that. Well, we're also disparate. I think so. Good. Okay. So I have a...
 Can I ask another question then? Yes. To staff, please. OK. And I don't need to have this given to me right now, but since you are going to give things in, I'd like a bigger size of the subdivision proposal. I'd like to know what's the proposed width for this new connector street. And then you can get it to me later,
 Tell me now, why are we requiring a connection, the westerly road of 48th to be completed when it's dead-ending onto private property and goes through the conservation zone and isn't needed for any of the lots? President Udaly, Commissioner Fritz, thank you for the question. So as brief as I can be...
 standard protocol in relation to a subdivision like this or a two-lot partition would be that if the abutting property
 If the street abutting the property in question is existing in a less than standard condition, that PBOT has the authority to require right-of-way improvements in relation to development on the site. This is no different. We have approximately a 300-foot length of...
 property frontage along Southwest 48th Avenue that is a gravel roadway, clearly substandard. The requirement is typically to include standard right-of-way improvements, paving, stormwater management component, sidewalk, etc. It seems like that's perhaps a driver of how many lots they want to do, because that would be a very big expense for no additional houses.
 I'm sorry, I didn't follow your question. Well, you know, they've always said that they want 11 houses, 11 lots. Part of the reason probably for that is that the cost of the street that doesn't have any major benefit to, it doesn't serve any of the new houses. And I would have thought we could waive that if it avoids the environmental zone. Is there a possibility in the future that we would get further dedication of right-of-way? Yes.
 And I think if I had that problem, you know, the bigger map of the area, like where is Cameron, where is all the other streets that people have been naming, I'd like to get that. Certainly, we can give you a more in-depth response in writing. But in reference to the zoning map, I don't know if we can get it on the screen.
 by all appearances, the area in question is all R7 zoning. The lots south and west of the subject site are certainly large enough to be further subdividable. So the rationale in providing the street improvement along this site frontage would be that
 If and when the sites to the west and south were to be redeveloped, the same requirements would be imposed on them for street improvements, and we would have a completed street section where we don't today. Okay. Thank you. And then you are not the SEEP experts, is that correct? No, and thank you for recognizing that. I do have some other folks. Depending on your question, I might...
 allow other folks to come up. Well again maybe if the concern I have is in the hearings officer's decision part that I read it said BES did environmental services did want the seat protected and that had not quoted any language so I just want to Okay I'm going to give up my seat to somebody that has more experience with that. Thank you.
 To be transparent about my main concerns in this subdivision, it is the protection of the natural resources and the wetlands and the flow into it. So BES identified that you'd like to save the seep or the wet area, since we're not calling it a part of the aquifer or anything, that's outside of the environmental zone.
 Why did you not use the, or could we now use, the approval criteria on grading to protect existing drainage patterns in order for BES to be able to require that seat to be protected?
 Thank you for the question. My name is Jennifer Antak. I'm a hydrologist for the City of Portland Bureau of Environmental Services. We did go out in February to identify that there were definitely some flowing water that appeared to be springs coming out of the ground. We asked the applicant to show whether or not this was actually a result of a high water table.
 As far as the grading goes, unfortunately that's outside of my purview. I can tell you about the hydrology, but the code I would have to refer back to Stephanie. Thank you. And is the information about the hydrology, is that already in the record? I wrote immediately following the site visit, I wrote a technical memo, and I believe that is part of the record. And if somebody could get that to me, that would be really helpful. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 I have a couple questions about seeps in the wetlands. So there were concerns raised about recharging the wetlands. Can you speak to that? Seeps definitely can be a source of hydrology for the wetland. The issue that we did not find was an actual channel going from the spring to the wetland. That doesn't mean that it's not going subsurface into the wetland. So I can't
 From the information from the site visit that I made, I can't say for sure where that groundwater is going. Okay. But there is a likelihood that that is providing some hydrology for that wetland. And what about the concern with diverting so much of the stormwater? I think that was part of the concerns with the wetlands not recharging.
 And then I'm going to have to refer you back to the stormwater folks. I'm sorry. And my only, okay, so one more question for you is one of the people that gave testimony on the appellant side said that there was a staff denial pertaining to this issue in Exhibit 2. I can address that. Okay. All right. So what happened was we had issued a staff report recommending approval, and
 in the time between the staff report and the actual hearing
 BES and myself went to the site and identified the springs that we're talking about. And given that we were so close to the hearing and we didn't have this sorted out, we provided a memo to the hearings officer. At the time of the hearing, we were recommending denial of the application because there was this outstanding issue. But we recognized that...
 was going to work on it. And actually, at the hearing, did bring information about these features. And so by the end of the close of record, BDS staff had reviewed the applicant's information and agreed at that point with the applicant's assessment of the features that were seen and that they did not meet the definition of a spring. I think that's the point.
 I think there's kind of different things going on in terms of it may be a spring, but it didn't meet our code definition, which essentially, from my reading of it, means that water has to run. There has to be enough water, and it has to run for a long enough period of time that it would create a channel. So it wasn't the code that was – the situation it was getting at was for –
 a larger source of water, and this situation didn't meet that definition from our reading of it and from the testimony that the applicant provided. So that denial is void? Yes. Okay. And can I clarify from a hydrologist's perspective? Yes.
 It's a little bit different than from a code perspective. From a hydrologist perspective, a spring occurs when your ground intersects with a water table. And so from a hydrologist perspective, this is considered a spring, but this is different because we are going under city code, which defines what a spring is, and you do have to have that channel, which was not existent. Great. So disappointing, I put hours and hours in on the planning commission trying to get the definitions correct.
 We'll have to try again perhaps. My next couple of questions are for PBOT. So I just want to be very clear. The connectivity issue or requirement is a city requirement. This isn't a choice of the developer. It's what we're saying they need to do.
 Thank you, President Udaly. So if I may just take a moment to guide council here in terms of where we start from, right? And council for the applicant alluded to this. Metro connectivity goals, city's comprehensive plan connectivity goals, which includes the transportation system plan, which includes a master street plan, which all gets implemented by the zoning code.
 In my 16 years with the city, I think I've looked at now two applications for a subdivision that I can point to our master street plan that actually identifies a connection point that should happen through a particular site. This is one of those occasions. I believe there was a map given to you earlier today in testimony that identifies that map or reference at least.
 And that was also identified in my response and was included in the hearings officer's decision. So in answer to your question, President Udaly, it is a requirement identified in the zoning code which implements those higher-level authorities for connectivity where practical. And from our perspective, it's practical in this case. And it has been...
 Accepted from a standards point of view with respect to, again, the public works process. There was earlier testimony with regards to challenges to fire emergency apparatus being able to utilize the new street. The beauty of this two years of review is that the fire bureau is actually part of the review process.
 there's never been an indication from the Fire Bureau that the street as proposed, that meets PBOS standards for a grade, is gonna be an issue for them to access. And I understand that Vision Zero isn't part of the criteria for this determination, but that we could take a look at that. How do we make that happen?
 Well, I think that would ultimately be the method and manner of whatever approval decision we make and conditions attached to it. And then my final PBOT question is, can you speak to the concern that this new street's creating essentially a block that's less than standard 200 feet?
 Certainly. President Udaly, thank you for that question. When the 200-foot limitation was identified earlier, I had the opportunity to actually read the code. And the 200-foot limitation is actually for through streets, 48th Avenue is on a through street on the west side.
 So in my opinion, there's no contradiction to the code spacing requirements here for through streets. Thank you. All right. So before we adjourn, I need to read this just to clarify for everyone.
 about what happens next. President Udeli, can I make one, just make one comment? Sure. Would that be okay? Sorry. I wanted to make just one comment about the idea of suggesting conditions of approval, which is...
 would be fine, but I just want to make sure that you understand that something like changing a through street connection to a cul-de-sac, you know, this project has been through, as Fabio has alluded to a couple of times, extensive technical review with their stormwater system, their street design, you know, the lots layout. It would completely change
 All of that is my just gut reaction. So I just want to make sure that conditions of approval that completely change the application, you know, from the staff perspective, it would be better to deny the application and have it start over through the process to do the technical assessment as opposed to trying to do that on the fly. I just wanted to put that out there.
 Thank you. Yeah, okay, so the evidence evidentiary record in this matter will remain open for 14 days until 5 p.m. On July 6th anyone wishing to submit additional written testimony or information should submit it to the council clerk within 14 days from today by 5 p.m. The record will remain open for seven more days after
 Until 5 p.m. on July 13th for submittal and rebuttal. Any rebuttal must be submitted to the council clerk by that time. The evidentiary record will then close, and any evidence submitted after that date will not be considered by council. Thank you. Do you have a final written argument to add on to that? What was that? Final written argument. After the record is closed, the applicant is entitled to final written argument until July 20th. Also at 5 p.m.
 5 p.m. would be my recommendation. I concur. Thank you, everyone, and this meeting is adjourned.