okay you ready good afternoon everyone and welcome to the june 30th meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll here here here here
 Here, welcome everyone. We have a single item on the agenda this afternoon. Obviously, many of you want to testify on that. Well, I think there will not be so many people that we can't let people have the usual three minutes to testify. As usual, the rules of decorum apply here, so please no interruptions or applause. Unless there's a visiting dignitary or a student here, we always break our own rules and applaud for students and visiting dignitaries. So if you're one or more of those things, you might get a round of applause.
 Otherwise, if you want to show your support for somebody's position on the discussion, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you feel compelled to show your disagreement, a polite hand gesture to the negative is okay. But, again, no demonstrations in favor against our fellow citizens so everyone can be heard. If you're representing an organization, please make sure to let us know that because it's required under law and it helps us know what's going on. So with that, please read the item and we'll turn to my colleague, Commissioner Salzman.
 Refer a measure to the city voters for the November 8, 2016 general election authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds in the amount of $258,400,000 to provide funding for affordable housing. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. People who have grown up in Portland and want to raise their families here are not able to because of escalating rents and low vacancies.
 Seniors who have lived here and who have contributed to our city over their entire lives are no longer able to find safe, affordable housing here. Workers who contribute day in and day out to our city's economic vibrancy cannot afford to live in the city in which they work. As I've said before, the lack of affordable housing is the greatest crisis now facing our city. It's a crisis with a very human toll, and it will take all of us working together together
 to make a real dent in solving this crisis the council over the last year city council first looked to our existing resources and as mayor hells has said we dug deep we in we increased the urban renewal funds dedicated to affordable housing by 50 we dedicated short-term rental talk rental tax revenues to the effort and we committed 10 million dollars next year which starts tomorrow
 to help more folks find move from homelessness into housing next we looked at a means to ensure that the new growth that new growth would pay for its effect on the need for affordable housing and yesterday i'm proud to say this council unanimously established a commercial excise tax on new development and it dedicated 100 of that excise tax to creating more affordable housing so we dug deep in the city's budget we've asked development to pay
 for its impact on the need for affordable housing, and now we're asking Portland voters to step up to the plate by supporting a bond for affordable housing. This bond is specifically targeted toward achieving deeply affordable housing for households making less than 30% of median family income. Those are seniors on fixed incomes, families with a disabled parent, and workers who earn minimum wage. The bond, if improved, will...
 if approved, will house almost 3,000 people each year. Asking Portland residents to step up and contribute is not a step we take lightly, but it is a necessary step if we are to put a dent in solving this crisis. And I'm going to call up our Housing Bureau Director, Kurt Krieger, but before I do that, I wanted to, who will give us an overview of the bond, I'd like to make a motion to substitute Exhibits A, B, and C.
 and I'll explain what those are. The changes in Exhibit A and B add an administrative cap not to exceed 7% of the bond proceeds, which I believe is an important covenant to make to taxpayers of Portland that these resources will be administered with proper fiscal stewardship. And we also have an updated median family income for a family of four in Portland. So those are the changes to Exhibits A and B. And then the changes...
 And I think that's it. And these changes were distributed to council. There's copies on the table, and they're also on my website. So I would ask approval of the substitute. I'll second it. Commissioner Saltzman moves and Fish seconds that. Any discussion? So let's take action to approve the amendments before we start the hearing then, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. This is just to put them on the table for discussion. Aye. Aye.
 hales hi okay so that's what's before us okay i'd like to have director krieger come up and he'll write us an overview and then we have uh two invited panels okay great good afternoon mayor hales members of council uh with me is matt schiebold who's going to be writing a powerpoint so i don't get distracted from from my uh verbal remarks
 This is the last major fiscal building block in the City of Portland's response to the state of emergency for homelessness and housing. You previously took steps to increase the general fund allocation.
 including money for Home Forward for voucher utilization and for the full funding of the Joint Office of Homeless Services. You previously took action to allocate and appropriate additional monies for the tax increment financing lift.
 which will have profound effects throughout the city and the open urban renewal areas. You previously took action to allocate transient lodging tax funding that we collect from Airbnb and VRBO and empowered us to securitize that revenue for housing. And as mentioned, yesterday you took action to put into place construction excise taxes for residential, commercial, and industrial properties.
 And it is important to stress that voters are being asked last and to fill the remaining gap in our fiscal toolbox. With your action and the filing of this title with the Secretary of State, the PHB staff will, of course, not be working on the campaign. But we have lots of other work to be done.
 We will be working diligently over the summer to put into place a mandatory inclusionary zoning program that we'll come back to you in the fall with the complete construct for. We will be retooling our home ownership program citywide. We'll be working to expand tenant protections locally.
 We'll be implementing projects within the urban renewal areas as directed, and I might say continuing a conversation in those urban renewal areas with community stakeholders as to how the TIF lift funds should be used.
 And then last, but certainly not least, we'll be working diligently with the Office of the Chair of County Commissions to implement the Joint Office of Homeless Services, this being the last day that our office is responsible. July 1st, of course, the staff will migrate to the County Chair's office. So we'll be very busy over the summer. You know, when I tell my colleagues across the country what's going on in Portland, I say Portland is in the middle of a housing renaissance.
 You, as elected officials, have shown great drive and great determination to deal with the challenges that we face as one of America's most costly cities with respect to housing and homeownership. You've been deliberate but focused. You've given us the tools we need to succeed.
 And I'd like 2016 to be known as a summer of hope as we deal with the problems that we have throughout the city to work with renters who are in desperate need of assistance and to try to backfill voids in our housing delivery system with permanently affordable housing. What you do today will have lasting benefits for the next 60, 80, and 100 years. So with respect to the slides, the bond measure...
 would essentially consist of 42.08 cents per thousand dollars of assessed valuation. You put into context, you know, 4.2 cents per hundred or four-tenths of a cent per dollar. I think that's important to always keep in perspective. Of those funds, some...
 estimated $75 per average assessed valuation home. I've seen a lot in the press about, you know, nobody can find a house for that. But recall that this is the assessed valuation, so that is a statistically valid number. It's not what people think their house is worth today, but it's their tax assessed value.
 Funds would essentially be spent over a – they would be allocated within five years. And being tax-exempt funds, they have to be spent within three years of the date of being allocated. So we would divide this up into a series of tranches or buckets, and the repayment terms would be over 20 years.
 With these funds, we feel confident in saying that we can produce and preserve 1,300 units. We very much want to under-promise and over-deliver. We've stress-tested these numbers with others in the community, including Home Forward. And in the final construct, 600 of these units would be for households between 0% and 30% of the median family income. That is...
 a profound change from business as usual. We're not getting much more than about 15% between zero and 30% of AMI with our normal delivery mechanism. And I know you as a council have challenged us to do better. We can do better, and we will do better with this particular bond issue. In addition, we challenged our –
 thinking about how best to do that, and Home Forward stepped up and has identified some 400 project-based vouchers, which will help ensure that these properties will be affordable to those households during their tenancy. Fifty percent of the units would be family-sized units. Again, a break with business as usual, producing two- and three-bedroom units, which are rarely available in the private market.
 The way that we think this will be sequenced is we would do acquisition with rehab first, immediately deploying monies, while we are simultaneously developing a pipeline of new construction projects, which would kick in 18 to 36 months after initiation. So we think that sequence will work well. We do think that the majority of the 0 to 30 percent units will be in newly constructed units, because as we buy properties that are market affordable in the private sector,
 Those folks are paying market rents, and they're not likely to be 0% to 30% households. And we do not want to cause displacement by dislodging them immediately after acquiring the unit. So the majority of the 0% to 30% AMI units will be in new construction, and therefore a good portion of those will be family-sized units. So I think that's a win-win for the community. Thank you.
 We estimate that some 2,900 Portlanders a year would be residing in these units, and we looked at turnover rates within our current portfolio and can reliably predict that someplace between about 50,000 and 58,000 Portlanders would be housed over a 60-year period of time. So this is a significant investment, and I do think that the outcomes are worth mentioning. Thank you.
 So at present, the current portfolio of the Portland Housing Bureau with our many legacy partners and some private developers is 11,634 units. We have a production pipeline of 1,500 units. And this bond would produce an additional 1,300 units, increasing the overall portfolio by some 11 percent, but increasing the 0 to 30 percentage.
 percent of median family income by 25 percent. So we're really moving the needle with respect to housing affordability for extremely low-income people. And I think it's worth mentioning that the reason we can do that with bond revenue is the Oregon Constitution really compels us to buy the units in their entirety and
 build the units in their entirety because we're prevented from doing business with artificial corporations or entities. We cannot use the normal tax credit leverage model that we would normally do in the tax increment areas. So there will be no debt on these units. We have operating costs. We have depreciation. We have expenses that need to be covered. That allows us to serve a lower income population. Okay.
 So it's a happy outcome that the result is for extremely low-income people where the majority of the need exists. The next chart is the best way we as staff could help you sort of understand your complete level of effort because, of course, this has to fit together and nest with all the other programs that are going on. On the far left, the shelter budget you see is serving some 5,000 people.
 about $15 million a year with homeless prevention, keeping people in their homes through short-term rental assistance and other interventions, serving about 5,800 people, housing placement and retention,
 some $15 million of general fund and federal funds, serving some 4,300 people. Supportive housing and services at 2 o'clock to 3 o'clock on the dial is serving some 3,000 households with about $9 million of general fund and federal funds.
 And then we have the capital cost, if you will, of regulated affordable rental housing, showing the interplay of the construction excise tax monies that you approved yesterday, the bond that you have before you today, and, of course, the baseline of tax increment. So these things work together, I think, in complement to each other. They do not duplicate each.
 nor are they redundant, but they are all essential pieces of an essential delivery system. So as I started my remarks, this is the last of the fiscal building blocks. We will now be working on things like the regulatory environment to beef up tenant protections and to make sure that you have a complete toolbox moving forward.
 That really concludes my prepared remarks. I would like to recognize that over the last few weeks, staff have been working very diligently. Shannon Callahan in Commissioner Saltzman's office, the City Attorney's office, Matt Scheibold and several staff people within the Bureau.
 And we came up with a series of financial scenarios and constantly tested them against our baseline assumptions. And Home Forward was essential in that process because we validated our understanding of the financial model with third parties to make sure that we were not in a vacuum, that we were really sharing accurate market information.
 So before you, I think you have a package that will withstand a great deal of community discussion and scrutiny. Thank you. Kurt, questions? Questions for now? Thank you. What do you envision being the largest single project in terms of the number of people who would be in a single dwelling? Well...
 I mean, by bedroom size, you know. I mean in terms of the structure. Oh, the structure. Are there going to be a few large communities like the old projects, or is it going to be smaller? What's the current portfolio? Well, we have a – I think Portland is a city of neighborhoods, and we need to recognize that we work in a market. And because we have tax increment in the urban renewal areas, we largely see this as a tool to work outside of urban renewal areas. Okay.
 because we have tax increment within those areas. So Commissioner Saltzman is accurately on record as saying that we are quite interested in purchasing as much of the Weston rental housing portfolio as possible. Mr. Joe Weston owns 2,700 units and is migrating those to a foundation in an orderly disposition of his assets. Those are scattered around neighborhoods, and they tend to be small scale. So you're not envisioning two or three units?
 No, I do not envision three large-scale projects that would produce all these units all at once. Okay. I think they need to be integrated, and the best practice is that they are mixed income and small enough that people are not isolated in pockets of poverty. That's what I wanted to hear. Thank you. Secondly, you mentioned buying up land within the city. Is it possible to buy land outside of the city and build there where it's maybe less expensive for the land? Sure.
 Could we build some of these? Well, I don't think it's possible under the current title because we didn't provide for it. I'm not sure that we would want to because, you know, these are Portland taxpayers that are paying essentially the underlying interest on the debt. There are parts of Portland, as you know, that are in Washington County. Okay.
 not much. I'm not following you. I was thinking of buying land in Gresham or other places, Clackamas County, for example, where the land itself wouldn't be as expensive as the land in the city. Well, I'd love to hear the rest of the council's take on that. My take is that if the citizens of Portland are paying the interest on these bonds, they should be spending the city of Portland. And
 and that there's not a valid public purpose served in exporting or serving our need in another jurisdiction. Just mentioning, because in London, where the land within the central boroughs is so expensive, the housing authorities there would buy land and build land.
 affordable housing in outlying jurisdictions, and some of them might be the places where the jobs are too. So if we were able to build in Hillsborough, I'd like you to look into that possibility. And then my final question is, do we have a partnership agreement with the county so that there'll be some help in operating these units and providing services, especially in the 0 to 30 range? Well, not per se. We do not, although we have good protocols in place with the county.
 And indeed, as you may know, the city of the state of Oregon has some bond revenue for people with disabilities. There may be a way to actually layer these funds with those funds to serve people more fully in the city of Portland. The county has been very responsive to mental health treatment and other services available. We do not have a written agreement per se. I must say that this...
 Concept started in the county chair's office, and we had probably eight meetings in discussing how the program would work if they were the fiscal agent and we were the delivery system.
 And when they decided not to go forward, we scrambled, frankly, to make sure that we filed the title in a manner that would allow an appeal. So we compressed the time necessary. We'll have time now that this is behind us to circle back and talk a little bit about how we would structure those projects. What's the estimated operating expenses of the 1,300 units? Yes.
 Well, operating expenses tends to run, depending on whether or not the people are disabled or not, tends to run around $4,000 per unit. The way in which we tend to operate this is that since the total cost
 maximum income is 60% of median family income and some 48% or below 30, that the net cash flow produced from those between 30 and 60 will be used to underwrite the cost of the overall portfolio. We've modeled that quite a bit to make sure that there was some resilience in that model. So it will be a self-funding model because, again, as I mentioned earlier, we're not paying –
 any underlying debt. There's not a mortgage to pay, and they're not direct because the taxpayers are paying the debt. You're not expecting a general fund to ask either for operations or if their administrative expenses exceed the standard? No, this is a fully self-supporting initiative. And do you concur with that, Commissioner Saltzman? Yes. Thank you. Commissioner Fish? Thank you. I've had the benefit of a couple of briefings, and so, Kurt, I want to do a quick lightning round because we have a lot of people who want to testify.
 One of the charts that you showed us had the figure of 50,000 to 58,000 people being served over 60 years. We think of 60 years as a significant duration because that's the duration of our regulatory agreements on some of the properties we have. But I just want to be clear.
 Because the cities will be owning these properties, we expect that they're going to be well built and built for the long term, and we hope they last well beyond 60 years, correct? That is correct, although I must say that some of the acquisition rehab properties may have a 30- or 40-year economic life. And they may be in transit corridors that suggest that they would be redeveloped sometime in the next 30 years or so.
 But the new construction units, we're going to build for 100-year economic life. But we think in terms of 10 years for tax abatements. We think in terms of 60 years for regulatory agreements. And in some instances, we'll be owning properties for longer than 60 years. We anticipate that all of the new construction properties will be in excess of 60 years. The bond covenants will require that they be held for at least 20 years, as long as the outstanding bonds are valid.
 our indebtedness is present. So we'll be looking at the economic life of each of these acquisition rehab targets. It is important to mention that some of them don't meet ADA requirements. For example, they have laundry rooms in the basement which are not handicapped accessible. So we know that we'll need to put money into these, even if they look from the exterior to be perfectly acceptable. They don't necessarily meet what we would consider to be requirements.
 the minimum ADAX access. With the structure that is before us today, do you have the full range of flexibility you need to do land banking? I believe that we do, yes. And you said that the first bucket would probably be spent on preservation, and then we might shift. Yes.
 Is it structured in such a way that you have the maximum flexibility to make that call? There are obviously some preservation plays where it's more cost effective. There's existing housing. You may want to grab it versus new construction. Does it give you and us a great deal of flexibility to make that decision between preservation and new construction? I believe it does, yes. Okay.
 You made a point about under-promising and over-delivering, and that was part of Dan's message to me, and I deeply appreciate that. I think that's exactly right. The one area that we can't control is interest rates. And I just want to have you say on the record and confirm that this bond measure has some very conservative estimates about interest rates. So if, in fact, interest rates come up, we can still hit the target that we're promising, correct? Yeah.
 Absolutely. This was modeled at 6% interest rates, and we're about 2.5%. And because of Brexit, we're actually declining slightly. We think that's a temporary anomaly. So we're fully confident that we can deliver. We have modeled
 And as you may know, the Bureau of Development Services has modeled a slight plateau around 2018. If there is a plateau in construction, then construction labor and materials may actually fall during the term of the bonds, which could actually help. So if you can arrange for more nations to leave the EU, then the picture gets even brighter. Could you stop it? For the record, none of my family or friends voted to Brexit.
 We didn't assign culpability to you or your family. Two other things. We're going to hear from some people down the road that we should chase the cheapest housing, and there are some ways we can get to cheap housing. We can build it in undesirable areas. We can buy up substandard housing.
 we can find some loophole on prevailing wage, and we can walk away from our green building strategy. And I would say not as long as Dan and I are on this council, but that could be a pitch. So my question to you is, do you have the flexibility in this bond measure to ensure that we invest in high opportunity areas, even if that means the cost is a little higher?
 I think we do. Just for the record, we modeled the acquisition rehab targets at $165,000 a unit. Assuming of that, about $40,000 would actually be renovations, and about $125,000 would be acquisition. That works all over East Portland. That works in a lot of our modest-priced neighborhoods. If we were to work into –
 Parts of Northwest, that number is actually a little light. So we're assuming that the acquisition of market-affordable units would be in our working-class neighborhoods where those units are at greatest risk. The new construction average was predicated on $188,000 a unit. Because we're working at scale, we think we can actually get good pricing. That allows you to continue to invest?
 in places that have high-performing schools and built-in infrastructure of high opportunity? Absolutely. The final question is just a technical question. When you acquire buildings, they will sometimes be occupied. How do we balance the acquisition of a building that's occupied with our goals in terms of who we're serving? And how do you sort that out using these dollars?
 Well, you're absolutely correct. And I've acquired buildings in my prior jobs and converted them into tax credit buildings where 100% of the units had to be affordable for people –
 60% or less, and I've had to evict market rate tenants that were of higher incomes. In this particular instance, we do not want to aggravate a housing emergency by creating a lot of turnover. We think that we can manage with turnover to actually achieve our numbers. There will be annual recertifications of income to make sure that as people return
 succeed in their careers as they work through the economic ladder that if they are no longer needing of the housing, then we'll have that conversation with them. We've also talked with the city attorney about relocation to the extent that it is needed can be an eligible project cost.
 So we don't expect a wholesale relocation or dislocation, but we think we can feather in the requirements over time so that we achieve compliance. We've been doing a similar structuring of the so-called Headwaters Apartments, which I think is worth mentioning because it was conceived as a bond project by PDC before PDC's portfolio was migrated to the Housing Bureau.
 and neither Commissioner Saltzman or I are actually in support of the current rent structure. So we're refinancing the headwaters with a HUD-insured mortgage product, a 35-year mortgage product, using our accumulated equity as the necessary stake. And at the end of the day, the headwaters would be –
 40% of those units would be affordable to people under 60% of median income. And HUD has given us 18 months to make that number so that through attrition we would essentially achieve that goal. And I think that's the sort of approach that you need to make sure that you're not causing any short-term disruptions. Thank you very much. If there's no further questions, we'll call up our first panel. Please. Okay. First panel, Multnomah County Chair Deborah Caffori, Jeff Riddle.
 Michael Bonacore, the Executive Director of Home Forward, and Richard Edwards. Welcome. Have a seat. Have a seat. Oh, we need one more chair. Madam Chair, you want to kick things off? Thank you. Thank you so much for having me here today. I'm Deborah Cafforia, Multnomah County Chair. And I will be brief because I know there are a lot of people to hear from. But I just want to say after listening to Kurt talk about all that you've done this year, I want to say thank you. You have been asked to do a lot.
 And you have done a lot, but we're not done yet. We still have thousands of people in our community who don't earn enough to pay the exorbitant amounts that new apartments cost. And since our existing stock is full and rents are rising a double digit, that means if we want to help people move off the streets and into housing, if we want to help seniors who are living on fixed incomes, and we want to help families who are working but still struggling,
 We need this bond because we need to build more affordable housing. I am here, I feel like I come here about once a week to applaud you. So I'm once again coming to applaud you in your efforts, your leadership, and everything that you've done. And I want to thank you again for taking this critical step forward. We are in a crisis, and we need to act now.
 The hundreds of deeply affordable units that this bond will pay for, private developers will not build. It is up to us, and we can do it. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. My name is Richard Edwards. I'm going to tell you a little bit about my story about my family. This is my son, Kevin, and that's my daughter, Tatiana. A few years back, we were homeless, and we ended up nowhere to go.
 We slept in the car. My wife, Linda, she's not here right now. She has hyperphosphatasia syndrome. She's in a wheelchair, and basically she has to have a wheelchair to get around. We had to park her wheelchair somewhere, and then we slept in the car. Then I met Colleen Joyne, which helped us get out of our state.
 The reason why we were homeless is because basically our landlord had failed to tell us that his house was foreclosed on. And it was just a big shock. I was working at OSHU at the hospital. I was basically making real good money, paying my rent, had everything together. And this happened, so I had to stay with my wife, care for her and everything. So join up.
 joined, made it possible for us to go to Stephen Creek's Crossing, which is a home for it, property. And that is a blessing. My kids are safe now. They're really content. They go to real, real good schools. And their grades went up. I'm so happy about that. I have a job. I take
 A new position here at Home Forward at the Stephen Griggs Crossing is I am called the resident community builder. I work in the gardens. I love that. I constructed and did a lot of things for the garden using my landscaping abilities that I was taught by a program the joint had. I'm just so happy that my kids are safe right now, really. Thank you.
 I'm on the goals program, and I have a lot of goals. Yet, to me, I want to go back to school and become a landscape architect. That's my primary. I mean, that's what I really want to do. I have a five-year lease with Homeford, and after that, I pretty much want to get a house for my family and everything like that. Yeah.
 I just want to thank everyone for doing their part. There's still a lot of families out there. They need help. It was very scary for my family and us. And I just want to thank you all. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Thank you so much. When you get your landscape architecture degree, I hope you'll come and work for Portland Parks and Recreation. I sure will. I sure will. We could use a few more good landscape architects. Yeah, that's great. Good luck to you.
 michael welcome thank you mayor hales commissioners my name is michael bonacore i'm the executive director of home forward we administer the housing choice voucher program and a portfolio of public and affordable housing throughout multnomah county the majority of our funding comes from hud so let's talk about hud for a moment
 Up until the early, I'm sorry, until the late 70s, early 80s, HUD's annual budget authority was the equivalent of over $80 billion. In the early 80s, its budget was slashed by tens of billions of dollars, and those cuts were sustained for the next decades. Today, their budget remains under $50 billion, while subsidies for homeowners like us are over $100 billion per year.
 And a crazy thing happened along the way. As HUD's budget declined, mass homelessness emerged in this country. It hadn't existed before as we know it today. Abundant affordable housing was the prevention for homelessness, and affordable housing remains the solution. Shelter gets people inside, and we need to get people inside. And it is not the answer to their homelessness. Housing is. Thank you.
 In the past year and a half or so, I think I've heard each of you acknowledge that the federal government needs to play their part in ending homelessness. And you're right. And we proved you're right when we worked together to house homeless veterans. We coordinated our efforts. We contributed local resources. And the federal government contributed additional special resources and funding. And we got it done.
 The country prevented mass homelessness in the 70s and prior. We just demonstrated with vets we can do it again. Homelessness is solvable. Now, we're obviously not here celebrating the appropriation of millions of dollars of new federal funding. We need to continue to fight for those resources. But what you are demonstrating, again, is that we cannot sit back and wait.
 We must do everything we can at the local level, like buying new shelters, like appropriating more money for services, like the construction excise tax and inclusionary zoning, and like the historic referral of this bond measure to voters. Home Forward is, as always, your partner in these efforts. We'll support Kurt and his team to make sure the commitments being made are kept to the voters.
 We all know that the greatest housing need in our community is for folks who have the lowest incomes at 30% of area median income and below. Our community and you all have been clear that's the priority and that the rest of the apartments created through this bond should serve folks at 60% of area median income and below. Thank you.
 We also know that owning and maintaining housing for folks who are paying very little in rent is expensive, and it's tough to keep the properties viable over the long term. So I'm pleased to affirm, as Kurt told you, that our Board of Commissioners has agreed to commit 400 project-based vouchers to this effort to ensure we can hit our goals related to serving people at 30% of area median income and below and sustain those commitments for the long term.
 The value of that contribution is over $3 million per year, and over the 20-year life of the bonds is over $60 million.
 Together, we will deliver what's being promised to the voters, and we'll take another critical step in doing everything in our power to address this crisis. We must, because affordable housing is the solution to homelessness, and homelessness is a choice that this country does not have to continue to make. Homelessness is solvable. Thank you all. Thank you. Michael, can I just respond with one comment? Recently, someone said to me,
 in lieu of the bond, why aren't we just asking for more federal funds? And we're going to hear arguments like that in the next few months. Isn't there money at the state level or the federal level? Or isn't there a buried treasure over here or something over here? And I think what you just said about the federal government is vitally important for people to hear. And I'm going to just make it a little sharper. Please. There are five people on this dais whose housing is subsidized by the taxpayers of America.
 Each of us are homeowners. They get a deduction for our mortgage and for our property taxes. Last year, collectively in America, people like us cost the Treasury $200 billion, the largest housing subsidy in America. The total budget of housing and urban development, which is designed to help everyone the market doesn't serve, in a country with 50 million people in poverty, is $40 billion. And in this election season...
 Every major candidate of one party has said they would eliminate the Department of Housing and Urban Development because it is not an appropriate role of the federal government. So that is a stark, stark situation. We cannot hope and pray that the federal government solves our problem. We wish the state had resources, additional resources, although they're doing a lot. It is time for us to take the reins.
 and to solve our own problem, because there is no solution outside of our borders, which is going to help us today. And I'm glad you made that point. Yep. Good afternoon. Good morning. Or afternoon, sorry. Thank you for allowing me to be here. Let's not let go.
 Just push it again. You need to push it again. And leave it. Leave it. Well, no. We had a big technology upgrade, and nothing works anymore. So we can slide the whole thing. We can slide that whole thing down. It takes a village to operate our PA system. Do you want to just? Yeah. Do you want to just? I'll block these. Here we go. There we go. Hey. Now we're golden. Okay. My name's Jeff Riddle. Thank you for allowing us to be here today, you guys. Okay.
 I am a housing case manager for a local nonprofit here. The purpose for me being here is to kind of give you a little bit of my backstory as well. I, too, just as this gentleman shared, had experienced homelessness about five years ago. I've worked through a lot of the struggles that a lot of the homeless folks here have.
 continue to see every day I am right there on the front lines to walk them through to hopefully get them to safety once again as they once were it took a lot of dedication a lot of hope a lot of drive and people a lot of support helped me to get me through to where I am today and I continue to look for those people to support me as well
 I'm not afraid to ask for assistance any longer where before pride gotten away, it's been difficult, but I know that we, as a city, I've, I've made Portland my home. I love Portland. I'm originally from battle Creek, Michigan. And, um, when I came here, I didn't like the rain so much, but everything was much, much greener, which is always nice. And, um,
 One thing that I started to notice when I came here was that there was an epidemic of homelessness. Before I'd even been here for a year yet, I'd seen it, people sleeping under bridges. And I remember riding the MAX train, and I said, that's never going to be me. And as I said about five years ago, it happened. It was a hard pill to swallow. And never say never, because it can happen to any of us, and time has never promised us anything.
 I put my name on numerous housing wait lists. I just stopped checking on those wait lists last year, just last year. I left my home where there are six children because I was too toxic. When I did that, I reached out to the same agency that I work for, and it's been a miraculous journey. I was always raised to...
 help the man that has fallen and never look down on anyone unless you're there to help them up. And I believe that's what I do today. That's why I'm here today, because I know it takes a whole village to help. I also sit and I look at the gentlemen from across my desk, and I tell them the only thing that I can do for you for the most part is to ensure that I put you on every wait list that I can possibly put you on
 in hopes that six months from now, you may have a chance to get into some place. But that's just for single adults. That doesn't count for families. I had a no-cause eviction back in October, and I thought that my homelessness was over. And to continue to work with those individuals and tell them that everything is going to be okay when in the same thought, you're suffering too.
 or bound to suffer and get through that same thing. I luckily was able to find a landlord that looked beyond some of my faults. I now am rent burdened, but I'd rather be rent burdened than homeless. We pay $2,700 a month for a three-bedroom home where there's eight people in it. It's a little tight fit, but we're happy.
 because I know that there's worse situations. And I told them before I even, all of this, I said if this is what's making this whole issue difficult is me, then I will go back to homelessness before I allow my family. Luckily, that didn't happen. I continue to go into work with a smile, and I love what I do.
 But I know that affordable housing is a huge need. I house veterans and civilians. But again, as I said before, it's all single adults. And it's a real struggle to see guys that have children, women who have children, who can't meet their basic needs every day. I couldn't imagine what it's like to be out in the street with my kids. And I take my hat off to the people that do it every day to try to reach out. They're not – some of those people aren't here today.
 to voice that, and I feel that I am that voice, a proud father, a very new social worker, but very determined in homelessness, one step at a time, whatever that looks like. I really appreciate you guys letting me talk, and, yeah, that's all I got. Thank you. Thank you, Tess. I actually have a question for the chair, if I may. Sure, sure.
 I was just thinking, while you were all speaking so eloquently, just last week we approved the Joint Office on House Listens, and since you've been chair, there's definitely been time after time where you've been so collaborative, I think, at the schools' uniting neighborhoods a long time ago, it seems, and then just last week the Joint Office. So I hear what Commissioner Saltzman says about that the
 more, the 30 to 60 rents are going to help subsidize the zero to 30. There isn't, I can't think of a single infrastructure bureau at the city where we can break even.
 So it would be great if we could, but last week we had a backstop on the Office of House Listens that we promised, the council promised, that we would put at least 15 million plus accelerators into that joint office. Would you be willing to work with us over the next several months so that there's some guarantee that in the future, if these properties need some subsidy from the general fund, that the council would be willing to help support that?
 Because if the bond had been a county bond, that would have been entirely your consideration. Now, with it being the cities, I would like it to be a joint venture rather than just us taking the – just hoping that we are able to operate them without general fund subsidy. Well, thank you for that question. I do believe that this is – while this will be voted on today by your council, it will
 hopefully be passed by all of the city of Portland, which those are our constituents and our residents as well. So this is a joint effort. I think while it is coming from the city for numerous reasons, it is definitely a joint effort. I do believe that...
 Many of the families and individuals that are in that 0% to 30% income range especially will be relying on county services, and that's going to be our number one focus. But, yes, we're in this together. I think that was the foundation.
 for building the Joint Office, and it's going to be the foundation for every step that our two bodies take together. Thank you. Yeah, and you mentioned the services, of course, and that was my earlier question. It would be, I think, helpful to me and the rest of the council, but also helpful for the voters to know and to see, obviously not as part of this process.
 on the measure question, but for them to know that we have intergovernmental agreements in place that cement that long after you and I are gone. Yes. Thank you. Thank you all, and thanks very much. Thanks, Kevin and Tatiana, for being here as well. Thank you. Our last panel consists of Maggie Talmadge of the Communities of Color Coalition, Wendy Ya-Kanul, Israel Baer,
 And we have Pat Wallace, but he's running late, so we'll invite him to testify when he gets here. Good afternoon. Welcome. Maggie, do you want to go first? Because your computer is ready to help you. Thank you for having us. My name is Maggie Talmadge. I'm with the Coalition of Communities of Color. We really urge you today to support the affordable housing general obligation bond that will be sent to voters in November.
 we also thank the leadership of the city the county welcome home coalition and their their supporters for really prioritizing solutions to address our housing crisis we also commend the city on their ongoing efforts around inclusionary housing implementation and the construction excise tax however we all know
 Not one of these solutions will be enough on their own, and we need to continue working diligently to find solutions so that we can really create a truly equitable, inclusive, affordable, and livable city here. So like the city leads the country on sustainability and planning, we can, too, lead the city on affordable housing, a fundamental right.
 So again, the coalition, we're an alliance of 19 culturally specific community-based organizations from six communities of color, African, African-American, Latino, Native American, and Slavic. And we've also been a really strong and early partner to the Welcome Home Coalition. Our director, Julia Meyer, serves on the steering committee, and numerous CCC leaders have been integral to launching the campaign.
 You'll hear more statistics, but I'm sure you're already aware that Portland has a shortage of 24,000 affordable homes and apartments to families and seniors who make under $37,000 a year. And unfortunately, our communities and families face a disproportionate housing cost burden, often spending 30 or 50 percent of their income on housing. Our communities are steadily pushed to the fringes of cities.
 increasingly segregated away from community, away from jobs and services, and existing widespread disparities are exacerbated. And increasingly, African-American and Native American households are leaving this city entirely. Is this really what we want to see for this city? Okay.
 And the recent State of Housing Report reiterates this. While communities of color represent 30% of the population in Multnomah County, on average, only white households with medium incomes high enough can withstand the rising housing costs in the city.
 In 2015, average African-American households could afford to rent a one-bedroom studio and only, I'm sorry, just a studio and only one neighborhood in the city. Likewise, for Native Americans, I got that wrong, seven of Portland's neighborhoods without becoming cost burden. And our Native American average household can only afford to rent a studio in one.
 And again, there's not a single neighborhood in the city that is affordable for a one-bedroom or more to the average African American or Native American household. And again, our families disproportionately bear the burden of homelessness. While we saw pretty much a steady homeless population from the count in time from 2013 to 2015 alone,
 It increased for communities of color. There's a greater percentage and number of people of color on the streets or couch surfing or living in vehicles or doubled up.
 So we know that helping homelessness is a difficult challenge. As we've heard, the failure of the private market to develop affordable housing is deplorable. And the failure of all levels of government to provide public housing also serves to fail our low-income residents and households.
 One cannot even get onto a waiting list for public housing today. Our member organizations constantly talk about the hundreds of people receiving 100 voicemails in one morning for a hopeful waiting list. They regularly have to turn away constituents and community members regularly.
 And for people not plugged into the social service system, informal networks will not provide this information at all.
 And I just have to reiterate, for our communities, for all communities, the impacts of the housing crisis and disparities for our communities go far beyond wealth creation. Home ownership and housing stability also affect education attainment, community and public health, access to jobs and transit, business, and overall quality of life.
 Portlanders are actually already paying for the housing crisis right now. We're seeing it in costs for policing, in costs for health care and direct service costs, lost economic development and worker productivity. So no matter your passion, environment, public parks, business, economic development, public health, it's all connected to this fundamental issue of providing affordable housing. So today...
 We have the opportunity to approve a historic investment in affordable housing for the November ballot, and we ask for your support. The bond could help fill Portland's 24,000-unit gap with at least 1,300 high-quality affordable housing units, which would help house 2,900 Portlanders. City Council referring this affordable housing bond measure to the voters is a critical step.
 And then our community work begins, right? Door knocking, centering the voices of those most impacted to really ask Portland voters to approve this. I appreciate your time, your leadership, and we look forward to working with the city to really create a more equitable and affordable city for all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Israel Barrow of Street Roots, and I'll be brief because I know a lot of people want to speak. You know, this bond is...
 is about community. This bond is about courage. This bond is a symbol of us standing up collectively and working to save our city. It's the community, every single person in this room, along with thousands of others have put their blood, sweat, and tears into getting us to a place to build the foundation that we can go out and do this as a community.
 It's about the courage of all of our elected leaders and standing up and partnering with us to be able to do this historic measure. And ultimately it's about the people in our community that we're working to serve and to save. It's about the disabled elder. It's about the young mother with child sleeping under the food carts. It's about our families and our shelters.
 And ultimately, this is a historic day. I'm so glad to be here in front of you. And I'm so glad to be partnering with you to be able to do this. And I just want to thank each and every one of you for all of your commitment, not just with this bond measure, but also in prioritizing housing in a way that helps us.
 set the values in our community in a way that we know housing is
 is something that should be valued as a public infrastructure, much like we do the police, the fire, our parks, our highways, that in order to have a healthy society, we have to have adequate housing, we have to be able to provide for those who don't have what we have the resources to be able to have
 great life in a great city and I just want to thank you very much and I'm ready to go in a housing bond for the city of Portland. Awesome.
 Israel, I don't want to bring a negative note to this, but I just checked St. Louis is 11 games out of first place. Between now and November, would you be willing to wear a Cubs hat? Commissioner, I have to break in and note that St. Louis has a much better run scored, runs allowed ratio than the record reflects, so I think that that will turn around. Okay.
 We want him to help us, Nick. Go ahead, please. Could you press the button at the base of the microphone? There you go. Muy buenas tardes, señor alcalde y miembros del consejo. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and members of the council. Mi nombre es Wendy Yacanul y vivo en un apartamento del mercado privado.
 My name is Wendy Ya Kanul, and I live in a private market apartment. En la calle Kingsworth, en un mesendario Cooley. And that's on Killingsworth Street in the Cully neighborhood. Venga en representación. It's okay. It's okay. Venga en representación del grupo CHAT. I'm here as a representative of a group called CHAT. Es el equipo de acción de viviendas en Cooley. And CHAT stands for the Cully Housing Action Team.
 CHAT is a grassroots advocacy committee with more than 50 active members, primarily made up of low-income people. And we are fighting together to have more opportunity for affordable housing in our neighborhood of Cully.
 Chad is a member of the Welcome Home Coalition. And I'm here today to ask for your support. Your support for building more affordable homes. Throughout the city of Portland.
 Mi esposo y yo tenemos cuatro hijos entre un año a doce años. My husband and I have four children between the ages of one and twelve. Vivimos en un apartamento de dos recámaras. And we live in a two-bedroom apartment. Porque es el único lugar que podemos pagar. Because that's the only place that we can afford.
 Llevo tres años en una lista de espera para unos apartamentos. And for the last three years, I've been on an apartment waiting list. Declaro vista que pertenece a Hacienda. For the Hacienda apartments. Mi familia, buscamos la oportunidad de vivir. Thank you, Carla. Thank you, Carla.
 Mi familia busca la oportunidad de vivir en un apartamento de hacienda. And my family is looking for this opportunity to live in an hacienda apartment. Porque mis hijos necesitan un lugar estable, seguro, saludable para crecer. Because my children need a place that is safe, healthy, and stable to grow up. Donde vivimos ahora no hay bastante espacio para mi familia. Where we live now there is just not enough space for my family.
 No hay ni lavadora, ni secadora. There are no laundry facilities. El dueño no hace reparaciones. The owner doesn't make repairs. Y vivimos con el miedo que se aumente la renta y tendremos que mudarnos muy lejos. And we live with the constant fear that our rent will be increased beyond our means and we'll have to move far away. Lejos de nuestra comunidad, de la escuela y la transportación pública.
 Far away from our community, from my children's school, and from public transportation. And that will be far away from the clinic. But with an affordable housing, an affordable home, we would be able to have stability that comes with a set rent.
 Podemos tener una comunidad y una oportunidad para una vida mejor. We would have a stable community and the chance to build a better life for ourselves. Por eso me involucré en el grupo chat. And that's why I became involved in the group chat. Para luchar con mis vecinos y para un futuro con mucha esperanza y oportunidad. To fight alongside my neighbors to build a better future with hope and opportunity.
 Por eso pido que nos den la oportunidad de votar en sí este noviembre. And that's why I'm here today to ask that you give us the opportunity to vote yes in November. Para más viviendas accesibles que realmente necesitamos. To vote yes for more affordable homes, which we really need. Gracias. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you.
 So let's move to the sign-up sheet, please, and take folks that are signed up to testify. I have a total of 21. The first three, please come on up, are Terry Parker, Jess Larson, and Shannon Singleton. And they'll be followed by Maggie Dietz, Casey Jama, and Celine Mazoyer. Okay. Okay.
 Good morning. I'm Terry Parker, Northeast Portland, a fourth generation Portlander. I have a little different view on this. Your increases in sewer and water rates, increases in electric rates, garbage service rates, and especially property taxes all have an impact on increasing the cost of housing. Although finding more money to help pay for more affordable housing is a laudable goal, your Robin Hood approach to increasing taxes on existing Portland households is going in the wrong direction.
 The Robin Hood of Sherwood Forest stole from the rich to give to the overtaxed poor. Your Robin Hood scheme, should it pass, is an increase in the costs of housing citywide. It not only takes from the wealthy, but it also takes from the senior citizens on fixed incomes, single parents with kids, and anybody else just getting by and living paycheck to paycheck.
 While the property tax rates in Portland have soared to the extreme over the past few years, for seniors, there has been little to no increases in Social Security benefits to offset those taxes.
 In addition to this Robin Hood scheme, there's the probability of another costly school board measure on the November ballot. If just one or the other were to pass, it could be the property tax straw that breaks the Campbells' backs, forcing more seniors out of their homes. Oftentimes a lifetime investment they have lived in for years.
 Losing that home because the taxes are no longer affordable will only create a high level of trauma for those displaced. Most seniors have more than likely paid their dues to society and shouldn't be asked for more. Moreover, if property taxes are increased, landlords predictably will raise rents, passing through the higher cost to tenants, affecting renters of all income levels.
 The city's appetite for more money has grown out of proportion. Instead of placing this bond measure on the November ballot, that if passed will increase excessive property taxes, find the money elsewhere, maybe by canceling some of the overreaching monarch-like social engineering that takes place in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Mayor, commissioners, my name is Jess Larson. Thank you. This is a great moment of accomplishment and gratitude to sit here before you. You know how hard we've been working for the last two years and really for the last decades to make this major step forward in housing justice. So thank you for your part, your leadership, for listening, stepping it up to make things right here in Portland, to make us a better city. Thank you.
 I don't need to sit here and echo the stories of need or pain and suffering, fear and frustration. You hear this every day you go to work. We feel it every day we live in this city.
 I don't need to tell you that affordable housing works. You know that too. It changes lives. It builds back our community, health, hope. Affordable housing is making us all better. We know that. We just need more. So what I'd like to do is use my two minutes left and attempt to answer two questions that I think you'll be hearing and maybe ones that you're wondering yourself. Questions I know that together we're all going to be answering in this great historic and super fun campaign that's going to kick off tonight at the Buckman Coffee Factory. Okay.
 So question number one, why Portland? What about Gresham, Multnomah County? What about Beaverton? And what about Metro? The need extends well beyond the boundaries of Portland. Well, yes, yes, indeed it does. In fact, people across this entire country are suffering under 40 years of divestment at the federal level, and it's only worsening in this extended housing crisis. Yes, we need solutions at every level of government in every local city across the region in Salem and back to D.C.,
 We're not the only city chasing this dream of affordable homes, though. Our neighbors to the north in Vancouver are also bringing housing to voters. The county of Alameda, where Oakland is, will be voting on a $500 million bond in November, along with us, and 10 other cities up and down the West Coast on November 8th.
 In fact, I spoke with leaders in Corvallis who tell me that they are studying the CET, the construction exercise tax that you passed yesterday, because they want to figure out how they can start to address affordable housing in their community. So why Portland? Because we are Portland. Because we are leaders. Because we are proud of the city we're building. Because we stand up for the people. Because we believe in our public spaces and we like to show off that we know what makes a city great. Thank you.
 And we know that what we need to make the city great is to build enough affordable homes for those who need them most. Question number two, but it's not enough. I assure you for the 3,000 Portlanders who are going to live in these homes, for the families who will grow up, get off to school, learn to play an instrument, celebrate their birthdays, make it through their first heartbreaks, set off for college, for these kids, for these families, these homes are everything.
 And that's just the beginning, because over the life of these buildings, tens of thousands of Portlanders will have their lives changed by calling them home. About 4,400 Portlanders are homeless today. They're waiting for housing in our shelters, in our transitional programs. They sleep outside and unsafe. When we create new and deeply affordable homes for 3,000 Portlanders, this ballot measure...
 With this ballot measure, we will hear and we will feel a resounding sigh of relief in this most urgent need.
 Yes, we need to do more. We cannot stop here. We need other tools, other partners, other strategies to wholly solve this problem and make sure no Portland family is burdened unduly by these rising rents. And we must first start here. This major step forward is where it counts most for the Portland families who need it most. So thank you, and I urge you to take this major step forward with us to help us to start Make Portland a city that works for everyone,
 a place where everyone can afford a place to call home. Thank you. Thanks, Jess, for all your leadership. Could you just put into the record what organization you're representing? Yes, I'm with the Welcome Home Coalition, an organization that represents over 140 other organizations. Thank you. Thank you very much. Hello, Commissioners and Mayor. I'm Shannon Singleton. I'm the Executive Director at JOIN. I'm also co-chair for the Home for Everyone Coordinating Board and a steering committee member for the Welcome Home Coalition.
 I wanted to come and thank you for your leadership in addressing housing and homelessness in our community. Not only what I hope is unanimous approval of today's resolution, but also the recent passage of the CET and dedicating those funds to affordable housing. The work to craft an inclusionary zoning policy for our community, and the financial investment the city has made in the Home for Everyone effort and our work to end people's homelessness. Without affordable homes, homelessness will only grow.
 At JOIN, we walk with people on their path back into housing. We meet people like Joan, an 84-year-old woman living in her car after losing her apartment due to a rent increase that she could not afford on her Social Security income. We meet families like the Smiths, sleeping in a tent in the woods because the single father's minimum wage job doesn't provide enough income to afford an apartment.
 We meet people like Lenny, who struggles with a mental illness and now sleeps in our parking lot after losing his apartment of two years due to a no-cause eviction, and he can't find another apartment that he can afford. The common thread through all of these stories is people who are exposed to the trauma of homelessness because we, as a community, lack enough affordable housing to support all of those who need them. Our neighbors, sisters, brothers, mothers, fathers, children, and grandparents.
 are sleeping on the streets of Portland because they are too poor to afford rent. This is unacceptable. By referring this bond, you can make a statement that housing is a basic human right and that our community believes that people deserve to have a safe and stable place to call home. You affirm that the Smiths deserve a place where their dad can cook dinner and where the children can do their homework. You ensure that more seniors like Joan have access to housing that they can afford so that they're not sleeping on our streets.
 You make it possible for people like Lenny to move into apartments they can afford on their fixed disability income. I'm here today not only for myself and my family, but for my neighbors, my friends, and my community. I'm here on behalf of the joint community and the people we serve, and I'm here to ask you all to vote yes. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Okay, next three, please. Our Maggie Dietz, Casey Jama, and Celine Mazoyer.
 They'll be followed by Steve Rudman, Donna Cohen, and Lightning Watchdog PDX. Folks, I'd just like to remind you to do the hand gestures rather than the applause, just so we can keep it going. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. Do I begin? Yes, please. Thank you. I spent nearly a year on a waiting list for an apartment at Rosemont Court Apartments. During that time, I stayed with both of my daughters by turns, if not for the graciousness of my children. Thank you.
 I'm not at all sure what I would have done. I know that the specter of the streets loomed large in my mind. One of my kids lives in Seattle and she put up with me for a few months, or put me up, whichever way you want to look at that. The rest of the time I spent here in Portland with my other darling daughter and her husband and my two amazing grandsons. Now that was a little bit of a change of pace of their lives at any rate.
 It did seem like an awfully long wait, but I have to say that it was totally worth it in the end. I have pretty easy access to my family now, and the sense of community at Rosemont Court Apartments, it's a gem. It's fostered some really good friendships for me and made a big difference in my life. The best part of living here is that it allows me to have a decent home of my own.
 And since the rent is approximately one-third of my total income, I have some financial room for fun. Not for a good wardrobe, but for fun. Not to mention the fact that it's close enough to my grandsons that I can go to watch them play basketball or go to their band concerts. You probably know that in general, grandmothers have a fairly small window of time before becoming just grandma. During the boys' younger years, I was...
 Grandma! And the open arms, and they're running. And, you know, they turn into teenagers, and that kind of tames down. And I'm celebrated a little more quietly now. But the fact remains that since I have an affordable place to live, I can spend time with them. We are close. We might not have been had I ended up living under a bridge, you know? I mean, who's to say? Right.
 I can't tell you how passionately I wish that housing that makes sense for low-income people, individuals, and families were more readily available. It can and it does change lives. Thank you for listening. Could you give me your name again, please? Maggie Dietz. Maggie, thank you so much. And I have to tell you that once they get to be 20-somethings, they're back to saying, Grandma, I'm wanting to show you how to work at a computer. Good. Good to look forward to. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Casey Chama. I am the Executive Director of Unite Oregon, formerly known as the Center for Intercultural Organizing and Oregon Action. Home should be our safest place, a place that can serve as a core foundation of our health and where our families can thrive.
 Increasingly, the quality and stability of our housing is determined not only by our economic circumstances, but by our race, ethnicity, immigration status.
 The current housing crisis impacts all Oregonians, but due to the systematic barriers, some communities are impacted more than others. For immigrants and refugees and people of color, additional challenges include discriminatory rental practices, linguistic and cultural barriers, high mobility, lower level of trust in public agencies, and underreporting for poor housing conditions.
 Houselessness looks like different for many of our communities. Our cultures do not allow families to be without homes. And this reality has forced people to overcrowded apartments, exasperating poor living conditions. We want to also include that if this passes, that housing should be apartments or new developments should be put close to the public transportation because we believe they are all interconnected.
 Solutions must be interconnected and cross-cultural. Abornments and developments that build culturally appropriate community spaces include multi-generational or large family options. Have sufficient supplies of decent, safe, and affordable units to protect against overcrowding and inadequate living conditions. Community development plans that are affordable housing to be improved in
 Employees subsidized transportation solutions and job training placement programs should be included on this proposal. Finally, we need this pilot initiative to be moving forward. This is the right direction for you and the right direction for Portland. Everyone should have a right to have a place to call home.
 We appreciate your leadership. And in conclusion, I want to share with you this specific conversation that I had with my six-year-old son. One day we were driving, and he saw homeless tenants, folks who are under the bridge. He asked me as I was driving, why, Daddy, what are they doing there? I explained to him what's going on, and I told him they're homeless. His response was very simple as a child.
 Every person should have a home. If that six-year-old child understands that, we should be all as adults able to understand. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, my name is Celine Mazier. I'm a housing specialist at Northwest Pilot Project. And we work specifically with homeless and at-risk low-income seniors.
 And Pat Wallace, who was supposed to speak earlier, is having some transportation issues, and he's actually my client, so I'm going to briefly tell his story. Pat came to me about a year ago as a result of being homeless. He's blind and very vulnerable because of that. So we helped him get into a motel and proceeded to work on trying to find him housing. It took about five months before we could find him someplace that he could afford and that had an available unit.
 Pat is now living in an SRO at Alder House, and his apartment, or his unit, is actually about 10 feet by 10 feet, so it's tiny. And his rent is about $578. Pat's income is, I think, just under $940 a month.
 So it's pretty expensive for him for the size of the unit he's paying for. And the reality is with the rent increases that are occurring in Portland and at the Alder House, Patrick's housing will very soon become unaffordable for him. Rent increases are actually the very reason Patrick became homeless to begin with.
 Unfortunately, much of my job is telling our lowest income members of our community, like Patrick, that they will have to wait anywhere from two to six years to get housing that will be permanently affordable for them because of our housing shortage. All the while, rents are increasing everywhere, so they have nowhere else to go. As a result, you might have noticed that we have about 4,000 people sleeping in places that are not meant for habitation in Portland. Thank you.
 There are many other people who are on the cusp of losing their housing, and I talk to them every single day. Homeless housing agencies can't keep up with the demand because the problem isn't a lack of services. It's a lack of affordable housing, plain and simple. Portland is lacking about 24,000 affordable homes, and this problem isn't going away on its own. It's only getting worse.
 It's time to be proactive because our city is only going to keep growing. If we want to keep the Portland we all love, then we have to make sure that all the people who have made our community unique, like Patrick, who's lived here for almost his entire life, have room to continue to live here, too. I want to live and work in a Portland that is diverse and affordable for everyone. Please refer this bond to be on the ballot in November. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 The next three are Steve Redman, Donna Cohen, and Lightning Watchdog PDX. I think light, oh, there he is. And they'll be followed by Zafir Moore, Michael Withey, and Jeff, and last name starts with an R.
 Steve, welcome. Afternoon, Council. Mayor, it's really great to be here on this momentous occasion. I've been pretty involved in affordable housing in Portland for the past 30 years. In the 90s, I served as a director of then the Bureau of Housing Community Development, and early 2000s moved over to Home Forward, then the Housing Authority of Portland, and served as ED there for 13 years.
 As Mayor Hales might remember, when I go back into the early 90s, the city had three housing challenges at that time.
 And believe it or not, we had 3,000 vacant and abandoned buildings in inner city neighborhoods. And we were concerned about blight and disinvestment. Second, we were trying to capture 20% of the growth in the area to make sure that Portland became a growing and thriving city as new people came in. And third was the issue of affordability. We were concerned about homelessness and the increasing number of low-income households who could not find affordable housing.
 At that point, concerted efforts were made and continue to be made and enhanced, particularly in the last couple of years, of a variety of local financial and regulatory tools that the council has put in place, whether it be funding like an increase in TIF or foregone revenue. In those days, it was actually government.
 tax foreclosed properties from the county and tax abatements, which are still a very important tool today. And at the end of the day, the first two priorities, that of density and revitalization, the real goal was to stimulate private investment. You could say that we actually succeeded more than we wanted, but what you realize is the power of private investment. Indeed, the inner cities were stabilized, were revitalized, and now indeed are gentrified.
 And we have captured incredible density. Density is not a problem in Portland. We have been discovered by national, indeed, international capital sources. We have become the it city. We have graduated to the big leak, West Coast cities, which means highly desirable and highly unaffordable.
 We had the highest percentage of rent and home ownership increases in the nation in the last several times. There was a chronic lack of affordable housing magnified by the numbers of people without a home. For the first time, affordable housing and homelessness are top-tier issues with the electorate.
 One thing that I think we've all realized is the power of the marketplace and that private capital actually makes public capital pale in comparison. And basically the public sector can work on the margins of those markets place. This is particularly true for the third leg of the stool, which is affordability. There's not a profit incentive to make here. There's absolutely no substitute for public resources to house those with the lowest income.
 We've made great strides as a community in recent years. We have many tools in the toolbox that we didn't have before. Now we want to have, as our needs continue to increase, we need every tool, including this tool of going to the voters and asking our voters to weigh in and support our neighbors in need. Everybody needs to be part of the solution. Affordable housing, indeed, local public housing, is important to be a permanent piece of our community infrastructure. Thank you.
 I believe that now is the time we can ask Portlanders the really defining question about the kind of community we want to be, learning from West Coast cities, that most people, I believe, believe that our city will be richest if we allow Portlanders of all backgrounds and incomes to call this place home, a good place to live, work, and raise families. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hi, I'm Donna Cohen. Nick, thank you for bringing up the biggest housing subsidy that the feds give, the mortgage and real estate interest deduction subsidy.
 200 billion dollars go the vast bulk of it goes to the upper the upper half of the income distribution so i just want to thank you for that so i grew up in apartments i lived in apartments my whole life up until about 13 years ago i've gotten three degrees in my life and that means that for most of my adult life i've been paying
 I was paying back student debt. I worked in the public sector. Since I switched careers, it didn't help my retirement fund. I'm basically a lower-income person. The only reason 13 years ago I was able to finally buy a house was because of Host Community Development Corporation.
 They gave me just that edge that allowed me to purchase the house. I've been there 13 years. I cannot begin to tell you the impact of that house on my life. It's absolutely enormous. And it also gives me a lot more financial stability. Okay.
 If I think about had I not been able to get in that house and what my situation would be now, it's, I mean, it would be ugly. I don't even let myself go there very much because of how bad it would be.
 So, as I mentioned, I am a senior citizen. I didn't get a Social Security raise, it's true. But if you want to ask me for $75 a year or $150 a year, I would give anything I could for this to go through. I want other people to get the benefit of what I got and what meant so much to me.
 This is absolutely critical, and I fully support it, and I expect to be out on the street canvassing in the fall for this measure. Wow. When they hear your story, I think they'll have a hard time voting no. Thank you. Lightning, welcome. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I do support this measure, but I do have some concerns. Okay.
 One of the concerns I have is that I wanted to see if, as you know, Homer Williams is trying to develop that homeless campus, if some of the funding from this could be utilized to purchase the land and also some of the cost. And what I'm talking about is a $50 million level there.
 and have a commitment from the private developers to come up with the additional 50 to 75 million for operating and finalizing the construction. Again, we'd be talking about a 400-person capacity, very beneficial to the city at this time, because these projects are going to also be pushed out over many years. Again, and then if you're talking 1,300 approximate units to be added by this bond also in that range –
 We're kicking that capacity up even more and also providing additional places for people out on the sidewalks and the doorways to go to. Again, that's not a big cost if the developers can match that money. That will technically push this over $300-plus million if you do your calculations.
 Now, another issue I have is since DHM just came out with a report, they're stating the public is looking at more shelters-type, maybe campus-type facilities. If you don't take that report seriously, I think this bond will fail. So understand when the public is making suggestions on where they might want to see things happen, to have that homeless campus amendment in this bond
 could possibly pass this if not i think it'll fail because the public has spoken on this dhm data now pertaining to joe weston in buying used apartments with this money i absolutely disagree with you knowing joe weston i know most of his rents are going to be market rate rents
 And what you're going to end up doing is removing a tremendous amount of people out of those units, and you're going to put a lot of stress on them by doing that. I think you need to focus on developing new, making more inventory out in the marketplace, comparing
 Stop competing with the private sector and driving up the rents. Stop doing that. We need more inventory, and if you focus on that homeless campus and the additional units you can build new, I think you're going to be in great position pertaining to the homelessness situation. Otherwise, if you compete against the private sector, you're going to drive up rents, and I can assure you that's not a good direction to go. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 The next three are Zephir Moore, Michael Withey, and Jeff, last initials are, and they'll be followed by David Delk, Christina Palacios, and Rina Suntry-Molloy. Okay. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Councillors. My name is Zephir Moore, Beaverton, Oregon. I'm an Amsoil synthetic oil dealer. And presently, this tax, you're going to be extracting money from people who own houses to pay for the tax. Yes.
 Through my AMSOIL business, and many of the people who own property also use a car. Do you folks own property, use a car? Occasionally. Okay. You operate and maintain that car and pay money to do that. Through my business, I can supply all the things that you use to operate your car, and out of your cost of paying for that, I can donate the profit to this cause or any other nonprofit cause of the buyer's choice.
 So how much would you say you spend in a year on your car, Mayor? Well, gosh, I don't know, but let's keep going. Let's say it's $400. If it were $400, the profit would be $100 a year. That would be donated to this cause. So you can squeeze cash out of your car rather than squeezing cash out of your property. And it can cast out the cost of maintaining your car, not the cost of the car, but the maintaining. So that's my gift to you. I'm Zephyr Moore in Beaverton, Oregon. If you want to look me up, it's Z Moore in the phone book. And if you want to see...
 My offer is to write on my postcard or my business card. Thank you very much. Mr. Withey. Mike Withey, Micro Community Concepts. Our organization. Get a little closer to the mic if you can there. There you go. So Mike Withey, Micro Community Concepts. Our organization is 100% behind this. This is a great prevention effort. This is obviously not an end to homelessness. But like you've said before, Commissioner Fritz, we're going to need a host of different answers and options. Thank you.
 So as we go through this, I don't want to forget about the 100,000 backyards that we could build ADUs in. I know that the county and the state doubled and tripled taxes, and so it kind of killed the ADU movement, the tiny house movement in Portland. But we're going to do it.
 But we are still the national leader. We need to fix that with the state and the county. We also are moving forward with micro-communities, the 156-square-foot studios that we can rent for $250. We're working that through the private sector. So there are lots of options. Maybe a $100 million campus on the site that's up for sale on Front Avenue may not be the best way to spend $100 million. But...
 Other businesses in Northwest Portland, like Sniff Dog Hotel, they got together with the architects in Northwest Portland, came up with a relief effort that was going to go on that piece of property for a short amount of time, a six-month span, to operate a relief effort, just like a mesh. It's what we do after natural disasters, and I've spoke about this before. In fact, I've been speaking with you for four years about it. Now businesses in Northwest Portland want to do it. They went out on their own, cooperated,
 Got the plans all together presented them to your office Mayor we haven't heard anything back yet. We're still waiting to hear back, but the piece of land I understand mr. Fish you put it up on the market. I understand that But we could still do a relief effort on that spot And in the interim, so I hope when you receive the email next week that describes what we're doing that You at least give it a thought
 Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Okay. Others? The next are David Delk, Christina Palacios, and Rina Setre-Malloy. They'll be followed by Sharon Miran, Jill Chen, and Margaret Black. I think people have left, so you might want to keep going. Margaret's the last one who signed up. So I called your name. Come on up or come on down. Some are coming up.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is David Delk. I'm the president of the Alliance for Democracy and also heading up a new effort in Portland to create a municipal public bank.
 The Alliance for Democracy appreciates the efforts that Portland City Council is considering to fund the building and maintenance of affordable housing, including the new excise tax on development expected to raise $8 million annually and this proposed general obligation bond for over $250 million. We support this.
 this bond and hope that you will move it to the ballot in November. Up to 7% is earmarked for the issuance and administration of the bond. Fees and interest will be paid in addition, meaning that Portland taxpayers will pay as much as 30 to 40% more than $250 million. Portlanders should expect
 should be able to expect that the money generated by this tax will be added for the purpose of
 Excuse me. Will be used for the purpose for which it is raised instead of having to pay interest and fees to Wall Street. Hey, could we just stop you there for a second? Sure. Because I've been trying to listen to all the testimony. You lost me on what you just said. Okay. About the premium above the bond. I don't know what you're talking about. Could you just state it again so we can track what you're saying? The $250-plus million bond. Right. $250.
 the city will pay someone interest. You're selling the bonds to somebody. Okay, is that...
 Now I got you. Okay, good. So instead of paying that money to Wall Street, we should be able to retain that money ourselves. There's a way to reduce the fees and interest, thereby reducing the amount of taxes to be paid, and that is by forming a municipal public bank for Portland using the financial resources we already have for a public purpose.
 Cities across the nation are looking at the opportunity municipal banking can offer to end city debt, finance worthy public projects such as affordable housing, building and maintaining infrastructure, and or creating job opportunities for city residents. Cities currently investigating public housing opportunities include Santa Fe, Washington, D.C., Boston, Philadelphia, Seattle, King County, San Francisco, and others.
 The City of Santa Fe is further along having commissioned a feasibility study. That study shows that Santa Fe can in the first five years of operation gain almost $5 million either in saved fees or in profit paid back to the city.
 I have copies of that feasibility study with me, and I'll leave them here. While I understand we cannot form a municipal bank in time to affect this particular bond, I hope that the city will consider the possibilities that a municipal bank might offer it. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Raina, and I work for Community Warehouse.
 We are a local furniture bank here in Portland, and we serve the greater Portland metro area. And we have the privilege of working with over 200 social service and safety net agencies in the Portland area who are helping people transition out of homelessness. And we feel very lucky because we get to see people who have secured housing. These agencies have helped provide them housing, and we get to help them furnish their homes here.
 And every single time that a family comes in and we get to witness that relief and joy and peace that they have, just knowing that they will have a roof over their head that evening is huge.
 And so we're here today to just thank all of the agencies that are working so hard on the front lines to secure housing for all of these people in our community. And thank you for hearing us today and for your interest in the ballot measure. Thank you. Thanks very much. How about a shout-out to Community Warehouse? Yeah, great organization. Thank you. It's like JOIN and all of our partners are able to move a family indoors.
 You're the folks who make sure they have a dining room table, a couch, and a chair, and a bed, and the basics of furnishing that home. So thank you for your good work. Thank you. And if somebody does happen to have a couch or a table that they want to give to you, how would they get a hold of the community warehouse? Communitywarehouse.org is our website, and you can drop off or we'll come pick up. Great. Thank you. MLK and? Martin Luther King and Shaver. Shaver. Thank you. You're welcome. Thanks. Thank you.
 We give non-profits free commercials here. Excellent. Much appreciated. Welcome. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Thank you very much for having me here today. My name is Margo Black. I'm an organizer with Portland Tenants United. I'm here to voice my strong and unequivocal support for referring the Affordable Housing General Obligation bond measure to the November ballot. However, I'm not here to join in the back padding for your courage and leadership. This bond is a much-needed step in the right direction. It's about a generation too late.
 It is the absolute least we can do and requires very little beyond this vote from City Council. It's the Voters and Welcome Home Coalition that will have to do the extremely hard work of getting it passed. We've already seen landlords threatening to pass the property tax increases onto their renters.
 While their taxes go up very little, this uses a very effective scare tactic to convince their very scared renters to vote no and to justify untenable rent increases of many hundreds of dollars. Only regulations on rent increases addresses this fear-mongering. Where is city council's courage in declaring an emergency and instituting a rent freeze? Where is your leadership on overturning the ban on rent control? Thank you.
 Every day I hear about another family or senior citizen being displaced into homelessness due to rent increases or a no-cause eviction, and they have nowhere to go. We know that a huge proportion of our homeless population are recently homeless. Many of them have jobs and had housing until they were forced out of it. The 1,300 units that this bond will create or preserve over the next 20 years is of zero consolation or comfort for these families. It literally means nothing to them right now as they are homeless. Thank you.
 especially if they happen to earn 61% or more of median income, a woefully inadequate amount of money considering the skyrocketing cost of living in Portland. Why are we rejoicing over 1,300 future affordable units when there are over 1,300 full-time, full entire places on Airbnb?
 I spoke with a tenant this week who lives in a fourplex where three of their units have been converted to full-time Airbnbs. Where is the city's leadership in enforcing its own rules and regulations against short-term rentals? How many hosts have you fined? How much has Airbnb been fined? And why aren't you collecting this fine money and using it to assist displaced renters? Thank you.
 To show courage and leadership, you need to make sure that the developers aren't weakening our already weakened ability to enact inclusionary zoning. To show courage and leadership, you have to stand up to NIMBYs who oppose density and development and who demand minimum parking requirements that drive up the cost of housing and restrict supply. To show courage and leadership, you should institute real and robust tenant protections, protections that actually prevent displacement rather than just postpone it for an additional month. 90 days notice is not a protection. It is a snooze button.
 We need just cause evictions. We need a lawyer for every tenant facing displacement. We need landlords licensed, registered, and educated, and a way to hold them accountable, and a way to enforce Senate protections that doesn't require a courtroom. We need fines for abusive landlords increased, and security deposits, application fees, and screening barriers decreased. We need to build for those without homes, but we need to also keep people in their homes at all costs.
 We need a rent freeze and we need a moratorium on no-cause evictions until the City of Portland can right this ship This is how you show courage and leadership. We need it now more than ever. Yes to referring this bond measure to the ballot Yes to more affordable housing Yes to this being counted as a victory But don't think for a moment that anyone who is currently paying rent in Portland will sleep any easier after today's vote Thank you all. Okay next please. Is there Christina palacios Sharon Myron and Jill Chen and
 Any of you are here? And the last two I show who signed up are Mary Nemmers and Manny Avila. Okay. Come on up, unless you're upstairs. No? Okay. All right. So I think we may have heard from everyone. Yes? Anyone else want to speak? All right. Good. Additional comments before we take action? Then let's vote, please. Fish. I want to begin this afternoon by thanking Commissioner Saltzman, our housing commissioner, who has been our tireless leader.
 for bringing this matter forward. I want to thank Kurt Krieger for really the remarkable impact he's had at the helm of the Housing Bureau over a relatively short duration. And I want to thank Shannon Callahan, who, for those of you who don't know her, runs Dan's office, but she's been doing great work in building the base of support and educating Dan's colleagues about this bond measure. There is so much to like about the referral in front of us.
 600 homes for struggling low-income families, 3,000 people whose lives will be immeasurably improved, partnerships with Home Forward, the county, and mission-driven nonprofits. As I was listening to Steve Rudman, I was reminded that today's action is in part a tribute to the power of community coalitions to drive change.
 I'm old enough to remember that the 30% set-aside did not originate in this building. It was Sam Chase and a group of advocates who came and pounded on doors and demanded that the city set aside 30% of urban renewal money for housing. And the TIF to 50 campaign did not originate in this building. It was faith and community groups that raised their voices and said, in a crisis, more urban renewal money needs to be set aside. And we listened. And when we debated South Waterfront...
 and acknowledge some of our missteps. It was Gretchen Khafre and Susan Emmons and a whole group of people who came in and raised hell and demanded that we keep faith with the promises we had made. And today, again, a well-organized and passionate and loud coalition, the Welcome Home Coalition, 140 members strong, has come here demanding that we refer this bond measure to the voters and give them a chance to act. And we are poised to act.
 We are also taking a big step today in redefining what housing means to our community. In other countries around the world, they use the term social housing. And it is basic common sense in countries throughout Europe that government provides housing to people that the market doesn't serve. We're conflicted as a nation about this. So we use vouchers and subsidies. We tinker with the market. We put our little foot in the water, but we withdraw when it's uncomfortable.
 Today we're actually making a statement about social housing. We are saying that the city of Portland is going to build or preserve a substantial number of homes, will own them for the long term, and will preserve the affordability of those homes. It's sort of like the way we think about libraries and parks and schools. These are community assets for community members. It is in a kind of a dramatic way a sea change in thinking today.
 about how we approach the housing market, and I would say it's long overdue. I intend to spend the summer and the fall working with Dan to help raise the money to pass this bond measure and to speak out in support of this bond measure. I think it's the most important issue facing our community. And finally, about impact. One of the things I like about the way this has been structured is that we have not overpromised, but we're poised to overdeliver. I think that's the right measurement.
 with a public that's increasingly skeptical of their government. And let's also be clear. When we are successful in passing this bond measure, we will not end homelessness, we are not going to solve the housing crisis, and our work is not finished. But thousands and thousands of people in our community are going to live better lives, more safe, more secure. Children are going to do better in school. And once again, Portland is going to lead when others won't. And for that, I'm extremely proud.
 aye well uh we as portlanders take a lot of pride in our city and we do a lot of things right but one thing that has clearly gotten out of whack is uh our ability to house uh our residents and this bond measure is about setting off about
 Continuing the track record this council has established over the last year in solid progress in increasing the funding for affordable housing, and this is the step. As I mentioned in my opening remarks, we've dug deep in our own pockets with city resources. We've just enacted a fee yesterday on development so that growth pays for growth, and now we're asking our voters to step up
 to the plate and contribute to help us establish uh six 1300 units of affordable housing over 600 or 600 of those affordable to very low income residents of our city and i think that it's it's certainly a challenge it's always a challenge to ask taxpayers to pay more taxes and it's never easy and but i think with groups like the welcome home coalition that is just raring to go and
 not like they're just starting. They've been going at it for a couple years here, but I know that we're really ready to unleash the full power of the 140 organizations, uh, knocking on door, not knocking on doorsteps, doing coffees, parties, doing fundraising calls, all the things necessary to mount a winning, a winning campaign. And I'm confident that we can do it. It's just going to take a lot of work and can't take anything for granted. But, uh,
 Getting to the goal we're shooting for makes it well worth the effort. And I just want to thank, again, echo Commissioner Fish's thanks of Shannon Callahan, our Housing Bureau folks, Matthew Chabaud, Kurt Krieger, others, and also the Welcome Home Coalition for what you've done to date to get us to this point and what you'll do in the future to get us over the finish line on November 8th. So pleased to vote aye. Novick.
 I also want to thank Commissioner Saltzman and Shannon Callahan and Kurt Krieger and Sherka Foray and everybody in the Welcome Home Coalition. This is part of the answer to the big question of what kind of city do we want this to be? Given what's happening in the real estate market, it's beginning to look like it's possible that within not too many years, Portland will be a city where only wealthy people can afford to live.
 I think that we can take some steps through the zoning code to make it more feasible for this to continue to be a place where middle income people can afford to live. We've taken some steps in that direction with the comprehensive plan. But I think that no matter what we do with the zoning code, it's unlikely without some publicly supported housing that people who make below 60 percent of median income will be able to continue to live here.
 Commissioner Fritz was asking, couldn't we use some of this money to buy housing outside the boundaries of the city? And I can understand why you asked that question, but I don't want to decide that Portland can only be a city where people – I mean, I don't want to decide that Portland can't be a city where African Americans and Native Americans and people of low incomes generally
 So I think it is appropriate that we spend all the money in Portland, whether we're legally required to do that or not. I do wish that there were other solutions. I was pleased that Michael Bonacore pointed out that the federal government used to seriously invest in affordable housing. And then under Ronald Reagan, they stopped and they haven't started again. I wish that wasn't the case.
 Terry Parker said, can't we cut some other bureau in the city? Can't we cut back on overreaching monarch-like social engineering programs?
 and if the city had a bureau of overreaching monarch-like suits um social engineering with a 50 million dollar a year budget then i would be all for cutting that in order to spend some money but in fact the city's general fund money which is the money we have some discretion over goes overwhelmingly to police fire parks and houses and people don't come to us asking us to cut any of those things
 I wish there were some other kinds of tax mechanisms available to us. Seattle, I believe, or King County, has a real estate transfer tax. A real estate transfer tax that just applied to houses that sell for over half a million dollars could raise millions of dollars a year for affordable housing. The voters of Oregon a few years back voted for a ballot measure which outlaws real estate transfer taxes in the state of Oregon.
 I wish we could apply a property tax only to houses worth more than half a million dollars. But I'm told that state law prohibits that, too. So, I mean, I think that it might seem to a lot of people, when is the Portland City Council going to stop raising taxes? They asked people to raise their gas taxes. They did a construction excise tax. When is it going to stop? I'm a tax and spend liberal, and I'm tired of voting for tax increases.
 But we have a crisis in terms of affordability, and this is a tool that's available to address it. We have a strong coalition of Portlanders prepared to support this at the ballot. And this is a thoughtful and caring and generous city where we can expect, I think, that Portlanders, despite the fact that they are dealing with their own financial problems,
 despite the fact they've seen other tax increases, I think we can expect them to step up and spend, as Donna Cohen said, the $75 a year.
 So this is not an action that we take lightly. This is raising the property taxes. It's not our first resort. It's not our second resort. But it's something that we feel more we have to do in order for us to be the city we want to be. So I'd be proud to support this measure. Thanks to everybody who worked for it. Thanks to everybody who's going to work for the bond measure. I'm pleased to vote aye. Great. Thank you.
 I'm pleased to refer this bond measure to the voters. The voters of Portland, when given accurate information, make really good choices, and we care about each other. And I particularly thank Mr. Edwards and Ms. Dietz and Ms. Cohen for telling your stories about why it's important to you. And that's what's driving us all, right? This is our neighbors. This is not some...
 People being bused from California, this is our neighbors and this is our children, our grandmothers who can't afford to live in the city that we love and that they love.
 So I really like this chart, which I think Shannon, again, put together with the Housing Bureau. It's a piece of the puzzle, and the green part is what this bond measure will pay for. The rest of it is over $40 million per year that's needed to provide all of the safety net services. That's a lot of money, and taxes do pay for services.
 just as much as commissioner nobick wishes there was a department of social impact whatever it was you know i thought maybe there's a department of waste and squandering well there isn't a department of waste and squandering and if our city budget process which we only just got finished and we'll start again in september we invite our community to scrub every line of our budget and tell us where are we wasting money what are we not doing
 right with your money. And we do it really well. As the mayor is saying, we had an outside accountant who looked at all of our finances and had no issues, no problems. We do what we're supposed to do with the money. And with this bond measure, there'll be annual audits. There'll be a citizen oversight committee. There'll be a lot of eyes making sure that this money goes where it's supposed to if the voters choose to do so.
 And I also believe that it is time for us to start having public housing that the city runs in the city of Portland. As many of you know, I am from England. I'm very sorry about the Brexit vote messing everything up. And there are 60 million people that live in the United Kingdom, and there are fewer people living outside in the entire United Kingdom than there are in the city of Portland.
 because they have a lot of public housing and they work hard to make it work, and they also make it hard to make it cost-effective and to put people near their jobs. To me, it doesn't make any sense, and we shouldn't be locating all of the housing that will be purchased with this bond measure should the voters choose to subsidize it
 Those should not be going in the already low-income areas of our city. We should not be putting all of the affordable housing in areas that already have affordable housing. We should be looking where else can we put it so that it puts people nearer to their jobs. People who live in Gresham and work in Hillsborough, it takes a long time for them to get to and from their homes.
 business and their place of work. And if the jobs are in somewhere else, then we should definitely be looking at, is it legal for us to provide housing there to people who have been Portland residents for a long time? And also, we should be making sure, as Commissioner Novick said, that our city remains one where teachers and nurses and others and students can afford to live. And that, to me, is what this bond measure is all about. And
 And as Commissioner Fish said, it's a bond measure that was brought to us by the Welcome Home Coalition, by Multnomah County, by all of you, most of you, saying that we should do this. So, again, it's your city government being responsive to what you want us to do, and I'm very proud to support it. Thank you.
 So I think before voters approved this measure, they would have three categories of questions about this housing issue. Those of us in this room are immersed in this issue, but not everyone is. And they would want to know, well, first of all, okay, you say there's a housing crisis. Who should act?
 What about those other governments? And the truth is that the federal government is locked in partisan paralysis. We hope and pray it eases sometime, but no sign of that happening enough or soon enough to make a difference in this issue. And, in fact, if you look at the big issues facing cities and even the globe, like climate action or gang and gun violence or housing, most of the initiatives, most of the leadership, most of the innovation is happening in city governments –
 not at those other levels. So I think the answer is if you look around at the big issues and what's getting done, and if you want something done on housing, we're going to need to do it ourselves here in our community, us, this city. So I think that's a reasonable question, and I think that's the right answer, that any realistic look at that issue is going to say the city, we, the community, this community, Portland, needs to deal with our own issues there. Secondly, how should we act? Well, one, this council eight months ago declared a state of emergency.
 And that wasn't just rhetorical. I've said since we took that action that there are really three pieces of that state of emergency. Rapid action, deliberate experimentation, and real money. All three are important. And in eight months, we have done a lot, as Dan iterated. We have taken our commitment of tax increment funds to a level that I don't believe any other city in the United States has ever committed to.
 We've put real money in the general fund. We've opened new shelter beds. We've gotten private sector and nonprofit folks to step up and open new shelter beds. And speaking of experimentation, I was very pleased on behalf of the city of Portland and Blanchet House to accept a $300,000 gift from the Wells Fargo Foundation this weekend for them to build tiny houses with formerly homeless people here in Portland. So there's a nice piece of deliberate experimentation if there ever was one. And again, real money.
 But the other how question comes to when. So when should we do this? And, again, I want to go back to something that you said at the outset, Dan. Before asking our voters for money, we turned over every rock and emptied every shoebox or whatever metaphor you want to use, closed down every department of waste, fraud, and abuse that we could find in the budget, found every dollar that we could find in our own budget and spent it and committed it to housing.
 Then we also raised this commitment of tax increment funds for the next 10 years to housing. Then we went to new construction and said, you need to pay your share. And only after doing all that
 Are we asking ourselves as voters and taxpayers to shoulder a small part of this burden that way? And I think people have a right to expect that we would be that responsible, even if it's a crisis, and it is. Even if our neighbors are suffering, and they are, they would still want us to be responsible here in Portland. And we are. And that's why we're doing this. So thank you all for your leadership and your commitment to this work. Now let's go past this thing. And we're adjourned. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
 Thank you. Yeah, thanks. Thank you all for your support.