July 8th meeting of the Portland City Council would you please call the roll Saltzman here Novick Fritz here fish your hails here a good morning we have some communications items up front in which we allow citizens to come in and talk about any subject they see fit to talk about and we'll do that first and then we have the regular council calendar after that
 Sometimes certain items first of all. Council meetings are open to the public and we welcome your participation. If you want to speak on a calendar item that's on our agenda today, just let our council clerk know and she'll get you on the list. We typically allow people three minutes to testify. It doesn't look like we have a huge number of people here to testify this morning, so that should be easy to do.
 We ask that we observe basic decorum here, and that is if you agree with your fellow citizen and want to indicate that, you can give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand, and if you want to indicate your disapproval, do so also with a polite hand gesture. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view in this room so that all are heard. So with that, we want to welcome you all and take up first communication item 734. Thank you.
 Request of Ryan Lynch to address council regarding conditions at the Pier Park restrooms. And I know there are several of you that are signed up on the same subject, so if you'd like to come up together you can read the next three as well and just bring up another chair. That's fine. That's fine. Come on up please. Just read the others, Carla. 735, request of Joan Belden to address council regarding needed amenities at Pier Park.
 736 request of Keola Morley to address council regarding friends of Pier Park 737 request of Kelly Pragan to address council regarding friends of Pier Park. Okay welcome and we do have your Written material as well. Yes, great welcome. So who'd ever like to go first? My name is Joni Belden and I live at one zero two two three North Hudson Street three houses away from Pier Park I
 Living next door to an 80-acre park filled with large trees was the deal breaker for my moving into that home. I don't know how many of you actually have come to Pier Park, but for those of you who haven't, thank you. I'd like to give you a brief introduction and you do have some photos in your packet there.
 For me, it's the park of tree-lined walkways and trails because I'm a walker. That's why I love the park. However, it's much more than that. It's also a park that's widely used by many, by those who love to play baseball and soccer, by bike riders, runners, and dog walkers, by teens shooting baskets, by parents and children at the playground. It's a place to cool off in the pool on hot summer days, a place to enjoy a family picnic.
 and a place that provides world class disc golfing. It also has a skateboard park and a tennis court with a cracked court, so it's not really usable right now. That's what Pier Park has to offer. Unfortunately to its users, Pier Park is also famous for what it doesn't have, which is a lack of basic adequate amenities.
 Our restroom and drinking fountains are substandard at best, and you'll be having some pictures that will demonstrate that. There is not one park bench for general users, not even one at the playground.
 I have an 85-year-old mother-in-law who loves to take walks and she would love to take a walk in Pier Park but she doesn't. She goes to other parks that have benches that she can stop and rest on. All other parks I've been to have plenty of benches. A year and a half ago, Portland Parks built a new ADA accessible trail connecting Pier Park with Cheney Park as part of the 40-mile intertwined trail.
 And my question is what good is an ADA trail without an ADA accessible bathroom, an ADA accessible drinking fountain, or ADA parking? Pier Park doesn't have any of those. Portland prides itself in its parks and there's a lot to be proud of in Pier Park, but there's also a lot to be actually embarrassed by and ashamed of. For those of us who love and use Pier Park, we feel like it's, we're forgotten. I'm here today to help you take notice of Pier Park.
 and ask that we not be forgotten. I'm asking that funding be provided to help us upgrade our restroom and drinking fountains, to provide benches and to help it to be a truly a friendly park for ADA users, the disabled, and the elderly. And we would love to invite you to come to Pier Park and we'll give you a tour. Thank you. Thanks very much. Morning. Who's next? Who am I next? I'm sorry. Good morning. My name is Kayla Morley.
 I have been a member on the board of Friends of Pier Park for nearly a decade now. I have seen many positive changes in Pier Park thanks to the commitment of my fellow Friends of Pier Park members. And so I want to thank you folks. One issue, unfortunately, has not changed, and this is the need for working water fountains as well as working and clean bathrooms.
 I have two kids. My oldest is 16, my youngest is 12. And they have, as the rest of the whole family has, grew up in Pier Park. And it's always been an issue, even when they were younger, to bring friends, especially when the kids were younger, for potty training. You have your mom's group, you want to bring your friends to come to this beautiful park that you live by.
 But it was always a decision that I hesitated on because I knew that the bathrooms either would be open but not working, or they wouldn't be open at all. And I never knew. And so it made it really hard for me to invite other people to enjoy the park because there were no restrooms for our kids during this time when it's pretty important. Um, and even today,
 13 years later this issue is still present at Pier Park. I still go to the playground just to talk to the parents and I still hear this as being a concern. They want to have the community, their families come but the bathrooms is just, it's a Russian roulette, you never know. And so some of the time they just end up at Columbia Park because of that.
 The water fountains, the same issues as the pictures have been presented. Those are the same bathrooms that were there when I moved into St. John's 18 years ago. They are pretty much the same water fountains as well. They have been deteriorating in front of my eyes ever since. I've been there more frequently with my kids and, and the water fountains do not work. There's one water fountain.
 that works near the maintenance shed. But that's clogged most of the time, and so when we're playing around, that's the only water faucet we have to go to, and it's not working. And it makes it really hard for younger parents. They can't walk that far just to get water because there's no facilities next to the playground. Our water fountain there has been broken for about 10 years as well. It's just rusted and not working.
 So St. John's is a rapidly growing community. We are just expanding and it's great to see, but now more than ever, Pier Park really needs a clean working bathroom, water fountains, just your basics for such a beautiful park that many of us have come to treasure. Thank you. Thank you very much. Morning.
 Hi, good morning. Excuse me. Good morning, my name is Kelly Pregandy and I live a couple blocks away from Pier Park. Joni and Caleb basically said what I'm also wanting to reiterate. I've been a member of Friends of Pier Parks since about 2002 and currently I'm serving as vice chair. Without saying the same thing that they did, I just want to reiterate that it would
 you can tell we need bathrooms and drinking fountains and we present you with the pictures showing you the conditions of those areas. At Friends of Pier Park we have coordinated many volunteer efforts of cleaning up the park, removing invasive ivy, cleaning graffiti. We care about our park. We're a community who cares about the park and we're willing to do our part in keeping it safe and clean.
 And making sure it's welcoming for all. But we're just asking the city to help with some basic facilities to accommodate all people that visit the park. I'm going to skip through a lot that I wrote here that I was going to say since they already said it. But basically saying that
 There is major development happening in North Portland and there is going to be increased housing and retail which means more density and changes coming to North Portland. And I feel like it is time now, it is time to repair Pier Park to prepare for that future.
 We need safe, clean restrooms, ADA accessibility, but we also need more than one drinking fountain in good condition. It makes sense to install these reasonable accommodations, and Pier Park should not be the forgotten park. So thank you for listening. Thank you. Good morning. Just push the button on the base of that microphone there. There you go. Good morning. Thank you guys for your time. I appreciate it. My name is Ryan Lynch. I'm the chairperson of Friends of Pier Park. I've handed you guys a packet, and it's got...
 some photographs of the pier restrooms. It's also got photographs of the restrooms at Mount Tabor Park, Gabriel Park and Laurelhurst Park. So you can see the difference in facilities. Those three parks have beautiful bathrooms and hand dryers and adequate toilet paper, all the things that we don't have including lights. We don't have lights either. So I
 And just note that our bathrooms are covered in rust. They don't go all the way to the ground. We don't have lights. We don't have a locking door for the stall. Our bathrooms are locked during the wintertime, which I don't believe that they mentioned. So actually in the wintertime, there's a sign on our bathrooms that says there's a porta potty about 1,000 yards away. So we have to actually go use a honey bucket. One of the other issues with the bathroom
 during the fall months of the year, as you know, the air in Portland gets quite moist. And so since our restrooms don't touch the ground and there's an opening at the top, the toilet paper gets really wet. So if you're trying to go to the restroom when it's 35 degrees outside, you are sitting on a cold toilet and trying to use wet toilet paper. So it's pretty awful.
 I want to talk to you a little bit about the amount of people that use Pier Park. To my estimation, that park gets far more use than the other three parks that I'm talking about and I'm using those parks as comparable because they're large in size and they get a lot of activity. We expect a minimum of 700 people to use the DISC golf course every weekend. If you think about people using it from 8 a.m. until 6 p.m. and of course it goes a longer span than that but I'm trying to be conservative here.
 So that doesn't include the skate park, the three baseball fields, the two soccer fields, the tennis court, dog walkers and the other, you know, amenities that we have out there, the playground and everything. So we have probably at least a thousand people every weekend during the summer using this park without a bathroom which is just crazy. I mean there's no way those other parks are seeing that volume of people and they have these great bathrooms.
 And I'm not asking for great bathrooms, we're not asking for the best, we just want some sort of amenities that are useful for us. And I want to talk a little bit about something besides the bathrooms. So I've been working with Friends of Pier Park for three or four years and I've really been asking for four main things at the park and that is benches throughout the park, garbage cans, on the disc golf course there are three
 two garbage cans on the entire course. So the park gets littered. And so my friends and I walk around the park and we pick up trash. I've asked to move some of the T-signs that are a hazard for safety because they're really close to the T-pads. And I've asked to move the baskets periodically throughout the year so we don't erode the course. We have done tree protection that Friends of Pure Park raised the money for. We've built pathways that we raised the money for.
 and we do trash pickup and all that stuff. And we, the community, is the one that's doing all of that work. The four things that I've asked for in the past three to four years, I've been told no on every single one, every single time. So we're not asking for the best of everything, we just want to feel like we matter. And right now I feel like, I don't
 We are working for parks and parks is not working for us and it should be the other way around. So thank you for your time. I hope you consider our park and just give us a little bit of funding so that we can feel like we're just as good as the rest of Portland. Thank you. I want to thank you for a great presentation and give Commissioner Fritz a chance to respond because with her leadership and your support.
 We all, as citizens, passed a bond measure recently to fund improvements in a number of our parks, including Pier Park. It may not be sufficient to the whole list, but I wanted to give her a chance to respond because you've done a great job of bringing these issues forward in a way that gets our attention. So thank you.
 Well, first of all, thank you to you four and to the supporters in the community for your partnership in the stewardship of Pier Park. We have over 100 friends groups in Portland Parks and Recreation. It's not so much that parks works for it. We do work for the citizens. We also work with the citizens, and it's definitely a partnership that neither side can manage without the other. So that's how we've managed to scrape together keeping our parks in such –
 in relatively decent shape over the course of the recession is with the help of great volunteers like you. So thank you so much for that. And thank you for highlighting that we have a lot of problems in Portland's parks. We have a lot of deficiencies. I imagine there's a number of folks watching at home who would love to have a defunct bathroom, who would love to have any kind of water fountain because in some places we have nothing.
 So the bond measure that the mayor referred to is $68 million. The capital improvement wish list is over $360 million. Okay.
 So we have $300 million worth of stuff that we know needs to be done. And the Pier Park restrooms are definitely on the list. From memory, it's about number 2,400 or something like that. And it did get an additional ranking. We've reorganized how we do the ranking of the capital improvement project list to give extra points for equity and for folks in underserved neighborhoods. So it did get a boost for that, but it's still low to mid of the multiple projects that we have to do.
 So I wish I could say, yes, we can find the money and get it done. There are folks all over Portland who are in the same situation. And so I really appreciate that you bringing this to everybody's attention because we're not done with the passage of that bond measure. It's certainly a bond measure for fixing things rather than for shiny new things. We also need about $500 million worth of shiny new things for places that don't have parks at all. So here's the process.
 We currently have allocated the things that we promised in the bond measure can come up to about $48 million of the $68 million. So we're in the process of getting those projects going. And you're correct, there's nothing for peer in that particular set of projects. Next summer or next fall, we'll start a community process to look at, of the remaining $300 million worth of stuff, which projects are going to get...
 the remaining 20 million. So certainly we'll encourage you to participate in that. Before then, community members have been participating under my leadership of the Bureau in the budget process. So
 So, starting in the fall, we'll be convening our parks budget advisory committee, and so there's an opportunity to come to council next spring to ask for specific funding for the improvements that you want in next year's budget. The council passed a resolution saying that half of all one-time and ending fund balance money must go to maintenance in parks, transportation, and emergency management.
 So that resulted in over $4 million going to particular urgent projects. The one that springs to mind in North Portland is the replacement of the Charles Johnson roof, which is leaking water onto the basketball court, and people have fallen. So there's just so many challenges. I...
 very much appreciate your showing us the photographs, your telling the community about these challenges because yes, you're absolutely right. And we all need to find more mechanisms to fund them. The other challenge is that many of our parks workers are working at minimum wage with no benefits. And so the council is going to need to address that as well because, you know, our partners, our workers need to get fair compensation too.
 So you're absolutely right, and I wish I had better news for you. I just encourage you to continue doing what you're doing and participating, certainly partnering with us and volunteering, and coming to advocate with me whenever there's a little pot of money to go. I will certainly keep you informed as to when those opportunities for continued advocacy show up.
 If I could just have a couple of questions. Thank you all for being here today. Have you gotten an estimate either from the Parks Bureau or your own due diligence as to what it would cost to restore the existing restrooms?
 We didn't get an estimate for what it would cost to restore the restroom, but we got an estimate for what it would cost to build a new restroom. What's that? I don't know the exact figure. It was around $10,000 and that was, that estimate was put together a few years ago and I actually was not involved in doing it and I understand you're probably going to say that's way too low for the way that the city would actually do it.
 Well, the current estimate we are putting loos in all new parks under my guidance and the current ballpark estimate for those is $80,000. Yeah, and it depends on how much connections to sewer extensions need to be done and they are much safer and they're much less likely to get leaks and yeah, that's the preferred route and
 Yeah, well, I mean, we have all the sewer and all the water is already there. Right, so it might be less. We really just need a structure. Yeah. It's just the bathroom burned down. So one option is, because you've already got the infrastructure, one option is a loo, because it doesn't look like this restroom can be saved, so it's either replaced with a loo or something else. And the other thing I just wanted to clarify is,
 You've, in your presentation, you've noted that we have a kind of a substandard bathroom, but it is currently not accessible? No, it is accessible now. It's not ADA accessible. You cannot get a wheelchair in the bathroom. It's accessible during the summer months for the community, but they do close it during the winter months. They lock the doors. I guess the last question I would ask is, once upon a time there was a big debate about how we could...
 turbocharged public-private partnerships to do these things. And I know that every time that we over here talk about public-private partnerships, it means essentially shorthand for we don't have the money to do it, can you put some money on the table to help us do it? And there was an idea years ago that got ridiculed about allowing for limited advertising in bathrooms. The idea was you had a captive audience.
 I actually thought we should actually have newspapers and Expresso to really take advantage of the captive audience. But that generates a lot of controversy because it brings advertising into a park. But I would urge you to consider what are those public-private partnerships where you could bring some money and the city could bring money. I know that council historically, when we can match a community fundraising drive, is usually more receptive.
 Commissioner Fritz has explained there's a long list and lots of compelling needs, so that's a bigger challenge. But if there was some way to share the load and creatively do it, I know that in terms of our budgeting, it bumps you up the list. You probably already thought about that, but I would be interested in it. Advertising again proved to be controversial, although I still believe it can be done discreetly.
 On the other hand, there may be public-spirited people willing to do it just because it's the right thing. Having taken my daughter to parks where she played soccer as a kid and to realize that my daughter, unlike boys, the nearest restroom was a tree. My daughter could not do that. And so it always struck me as grossly unfair that we had to put her in a car and take her to a restaurant.
 And so that's another kind of equity issue where girls are treated differently than boys in our field. So anyway, we appreciate your presentation. Could I just make one really quick comment? Since you were talking about the partnership of the community and working with the city, and that's what we do is we're the community and we're always trying to do things at the park, I would really appreciate it if you guys could urge the Parks Department to allow us to do more because one of the things I talked to you guys about garbage cans and benches,
 I can build benches in a heartbeat. I'm a contractor, it's what I do, I build. But I was told that I can't put benches in there if they don't match. So they have to have a steel frame and be painted and built the same way as the other two benches that are out there. Garbage cans, I came up with a really cost effective simple system with garbage cans that have lids like at McIver State Park. I was told you can't do it because they have to match the existing cans in the park.
 which I think is, you know, it's kind of silly. We don't have garbage cans. It would be great to have ones that match, but until then, if we could just, you know, put garbage cans in or if I could move the baskets around the park to stop the erosion, I'm going to do all this stuff for free. I even offered to move the T-signs so people don't get hurt because I have a couple of people that I know who actually have cut their face. So, yeah,
 If you guys could just urge them to allow the community, myself and other people that want to be involved to do a little bit more, it would be so helpful because I don't need other people to do it. I will take the time and the effort to do it if I'm allowed to, but I just keep getting told no, so I can't.
 I'll leave it at that. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. We would be happy to have an ongoing conversation with you because I had the same thought when I first was assigned to Parks Bureau and it turns out there's some good reasons for some of the things that you just mentioned. Tim Crail on my staff is on the ball here. The capital improvement projects at Pier Park are listed in the capital improvement plan at $216,000, Commissioner Fish.
 And just to give you some perspective, it's on page 23 of 37 when ranked in order. So the challenges are enormous, and I really appreciate you bringing that to the attention, not only of the council, but also of our community. There's so much more that we need to do to make sure that our parks are welcoming for everybody. Thank you.
 So the fact that you're organized and willing to work is a big plus. So do continue to work with Commissioner Fritz and her staff on both advocating for and suggesting solutions because that really makes a big difference, and the fact that you're organized
 willing to volunteer, willing to help, but also advocating on behalf of your part. That really is big in the process. So don't despair, even though she's correct in the accurate view of the big list. The fact that you're organized and willing to work with the Bureau and the Commissioner is very helpful. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Okay, thanks for a great presentation. Let's hear we have one more person signed up for for comment under communications 738 request of Winston Michael Ray to address council regarding economic development. Mr. Ray. Maybe not here this morning. Okay, so
 We'll give him another opportunity. Let's move on to the consent calendar. I have two requests, I believe, to pull things from the consent calendar to the regular calendar, and they are 742 and 743. Anything else? So if nothing else, then let's take a vote on the balance of the consent calendar, please. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye.
 Authorize the execution of the Columbia River levee repair and accreditation phase one and phase one to phase two declaration of cooperation
 Thank you. As this team comes up, let me introduce this item. Over the last year, I've served, along with Multnomah County Commissioner Jules Bailey, as one of the co-conveners for the Columbia River Levee Oregon Solutions process, which is now moving into Phase 2 of that effort under the management of the team that we're going to hear from here this morning. This resolution that's before us today
 continues that coordination and cooperation and shared commitment among a whole long list of parties, governmental and non-governmental, that need to work together in order to address this really critical piece of infrastructure that, frankly, I think a lot of people don't think very much about, but this group thinks a lot about. So with that, I'll turn it over to Steve Greenwood and his team. Are you first, Steve? Thank you.
 or Jackie's first, Jackie Dingfelder first. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning. Good morning, City Council members. My name is Jackie Dingfelder. I'm Policy Director for Mayor Hales. And with me this morning is Steve Greenwood from Oregon Solutions, Jonas Beery, our City Debt Manager, and Eric Schaffner, City Attorney's Office.
 This declaration of cooperation pertains to the Columbia River Levee Improvement Project, an Oregon Solutions project designated by the governor in 2013, and the purpose of the project is threefold.
 to make sure that the properties protected by that levy system remain adequately protected, to retain accreditation of the levy system by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and to remain in the U.S. Corps of Engineers Rehabilitation and Inspection Program, which provides insurance against damage to the system. The Declaration of Cooperation before you serves as a framework for regional collaboration on the levy certification and accreditation project.
 It's a non-binding statement of how the 25 regional partners want to work together in the next phase of this project. Steve Greenwood has served as the project coordinator for the Oregon Solutions Project
 for the entire length of the project and he's going to provide more details. And then Jonas will talk a little bit about the financial aspects and Eric is here to clean up and answer any questions about the resolution or the declaration of cooperation. With that, I'll hand it over to Steve.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of the council. It's great to be here representing the Oregon Solutions team before you this morning. There are a couple of very brief comments that I want to make sort of summarizing what's going on in the document in front of you.
 So first, this declaration of cooperation memorializes the progress that this group has made so far and I think it's been substantial. We've now completed the engineering evaluation for the PEN1 and PEN2 districts and what we found, and this is really the good news, what we found is that the problems with the levee
 and issues to be addressed in those levee systems are substantially less than we feared when we began this project. This has been a regional team effort and City of Portland has been a major player as part of that team. I want to thank on behalf of the group
 First of all, the mayor's office for their leadership on this project. Bureau of Environmental Services, the Parks Bureau, Bureau of Developmental Services, the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability have all played significant roles in helping the progress so far.
 I want to particularly thank Jonas for his work on the financing issues that we faced about a year ago and really working with the other members of the team to make that happen as well. So second thing I want to say is that this declaration expands the geographic scope of the project.
 So now it will include all of the districts along the Columbia River in Multnomah County. The other district boards, seeing the progress that this group made, have requested to be part of this project and to be at the table with the other partners. And the group has said, yes, that's a good idea. And it's a good idea for at least two reasons. One of which is that FEMA.
 Federal Emergency Management Agency when it remaps the areas will do so as a unit. They've indicated they will not do it on just a district by district basis but they will look at that entire area in Multnomah County.
 Maybe even more important is that as we've looked at the deficiencies that we need to address in PIN 1 and PIN 2, some of those deal with the cross levies and might not be as important or may be able to be dealt with more economically if we look at all the districts as a unit. So there are some cost savings opportunities by looking at the system as a whole.
 I might just add at this point, I know that Jonas is going to talk a little bit about the finances, but even though we are expanding the geographic scope, we are maintaining the principle that no jurisdiction like the City of Portland, for example, will be paying for work, for technical work that will be going on in other districts outside of their jurisdiction.
 A major portion of the technical work in this next phase, now that we've completed PEN1 and PEN2, will be to do that engineering analysis in the Multnomah County Drainage District and also in the Sandy Drainage Improvement Company boundary. And within the Multnomah County Drainage District, the City of Portland is a major stakeholder.
 because 87% of the land area inside MCDD is within the City of Portland. Last thing I want to emphasize is that this document explicitly does not deal with the finances for the next phase and as we did
 a year ago, we will be coming back to you and I think Jonas will talk a little bit more about this, but we'll be coming back to you and actually talking about the finances for this next phase. I will make a couple of comments, however, one of which is that the State of Oregon,
 partly because of the collaboration of this project and the regional effort, has passed in this last legislative session $300,000 to go specifically for the work to be done in this next phase. So the state of Oregon has already sort of stepped up to the table in an official capacity. In addition to that, they passed a $7 million project,
 loan amount to go statewide to levy districts, drainage districts, and drainage improvement companies statewide to help in this effort. Because as you heard a year ago, what's going on in these now five districts is not unique. There are other districts around the state that are facing the same issues.
 Last thing I'll say about the financing is that the city of Portland magnanimously stepped forward.
 a year ago to be the loan applicant for an infrastructure finance authority loan with the state to help pay for some of the work in phase one. Multnomah County has indicated that they will be taking that role in phase two. So I think the city's leadership and collaboration has led to the collaboration of others and I really appreciate that.
 Through that, Jonas. Great, Mayor and Commissioners, Jonas Beery, the City's Debt Manager. And as Steve said, there isn't a financial specific component to the Declaration of Cooperation, but we wanted to give you kind of a tee up of what may be coming down the pike later. Current estimate for the phase two engineering assessment work estimated around 4.4 million in total for that project.
 project. As Steve mentioned, the majority of that will be funded through a State of Oregon IFA loan, similar to the loan that funded Phase 1. There will be a small cash funding component for project components that are not eligible to be included in the loan.
 There will be a request for additional commitments from all the partners to commit to Phase II work. That responsibility will be split among all of the regional partners, Metro, Port of Portland, the state, drainage districts, PIN 1, PIN 2, MCDD, Salve Island and Sandy Improvement Companies and the jurisdictions that are participating, City of Portland, Multnomah County, Gresham, Troutdale, Fairview.
 Status right now is a financial subcommittee has been meeting to kind of develop a cost allocation methodology that's fair and reasonable to all parties based upon geography and impact of the work that would be done. That work is being completed right now this week, and we expect to share that methodology and the associated cost with you and your offices in the coming weeks.
 We will be coming back to council in late August or early September with an intergovernmental agreement related to the loan and the request that will define and authorize the city's allocated share. That's it. We're happy to answer any questions.
 Jackie, this is really good work. One of the casualties of our work is that sometimes we take up these big, complex matters and we deal with the issue that's before us but without the context. Could you take a moment just to put in context why it's important that we're upstream working on the levees and then why?
 without scaring people, what's the worst case scenario we're trying to anticipate? Because I think if people understand that, then the fact that we'll be investing in this down the road becomes more palatable.
 I'll let Steve go a little bit into the detail in the background because it's a really good point. We went through that last year when we were before you, but we probably should have just given you a reminder and make sure that the folks behind us in the audience understand. We just recently celebrated, if that is the correct word, the anniversary of the Vanport flood.
 And it was a good reminder of what happens if the levy system, in fact, is not protective. It's not a problem until it's a problem, as we've talked about. So there is a tremendous amount, not only there's a population, certainly a resident population, but there's a tremendous amount of economic activity in a large share of the region's job –
 of the region's jobs in that Columbia Corridor area protected by the levee system. A kind of secondary issue but also very, very important is that even if we don't have a flood that breaches the levee system, if we are not accredited by FEMA,
 It has significant ramifications on the developability of that land and therefore the value of that land and all of the jurisdictions at a minimum have some concerns I think about the economic development impacts if we do not get accreditation as well as the,
 at the loss in assessed value. So, you know, in MCDD alone,
 The city has, I think, $3.8 billion of assessed value. And that all of the private sector folks who've had involved have said that if, in fact, that levy system is not accredited and that area is mapped as a significant flood hazard area, the economic value will go down significantly. So if we have a Katrina-type event, it could be a catastrophe for our local economy, number
 Number two, the reason we're tracking the federal regulations is we want to make sure they don't impose standards and regulations that we can't afford, that we can't meet. And number three, and I guess we don't like to talk about this in polite company, there is a risk that if there ever were regulations that overwhelm the drainage districts, the liability would pass to local taxpayers. So that's why the city has a huge interest in making sure this is successful.
 Commissioner Fish, yes. And I think that, again, the economic value protected by this levy system is important to the city, not only in the sense of protecting from a flood, but making sure that it does get that regulatory approval from FEMA. Thank you.
 Commissioner, if I may add, and members of the council and the mayor, two important aspects within MCDD as Steve mentioned. First of all, we have the airport. I know the port is sitting behind us and I believe that the port has already adopted a resolution supporting the declaration of cooperation. Obviously, we want to make sure the airport is protected.
 one of, if not the largest, industrial area in the state protected by those levees. So there's a huge amount of investments
 need regulatory certainty and of course the flood insurance is a huge element of that certainty, making sure that there is affordable flood insurance. And in order to keep that, we need to make sure we have this accreditation, continuation of the accreditation. Jackie, I know that Corky Collier would, under normal circumstances, be here today, but we'll just do a shout out to Corky and Sarah, who are home today with their one week old son, Henry.
 It's really exciting. Henry is about this big. He had a brisk the other day, so he's not very happy either. Commissioner Fish, if I can just add one more thing in response to your comments. We do have the two key federal agencies also at the table, FEMA and the Corps of Engineers.
 And that has been incredibly helpful, A, for them to see the regional effort, but, B, you know, they're there and really providing information, input, and cooperation that, frankly, I don't think would be there if they were not part of this effort.
 And, you know, the Superfund gets all the attention these days because of the big scary numbers that are kicked around. But the levy, this issue does make its way into our federal agenda because the city understands that if the federal government someday mandated a set of requirements that effectively bankrupted local governments, it would be sort of counterproductive. And that's the good work that the mayor is doing.
 with Jules Bailey in this exercise is keeping an eye on the cost because federal government could mandate a standard that's laudable even though they're talking about a 100-year storm or a 1,000-year storm or something. It might actually be, it may not be feasible for us to afford it, in which case we would be sacrificing a big chunk of our local economy. So this is really important. Other questions for our panel?
 Thank you all very much. Thanks. We'll see if we need to get you back after other testimony. Yeah. I wanted to go ahead. And, Mayor, part of today, and I think Steve's going to mention about signing once you vote on the resolution, because there's a signing ceremony that unfortunately you couldn't be at, so we would like to have all the council members with you as you sign the Declaration of Cooperation. I think Steve just wanted to.
 Thank you very much. Are there others signed up to speak on this item? Thank you very much, Steve. Yes, we have one person, Watchdog, Lightning X Watchdog. Okay. Anyone else? Come on up with him. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. My biggest concern on this levy, plain and simple, is the Portland Airport, Troutdale Airport, Expo Center. We need to make sure that this levy,
 has not been breached in the past. I've always had a concern about the two travel lanes on top of a levee. I'm concerned about the height. I'm concerned about the setbacks of the properties on Marine Drive from 33rd all the way up to 122nd from the levee to the river. I don't think the Port of Portland should ever privatize those properties. I think every property along there at this point, eminent domain, should take place. Those properties need to be bought.
 all the businesses need to be removed. There is not enough height currently on this levee. This levee was originally built for agricultural values. We're talking a Portland airport. I want the public to think about if that airport is ever closed down, what that will do to the overall economy. We need to build a wall that is high enough and add more height to protect the Portland airport. If that levee is ever breached, this city will shut down.
 We cannot afford at this time to allow the Portland Airport to be in jeopardy, Troutdale Airport to be in jeopardy, all the industrial businesses to be in jeopardy, all the values of the real estate to be in jeopardy. We must get the accreditation. To get the accreditation we must meet the standards of the New Orleans levy. We are nowhere close to that on the levy that we currently have. We can prevent serious loss, serious damage,
 By doing that, again, every property from the levee to the river needs to be bought out, or the owners need to do a sellout to the Port of Portland and step away from these properties to maintain the levee in the proper manner. And my question is to the Port of Portland. Some of these properties along Marine Drive are part of the levee. Their properties have gone...
 to be part of the levy, which as you all know in this room, Marine Drive is the levy. So when these properties are bordering that and they're that close to the levy, they are part of the levy. It should have never been that way in the past.
 We have the right and we can do the changes for the future and bring it up to the proper standards. And this is also a Homeland Security interest on the flight path from the airport over these properties. We can readjust now and correct that. The Port of Portland needs to step in and buy those properties out along Marine Drive
 to get the proper accreditation on this levee. And again, I'd like to do an impact study on the dredging. If we dredge along that area, will that also help maintain the levee? I haven't had any research done on that. I'd like to see that if we take out soils along the levee on the river, will that also help the levee itself? I'd like to have some studies done on that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well said. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Any other questions from council? Then let's take a vote on the resolution, and then I think Steve needs us to sign it if we pass it. Seltzman? Well, thank you to everybody who's working on these critically important issues. I want to thank the Oregon Solutions team for their convening and growing the partnership to include all the drainage districts. Clearly we're more powerful as a unified area in doing all the necessary important work that has been identified by our speakers this morning. So thank you. Aye. Ritz? Aye.
 As one of the major landowners, Portland Parks and Recreation has been very much involved in these discussions. Thank you to the team. Thanks to Michael Batsay and his team. Also my team in development services. It's very much an interbureau, interjurisdictional challenge and important to all of us. Thank you very much. Hi. Bish? Mayor, thank you for taking the lead on this. Just a shout out to the Oregon Solutions team.
 This is the third, fourth, or fifth program that we've been involved with in the last five or six years.
 And it's something that a prior governor championed as a way of bringing all the different parties together to resolve thorny questions. And I've actually thought that we should take the declaration of cooperation idea and bring it to local government and just do it as a regular matter of our business because it's such a successful model of how you resolve big complicated questions. So thank you to Oregon Solutions. Thank you to all of our partners. And I'm pleased to vote aye. CHAIRPERSON WONG. Hales. VICE CHAIR HALES. Well, you know, I've tried
 I tried to, in my educational role as an elected official, tried to get people to notice some crazy facts about how we live here, and that is, depending on where you're standing in Portland, the square foot that you're standing on either has nine or ten local governments.
 which is in a way crazy, but it's also reality and it's a complex situation created over time for one good reason or another. But literally there are either nine or ten local governments occupying every square foot in Portland and serving it one way or another, whether it's a school district or a drainage district or a district
 uh... the port of portland and so on and so that's the reality in which stuff gets done and therefore the ability to work in a constructive long-term partnership is essential because
 No one agency can make these kinds of big things happen. And that's why this model does make sense and why the people involved with this particular effort are doing a really good job of using that instrument of the Oregon Solutions Team and understanding of cooperation written down, followed, and paid for in mutual commitment. It's working. It's a big lift, what we have to do to these levies. But our ability to solve that problem is only
 enabled by the fact that we have this cooperation. So I'm a very enthusiastic participant in this work. It is essential. I think Lightning's comments really were on point that this is our airport. This is Cascade Station. This is hundreds of businesses and thousands of jobs. It's our golf course, our Delta Park. The list just goes on and on. Once you look at the geography, you realize how big a deal this is. So I want to thank everyone involved in this work and look forward to continuing it.
 Thank you. Steve, do we need to sign a document right now? Is that the plan? Strike while the iron's hot. Okay. You want us to witness his signature? Okay. All right. So I sign this, and now all those other governments have to sign it. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Okay. Let's move on to time certain item 740. Good job. Thank you all.
 740 accept report on the work of the village support network and the interfaith statement on housing justice Thank you want to call up Paul Schroeder and maybe others from his partnership and team to report back to the council on How this unique partnership between the city and the faith community is working to address homelessness. Good morning and welcome. I
 Good morning, Paul. Good morning. I'm Paul Schroeder with New City Initiative. Thank you so much for the time today. The Village Support Network is
 grassroots project of the faith community to address the challenge of family homelessness in our region. Through the Village Support Network, teams of volunteers are trained and matched with families that are making the transition out of homelessness and work with them during their first six months on critical tasks like budgeting, goal setting, employment acquisition, getting kids enrolled in school, and generally just helping the families through this very
 but also often challenging transitional time. We know that family homelessness is a growing problem in our region. In the last point in time count, the
 the overall homeless population was stable, the unsheltered population declined, but the unsheltered family population grew by 24%. And we know that the utilization of services, especially the emergency shelter for families, has been unprecedented over the past several years. Last year, this city council was very, very gracious and wonderful to support a resolution.
 in favor of the Village Support Network and a letter of support, a call to action went out to the faith community from the mayor, from Commissioner Saltzman, from Chair Kofuri. The mayor's office also gave us $25,000 with a goal that we would engage 50 congregations in supporting 50 families in the year 2015.
 So as a brief report to date, as of the end of June, we have trained 21 teams and have matched or are in the process of matching those teams with families. That's compared with 15 teams in all of 2014. So we've significantly ramped up the program, and we have 29 to go. We're actively recruiting within the faith community for this project.
 And we feel like we've gained some significant momentum. And what I wanted to do was to invite Annie Killian, who was a participant in the Village Support Network, to just share a little bit about her experience and what that experience was like. Great. Good morning. Good morning. Simply put, I'm not just home, I'm happy. It's incredible what
 what this organization was able to do for me and my four year old daughter. Not only did they get me support before I transitioned into my current home, which is a beautiful home in Northeast, but they were there beside me as I transitioned in my home and then even afterwards. They helped me to enroll in PCC and to continue pursuing my goal of becoming an RN.
 I'm now in my second term and doing well and my grade point average is a B plus right now. My child is happily enrolled in Head Start. She's doing well. We've settled into a good and happy life and I am still very emotional thinking about the experience.
 and just how thorough it was from the scary process of trying to navigate this nightmare of trying to find housing under the current conditions which took me every single day including weekends from the 11th of December of 2013 until August 21st of 2014. That's quite a long time that I searched every single day and got
 denied, missed out on opportunities because there was literally hundreds of people vying for single units. It was a nightmare and it was an extreme blessing to have a program like the Village Support Work, like the New City Initiative to guide me through that process and to help me not just get out of the nightmare of shuffling from place to place or shelter to shelter, but to actually
 provide stability and to provide happiness, to provide a footing to fulfill my dreams, to be a good role model to my child, and to be able to participate in things like this where I can give back and I can share how much they affected me and how years down the road when I am in RN and I'm saving lives, I'll remember it. Wow, thank you. Thanks very much.
 So Reverend Chris Cron was going to, is St. Michael and All Angels Episcopal Parish has now had four village support teams. They were one of the very first.
 the very first, in fact, as I think about it, to an early adopter of the program. And she would like to share a little bit about her community experience and also how that leads to the interfaith statement on housing justice that we've prepared. Reverend, there's a switch on the base of that microphone. Just push the button there. There you go.
 Good morning. It's good to be back. I was here last year as an opportunity to endorse the Village Support Network and today I'm back again as a rector of a church that is on our fourth team that is doing our part as the Village of Support for Families, which has been an outstanding storytelling that you have just heard. But we're also growing in our edge of what we need to happen next.
 We have gotten great support from the Episcopal Church. Our Bishop Michael Hanley signed the interfaith housing statement for housing justice, along with 70 other churches of the Episcopal faith across western Oregon. So what we're excited about is what we have seen happen, which is building relationships and connections and offering a network of support to families as these teams.
 But what we have learned is that our relationships are being stretched by where families are placed, where families can find housing after long and hard searches. That what we were hoping for is that village, that village that surrounds families. And what we understand now is that we need that greater structural support.
 that while we're able to provide a network of support, we're looking for a village. And a village is about living next to our neighbors, living with our families, living with communities that are providing education and accountability and a chance to dream all those wonderful dreams that our children have. And so what we have learned is what has informed our statement of housing justice, which I will read to you.
 As people of faith, we have been given a sacred charge to uphold justice for all people. We are responsible for the creation of a community where everyone belongs, where diversity is valued, where dignity of the most vulnerable is safeguarded, and where all people have the opportunity to achieve their full human potential and to thrive. To our shame, our neighborhoods do not reflect these values of justice.
 Despite the good efforts of many, poverty, homelessness, and hunger are on the rise in the metropolitan area, especially among the most vulnerable families with children, women, and youth under age 25. Low-income families and individuals are being displaced from their homes, neighborhoods, schools, and houses of worship. Our region is increasingly characterized by economic and de facto racial segregation.
 The areas in which the poorest and the most vulnerable among us are compelled to live frequently have fewer public amenities such as parks, sidewalks, community centers and libraries, lower levels of teacher experience in schools, less employment and economic opportunity, and higher rates of crime and violence. All this tends to reinforce the cycle of poverty and homelessness.
 We therefore stand firmly behind the central proposition of the Home for Everyone United Community Plan to end homelessness in Multnomah County. That everyone deserves a safe and secure place to call home.
 We support and affirm the goals of the plan, which include prioritizing the most vulnerable, promoting racial justice and equity, and creating robust mechanisms of transparency and accountability to ensure that resources are used in the most effective and impactful way possible. We also call upon our elected leaders and public officials to take bold steps to address the crisis of homelessness in our region.
 Most especially, we call for robust measures to end child and family homelessness. To this end, we are asking our elected leaders to, one, take whatever steps necessary to ensure that at least 30 percent of all new subsidized units are set aside for people earning less than 30 percent of median family income.
 and to use all means at their disposal to incentivize and leverage private developers to create more dedicated low-income units. Number two, to create one or more new permanent and year-round shelters for families experiencing homelessness with sufficient capacity such that no family is turned away.
 Number three, in view of rising rental costs, significantly expand funding for rent support and eviction prevention for families at risk of homelessness and ensure that robust wraparound services are available to these families to assist them in attaining lasting stability and self-sufficiency. And number four, make significant investments in public amenities, public schools and public safety in neighborhoods with high concentrations of low-income families, especially in East Portland.
 We pledge our support for these efforts and reaffirm our commitment to continue and where possible to amplify our efforts to create a more just and compassionate community where everyone has a place to call home. Do you have a copy of that for us? I hope she did. Yes please. Do we have our hand up? I have copies if you would like them. Excellent. If you could give them to Carla I think we would all like them. And it attached to the statement is signatures of all the people who have thus far signed.
 Over 100 religious leaders, including several local judiciary, the Episcopal Bishop of Oregon, the Lutheran Bishop of the local synod, the executive co-presbyter of the Presbytery of the Cascades. It's an interfaith statement. A number of rabbis, representatives of the Muslim community and the Buddhist community have signed onto this.
 And I wanted to invite Pastor George William Whitfield to share a little bit about the experience of his community to sort of bring some of what's in that statement into focus. So thanks, Pastor George. Thank you. Thank you, Paul. Again, as Paul said, my name is Pastor George William Whitfield, and I pastor the First Ames Zion Church here in Portland, Oregon. It is the oldest African-American church in Oregon, in Washington, in Oregon.
 With me being new to Portland, I've only been there almost a year, my members have told me a lot of the construction that's going on around our church, the gentrification, how it has affected our congregation. Historically, in an African-American community, we like to worship in our community. We like to go to church in our community. We like to support the stores in our community. And because of the gentrification, a lot of our...
 members have been pushed out and so a few of them we've lost some members over the years and a few of them come in to where we're located in North Portland
 been by there recently. When I first came here, there was a new building that was being built, and now you go there, we are landlocked. We have lots of buildings going up, lots of construction going up, and it's very hard for some of our members because our congregation is an aging congregation, so we have seniors there that
 faithful to coming to church, but because of all of construction and because of all of the things that are going on, it has affected them. They told me that in the past, it was a vibrant community. It was a vibrant community with a lot of things for our church, but because of not affordable housing, a lot of our members have been pushed out, and so we are truly in
 standing in agreement with the statement that we are urging our elected officials and to make sure that they're affordable housing for those people that are low-income because most of our congregation members are on a fixed income low income and so they would love to live and work in the community in which they worship and
 Thank you. I've asked Rabbi Joey Wolf to say a few concluding words, but before we do that, I wanted to just see if there were any questions from the Council. Questions, comments? I think there will be a lot of comments after this testimony. All right. Thank you all very much. Let's hear from Rabbi Wolf. Okay. Rabbi Joey. Good morning. Hi. Good morning. Thank you, Council members, for all of your work. My name is Rabbi Joseph Wolf. This is my 29th year here in Portland.
 at Havara Shalom. Havara thinks of itself as a Jewish community that cares a great deal about the Portland metropolitan area and the issues that are at our front steps, the people who comprise this area, the shifting nature of political and economic forces that drive it. During the time that I've been here, I have thought a good deal about the face of the city,
 So I tell my friends who live elsewhere how remarkably livable our city is. I think that many of us repeat the litany, adding up in our minds the benefits of a friendly and quirky place, the public transportation, the great restaurants, the theater, the tall buildings going up downtown, the haven for creative young people. But on the other hand, we're also discomforted by another side of the story, and I think this is why people of faith
 who do a good deal of study of old texts and look into the conversations that are intergenerational about living a wise life, use the word shame in this document. On the one hand, there's a great deal of good news for which we are very grateful to you. We know that you work very hard on these issues for the allocation of funds, the response to the sadness of people out on the street without a home,
 But each of us feels shame because we know that these people too are our neighbors sleeping in storefronts, outside of our churches and synagogues, in front of our businesses. And there are the people too we know all about, we won't hide from it, who've been forced to move out of neighborhoods that were historically their own due to gentrification. There are people who are everywhere and there are some now who seem to be nowhere. That's why we use the word shame.
 because it's easy to talk about Portland in terms of long lines of patient, cheerful young hipsters waiting for double-fold singing dog vanilla ice cream. But pretending how much we love vanilla in an era of Black Lives Matter doesn't cut it. Nor does moving whole families to affordable housing way out somewhere in East County out of sight suffice. So the allocation of dollars is wonderful, but it's going to be essential
 that the city ensure that the amenities to families in hitherto neglected areas, all of those support services, the green spaces, better staffing in schools in those areas. Which have not had the same level of staffing and enhanced programming that maybe some of the schools downtown have gotten. That these parts of the metropolitan region are given this kind of attention to.
 The economist Joseph Stiglitz in his book, The Great Divide, who writes serially about the plague of inequality in our country, writes, nowhere is trust more important than in politics and the public sphere. He refers to it as economic discrimination. We need to take care of those who make less than 30% medium family income. How will we provide them with housing?
 We should see that the 30% of all new subsidized housing goes to the poorest of the poor, who are daily out there looking at us, wondering how we could be neighbors, causing us this thing we call shame. Public safety means building trust, and for our homeless families, we really need year-round shelter, a place that stays open and allows a father and a mother to put their kids' stuff down, to anchor them, a temporary base,
 from which to transition to independent living. So there's a lot, really, to be happy about in the projections for spending. But we all need to work together to wisely make all of the inhabitants of our city feel like neighbors, like they belong. That's how we'll overcome the shame. That's how Portland will be home to all of us. Then we're all going to feel proud of this great city. I want to thank you so much for the work that you all do. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 So I think we have some other folks that would like to speak, and maybe among the group that came and also those that have signed up. So feel free to come forward. I know you want to take folks off the list, but if there's anyone else who wants to speak, feel free to come up as well. We have two people who signed up, Reverend Charles Johnson and Joe Walsh. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Shalom. My name is Charles Johnson, and I want to thank the group for having Rabbi Wolf from Havre Shalom
 deliver those powerful words, but in reality, even though we have a few success stories, we have many tragedies. We should not be patting ourselves on the back when we line up 10 people and only shoot one in the head and one in the foot. We need to be doing the village program talks strictly about assisting families.
 We don't really even know how many women and men have been separated from their families due to economic distress. And then, once they're separated from their partner or their children, they're lesser people. They're left to sleep, as Robert Wolf noted, in the doorways of buildings and be hustled around by police from here to there, wasting gobs of police overtime to accomplish nothing.
 It's not an accomplishment when a homeless person moves their belongings from 3rd Avenue to 2nd Avenue. And it's very important that he point out the word shame that goes with disgust. Even disgust, we can take a tiny bit of satisfaction and pleasure that we have a few successes.
 the one fortunate woman for who the network held together and she talked about getting placed in a situation where she can pursue a nursing career but as we come to this council meeting or as we leave here especially if we stay until 10 o'clock at night or for mobile at six or seven o'clock in the morning we see people with nothing and nowhere to go or perhaps they have a little bit too much and there's nobody to help them deal with that so they can't go inside to the few very few beds
 that are available for people. We may have planted a seed, a beginning of something good. We have many faith leaders here. I see Pastor Mark from Augustana Lutheran, where Francisco took refuge when the government was involved, and it's a crazy job of persecuting families to move them out of their hometowns.
 If an immigrant comes here and their children go to school here, it's their hometown no matter where they were born. And so I thank the leaders of the faith community who have been involved in sanctuary and immigrant justice efforts. But we need to do better. We need to find ways for individual congregations to be empowered to do more for people regardless of whether it's a family or an individual.
 We need to find ways to reward congregations like St. Michael's and all the archangels in Hollywood, like First Unitarian, that have direct hands-on programs where actual homeless people are actually assisted or even given long-term shelter.
 So I look forward to the mayor and the rest of you commissioners finding ways to incentivize real solutions, people getting a hand up. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We have almost no comment on the report. Our concern is that when people come before the city council and tell you how good you're doing, it makes us nervous.
 Because we're not. Every morning I look in the mirror, Mayor, and I say to myself, can you do anything more? What is it that you can do to get somebody off the street, Joe? It's up to you. It's not up to everybody else. It's up to you. It's very personal with me. So when the churches come before you and they say,
 We are doing wonderful. I get really nervous. And I'm glad they used the word shame, because every time there's a person on our streets that you move around, Mayor, by your cops, in those sweeps, those terrible sweeps, it breaks my heart. And I get really angry with you. And I don't understand how in God's name you can go to the Vatican.
 And look the Pope in the face when you sit here and you move the most vulnerable among us. And the churches say almost nothing. Where's the cardinals? Where's the bishops? Saying to you, Jesus Christ said to us, serve the vulnerable. And then you can get into the heavens. And you go to the Vatican? No.
 You move people and you steal their stuff. You ask your city attorney. There is that one iota of people getting their stuff back because they can't prove it. Even when the court ordered you to store it, they sell it. You have contractors stealing from the homeless. Do you understand what that means?
 Do you understand what that means? They steal their stuff, and you say nothing. You say you're doing good work. You spend millions of dollars on what? Trucks, buildings, hiring people. You don't get people off the street. This is a fraud. You're all frauds. We have one more. Rick Bartko. Good morning. Good morning. Rick Bartko from southeast Portland.
 I would kind of like to return to New City and Village Support Network. I'm a member of a team out of St. Joseph the Worker at 148th and Division, who is in about the fifth month of transitioning a family, a young man and his 16-year-old daughter. If you can imagine a young man raising a 16-year-old daughter by himself, quite a challenge. The team that has been assembled to help this family has been fantastic from St. Joseph,
 But my main reason to come up here, I feel compelled to just absolutely sing the praises of New City and staff. I don't know when these people sleep. It seems as though they're with us or with families or raising money and buying productive things with the money they raise to make them even better. Right.
 I have nothing but praise for them, and I hope to, after we get done here with our stint with our first family, be able to do it again through St. Joseph's. It's a good start. It needs to grow. It needs to get the support of the majority of religious communities in the city, and I think if that happens, good things can happen, and I'm hopeful for that for the future.
 It may take a while, but I think with patience and determination we can make good progress. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else? Please. Good morning. I'm Tom Worley and I represent Oregon Center for Christian Voices as well as the faith based group that's here today. And I've been in the game I guess for a while now. Previous time I was here with, right, Survive folks.
 I know some of the background in history and I know each of the commissioners here has represented homeless folks in a variety of ways. I know you're not frauds and I know you aren't either, Mayor Hales. But a question hangs there. Are you representing homeless folks, the poor, enough because they haven't got the representation in this city if you don't champion their cause? I want to tell you a story. I think stories are sometimes the best way to communicate
 I'm privileged. I'm the owner of two homes. I have a place in the gorge with my wife and now a place on the south waterfront. Mostly, I've been, most of my life, a resident of inner northeast Portland. But I was fishing one day out in the gorge, Klickitat River, and I was done for another unsuccessful day catching fish, but a successful day of being out in nature, and I was in a good mood.
 There was a Native fellow standing at the junction of the road on the Klickitat River and Highway 14 that needed a ride. He needed to get to a store to get his bottles and to cash them in for his money for that day. We had a good conversation. He was a former Marine. He had served his country. And we had a rapport going. And so as this old white guy, I felt
 compelled to tell them how thankful I was to be sharing what I said was his country. He looked me square in the eyes and said, it's not our country, it's God's country. So what have we come to? I mean certainly I can understand the issues around zoning laws, about the rights of homeowners, the fear when property values are jeopardized, but isn't all everyone entitled
 to a place to call home. I'll finish by joining Reverend Whitfield. I don't look too black to you all, I'm sure, okay? But I've been there when Jeff has been rocking, when Benson's been on the court. My kids grew up in the Northeast. I worked with another volunteer thing, residents of that area in home repairs. I was a career counselor with at-risk families.
 And I knew with our black kids, if they're from inter-northeast, they had a home beyond their immediate home. More is being lost than actual individual housing if inter-northeast isn't supported with affordable housing. Thank you so much. I hope you go forward in caring for these folks. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, sir. My name is Abdullah Palovina. I am imam of one of the Muslim communities here in Portland area.
 I came today in peace and I wish you all peace, my friends, brothers and sisters in humanity. Just to express my deep support and in some way respect for what is done here and what should be done, especially to my friend and all our friends, Paul Shutter from New City Initiative, and also for you guys from the city, I know that we know all that you are
 great job in this manner, but we should, there is some more that we need and should do more. You know, we as faith leaders, we do prayers. We all do prayers, you know. We pray for our less fortunate. We pray for you guys in the city to, you know, do more because God is our, that cornerstone that we rely on in some hard and tempting situations. So in this time we need to get together to do more in this manner, so
 We did this statement in a way to
 help those less fortunate that they have some representatives in our communities that we can do and we would like and we want to do more. So the main point is to encourage all of us, especially you, to do more in this manner because what our friends, brothers, sisters who are less fortunate today, we all can be tomorrow as they are today.
 So we need to think about that and do whatever we do not only for them now but for our future generation that we show that we care. So we are your friends, we are people of faith but also people of good actions, something that should bring us together in a way to do more in this manner of less fortunate.
 Thank you for whatever you did. Thank you for what you are planning to do. Let's do together in this manner and hopefully God willing we will come to the point that those less fortunate among us will appreciate this and they will come to the point to be not called that less fortunate but just people who see and they need some dignity, recognition that there is somebody who cares. So God bless you and
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hills. Reverend Mark Knutson, pastor of Augustana Lutheran Church in northeast Portland, 15th and Nott. We're a sanctuary congregation and I hope the city continues on its path to become a sanctuary city.
 as well. We are home to six nonprofits we've birthed in the last 20 years together. One is the Community Alliance of Tenants, which keeps many people in housing who are on the verge of losing it and knowing their rights, as well as Families en Accion that does that as well. What I came to say today is those who are either on the edge of being homeless or who are homeless are members of our congregations as well as members of our cities.
 or city, and we constantly work within that context to get people back into housing, to keep them in housing. But I can tell you in just one congregation, the number of people on the edge of losing, that is high. And the need to move farther out for the most affordable housing they can find.
 So I'd echo Reverend Whitfield's words as well. The key for this is for all of us not only to feel shame, but also to collectively put our efforts together and to accept that what is today does not have to be what will be
 And I think we're all sitting here today with that initiative and feeling. But we know we've addressed homelessness for years in this city, but it continues to grow. So what I'm going to say about the New City Initiative and the Village Support Network is, it's a systematic approach that works. And in churches, synagogues, mosques, temples, we are not highly staffed. You know, we don't have a staff person for this, for instance. We do it with volunteers. Reverend Tom and Patty Campbell Schmidt are here who head up our Village Support Team.
 But to find collective ways of doing things together, that the city can provide the infrastructure funding that we then can use it. And so this is one good example where we can come up with the volunteers to walk alongside a family and with $1,000 to support it in the process.
 But the systematic approach that Paul's brought and others to this with funding from the city and the county and hopefully more from the state is very important. So I would redouble the efforts in terms of funding because it works. And our team will take learnings from helping another family outside the congregation and bring it back in to help families and individuals within the congregation who are seeking housing. The other thing I'd ask you to look at, though, as you move forward, are look at those things in this city that are not big –
 in necessarily but really keep people from getting housing you're a deal with band the box which is huge we're thankful for that but just look at the cost to apply for apartment we felt one family individuals or time but they pay a fee again and again and again and never get it back uh... so unified application would be helpful so people are losing that and everything is um... small things if you're homeless you often get cited for things and you have the least
 opportunity to cover that so it can build. So I've had people in the congregation who get one infraction and that builds. So how can we look at forgiving and moving forward and helping people get back on their feet? So thank you for what you do. Again, we cheer on what Paul Schroeder is doing and the whole collection of us on this effort. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. So I think we need a motion to accept this report. Motion to accept the report. Second. Any further discussion? Roll call please.
 Well, I want to thank New City Initiative and the Village Support Network for living up to the expectations that Mayor Hales and I placed in you about a year ago to really partner with us in our efforts because it takes a partnership to deal with the issues of homelessness and the quest for more affordable housing. Certainly many of the values that were spoken to in your resolution are values that we have embraced on the City Council
 providing housing not just in East Portland, as you were saying, but right now we have underway projects to house homeless families or formerly homeless families in the Pearl District.
 Thanks to Commissioner Fish's leadership, we have a project going on right down on South Waterfront to do the same thing, to provide additional housing for low-income individuals, particularly dedicating a certain amount of those units for people making between 0 and 30 percent of median family income. Thanks to the leadership of Mayor Hales.
 Additional money has been dedicated to focus on issues around displacement in north and northeast Portland, and I'm pleased to say that we've adopted an action plan and it's being closely monitored by Bishop Holt, the chair of the committee that's overseeing our investments there to provide people means to stay in their homes through home loans,
 and a home repair loans to provide rights of return in public housing that is going to be constructed there so that people that formerly lived in North Northeast Portland will have a priority access to return to that area.
 and also investments in additional housing so people can stay in those areas. So these are all things that we take very much to heart, but we also know, we also recognize our limits. And tomorrow we'll be bringing an initiative to the City Council to leverage the private sector's additional help in exchange for privileges we grant to developers. We are going to ask in return that they include affordable housing in their developments. Thank you.
 or they pay into a housing investment fund for us to create that affordable housing. So these are all things that we're undertaking, but working with the faith community is really essential because we can't do it all, and the faith community has so much more resources in terms of people committed to these ideals, and the ideal of taking a family and helping a family, one family at a time, is really important.
 I'm convinced is going to be a very successful strategy and I think you've shown that to date and I thank you for your testimony, ma'am, and wish you very much good luck in your RN program and I'm really happy that you are here today to share your experience. And so just thank you very much and we stand together as partners in this, tackling these daunting problems. So thank you. Hi.
 Thank you very much, everybody, for taking the time to come today, but more importantly, taking the time to work within your faith communities to wrap around services for individuals and families. It is one person at a time in this challenge to help people prevent homelessness and get out of houselessness.
 I, too, wish you all the best in your registered nurse career. It was a great career for me before I became a politician. And you'll learn that nurses are amongst the most trusted professionals in the country. So your experiences, the struggles that you've been through, will definitely help you in the care that you give to others. And I really appreciate you taking the time to come today. I actually invite you all to come back tomorrow at 2 o'clock when we'll be discussing the proposal that Commissioner Saltzman referenced
 I'm going to be having a fairly vigorous discussion about whether those incentives should be for middle income housing or to keep the current policy of having incentives to provide lower income housing. So for those of you who are able to come back tomorrow, I anticipate quite the debate.
 Because there's only a limited amount of money and there's only a limited amount of incentives. And so how are we going to prioritize is the big question. And then what are we going to do to leverage other creative solutions that may not solve the problem, but they'll take us a step further. So thank you very much for being here. I'm very pleased to vote aye.
 I first met Paul through Mark Jolin a number of years ago when Paul had this idea of organizing the faith community to address homelessness. The truth was the faith community has always been in the front lines of addressing homelessness, but the idea was to coordinate and to leverage the great strengths of the faith community. So Paul, thank you for all your work and your service, and thanks to all of our faith leaders who are joining us today.
 And I want to just acknowledge that I think what Dan Saltzman said a few minutes ago was one of the most eloquent statements anyone has said on this body about homelessness and about our convictions. And I thank Dan for being a champion. In the last month, for people of faith, there have been some developments that are encouraging. Pope Francis issued his encyclical and talked about our common home. The first African-American
 did something I never thought I'd see in my lifetime. He went to South Carolina and led thousands of mourners in a rendition of Amazing Grace. The Supreme Court affirmed the dignity of all marriages and all love. And even the legislature got something right. We got a bill passed that said that all the windfall from class action lawsuits will be now directed to legal services for the poor.
 And since we're only serving between 15 and 20 percent of the families that desperately need legal services to prevent eviction or to deal with life's problems, that was a huge win. But while I'm a cup-half-full person, I have to acknowledge that there's some things that greatly disturb me. It disturbs me that the Senate recently proposed eliminating funding for the HOME program.
 That is one of our lifelines to build affordable housing in our community. And to eliminate the home program because we can't afford to invest in people, but we can afford to invest in things like military hardware. Did someone say the word shame earlier? And how does that reflect our best values? While we're cutting federal funding, by my last count, a majority of people running for president have said they would eliminate the
 HUD, the Housing Bureau, at the federal level because we have too many and we don't need the federal government should not be in the business of directing housing policy. I hope, Mayor, we have a vigorous debate about this this fall because the federal, state, and local level, lots of people are running for election. And I think it's time collectively we said that once and for all, housing is a primary federal concern. And shame on us if we eliminated the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
 Closer to home, we don't have the funds to address the need, and we're talking about redefining a home. And I'm going to get in some trouble for saying this, but a home is a roof over your head. A home is not a tent over your head. And the moment we normalize tents instead of a roof is the moment that we've lost the moral claim to the high ground in this debate, because we have essentially said we will collectively not raise the bridge, we will lower the river.
 This community should never back off from raising the bridge. And to redefine a home as a tent is morally unacceptable to me. And it puts us down a path that we do not want to go. So you have come here today with a beautiful statement. And what's going to happen is we're going to celebrate this moment and this very affirming moment, but it's going to get lost. So I want to urge you to come back. And you have put down some markers, so let me just affirm them.
 Collectively, we need to say that the federal government must support a national housing crisis. That means that anyone running for office at the federal level has to say they will commit to using federal resources, our tax dollars, to invest in housing because, after all, in a mobile society, it is a federal concern. We cannot possibly solve a national crisis locally any more than we can solve any other national crisis locally without a strong federal partner.
 Number two, we're likely to have another surplus this year. Council this budget season said the priority is going to be roads and sidewalks and basic maintenance. Ten percent of our surplus went to housing. Forty percent went to streets and basic maintenance. We'll have a debate this fall, if we have surplus again, as to whether we should do more for housing. I hope you're here sharing your perspective on that. We're going to have an ongoing debate about whether we invest in zero to 30.
 And let's be clear, zero to 30 is not just a moral question. There is an economic consequence. We have to put more money into units serving the poorest than we do for people above 30 percent because they need services and they need other resources. It's more expensive. You have to do more grants and less loans. There are people in our community who argue persuasively and effectively that we should be doing more loans and fewer grants and we should be investing dollars more efficiently.
 Just remember, to get more dollars at zero to 30 means bigger investment of a shrinking pie. I support that investment, but it comes at a cost, and we have to acknowledge that cost, which is why there will be a fight. That's why it doesn't just happen. Next, Commissioner Salzman talked about investing in opportunity areas. Let's be clear. There is now clear studies that have come out in the last month making the case that families in high-opportunity areas with low-income kids do better than families that are marginalized.
 Well, who is against opportunity? But the fact is Commissioner Saltzman gets criticized for building affordable housing in South Waterfront because people say, well, the dirt's more expensive there. Why not do it on the border with Gresham? Well, the reason we're not going to put all of our money in places that are inaccessible and that already have substandard infrastructure and concentrations of poor people is because that's not where families are going to thrive.
 We'll invest in those communities, but we'll also make sure that low-income families have the same choices that we all do to decide where to live and send their kids to school. And that's why we invest in Southwest. That's why we invest in the River District. That's why we invest in South Waterfront. But we haven't won the fight on opportunity. There are plenty of people who say that opportunity comes at a cost. Zero to 30 comes at a cost. There are choices we're going to have to make, and your voices are going to be very important.
 Everybody here has acknowledged that we can't solve the problem without more homes. So are we doing enough to land bank, and are we doing enough to build? I'm a huge supporter of Commissioner Saltzman's initiative to build a big fund called the Housing Investment Fund. And the reason it makes a lot of sense is that it's local dollars going into a fund with fewer strings attached. And the reality is the federal dollars come with more strings. They're harder to use.
 Dan wants to build a big fund. If I had the power for one day, I'd put a lot of money in that fund because now is the time to be using those dollars to land bank and to build because it's not going to get cheaper or easier down the road. And he's right. The unrestricted dollars give us more options, more flexibility. We're going to have to have a serious conversation about Housing Plus.
 We can't just look at housing as an end. We have to acknowledge that the people we're seeing on the streets now disproportionately have things called mental health issues, drug and alcohol addictions, other life challenges beyond just poverty. And if we don't address them, we are not giving them pathways to self-sufficiency. We're just creating a way station. That's not our goal and mission as a community. It is not just to provide a way station. And finally,
 The honest truth is we don't have the money to tackle this problem, and if the federal government doesn't step up, it's going to get harder and harder. I strongly believe we need to go to the ballot no later than next year and ask the voters to give us a new dedicated revenue source. And there's people tirelessly working in the community to make that happen, and the faith community will be an essential ally in making the moral case for why we should invest more in housing. So let me just close by saying that...
 We have so much to celebrate and your work one family at a time, as Dan said, is very inspiring. And the faith community has always been in the front lines of this work and you'll continue to and I hope we continue to invest in your work. But unless we have a strong federal partner, unless we continue to successfully fight the good fight about who we serve and where we place people, where they live, unless we build more housing and preserve current affordable housing,
 And unless we make a community-wide commitment to address addiction and mental health at a much higher level, we will not solve the problem. And it's no solace to know that we're doing a better job than L.A. and some other cities. There's no solace in that. Good for Portland, but the bar should be higher. I say raise the bridge, don't lower the river. Thank you, Mayor and Dan, for bringing this forward. And I hope we make this a regular annual event because it's quite inspiring.
 Well, we are living in a moment, I think, of great and small miracles. One is that the Pope has issued this encyclical that makes this amazing connection between environmental stewardship and social justice. I think that's a very important connection to make. The fact that a lot of people who've never read a papal encyclical before are talking about it in places like Portland State University coffee shops is kind of a new and wonderful
 Another miracle is this partnership. And Paul, thank you to you and all the reverends and pastors and imams and rabbis who've come together with their congregations to do this work. Because it's work. It is work. It's a lot of work. And we need to acknowledge that. It's work, sacrifice, and inconvenience for members of your congregations to take on the stewardship of their neighbor, which is what this comes down to. So thank you.
 And what I think you, I know you've heard and I hope you feel is there's a passionate interest in this partnership on this council.
 that the members of this council, Commissioner Novick included, who's away today, really love this partnership, believe in it, know that here in Portland we do things through partnerships. Yes, there are governments, I mentioned earlier, that there are actually nine of them, maybe too many. We have our responsibilities, we have our budgets, we have our programs, we can always make them do better and make a stronger commitment, but we get little done without partnerships.
 whether it's on our park system or on the streets of our city where people have planted half a million trees over the last 20 years in partnership. We could have issued a proclamation here that we should have more trees, and none would have gotten planted if we hadn't had volunteers out doing them. So that's why this matters so much and why we believe so much in this partnership. And each of us can do more. The word shame is appropriate. It is a shame.
 and we should be ashamed that we have not made more progress than we have, but we'll make it through this kind of partnership and this kind of shared commitment.
 One I want to mention in particular, and actually a way I believe that your initiative can help us, is one of the things that we've committed to in this Home for Everyone effort, which Mark Jolin, who's here, we stole him away from direct service to homeless people at JOIN and asked him to be the staff person for the city and the county and the housing authority and the city of Gresham working together to try to be helpful.
 coherent among all those multiple governments in what we do in housing. And we've said we're going to take on one thing that, in addition to the rest of the commitments that we've made, where we can move the ball down the field just a little bit, and that is we're going to try to get all of our homeless veterans inside this year. It's a manageable number of people. We need to house two a day.
 in order to make good on that promise. We're running it a little under two a day, so we need more property owners, landlords, who have units to make them available for these vouchers. We're not asking them actually to donate them, we're asking them to just rent them to us. So there's one more way that we will rely on partners, whether it's the faith community or landlords and their organizations to say, yeah, we can do this, we can house more families.
 we can get those families into services and education and opportunity and into community. And so I would love to have your help, and I know Commissioner Salzman would as well, and as members of that consortium, we're really going to try to make this happen. But I'm really heartened by this. I think this is a wonderful and miraculous good thing that people of faith have come together and want to work in constructive partnership.
 family by family across the city to make this kind of a difference. So I agree, we should hear from you every year. We should hear more progress, and you should call on us to do more and call on us to make the changes we need to make to make real progress together. Thank you so much. Aye. Thank you. More good work to come. Okay. We've got 741, right, which is, do we need to read it if it's been rescheduled? Okay. Okay.
 741, require activation of closed captioning on televisions in public areas. OK. And this is, anything you want to comment on, Commissioner? Yes, Mayor. I'd like to request this to be pulled back to my office for some more work, and we'll reschedule it later in the summer. OK. So ordered. Thank you. Thank you all for coming. OK, let's move on to the items that we pulled. Yes? Can we do those next? OK.
 Item 742. Appoint members to the Socially Responsible Investments Committee for terms to expire July 1, 2016 and July 1, 2017. Okay, I'm not sure if any of our members are here. And someone requested that this be pulled off the calendar. Joe, I believe, did. Joe did this one. Mr. Walsh here. Lightning, sorry. Lightning did. Okay, anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, then we'll take a roll call. Mr. Lightning wants to speak. Oh, he is here. Okay, sorry. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. One of the concerns I had on this issue, again, on the representatives, is that I want to make sure that when we're talking climate change and we have this group looking at the fossil fuel companies, that we begin with an understanding that,
 pulling their funding isn't necessarily the right thing to do. And what we have to look at is that with these companies, they have infrastructures in the trillions of dollars. And you don't go in there and shake them up in an aggressive manner too fast because a lot of these companies also have the ability to make the changes that you may want to see in the future. They have the funding.
 They're the energy experts. And if we begin to just pull their funding and try to shut them down immediately, that will have a great effect on the overall economy. So what we need to do is begin to work with these companies in a reasonable manner, not go out there and try to bankrupt them, and understand that if you want to see change, it's going to happen in a slow manner.
 We're not going to make every car out there into an electric car in the next five years. It will not happen. It's going to take a lot longer. We're going to have to look at these issues and understand it's going to take time, and these fossil fuel companies have the ability also to make the adjustments, to fund a lot of these companies, and they're part of the energy business in the communities, and we cannot just look at them and say, shut them all down, you're a fossil fuel company,
 We refuse to invest with you anymore. We're not going to take your phone calls anymore. And that's what we think is the right thing to do for the climate change. It is not the right thing to do. And again, when these committees are set up in determining who they will invest with and who they will not, I want you also to ask the question, what's going to happen over the long term if we decide to try to bankrupt these companies immediately?
 What effects is that going to have over the overall economy, the climate, and other areas? So again, I just proceed forward with caution, don't make any fast moves, and understand they are the experts in the energy, and they also have the resources. So proceed forward with caution, but work with them. Thank you. Thank you.
 We're testifying as to the nominees. Right. These are the nominees, so it's not a policy question that's before us. It's just the people that have been volunteered to serve on the committee. Thank you. And for the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I want to not congratulate but just thank these volunteers for this. I note that Commissioner Novick is not able to be with us, and, of course, we know just dealing with one company,
 There was an amount of heat generated with the discussion of why it's good moral policy for the city of Portland to not invest in Walmart and I want to thank people who have stepped forward to help try and use the little bit of stashed away money that's part of the budget to interact with the rest of us citizens so that Portland can do better than other cities, we can have a team of people interacting to
 use whatever leverage is available from city funds to encourage companies. It's not a matter of, you know, nobody's being targeted for bankruptcy. Some occasionally people in the community might be highly motivated against the company, but these people who have volunteered for this committee are going to work together in here. Some positions which are extreme, and we're going to find ways to nudge companies
 companies into being better citizens to building a better community and finding compromise and I want to thank the city staff and the people who have gone through this process and Hope that the commissioners will make everything available to this committee so that we can have these vibrant discussions There'll be times when these commission these volunteers will be on the hot seat because there are a lot of companies that have a
 As companies, their job is to maximize their profits for their shareholders, and sometimes people such as us that come and testify here and those who volunteer for all the different committees need to remind them that in Portland we value people over profit. We're not anti-profit. We believe in responsible, sensitive profits. And I'm going to depart just a little bit to say that it's too bad when we were talking about
 profit and responsible investing and the homeless situation that we didn't have more engagement from Zydel, Melvin Mark, and American Property Management right here. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Motion to accept the report? So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Well, I want to thank Commissioner Novick and Mayor Hales for working on this, creating the Socially Responsible Investment Committee, and I want to thank the initial commissioners
 seven people that have agreed to give us the benefits of their intellect and their analytical abilities and help us grapple with decisions around what types of corporate bonds that the city should hold or perhaps divest of. So thank you very much. Aye. Ritz. Thanks to Commissioner Novick and his staff. If you could please send me a short bio of each of the nominees, that would be helpful. We could post that. Again, I thank everybody for serving. Aye.
 I just want to raise a very strong objection, Mayor. We're working hard to find qualified candidates for the Portland Utility Board. Today we're taking seven people off the board. And I just want to note that there's a lot of talent here that we could have put to use at the Portland Utility Board as well. It's a great group of people, and thanks to everyone for serving. And in particular, I want to thank Katrina Scotto DiCarlo from Supportland who has agreed to serve on this. I think she brings a lot along with her other...
 Commissioners? Aye. Thank you for good work and a great committee. Look forward to their recommendations. Aye. Okay, 743.
 apply for and accept a grant in the amount of two hundred and twenty one thousand five hundred and eighty eight dollars from the Oregon Department of Transportation and appropriate $100,000 for reimbursement for the 2015-17 Work Zone Enforcement Program grants. Thanks sergeant Barnum's here to answer any questions. So we have that the same who pulled this side of mr Lightning oh, I'm sorry. Did you want and just left? Okay any questions for sergeant Barnum? Oh
 We may have kept you here without needing. I move the vote. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Feltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Kales? Aye. Thank you. Okay. Let's move to regular agenda. Item 748. Okay.
 Authorize the City Attorney's Office to take all necessary legal steps, including initiation of legal proceedings to bring a declaratory judgment action under ORS 28.020 and 33.710 and any other causes of action regarding the impact of charter changes, fire, police, disability, and retirement board resolutions, states,
 Statues and other law on fire police disability and retirement benefits Without objection. I'm going to return this item to my office with an intention to bring it back at another time and 749 and
 Accept bid of Three Kings Environmental Inc. for the Southwest Stevenson and Southwest Hamilton drainage and road shoulder improvements for $623,497. Good morning, Ms. Moody. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners, Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Three Kings Environmental. The engineer's estimate on this project was $560,000. Okay.
 On May 21st, 2015, four bids were received and Three Kings is the low bidder at $623,497. The Bureau of Environmental Services has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing at 11.5% over the engineer's estimate.
 In their review, BES has identified increased traffic control due to the large area of this project and the contaminated media disposal bid cost as contributing factors to the cost exceeding the engineer's estimate. The city identified seven divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities.
 MWESB subcontracting participation on this project is at 79 percent, with work being performed in the areas of traffic control, trucking, and concrete work. I will turn this back over to council if you have any questions about the bidding process, and I have someone from BES here to assist. Christine, just could you just translate into plain English what contaminated media disposal means?
 Excuse us. We're elsewhere on the counter. Go ahead. Go ahead, please. Yes. I have to leave from time to time, you know. I was standing outside. I pulled that item. Go ahead. My line was down. Now I'm on the counter. Go ahead. No discussion. No discussion. Sir, you're going to be asked to leave, and then you're going to be excluded. You've been there before. Yes, I have. Okay. Go ahead, sir. All right. Go ahead. Get excluded again. Another 60 days, Joe. Can you explain to me?
 Joe, it's time to go. You're out for another 60 days. You're going to go? See you later. See you next time? Bye. Bye. See you, Joe. Okay. 60 days. Please, go ahead. What a piece of crap. My name is Brandon Wilson. Yes, I'm a project manager and design engineer. So your question about the contaminated media. Just show how cheap you are, Charlie. The contaminated media. You're not a man.
 Sir, you're going to need to leave now or else we're going to have to ask the police to come. Do you understand? Okay, we're recessed. We'll turn to business and we'll continue with the discussion. And so just...
 The pending question was just to describe, to translate into plain English what we mean when we talk about disposal of contaminated media. Yes, Commissioner. Those of us with cable TV might define it differently than you do. So just what do you mean by contaminated media? Definitely. So DEQ has certain thresholds for contaminants. Essentially for this project we're talking about the top layer of soil in the ditches that we'll be excavating.
 lead perhaps or other contaminants from automobiles. That's basically what we're talking about. And so when the bids came back, we had originally estimated $30 a ton. The bids came back at $50 a ton. We don't actually control that part. That's a function of the market and available space to dump or wherever it's treated, right? That's correct. That's fine. Thank you.
 Other questions or other points for us to consider? Mayor, I move the report. Is there a second? Second. I don't think we have a testimony, public testimony for this. Oh, I'm sorry. We haven't taken testimony yet. Yeah, anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Roll call, please. Seltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you all very much.
 Before you go on to the next item, Mr. Johnson, you were shouting during a city council meeting. You've been warned, and if you do that again, you'll be excluded. Do you understand? Thank you. All right, 750. Adopt the disposition of city real property policy. Okay, Mr. Inge, welcome. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Brian Inge. Good morning, Mayor.
 internal business services with me. I have Betsy Ames. Last week we presented for council for your consideration the proposed disposition of City Real Property. There were some attached to that was an exhibit. Council asked us to make amendments to the exhibit until I'd like to have Betsy Ames to discuss with you the changes that we are proposing to the to the exhibit based on the instructions that we received from council last week.
 Okay, Ms. Ames, good morning. Hi, Betsy Ames with the Office of Management and Finance. Carla is passing out a packet that has three documents. The top document is a summary of the proposed amendments to be considered at this hearing as well as on the third page the amendments that were made at the July 1st hearing last week.
 to both the resolution and the exhibit. And then attached to that is an amended resolution with the one change that you made last week showing in bold. And then on the exhibit there are changes that are shown both in bold for the amendments that you approved last week as well as in italics for those that you asked that we bring back this week for consideration.
 At the council session, you requested that we send these out to the community and ONI assisted us by providing these documents to their distribution list. So community members have seen these over the long holiday weekend until today and I know that they've been distributed further beyond that original distribution as well.
 The three proposed amendments that you asked to be considered at this session, one was not discussed last week. This was an amendment that Commissioner Fritz recommended asking that we amend the section for the internal notification process to allow for bureaus to express an interest even if they don't have funding in hand right at that moment so that the commissioners in charge
 reasonably agree to extend the period of time so that a bureau could propose something in the next budget cycle for consideration so that bureaus can express interest even if they don't have the money right there available at the moment
 The second amendment is one that Commissioner Fish raised last week, which was amended slightly after discussion amongst the council offices, and this is to the external notification process to recommend...
 Or to require that the city real property coordinator contact the neighborhood coalition office to let them know that their neighborhood association Affiliated with a property that has been deemed excess has not responded to the initial inquiry to try to prompt that neighborhood association to provide an official response to the notice of the property being available and
 The third amendment, which is on the second page, is in response to Commissioner Saltzman's request to add language to say that whenever practicable, the Bureau and the Commissioner in charge shall consider proposing conditions for disposition of the real property for affordable housing, community, or open space use. We added that both in section 3D and then also clarified that the ordinance, as described in section 3D3,
 should include those proposed conditions as part of the ordinance so that when the council votes on it, they're including consideration of that. I understand that Commissioner Fritz may have another amendment as well.
 I move that we change the section 3C to amend the 45-day calendar day notification for the community to instead read 60 calendar days. The rationale for this is that we shouldn't be in any particular hurry to be selling off properties and 60 days is more realistic, especially for neighborhood associations, some of which meet on an every-other-month basis.
 Okay, further discussion on including that amendment among the amendments that we're considering today? Roll call. Fish, Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Is this on all of the amendments? It's just on that one, then we'll come back to the rest of the package. Fish. Aye. Hayles. Aye. And then there's no further discussion. Well, one second. Do you want to make a motion on the package of amendments or? If I could, Mayor. Sure. Betsy, my amendment.
 was predicated on ensuring within the 45-day period there was some actual feedback from the neighborhood, the coalition or the neighborhood association. If we're extending the clock to 60 days, does that change either the timeline or the necessity for my amendment? No.
 I think the 60 days provides additional opportunities for anyone who's received notice, either through the subscription or through the direct mailing that we'll be doing for the surrounding property owners and the signage on the property, as well as the subscription service. So any interested person can go on and sign up to receive notification. I think the 60 days gives them more opportunity
 to find out about it as well as to contact their neighborhood association if they want their neighborhood association to also be actively involved. The neighborhood associations will have direct notice as well as the business associations and the coalition offices. Of course, we're setting a floor, not a ceiling, so it could, at the City's discretion, be extended. I guess just my question is, does Commissioner Fritz's amendment,
 cause us to rethink either the need for or the timing of my amendment? If I might answer that, I would say no. It's still appropriate for the city to call after 30 days, which then gives the opportunity for the consideration at a subsequent neighborhood association meeting. So I think actually your amendment and mine. Harmonize. Yes. That was the question. I wanted to hear from the team that's been drafting this, and that's –
 That's what I would hope you say. That's what I'm thinking. Yes, I think so too. Again, it's not like we do this every month. This is a fairly rare occurrence. Taking 60 days instead of 45, fine with me, belt and suspenders to call to make sure they got the notice makes sense to me. It will, Mayor, just as a preview. It will become less rare. Fair enough. We are asking utilities to- Yes, fair enough. To-
 do a comprehensive look at properties that are no longer serving a ratepayer purpose. So there will be, I think, more than the Council thinks down the road. Fair enough, but this is still a reasonable timeline in my mind. Okay, so further discussion about the amendments and then a motion to accept the package of amendments that's before us in the document. To clarify, this is to put them on the table and we'll then take testimony, right? I would move the amendments. Second. Okay, roll call. Zeltzman? So are we... This is just accepting these amendments and then we'll take testimony.
 Fritz. I very much appreciate all the community input that's helped to shape these amendments. Aye. Fish. I want to thank Betsy and her team because this is a complex issue, and I think you've managed the public process very well. Hayles. Thank you. Aye. Good work. Okay. Now we'll take testimony, if any, on the amendments. So would anyone like to speak to the amendments? We've got a sign-up sheet for the amendments.
 Carol McCarthy, Lightning Watchdog X, and Michael Wade. Hey, come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Hello everyone. My name is Carol McCarthy and I live on Freeman Street in Portland, Oregon 97219. I'm the chair of the Multnomah Neighborhood Association and as well the rep to the parks, Sweeney Parks Committee. But I'm here today with my opinions informed by those rules but speaking on my own behalf.
 Just to jump right in on Commissioner Fish's amendment to, during the last hearing, I understood that your amendment required that the neighborhood associations actually reply in writing. Not just that they be prompted to reply, but they actually be verifiable answering. I'm just throwing that out and I want to get back onto my testimony because I'm afraid. It won't be charged against your time. Okay.
 requires that we get confirmation that they have the notice and then what they choose to do with it is at the discretion of the but I wanted to make sure that we weren't assuming that they knew about it so it would require affirmatively confirming that they have notice and they would then have the right to either take action on it or to ask for additional time to take action on it which is the problem we ran into with Freeman we're trying to cure
 And so is there a requirement that they give any kind of answer, that there be a verifiable answer back from the neighborhood association or the coalition as to whether or not they're interested or not? We can't require volunteers to do anything. We're just requiring that the city confirm that they have the actual notice and that they have an opportunity if they choose to weigh in. And that includes requesting an extension of time. Well, thank you for clarifying that.
 So the issue of disposable municipal property, real property became a primary concern of mine personally during the case of the Freeman Water Tank. Myself and my neighbors worked thousands of hours trying to protect that property and we were unsuccessful and we still feel it was unjustified what happened.
 The auditor's report, in fact, I think did give us some solace that it emphasized that there had been no basis in law for the path that the city took and also
 stated the importance of this policy that we're discussing today. So that was gratifying. I just want to say on behalf of the bureau and I appreciate your advocacy and I appreciate that the neighborhood association enthusiastically supported the new rules we crafted post Freeman. But what you just said is factually incorrect. The auditor did not say there was no legal path forward.
 I would just encourage you, be an advocate as strongly as you want and we're here to listen and make changes and we've demonstrated that post Freeman. But to make claims like that undercuts your legitimacy. Well, it's not in my reading that the auditor said that they could find no basis in state law for the path that the city took, however, that the city's attorney
 stated things but the auditor themselves could find no support for that position. Okay and you had a full chance to litigate that issue before a state court judge who did not agree with that view. I'm just saying we're here to fine tune a proposal and hear you not to relitigate Freeman and if you make over generalizations about my bureau or what they did in Freeman then I have to respectfully correct the record.
 So, the Monoma Neighborhood Association did submit comments to, on the water barrels draft policy and also on the city wide draft. And most recently last week, on Thursday, the Sweeney Parks Committee unanimously passed three motions on the current draft. Unfortunately, due to the limited time in the review period, those, the Sweeney Board will not be able to consider endorsing the motions from the Sweeney Parks Committee so that you might receive these before voting on the policy. And I think this goes to the point that
 The neighborhood associations need a lot of time. Even 60 days is inadequate because we have full agendas. We need to coordinate with the Sweeney Coalition and other coalitions I'm sure that also have full agendas. So I think throughout a theme of mine is that there's no hurry on disposing of these properties, many of them have been held for decades and that we need to make sure we give adequate time or else we'll, we'll be losing valuable land.
 So I'm in question, I'm requesting that you include the items in my hand and the resolutions and exhibits and, and they're consistent with those motions that were unanimously passed by the Sweeney Parks Committee. So the first item just expresses the concern, or it would be in the whereas, saying that there is a need that neighborhood associations have requested adequate time to review. Secondly that because the city has been given
 authorization to dispose of property by any method that the four-fifths of the council deem appropriate, we're offering, I'm offering you a method that would allow for property that's... You're out of time, but let's let's spend a minute in dialogue on it. So you're suggesting first of all that we offer long-term leases to the Parks Bureau, as opposed to making the property available to the Parks Bureau if they wish to purchase it.
 Well, for properties that were purchased with ratepayer dollars that would have to be purchased at market value if it were to be transferred to the Parks Bureau, we're suggesting that
 a $1 hundred year lease be offered instead until the council can deal with that issue, which is a stumbling block. And then on the actual exhibit A, you're suggesting 90 days instead of 45 or 60. That's right. Initially, I actually thought 60 was enough, but the Sweeney Parks Committee convinced me that they really need 90 days. Okay. All right. If I captured the substance of, we've got it obviously here in front of us, but.
 Yes. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. You're next. I think I'm in, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. Amendment one, I do agree with. Amendment three, I do agree with. Amendment four, as stated, I'd like 90 days also. I'd like to refer back to Amendment two on the external notification. I would like to have.
 five or ten reputable commercial real estate brokerage companies also be notified. Now we're having a problem on letters being sent out. I would recommend we maybe go certified mail on that. I know the cost is higher, but we might go in that direction also. That's just my opinion. But again, I want to make sure that the brokerage communities have ample time to review the properties.
 The brokerage communities are the professionals on marketing properties nationwide. They have the contact base, they have the understanding of values. I want to have them be involved on the process of any surplus property that may come about on the market. Now, just real fast, the term land banking is a concern that is concerning me at this time.
 I feel that we have land banked a tremendous amount of properties in the past, and we need to again focus on the infrastructure of transportation, parks, and housing. I feel if we look at the overall value of our capital assets, which in my understanding are 35 plus or minus billion dollars, if we begin to look at that number and determine that certain properties are not being utilized, they have not been utilized for many years,
 Again, we're losing taxes that should be going back and we're losing those taxes if we take a percentage off the top of that valuation and we sell those properties that aren't being utilized. We can begin to make for the mistakes on the infrastructure for transportation, parks and housing of the past with this money that we can generate.
 I'm not saying use properties that can be used for affordable housing, used for parks, used for uses that are very important to certain groups. I'm saying the infrastructure of this city has been neglected in the past. We have to make up that difference somehow, some way, and I think the possibility to look in this direction is there, and I hope the council will consider that. Thank you. Thank you. Can I just, because you're...
 I'm consistently thoughtful on this, so can I just ask you a couple questions? Yes. So between the time it's declared excess and prior to it being declared surplus by a four-fifths vote, you're not suggesting during that period that there be a mandatory appraisal, correct? You're talking about once it's been declared surplus and we're going out to the marketplace. That is correct, sir. Once it's been declared surplus and-
 There are different kinds of properties that could be determined to be surplus. There could be something which is technically an easement or an odd-shaped piece of property that no longer has value to the city but helps complete someone's title, for example. Yes. Okay.
 There might be circumstances where it's just not cost-effective to get an appraisal of that because it has nominal value Is your concern primarily with properties that have value? We want to make sure that that there is we get that we maximize our return Yes, sir. My concern is that when we begin to reach a level let's just say a number of 500,000 and up and when you get into that level of pricing on properties and
 The whole game really changes because a lot of value in it, as one of the speakers stated, is that we don't want to be in any hurry to sell a property. And I absolutely agree with that statement because we've held these properties for many years. There's no reason to sell them fast. But reality is when it becomes surplus and you put it on the open market, the most exposure –
 and having a value set is very advantageous, especially by an appraisal, because the worst thing you ever want to do on a, say, a $5 million plus property is state a value that's like
 $3.5 million, much lower than what it's really worth by an appraisal. And that investor comes in and comes in with a low offer and you say, oh, by the way, we just did an appraisal. It's worth $5 million. Could you change your offer, sir? It doesn't happen. So I'm going to make just a suggestion. You're raising a really important point. And the agency that has the most expertise in that is actually not here today. It's the Portland Development Commission because they are often charged by the council getting the best return.
 I'm going to urge my colleagues not to put into code now that issue. But since we're not going to have a surplus designation in the next couple of months,
 ask the PDC to give us some guidance. And one of the questions I think we should ask them is, if they agree with your assessment about the value that a broker brings, remember brokers charge a commission, so it does come off the top. What's the threshold that they would recommend we apply it to? What kinds of properties? And I'd like to hear from the PDC before. But I agree with...
 Lightning, I'm agreeing with the point you're making, and I think I'm going to ask that we defer resolving it until we've heard from our folks at PDC. If I may make one point real fast. When I'm talking the appraisal value to determine the value of this property,
 That's by an appraiser that a reputable bank will look at and say, you know what? I would loan money based upon the expertise of this appraiser. Now, that's a very good value in the marketplace to an investor coming in and looking at that. Now, when we're talking real estate brokers...
 They are the experts in the business and when they do their valuations based upon sales and current properties on the market and their professional experience in the marketplace itself, they'll set their value before they do their appraisal. But they're also licensed, they're also regulated by the state and when they make a mistake
 it will affect them tremendously on that value. Now, I'm not saying use a broker instead of an appraisal. I'm saying make sure you have that appraisal, but keep the brokers involved in the process to be there because they can sell that property using a buyer brokerage agreement representing the developer investor on their side in dealing directly with the city. Okay.
 And the developer and investor will cover that commission. I'm going to play devil's advocate on one point with you, which is some of the property we're going to sell has actually come subject to easements and other limitations. I want to think through carefully whether it's in the public interest to use an appraisal and publicize a rate that then sets the market.
 Where we get the best return is often by letting the market determine price, not by having us set the expectation for the price. And we're going to get a huge premium on Terminal 1. We did not need an appraisal. It's very valuable property. And I want to make sure an appraisal doesn't, in essence, set market expectations, particularly where an appraiser takes a discount for things like there's a water main underneath the property or there's an easement.
 But you've raised an excellent point, and I think we're going to ask PDC to brief us on it. Can I make one statement real fast? Then we've got to move on. As you remember in the Zydale situation on their application or their agreement, they based a cap on like numbers on the environmental concerns.
 So a lot of these people will base a cap so it kind of regulates the price. But it gives you that range and it's very important. These appraisers are very knowledgeable on that. The brokers are very knowledgeable on that. But I want that range set to where when these investors come in, we get top value and it goes back into services within the city. That's my main concern, top value when it's surplus, not before or excess. And we, this council agrees with your,
 Okay, thank you for your values proposition. We just want to figure out how we get there. Yeah, that's very helpful. I think having PDC look at those questions is a good idea. I appreciate you raising these issues, Lightning, because obviously you're trying to get us to get the maximum value for the taxpayer. Applauds to your place. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Welcome. You're already on. My name is Michael Wade. I'm with the Friends of Portland Community Gardens and our interest in this issue came up because of the John's situation and
 We're actually kind of, we are in agreement with all of the new policy that's been developed and the amendments as I've seen them come forward this morning. Our main concern is the way that cash flows are impacted in the budgets of the bureaus. When you sell a piece
 to another bureau, then the cash flow is an expense for one and income for the other. And we need to neutralize that effect so that there is no penalty for transferring something that we already own to somewhere else where we already own on the individual bureaus. And so that's our primary concern. It's also very difficult to justify a
 capital efficiency argument when it comes to something like a community garden. I can put a house on any community garden in the city and make money for the city. You know, that's just the way it is.
 But it's a value that we're delivering where we're giving individuals dignity of growing their own food. We're building community and we're bringing a whole lot of values to the city process. And so the Johns issue is one, but we're going to have more of those come up in the future and that's all we wanted to say was just make our point. Thank you. So thank you.
 The Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services will not surplus one property that has a community garden on it until we have had a comprehensive community conversation. And one of the things that we'll explore when we have that conversation is the covenants in bonds and the language of the charter which limit what those bureaus can do with surplus property as compared to other bureaus. And we'll have a conversation about that. It doesn't mean that those are roadblocks.
 Because I think there are some creative solutions that we can work to. But they are different than other general fund bureaus because the charter and bond covenants say they're different. And if you doubt me, we've been sued over this. One side of my brain, I don't know if it's my left or my right side, loves community gardens. And I doubled the city's capacity during my tenure. Both sides of your brain have to love community gardens. There you go. The mayor is shaming me. Both sides of my brain love community gardens.
 But I also have a fiduciary duty under the Charter not to commingle utility assets and ratepayer dollars with general fund bureaus. And it's not something that I establish as a rule. It's something you establish in adopting the Charter. So do I think we can find the middle ground so that the utilities satisfy their legal obligations and communities that cherish community gardens continue to have them? I'm guessing we can.
 But there won't be any surplusing of community gardens until we have that discussion. And I think reasonable people will get to the right outcome on this. Well, I think also one of the things that we recognize is that as we increase density in the city, we are taking away available properties for community gardens and for that activity.
 And I think that's a real problem as we you know this density issue if you want to look at our community gardens the way they are organized in the city where we have the most pressure on available plots it's in the inner city.
 And as we go further out, it becomes less and less of an issue. But Johns itself, both north and south, are fully subscribed and actually have waiting lists of a couple of years. And so I think that's where we're coming from is we want to preserve as much of the available land in the city as we can. Thank you.
 Community garden space in East Poland is actually a huge issue and that's partly why I proposed the amendment to say that just because a bureau doesn't have the money doesn't necessarily mean that they don't get to express interest in the property. To be really clear with my legislative intent and I believe the rest of the councils in adopting that amendment,
 I think the point was well made by Friends of Community Gardens and others at their last hearing that if general fund money paid for a property, it doesn't necessarily mean that general fund money should be transferred between one bureau and another. In the budget process, the council could just direct transportation to give a property to parks, for example, if there aren't any covenants on it.
 So that's the intent is to make sure that as commissioner officials we don't mix up rate bureau dollars versus general fund dollars but also if there's, we used to have a requirement in parks that part of our budget was selling $400,000 worth of parkland every year in order to provide the programming. This council did away with that. We had to borrow money at the end of the last fiscal year because we didn't have the $400,000 and so the council gave us an advance on this year's budget.
 But that's an example. I don't believe any other general fund bureau has a requirement to sell off properties in order to be able to balance their budget. So now none of them do. And so we can, as a council, and I hope this policy directs it, that's what I'm intending to do, is to say council figure out, council this one and future councils,
 did general fund dollars pay for it in the first place? In which case, any bureau should be able to have it without finding the money within its budget, in my opinion. DAVID SIEGELMANN- Having paid once, right. DAVID SIEGELMANN- Amen. Amen to that statement. DAVID SIEGELMANN- OK. DAVID SIEGELMANN- And I appreciate she drew a clear distinction between general fund bureaus and ratepayer dollars and ratepayer bureaus because the charter draws the distinction, not anyone up here. DAVID SIEGELMANN- Yeah. And I accept that totally. I sure hope that we work hard to minimize the conflict.
 Thank you both. Thank you very much. Thank you. Let's take other testimony and then we'll get back to amendments. The last three who signed up are John Gibbon, Mary Ann Schwab, and Tom Karwacki. Come on up. Good afternoon. That's where it's got to.
 This is the last official testimony before this body. Oh, yeah? Thanks. One more. Okay. I'm John Gibbon. I'm my I live in Quail Park in southwest Portland, Markham neighborhood. I'm Sweeney land use chair. I'm almost done with a sentence on perp. And I hope you're getting a lot of people applying. I may in the future apply but not this year.
 The issues I want to raise are something that I would I support the amendments but I just have a couple of comments. The situation that we got into with Freeman tank was a situation where property had been surplused before I sat on PIRB and with the downturn in the economy.
 It just disappeared. I mean it disappeared into the fog and I think that what I've seen from staff is a real good job. I'm a little concerned and I have to. We didn't get feedback at land citywide land use till the end of last month or we didn't get a report on this till then. So I haven't had a chance to even get to my land use committee and talk about it with knowledge. So
 A little more time on this would be useful. I think Amanda's request for the 60 day thing is good.
 because that's the reality of neighborhood associations. But my two points are, one, if we're going to help these neighborhoods do something, I would suggest that once we get a policy started, we do some sort of case study. And I can give you an example of a transfer between bureaus. The property at 17th and Taylor's Ferry, where a water bureau pumping station was transferred over to Taylor,
 BES and turned into a storm drainage area and I think it's been real successful. We planted a bunch of trees there. Those kind of case studies ought to be available for the communities to look at and try to understand how they can do something with the property because I know it was the other Amanda, Amanda Black from Markham neighborhood that got that going.
 The other thing I would say is let's hope we don't have another economic downturn and things disappear, but I would urge you to, once you get this program up, to do like annual reports to maybe the coalitions like OECD
 so that we publish a paper in Southwest that goes out once a year to everybody, and there should be something in there, a map and listing of surplus properties every year, so if these long-term things develop, that the neighborhoods get some warning that,
 on a basis. Hopefully a lot of these properties will sell for all the reasons that Commissioner Fish talked about. We've got to get this policy going, but the other side of it is we can't have a repeat of Freeman, and we're good in the short term, but not in the long term. Thanks, John. Mary Ann, good morning. Good afternoon. Hello, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Mary Ann Schwab. I'm here today to represent the Southeast Uplift.
 The Southeast Uplift Board of Directors is requesting that the Council defer action on this proposed property disposal policy for 60 days in order to allow adequate time for public review and input. While we commend the Council for its efforts to create a central inventory of property and a consistent and clear policy for property disposal, there has been inadequate public outreach for a matter
 which can significantly impact the city's neighborhoods. The need for a centralized inventory is such that we welcome the council while deferring action on property disposal policy, direct the bureaus to begin work of identifying the properties under their control immediately. And this was signed on the behalf of the Southeast Uplift Board of Directors, Dan, Don Gardner, Vice President. A question.
 Why would, does Southeast Uplift think that what's in the proposal is worse than the current policy? We, it's the time sequence as you've mentioned. I want, and you've just mentioned it as well, he was at the citywide land use group and that was the first he'd seen it. And also with Southeast Uplift, we haven't had any time. It, the things are coming at us so fast and furious we need that extra time just to review it, to comment on it. That was, that was not within the schedule.
 Let me repeat her point though, that is we could change this policy again sometime. Right. But we have a policy now, this will make it, in my opinion as well, better.
 doesn't mean that we never open that book again. So I would be, I'm a little surprised at that recommendation from Southeast Uplift too because the perfect is the enemy of the good, but good is better than bad and I think we're improving
 policy by taking action on this policy today and doesn't mean we can never talk about it again. Well, I respectfully disagree from my personal point and that is that the neighborhood association, including my Sunnyside neighborhood association, were not able to look at this, review it, and address it. Thank you. You're certainly welcome to come back should we pass it today. As the mayor said, this isn't a policy, it can be changed again.
 I feel a great sense of urgency that the current policy hasn't been working. So I think we should improve it, and then we can improve it again if necessary. So certainly I'd be happy to hear from Sunnyside and Southeast Uplift after however long it takes for you to review it, whether you are satisfied or whether you have additional changes you'd like to suggest. So I'm hearing you say we can have the 60 days so that all neighborhoods can address it? I'm personally not willing to continue the current policy
 unacceptable or troublesome policy that we've seen several times has not worked very well for neighborhoods. So I would prefer to do something today and then have you take all the time that you need to propose additional changes, but making it a little bit better in my opinion would be better than not making it a little bit better. It's not like the comp plan. Good point, and I'd like to put my Mary Ann Schwab hat on now, okay?
 I feel that we have a good example here. Now Mr. Lightning stated it and he stated it with transfer of deeds. Sunnyside Neighborhood Association and the Sunnyside School went to the Parks Bureau and the Parks Bureau rented our 2.4 acre playground, a dollar a year for 25 years. In comes a new principal with the Sunnyside Environmental School and out goes the Hearing School. And that worked. So we didn't get it renewed.
 So, then no money transferred. So what I'm saying is like with community gardens or I'm looking at an R2D2 piece of property right now that's owned by PDC. The same thing. You've got the title. We don't need to switch anything around. Just give a long-term lease and you'll always own the property. It works in Hawaii. It works in Austria. It worked here in Portland with the Sunnyside Kaiser Hospital that had a clinic on about 78th and Division.
 The Germany Society in their agreement said that if ever that was broken, that hospital had to make it shovel ready. So when you go out there, that building's gone. We could do the same thing. Keep it. Mary Ann, just to be clear, nothing in this ordinance works against what you just said. I'm happy to hear that. There is nothing in this ordinance which in any way limits the ability of two bureaus to talk about a long-term lease.
 We can't mandate that anyone does that because we can't tell Commissioner Fritz she must take a long-term lease on a piece of property and maintain it. But if Commissioner Fritz and the Parks Bureau says we're interested in a piece of property, nothing before us...
 limits the council and the city from having a discussion about a potential lease and lease terms, it is utterly silent on that question. And I think your concern would be if it had some language that says we couldn't do that. And I want to assure you it doesn't in any way address that question, therefore it stays within our discretion.
 One thing I'd say is the neighborhoods really see this, and it's understandable. They see this on a land use level as an impact. When property changes use, they see it as an impact. That's got people concerned. So the offer of don't be surprised if I come back wearing my Sweeney hat a few months after our land use committee looks at it and has some more recommendations. That's fair. We welcome that.
 Tom, good afternoon. Sure. Good afternoon. My name's Tom Karwocki and I'm speaking on behalf of the North Portland Neighborhood Chairs Network, which is all of the neighborhood association chairs and the North Portland Parks Committee.
 And both of these have supported the following adjustments to this property policy that's under consideration. Number one, provide standing for neighborhood associations. This would be both in the accessing process and in the surplusing process. And the issue is just providing them standing.
 Providing at least 60 days notice in both the processing and accessing and surplusing of properties. Provide all notices and signage in multiple languages. And one of the concerns is on this website and so forth is that it has to be in some other languages so that people can, and especially signs. You've made a policy of being inclusive. Let's try to live up to it.
 How many languages would you propose we put, we use for purposes of the sign that goes on the property that lists a phone number for someone to call? I think you all have looked at that issue. I believe the number that you've set is six, but I'm open to everything. So...
 Obviously Spanish is one, but in many areas we have a large population of Vietnamese, Chinese, Somalis. I'm going to let you all deal with it. Just that it's in multiple languages. That's all I'm...
 trying to be inclusive. And then consult with the city auditor to establish a property valuation methodology and disposal process so that the city auditor should also be weighed in and be allowed to give some comments. Network notes that the selling of some properties like Water Bureau properties already owned by the public to another city bureau may be redundant. I hear you Commissioner Fish on some of the concerns.
 Since many city properties have been in the city ownership for more than decades, in some cases a century, and the fire station, the Kenton Fire Station just got on the list of that inventory. Some for more than a century. We urge the city council to take the time to listen and to consider public comment on this process. And, you know, this is.
 Generally, and my comments initially to the ONI and so forth on this was that this process was rushed. I think you hear all of us, not that you, I think you're right, a little better is better than bad. But this process is very rushed and was rushed really fast compared to other processes.
 you did create a lot of unrest within the communities. And I think in the long run, it would be nice to have the bureaus work with the neighborhoods and other stakeholders on some of these large projects, such as Cary Boulevard, which obviously we're interested in. There's a great irony in this conversation, but let me just take a stab at it. We spent a year with Southwest Portland drafting the model that is the basis for this legislation.
 we had the neighborhood association leadership come to council and say we've got it right. We test drove it. We erred on the side of doing more notice not less. And precisely what we were hoping would happen, we got some pushback because there was more sunshine and people fixed on things like some community gardens. And you know what? It worked. It worked.
 We went through a year's process to get the model upon which this is based. And the first time there was a challenge, an issue that the community wanted to be heard on, under this system that creates more sunshine and more notice, there were people saying, don't do that to my property. And so we said, we hear you and we won't.
 I just want to put in context that it's actually working. When I hear that we haven't had a chance to discuss this... No, it was this particular proposal, not the larger process that you were talking about, but this particular process. I'm not taking anything away from what Betsy Ames has done, but this policy comes out of the community.
 and is modeled very closely on what the community has said to us is the model they want. And the only commotion we've had is that it's working. And people have a right to have a commotion before, not after, the deed assault, that's right. Freeman was an example where we had a commotion and people found out after the fact.
 This is designed to give an early warning and I welcome the feedback we've gotten because very concerned citizens have said, don't do anything to that property and the city said, we won't. So I mean, I think we can improve it and we should and we're going to get regular feedback. But just be clear, this is a community policy that we're being asked to adopt today with amendments from the community. And in my judgment, it's already working.
 because the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services got early feedback from neighbors that they didn't like having certain property surplus, so we backed off. So I don't want that lost in the discussion. And I salute southwest Portland neighbors who spent an awful lot of time helping us draft the model upon which this is based. I salute them because I don't want to diminish the work they did.
 Mr. Carlawick, I was wondering about your first point when you said that neighborhoods should have standing. Right. What do you mean by that? Well, essentially that they come forward, that they actually are like the departments, not just a phone call at the end, but they actually have to affirmatively state interest or not.
 And that's sort of one of the concerns in that they actually have standing just like another bureau in some respects. These are the people who've lived and the residents who've lived in the neighborhoods and the community's been participating in what actually happens with this property. That's what it really is, is calling for some sort of process where the neighborhoods can actually participate in whatever happens.
 I'd be interested as you and the North Portland chairs look over the policy more, what else you think we should do because that was our intent is to give standing. As I mentioned to a previous testifier, we can't require volunteers to give us an answer. I understand. Nor can we confer...
 veto power. Oh, I wasn't trying to say veto power. So standing in a legal sense would mean that. So I think if I take Commissioner Fish's point and say it again for the second time today, we've given neighborhoods standing in the process. As Commissioner Fish articulated, that's where this idea came from. They have standing to be involved. They don't have standing to say, no, you may not do this, city zero. I understand.
 And that would be crossing a line. No, I understand that. And Mayor, de facto, they're going to have a kind of standing because the moment an entity of the city determines something is excess, that's going on a website. Right.
 Right, but I'm suggesting that the neighborhoods get involved in the, before the accessing, some notices in the access. Here's properties that are being considered for access. That's a consideration that is before. Coming at the notification at, when we're under the surplus side, there's already some opportunities where for instance, a property may have some other use and the depart, another department may not, we may be able to influence another department on that.
 Let's take the Mayor's suggestion. Let's test drive this and see whether that's a real concern or a theoretical concern because at least with respect to the utilities, we listed all of our proposed excess properties and we got slam from some people who said, what are you going to do with all those properties? And we said, well, actually what we're doing now is letting you know at the earliest possible stage that we're thinking of surplusing them.
 I think the point you're making, we should test drive this for six months or a year, see whether there's been some breach in the role, the important role that neighborhoods are going to play on this, and if necessary, revisit it. Thank you.
 My guess is that you're going to have more notice than you know what to do with. All I'm asking is also that, as I said last time, the Water Bureau's website and so forth, that provides a transparency. What everyone would like is a transparent process as much as possible, and hopefully the finance office will actually use yours as the model of what should be on for every property. Here, I'd like to have this gentleman get an extra five minutes for a second.
 Mr. Mayor. Please let's not cut him short. I think he's onto something. Thank you for complimenting Water Bureau staff. They did the work. That's a record show. Thank you. I'm complimenting the two people in the back of the room here who's done all the work. They've done good work. Thank you. And Brian and Betsy. Thank you so much. They've been very open. Thank you. Good. All right. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If I could have staff come back up. Yeah, could I have staff come back up?
 things to discuss as potential additional amendments. The first was Ms. McCarthy's paragraph about the non-major process and as to whether things could be posted. Could you read the language that she proposed or give us the... She proposed adding a number of
 Details regarding the plan disposition of surplus property in categories one and two that are exempted from the public notification Provisions in section C will be posted on the website at least 90 days prior to their disposal The disposal details shall include at a minimum the dollar value of any disposal Transaction the real property transfer recipient the reason for the property's inclusion in section C
 I think that would be exclusion, and the other pertinent property details as described in Part B.
 Category 2 properties are those that are PHB and PDC properties. Those go through a notice of funding availability or a RFP process. They have very particular ways that they dispose of property. They never actually declare those surplus because they are going to be used for public purposes. So those would be
 wouldn't be posted on our website. For category one properties, what the proposal requires is that they include all the same information in the ordinance that the rest of the properties must have before the council declares them as surplus and that they must be posted at least 15 days prior to the council consideration of the ordinance.
 So it really is the category one properties that I'm concerned about, making sure that we have adequate notice for that. Would there be a problem with requiring a longer period of notice than 15 days? I think having those be posted earlier, that is a minimum time. You know, bureaus are having to prepare those documents for council.
 well in advance of the council hearing. So . What's an example of a category one property that's worth less than $50,000 that we're talking about?
 And Tom Klutz is in the background, so correct me if I'm wrong on this. But I believe there's a property that has gone through that excess determination process by the Bureau and the Commissioner, a 148th Avenue pump station.
 property that was acquired as part of the acquisition. It's surrounded by a retirement community, I believe. It hasn't been in use since the Water Bureau acquired it. The Bureau's determined it's excess to their needs. It isn't a property that we can necessarily put out on the open market. It isn't valued at very much. That's the type of property that they would be bringing forward as a category one.
 So category two doesn't apply because that's... PDC and PHB. Yes, I'm just talking about category one, and I'm wondering if there'd be support for requiring that to be posted to the website, say, 60 days ahead of time coming to council. One thing I'm starting to get hesitant about is creating rules to address problems that haven't come up through the process. And this is not something that we've heard broadly at any stage, and it's...
 We're going to at some point have a single person who's dedicated to maintaining this website. I will support any change that enhances transparency if it actually serves a public interest rather than having another hoop that we jump through. I'm not yet persuaded that this is a problem that needs to be solved, but I perhaps would request we defer on that.
 and take that up after we have a little experience. But there's a lot of laudable things we could do to add further information and transparency. The question is, at what point does the burden of doing that outweigh the utility to the public? And since I think our touchstone is transparency and notice, I'd want to know that this really does make a difference rather than just create another burden for the department in terms of capturing information. That's a good question.
 direction and perhaps we should have a six months check in to see another hearing on this. My second one though is in response to North Portland chairs regarding the posting at the property, which is on page four of the policy. Thank you.
 Section B, it does say that the Bureau shall place an informational sign on the real property in a reasonably visible location. I believe we should add at the end of that paragraph, the sign shall be in languages common to the area as advised by the Office of Neighborhood Involvement.
 Because that gets away, I think there are 10 different languages which are preponderant, but you wouldn't necessarily need to post them in all 10. If we're in the middle of a community that has, for example, a large number of Vietnamese Americans or something, we would bring that. And Commissioner Fritz, since you are the new commissioner in charge of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement,
 May I suggest that in addition to this discreet change, at some point we look at the question of notices citywide, anything that we post, because I'd like this to be consistent with what we do with any notice, and we do lots of notices. This is just one. And we can certainly improve on how we notify, yes. Betsy, are you okay with that amendment? If you can read it aloud, that would be great. The sign shall be in language as common to the area as advised by the Office of Neighborhood Involvement.
 She's nodding, so I will second that. Mayor, can we put that on the table? Yes, please. Sorry. We have an amendment on the language of the notices. It's been moved and seconded. We're just voting to put it on the table. Okay, roll call. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Good catch, thank you. Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, other questions, suggestions, amendments? I move the package. Okay. So the resolution as amended,
 with all the amendments that we have adopted, correct? Discussion? Roll call. Saltzman. Well, I'd like to thank Betsy Ames and Brian Inge and others who helped to craft these policies and these amendments. And thanks to Commissioner Fish also for spearheading this effort as well. I'm pleased that we've clarified that there will be a subscription notification system for interested members of the public.
 And I also believe the amendment language today regarding the consideration of disposition of properties for affordable housing, open space, and community use will allow the council to have the information it needs when it makes these decisions when property is declared surplus. And I appreciate Commissioner Fritz and Fish's amendments, which I believe have tightened and ensure better community notification and multilingual now, too. Aye. Aye.
 Commissioner Fish, thank you for starting this off with your revisions to the Water Bureau and Environmental Services Policy. And thanks to Betsy and Brian for taking up the charge. And then what a great process. What a wonderful amount of input, suggestions from the community that have improved this, suggestions from each one of us up here that have improved it.
 I think this is how public policy should be done, and I really appreciate it, especially with the commitment that we're going to not say it's done and we're never going to look at it again, that we're definitely very aware that public land is public land. It's for public purposes, and we need to be very careful in not tying the hands of future councils but directing a good process for how to make decisions, and that's what this does. So thank you very much. I. Fish? Yes.
 Mayor Hales, I used to carry a grudge that OMF stole Betsy Ames from my office when she was my Chief of Staff. I think if there's any consolation, it's the idea that instead of just being the leader of my office, she's in a position to serve the whole city on things like this. This is a really good piece of work, Betsy, and to you and Brian and the whole team, thank you. And to the Water Bureau team that worked on this, I want to thank them too.
 I think government's the only area of life where we're not allowed to make mistakes and learn from them. I read a biography recently of Steve Jobs, and he credits all the success of Apple with all the copious mistakes they made and the lessons they learned. But government, we're not allowed to make mistakes, and then we get punished for them.
 And I actually think that mistakes or errors, whether they're big or small, are the critical – the question isn't whether we're going to make mistakes. We're human. We're going to err. The question is, do we learn from them? And then do we have the humility to go to the community and get it right? Two things I've learned from this process. One is that we always do our best work when there's full sunshine. And that's what this is today. This is about putting more sunshine on the people's business. And every time we do it,
 serve the public interest better and we we strengthen public trust which is actually something we all care about and the second as Commissioner Fritz Said is most of our best work is done in partnership with the community It is not you and us or us and them it's we and when we fully engage the community we get good work like this And I want to specially thank the folks at the Multnomah neighborhood association for a lot of time and energy over the last couple years
 pitching constructive and creative ideas which Betsy has borrowed and enhanced and fine-tuned and added to this larger omnibus package. And she's taken one bureau's set of ideas, improved them, and then applied them citywide, which is, I think, a model of what we should be doing in this city. So thank you. I'm very proud to vote aye.
 Great work. Again, measure twice, cut once, but don't measure indefinitely. We should try this and make sure that it works. I think it will because it has been collaborative and thoughtful. There are limits to how much we by policy and ordinance and resolution can create clockwork
 that makes decisions. We still have to make decisions. Commissioners in charge still have to make decisions. They still have to exercise judgment. In fact, the charter has a provision in there that says the commissioner in charge is responsible for the property and the operations of the Bureau unless otherwise directed by the council. And we cannot make the five of us into marionettes.
 we still have to exercise discretion and judgment. But I think this lays down a base of expectations and process that will make sure everybody knows what's going on and that judgment will be exercised with the input of the community and with the bureaus actually talking to each other.
 That's a base expectation that I think everyone ought to be able to rely on, that the bureaus talk to each other and that we hear from the community. I'm being a little flippant here, but I'm saying I think this is good to have this procedure in place, but you're still going to have to have five of us who are heads up saying, wait a minute, couldn't the Parks Bureau use that?
 and asking the neighborhood, hey, wouldn't it be a good idea if, or hearing from the neighborhood who makes a suggestion about that. So I think we're there. I think this is going to work. Let's find out. Tune in if it doesn't. And I appreciate everyone's good work from the community and from the city. All right.
 I just wanted to take one moment to say that it wasn't my policy. It was really the full Portland Property Management Committee involving all of your bureaus participating in this. So I just wanted to highlight that, and we will be using the Water Bureau's website as the initial template for the citywide web page. Great. Thank you both. Okay, one more item this afternoon, which is 751.
 Authorize sewer revenue bonds to refund outstanding sewer revenue bonds. Mr. Beery. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, commissioners, Jonas Beery, the city's debt manager. This ordinance authorizes refunding of outstanding sewer revenue bonds to reduce annual debt service costs.
 There are currently around $425 million in potentially refundable bonds. If current interest rates hold, we're able to include all the anticipated refundable bonds. We expect to reduce debt service costs by approximately $30 million. The bulk of the savings will be achieved in fiscal years 2021, 1-22, and 22-23, which are the peak years of annual debt service for the sewer program.
 This refunding may also provide the city an opportunity to modify certain bond covenants to be more favorable to the city. In order to do that, we need to get appropriate consents to those changes from bond holders and insurers. We're working on that as part of the process. Examples of those changes include more flexible debt service requirements and language updates that better accommodate recent accounting changes. I want to flag that if we receive the consents as expected,
 We will need to return to council to formally implement those changes in the master bond declaration. So expect that to come forth later this fall after we close the bonds. We expect to sell the bonds via competitive sale and a bidding process in August 2015. It's awfully lonely in here for a request to save $30 million, but I'd be happy to answer any questions. Good news rarely has a big audience.
 and the off chance that no one up here today is here in 2022 to celebrate the good news. I believe you told me in my briefing that this will have an impact on our five-year forecast for the utilities, for example, because with the anticipated savings down the road, we'll be able to, ahead of the curve, start thinking about whether those savings should go into capital spending, rate reduction, or some combination. Is that true? No.
 Correct. That's accurate. The first year of savings is the first year right now that's just outside the five-year forecast. So as the next iterations of forecast discussions go on, this will start to be part of that option discussion. Even if none of us are here to pop the champagne cork in 2022, it will be a conversation we'll be having as we look at our five-year forecast and look at rates generally because –
 we'll be able to make some predictions or some planning about whether, again, those dollars go into capital rate reduction or something else that the council thinks is important. That's correct, Commissioner. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it is an emergency ordinance. Roll call. Seltzman. Thank you, Jonas. This is indeed something worth celebrating, saving money. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Thank you for sitting through not only this long morning, but the previous one where you didn't even get to your item. That must set some kind of old-time record for a staff person patiently waiting to save $24 million for the citizens of Portland. So thank you very much for all of your work and for yet again saving us more money. Aye. Thank you. Fish. Nicely done, and thanks for the briefings and your work on this. Aye. Hales. Hales.
 This city is well managed financially and this is just one more indication of that and it relies a lot on our professional staff. So, Jonas, thank you for the work you do and again the fact that this is unspectacular in terms of the noise level doesn't mean that it's not spectacular in terms of the outcome. Thank you very much. Aye. Thank you. We're recessed until 2 p.m.
 Good afternoon everyone. Welcome to the afternoon meeting for July 8th, 2015 with the Florida City Council. Would you please call the roll? Seltzman? Here. Novick? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome everyone. We have a time certain item that we're going to take up now, which is item 752.
 adopt the citywide racial equity goals and strategies as Presented by the office of equity and human rights to guide city policies plans and procedures Welcome everyone want to call on our director Dante James and his staff to come present this item and get this discussion Started good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you. Mr. Mayor council. Hope you're enjoying the sunshine in the warm weather I am
 I'm really pleased today to be here with my staff and community members to present to you a set of racial equity goals for the city of Portland. I'm asking for the adoption of these goals specifically as city policy to be used as a guidepost and policy driver for city leadership and city employees. These goals can and should be used as the point of focus to create action items and metrics, as well as a means of accountability toward equity in this city.
 These goals are designed to encompass the overall work of the City of Portland, from hiring to service delivery. We must be vigilant to ensure that institutional racism or just a lack of cultural consciousness is not behind the decisions that we make. The people who we hire, the people we promote, the sewer pipes we repair, the neighborhoods we change our street lights, or the people we stop and frisk. These will coincide with each of the Bureau's work on their equity roadmap, the Bureau's strategic equity plans.
 These can be used with the budget tool. These can be used in conjunction with PIAC and community outreach and engagement. These can be used with the new commission on social equity and contracting. These can be used across bureaus. Where'd I go? Sorry. So going to the goals, what in fact are they? Equity goal number one, we will end racial disparities within city government so there is fairness in hiring and promotions, greater opportunities in contracting, and equitable services to all residents.
 Goal number two, we will strengthen outreach, public engagement, and access to city services for communities of color and immigrant and refugee communities and support or change existing services using racial equity best practices. Equity goal number three,
 We will collaborate with communities and institutions to eliminate racial inequity in all areas of government, including education, criminal justice, environmental justice, health, housing, transportation, and economic success. And those are the three goals, short and sweet, which encompass a lot. And we're asking that you
 really take these into consideration in how you can use them for your bureau leadership. And so my presentation today is not to sit here and reexamine all the reasons why the Office of Equity exists. The statistics and the community's engagement that brought this office to fruition. And the disparities, the huge disparities that exist across communities of color.
 This effort is focused on creating some very specific guideposts within which the city can work as a concrete goal toward achieving equity for all residents. And as we, well, and Portland is a regional and it's a national leader in doing this work.
 unbeknownst to many, many people, and interestingly enough, Portland is absolutely a regional and national leader in doing this work. From Tacoma, Washington, to Oakland, California, Fairfax County, Virginia, Madison, Wisconsin, Fort Wayne, Indiana, these cities and their leadership are watching what we do and they are absolutely emulating our work. And I can specifically tell you that Tacoma, Washington has an office that it created in December that is modeled on the Office of Equity and Human Rights in the City of Portland.
 I've been up there, their staff has been down here, and they are doing this work very similar to how we're doing it. I spent lots of time on the phone and actually in meeting with a city councilwoman from the City of Oakland, which just passed just three weeks ago, creation of an Office of Equity in the City of Oakland. And I turned her job offer down, just so you know. Good. So we are absolutely a leader in doing this work. Absolutely.
 by implementing these goals, we can continue to be a leader in this work. And so before delving even deeper into the strategies and these goals, there's a video I want to show. And the following video presents the faces and voices of those who are impacted by equity and inequity, and the faces and voices of those who believe that equity does in fact matter. I experience racism every day. I'm not hyper-aware by any sense, but I do experience it.
 and it's painful and you keep wondering why it always keeps happening. I recognize how tiring it is for people of color to be having to make the same arguments that have
 should have been clear for centuries. The city obviously has a horrible history of blatant and implicit discrimination. We have redlining, we had the destruction of neighborhoods. We certainly are a society where there have been historical injustices.
 and we need to recognize that that has posed an obstacle towards minorities. It'll take courage for city government to really put themselves in the footsteps of struggling families and that courage to acknowledge that that is a reality that exists every day in our city and that we need to do something. That's what racial equity is. So we're coming to city council with three overall citywide racial equity goals.
 And along with those are several strategies to be able to implement and achieve these goals. So what it really does is provides a guidepost for city employees, city leadership to follow to achieve these racial equity goals.
 Well, I think it's a phenomenal opportunity for further partnering in accountability. You know, it is really the job of the community to hold us accountable, among other things. So I think that when we have stated goals that we've adopted and we say, here's where we're going and here's how we're going to get there, which is why I think it's also important that the strategies are included. So I believe the first step is to recognize, to understand, and to be willing.
 to support the places where the least amount of resourcing and opportunity has been granted. I do believe you raise all the ships when you raise those that are on the bottom. I think the second piece is to acknowledge the racial history and the disparities that have occurred
 And racial equity means understanding both that diversity today and the institutional racism and historical wrongs that underlie that diversity, even now, even this week, this month, this year, even here in Portland.
 honest, persistent and courageous conversations and action. It takes the long-term view, because we're not going to solve this problem overnight, we're not going to solve hundreds of years of history overnight. But ultimately it means people of goodwill, of loving heart,
 of clear purpose coming together to tackle the most persistent problem in America and saying that we will not be satisfied until we make progress we really want to institutionalize the concept of equity in the use of an equity lens and use of equity tools and so having the city bless these and institutionalize these goals
 does just that. It allows them to exist no matter who's sitting in any particular seat. They're not giving us a favor. We've earned this. We've earned this seat at the table. So we need to understand that, coming in and respecting each other for what we've done. We all need to play our part and it's going to be uncomfortable for everybody. And we need to be with that uncomfortableness and
 recognize that that's part of the penalty we pay for a system that is unjust. I believe we could do it. I believe that the City Council needs to set a standard that is higher than the one that we've historically experienced. And I might be an outlier by saying that, but that's a familiar position for social justice people.
 We need an office of equity more than ever, and I'm extremely proud that this city has taken the lead in establishing an office of equity, and I'm proud of the work that that office is doing, embedding equity into everything we do as a community. That's what we really are going for here, is an investment in the promise and potential of everyone in our community.
 Equity is becoming part of that DNA of who we are as a city, how we operate, and that's of course where we want to be. We want equity not to be a veneer or an afterthought. We want it to be who we are and how we roll. These goals may be specifically couched in terms of racial equity, but achieving these goals will help everyone and provide greater benefits.
 for everyone as they receive the services of the city. Because racial equity has an impact to everybody. When one community thrives, everybody else thrives. Nicely done. Well, many thanks to Jeff Selby for his hard, hard work in putting this together. Jeff, where are you, Jeff? He's probably somewhere taking pictures. And to all the staff. Oh, there he is. He's back there. There he is. And to certainly all of my staff because
 Equity does matter and it's a 24-7 matter to me and my staff. So many many thanks to them and thanks to you for participating in that project. I think it it says a lot. Your participation speaks volumes and that's that's important as well. So in your packet is some information. You have a copy of the goals, you have a copy of also what is attached to them in terms of overall racial equity strategies. And so I
 These are the methodologies to achieve these goals, and so Judith Mowery is going to provide some background on these, where they came from, how they can be best utilized. So Judith? Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. The strategies we have brought to you today were developed in partnership with jurisdictions from around the country who are collectively identifying best practices to achieving racial equity.
 The Government Alliance on Race and Equity is a national network of government working to achieve racial equity and advance opportunities for all. The Alliance cohort of jurisdictions have representatives from 12 jurisdictions in eight states. Developing a network of government focusing on racial equity is critically important to getting to different outcomes in our communities. The goal must be beyond closing the gaps. We must lift up our overall outcomes, focusing efforts
 those who are faring worse. Deeply racialized systems are costly and depress outcomes and life chances for us collectively. To advance equity, government must focus not only on individual programs but also on policy and institutional strategies that are driving the production of inequities.
 OEHR's racial equity work is guided by these strategies in all of the approaches we employ, whether it is through the work of the citywide equity committee or our civil rights program which institutionalized scientifically designed practice into current operational systems and policy to deliver equitable outcomes. Adoption of these strategies further strengthens the work of achieving racial equity at all levels of government operations.
 And we are members of the alliance and we participated in creating the strategies. So we're very excited to be a part of some of the really most creative minds in the country that have been working on this issue. Before we move into speakers, I just want to see if there's any questions before we move into some invited speakers that we have.
 Under number 4, it says be data driven, measurement must take place at two levels, measure the success of specific programmatic and policy changes, and second, to develop baseline set goals and measure progress. Do you have a plan for how to do that? What kinds of measurables we're looking at? The Bureau's roadmap is the first line of doing this work. Each Bureau is going to be—
 creating its own metrics based upon the categories within that they're assessing within their bureaus. And creating a five year plan for achieving, for moving the needle from where they are to where they want to be. So that's the design of the road map actually. And I understand that a few bureaus have already started, piloted that process. Which bureaus were involved in the pilot? The pilot, BHR.
 Human resources. I'm sorry. Human resources, housing, we did, we were, who else was it? Yes. Police bureau, planning, and then there was one more. And are those roadmaps available? Do we have a sense of lessons learned? Well they haven't completed the entire roadmap. Each of them did a particular section so we could get feedback on the sections and then provide for any changes that made sense and so.
 Each one now is in the first wave. They're all now working on their actual roadmap. So then when we look at the rest of our bureaus, will we get some kind of input or advice from the Office of Equity and Human Rights in terms of lessons learned from those bureaus, what worked, what didn't?
 I'm finding it, yes, it's very different in parks versus development services, and there are some similarities, for instance, hiring practices, outreach techniques, those kinds of things where we don't necessarily need every bureau to reinvent the wheel.
 We need them all to have a different wheel, but we don't know what needs to, we could learn from each other. Sure. And so the plan is that as we receive these roadmaps, we, my staff, will evaluate, and they're going to be offering feedback and working with technical assistance, if you will, throughout their work on the roadmap.
 And then as we receive their finalized roadmaps, then we'll evaluate, offer feedback, send it back and say, take a look at adjusting this or make this more robust. So that's kind of the plan for the process. So are the other bureaus going to wait until you've got that analysis done for us?
 It's not done for council. It'll be done per, there's like five, maybe I'm misunderstanding the question. I meant for us, the bureaus. I consider myself part of the bureau team looking at how do we create more equity. It would be helpful for me in development services and in parks and shortly in neighborhood involvement to know,
 From the bureaus that have already gone through it what worked what didn't before we dive into figuring out How are we going to do things that for our bureaus and Commissioner? We're launching this in waves so we have five to six bureaus in a wave and
 three months apart or at least two months apart so that we have the capacity to do the technical assistance to bring everybody up to board. Those teams meet together regularly to confer on what's working and what kind of barriers are people finding and what's important. Two bureaus have submitted their plans, the first two bureaus, and we are in the process of beginning to evaluate the plans. Then we'll be having conversations with the
 what seems strong, as Dante said, and working with the goals and strategies to make sure that those things are also guiding how the plans look. So that will be coming and then the hope is that folks who have completed theirs will through the citywide equity committee stay engaged with the newer bureaus coming through so that they can act as mentors and guides.
 and we see the CEC members as a critical part of making sure that this moves through the Bureau in the best way and that we're not recreating the wheel, so we're working on that communication. I certainly appreciate the urgency, as was pointed out. We on the Council, as was also evident in the videos, consider ourselves part of our Bureau's teams and definitely want to give top-down leadership as well as things working through the grassroots and the frontline staff. So...
 as quickly as you could get us some preliminary observations from the first cohort, lessons learned. That would be really helpful to me as I work with my directors to figure out what's the next steps in our bureaus. Great, absolutely we will do that. And after the pilot piece of the presentation, the program,
 We did invite bureaus, all bureaus and the representatives who are working on, who will be working on their plans to come and hear the feedback from those who had gone through the pilot. So there was an opportunity for that feedback loop for folks who haven't yet gone through it. Yeah, I just encourage you to include the council in those loops because we're all really invested. My final question is about disability and I'm wondering did Tacoma and Oakland include disability as a secondary focus like ours? They did not.
 Just to clarify for everybody watching at home, the reason that we're focusing on race is that we have some, we've already started the work on disability. Yeah. Do you want to talk a little about that? Sure. I think as I have described it, there is an infrastructure in place around addressing issues of disability that is not in place around addressing issues of race.
 There is a Portland Commission on Disability that exists to focus on issues of engagement and interaction and hiring that does not exist for communities of color. There is the transition plan out of Title II to improve and ensure that there is accessibility in compliance with the law.
 There is no assurance of accessibility, social accessibility in terms of people of color. There is the city is now a model employer of people with disability. No such thing exists specifically for communities of color. So there is an infrastructure in place that exists that we hope that this will provide some sense of balance in the same way.
 Can I add that we're working closely with the Commission on Disability as well to talk about, I mean, I think our office is about transforming government so it's accessible and works for everyone. And so there are a lot of pieces that we may find helpful that we then integrate through a disability lens as well. We're excited about that work. Yeah, and that's obviously what we're finding in the Department of Justice work, that it's where race and disability intersect, that we have some of the worst outcomes. So I really appreciate your focus bringing this piece
 piece to us with such detail and then also recognizing that there's intersections and parallel work that's also being done. Thank you. MR. Thank you very much, very much. MR. Can I follow up on that conversation for a second? So we're about to hire a number of new bureau directors. Dan's doing a search for a housing bureau. I'm on the finish line of a search for a new water bureau director. We just hired a new BES director.
 One of the ways that we communicate clear expectations to the people that report to us is through the letters of expectation, which we do annually. And I'd sort of like to in my case, I've got two directors who are going to roughly at the same time get letters of expectation that set uniform standards.
 What would be helpful to me is if we develop some model language that you'd like to see in all such letters that sets the floor. So what is the expectation and then clearly based on the road map and the consultations and because each bureau is a little different, we can zero in on what we want someone to focus on over the next year or two.
 and set the benchmarks. But I could use some help. And we can either draft something and send it to you for comment, or if you had a sample paragraph which you think generically embraces the values of what you're presenting today, I would welcome that too. Because I think it's time to start embedding that in all letters of expectation. MR. Thank you. And I appreciate the chance to engage in that. Either way would, I think, be beneficial. But just brainstorming the best way to do that, we are happy to do.
 I think as I mentioned before I have yet to receive one of those so I'm not sure that they are done as uniformly as you might think and so how we can embed just the entire process of ensuring that Bureau directors receive those in the first place I think is another piece of the pie
 And Commissioner, thank you also for that because I think then we can tie that to reviews, which is one of the things that is a best practice is to set some goals around equity work for leadership, both at the director level, management level. So that's one of the things we're hoping to move toward, and the roadmap actually addresses some of the leadership pieces. So we could probably send something to start the conversation. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Thank you. So comment and then a question. These are really concise and clear, these goals, and I guess I want to make sure we
 that we mean it and that gets to the question which is about whether this is binding or nonbinding policy. But when I read equity goal number one, for example, it says we will end racial disparities within city government so there's fairness in hiring and promotions, et cetera. So if you look at the situation today of the fire bureau and the police bureau,
 where we've made modest progress in making a workforce reflect its community.
 That means, and I think it's a plain reading of that goal, that we are not saying we will try to end racial disparities or we will work towards ending racial disparities, but we will end racial disparities in those bureaus. That is, we will have a police bureau and a fire bureau that is reflective of the diversity of the community it serves. Yes. So that's a big deal, I mean, if it's binding. Okay.
 So, if it's just an intention or a hope, then the fact that it's not binding wouldn't make
 maybe matter as much, it also wouldn't have as much impact. Right. So therefore, there was some question about in the drafting of this whether it was binding or non-binding as policy. Help us out, explain that. I'm inclined to say we should make this binding. Thank you. But help us out in understanding and maybe others will want to comment on this when they speak about what the difference would be in effect.
 Thank you. And it was, I guess, our misstep in how we presented the resolution when we submitted the documentation.
 According to I guess code as I've later learned there's a requirement that the language be very specific and Specifically state that this will be binding city policy as well as checking a particular box on the documentation It says binding city policy that was not done when the resolution was presented a week or so ago and so if it is not then it's it's merely feel-good
 as opposed to something that is very concrete and binding that our stakeholders, the community, could then come back and hold the city accountable for. And so that's really what the expectation is, and my hope is that in the adoption of this, that the council will adopt it as binding city policy.
 Do you like an amendment to that effect? I would love an amendment to that effect. I move that at the end of the now, but therefore be it resolved, that the citywide racial equity goals and strategies attached as Exhibit A are adopted by City Council as binding city policy. I'll second that. No, any further discussion on putting that amendment into the draft and soliciting comment about that from folks that speak? So roll call on accepting that amendment. Zaltzman? Aye. Okay.
 Fritz. I appreciate that you had exactly the same thought that I did. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you. Thank you very much. So any further questions or anything? Questions, comments at this point? Thank you. So as you've seen the video, again, a phenomenal video, which represents the community, represents our stakeholders, represents you, represents the employees of the city.
 Those who we provide our city services to, they support this work. And also in your packet is a letter of support from our bureau advisory committee as well. And I want to say this, and I think the segue was the binding city policy. This isn't symbolic and shouldn't be received or perceived as symbolic. Symbolism is important. I mean there's a reason that the confederate flag needs to come down, because it's a symbol of something.
 There's a reason why offensive native logos need to come down, because they are a symbol of something. And they make a difference, because the community perceives and feels what that symbol represents. And so I would suggest to you that the video, I mean it looks good, it's cute, equity matters, everybody's smiling and it looks great. But we can't let it just be a symbol. We have to ensure that we mean what we say.
 And it just doesn't go off into the annals of city policy in a book somewhere. But we mean what we say, because the community needs to know that we mean what we say. And feel that something is happening differently because of what we say. And so it's not just a symbol. And so in that regard, I wanted to invite up just a few specific speakers today.
 From the ranks of community members and city employees who are doing equity work. Who can speak to the benefits of further institutionalizing this work. So, Nikenge Harmon Johnson is here. Please come on up. Is Patricia here? Patricia Rojas I think got stuck because of United's plane problem. So I was going to call up Sharon Gary Smith then, who looks surprised but she's not really surprised. And Art Hendricks and Eric Nomura.
 You can slide up another chair there. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Dante, thank you for inviting me to speak today. Commissioners, my name is Nkingge Harmon-Johnson. I am the new President and CEO of the Urban League of Portland. I've had the pleasure of meeting several of you before, and I imagine that we'll be working together closely in the months and years to come.
 In years past, it's likely that Midge Purcell, our Director of Advocacy and Community Engagement, would have been here to speak today to lend the Urban League support to these important goals and strategies. As you are aware, about a month ago, thanks to Commissioner Novick and the other commissioners,
 gracious enough to celebrate Midge Purcell and all the work she has done for the Urban League, but as well as our city before she had ventured off to London for the next stage of her life. I want to thank you again for doing that. It was a very special occasion for all of us. I'm here today to voice support for the citywide racial equity goals and strategies released by the Office of Equity and Human Rights under the leadership of Dante James. I will also offer some concrete ways we believe the office and the city can move forward with this work.
 Much has happened over the past few years to advance equity and racial equity in Portland. Members of the Council may be aware that the Urban League of Portland advocated for the Office of Equity and Human Rights to be created. It was an important priority for us and for other community-based organizations. And I think based on what we've heard today from Dante and seeing of the work of his staff, it was clearly something important for our city.
 Also, through the release of the Racial Equity Strategy Guide in 2012, the Urban League has worked dutifully to get down to the nuts and bolts of what equity means day to day on an operational basis. It's nice to talk about pie in the sky and things that we wish could happen, but if we don't have the operational details and a real framework in place, then all we'll ever do is talk about what our wishes and hopes and dreams are and not the change that can actually occur.
 It's vital that we put those tools in place and that we have the mechanisms necessary for on the ground change throughout city government. Paramount to our collective work and to the individual efforts of bureaus is uniting around a common vision of how to remove the systemic barriers that lead to inequitable services and operations in Portland.
 Listen, I'm a kid who grew up in this town, so I know a little something about when Dante talks about how we choose which, you know, sewers we repair, which sidewalks we develop, which parks receive attention. It matters. The Racial Equity Strategy Guide was created by the Urban League of Portland through a partnership of community advocates and city staff. We are pleased to see many of the same visions from the guide reflected in the approach chosen by the Office of Equity and Human Rights Council.
 The strategy proposed will help to organize efforts and guarantee progress is made in our city government. I want to stress that all three goals and all six strategies are needed to ensure a comprehensive approach,
 With a racial equity framework, bureaus have the opportunity to build on best practices, create capacity for long-term institutional change. And I don't have to tell you how important that is because no matter who is sitting in your seats or in the seat here or in Dante James' seat, this work will still matter and should not be subject to the winds of politics.
 Those professionals whom you employ to lead the equity work need the tools to inform their priorities, the data to evaluate their work, and the community partnerships to hold the city accountable. Moreover, equity leaders need metrics in order to best engage other leaders throughout the bureaus. As leaders that are focused on the bottom line, I know you'll understand when I say we measure what we treasure. If we don't count it, it doesn't count. Squishy goals quickly become obscured wish lists, and that mustn't be allowed to happen. Not in our city.
 The Urban League wants to see leadership embrace all three equity goals with capacity and a message that tells city employees and the Portland community. We believe that fairness in all areas of government from education to criminal justice to health, housing, jobs, economic development across the board is key for more proper prosperous Portland. We're all anxious to see these strategies applied. I imagine you'll hear something similar from the folks sitting to my left and to my right
 The Urban League and AFSCME have helped to lead the Workforce Equity Coalition in partnership with a number of community advocates over the last year. I imagine that you'll be hearing more about this Workforce Equity Coalition in the months to come. But suffice it to say that we've organized a set of recommendations around workforce equity that include using an equity framework to inform recruitment, hiring, retention, and data collection practices in all city and county jobs.
 As we seek to pass a resolution that incorporates these recommendations, we encourage you to use this opportunity to collaborate with communities and institutions to take a comprehensive approach to workforce equity. Finally, the Urban League of Portland released the 2015 State of Black Organ in May of this year. Mayor Hales was kind enough to join us for the launch event. We were reminded through the stories, data, and analysis of this report that we do not all share
 in the Portland we hear about in lifestyle magazines and in media around the country. This report, however, stated our vision for the reality we wish to see for all of Oregon and for all Portland families. We challenged our city and state partners to accept the work it will take to reach that reality. The day-to-day work is hard and will require coordinated approaches, approaches such as those proposed by Mr. James and his staff.
 We ask the city's leadership to embrace the tools and strategies offered by, offered both from the community and the Office of Equity and Human Rights and help shepherd a more, help shepherd us toward a more equitable Portland. The only criticism that I will share regarding these goals and strategies is frankly to ask why haven't we done it before now?
 I grew up in a Portland that felt more diverse and inclusive than it does today. Even though we know that there are more people of color in this city than there were 20 years ago, our elected and appointed leadership simply does not reflect that reality. So I encourage you to do what it takes to make the change necessary to live in the kind of Portland that we all believe in. The reasons, make it live up to the reasons that we all call it home.
 Thank you very much for your time. If you have any questions for me, I'd be happy to entertain them if that's appropriate. Thank you, Nkenke. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you very much. Welcome. Who's next? I'm actually working. Mayor, members of council, my name is Art Hendricks. I'm the equity inclusion manager with Portland Parks and Recreation. And I want to give a quote, a quote I believe was from Seneca. And Mayor, I think you'll appreciate this. It says that you must know which harbor you are headed if you were to catch the right wind to take you there.
 And I believe that these goals provide the harbor and the focus in terms of where we need to go as a city. And particularly our efforts in Portland Parks and Recreation, I believe, mirror the goals that have been developed and identified by the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 There's another proverb, it's one of my favorites, an African proverb that says, if you don't know what road you're on, any road will do. And I have found that in my experience in the past, far too often diversity and equity efforts have been whatever road we're on, let's just go with that. And I think that as we become more diligent and more serious as a city, these goals and strategies will help me work
 more effectively within my own bureau, but more importantly to begin to start working on the challenge across the city with my partners and other bureaus as well.
 To know that we will have a similar framework and a similar focus. I think we will be able to achieve some of the goals outlined, particularly around the workforce hiring. The challenges for us in parks are not just park specific challenges. I think they are challenges when I talk to my counterparts in planning in BDS around how do we find suitable talent that can be in our planning divisions for instance.
 So I think as we move forward, we can't have just individual bureaus doing individual efforts. We have to also figure out how collectively we can leverage each other's work to be more impactful.
 So I want to applaud Dante James and his staff for this work. I also want to applaud the video and will say that I think it will serve as an excellent tool for us in terms of onboarding for employees with a very clear message and certainly the support of council and your voices in terms of
 This binding resolution I think will make my job much easier that it's not just Art Hendricks' preference in terms of why we're doing what we're doing, but that my role really is to carry out the will of council and the city. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Forgive me, but this is the first time I've ever addressed city council.
 Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Saltzman, and Mayor Hales, thank you for your attention and efforts today in addressing the adoption of citywide equity goals and strategies presented by the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I'm Eric Nomura. I'm a complaint investigator with the Independent Police Review Division for the City of Portland Auditor's Office. I speak before you today with the full support of my director, Constantine Sevier, and my elected leader auditor, Mary Hull Caballero.
 I'm a member of the Auditor's Bureau Equity Committee and represent my office at the Citywide Equity Committee. I've also recently been added to the steering committee for the Equity Committee, so I'm a part of a lot of committees lately. I moved here from 1991 from Hawaii because I fell in love with this place and I found it quite easy going and the people here are very generous and kind.
 I'm a product of Portland Community College and Portland State University. I've worked in state government for 17 years and the city of Portland. I've been here in the city of Portland since 2013. During my years with the state, I worked in divisions that were closely tied to the welfare of people from underrepresented and vulnerable populations. But yet for the last 11 years working there,
 which I spent commuting to Salem. I can't recall the topic of equity being emphasized in any form or made part of my duties. The City of Portland should accept praise for the willing attention and priority of efforts to address perhaps the most difficult task facing government institutions at this time today.
 The goals and strategies presented today represents a crucial step in transforming the role government has in ensuring the people of the City of Portland, employees and serves, receive equitable treatment and services. This is not an easy topic of conversation, nor should it be. There are some who look at this movement as hope for equality for all humans and embrace the challenges ahead, willing to make sacrifices to achieve those goals.
 I experience this energy often through my interactions with the City Equity Committee and my borough's Equity Committee members. I also experience the reluctance to engage in equity-related conversations. As humans, generally we have a hard time thinking of ourselves in a negative way, and when attempting to engage in racial equity conversations, that particular element surfaces.
 There appears to be this notion that one cannot engage in equity practices without accepting some sense of fault for the current standard of operations. There's a common association between admitting failure and feeling guilt, and that can lead to more heated emotions. And as we observe daily from media and social media sources, emotions can sidetrack the ability to achieve your goals.
 I am grateful that as a collective, we are working together on this important, enormous challenge and are modeling the appropriate manner in which to address the uncomfortable and interfering feelings that the subjects of racism and disparity cause. The three goals presented today are crafted after best practices observed across the nation conducted by those who dedicate their life's work to eliminating inequalities in their communities and institutions.
 Each goal has measurable outcomes to ensure our practices moving forward can demonstrate progress. The six strategies presented today define the shift in perspectives the City of Portland needs to make eliminating inequitable laws, policies, and practices successful. I feel it necessary to emphasize the strategies go beyond the written words before you. Through my history of employment, somewhere along the lines, I accepted defining myself as someone who just works for the government.
 Gratefully, I have had family, friends, and mentors in my life who refuse to stop reminding me of what I am, and that is a civil servant. That simple term defines more about what I am responsible for and my duty to the people of the state of Oregon and to this republic. I took the oath to serve all, and such a distinction should be on all our minds today.
 Adopting these goals and strategies helps to set the stage for a larger transformation. We, as civil servants, have a duty to ensure the Constitution of the United States and associated laws that govern the state of Oregon and the city of Portland are upheld. Although this is implied at times, I believe there is a clear need for all government employees to understand we are servants to the public no matter what our job description says.
 Empower all of us to face the challenges ahead by adopting these goals and strategies. Give every employee, including yourselves, unobstructed access to the tools necessary to dismantle the barriers of institutionalized policies and practices that feed this inequity. Finally, I would like to conclude with an opinion, although most of what I said is kind of an opinion in the first place. I mentioned earlier about the feelings that get in the way of progress.
 There are negative connotations associated with this term that we use, accountability. Motivating people to engage in difficult self-reflection and institutional analysis is made more difficult when looming in the back of their minds, thoughts, there are concerns or fears of discipline or punishment. I asked this council in taking on this endeavor
 where we're all unlikely to be here when we can say mission accomplished, to emphasize acceptance, compassion, and patience for all. So thank you for my moment to address this council, and I'm sincerely grateful, and I'd just like to say PTFC, RCTID, onward Rose City. Thank you. Were you there on Sunday?
 That was great. Slide that whole box down towards Sharon. Oh, the block moves? Now that is equity. Wow. Hey. I'm Sharon Gary Smith and I'm the executive director of MRG Foundation, formerly known as McKenzie River Gathering Foundation. It's Oregon's leading social justice funder. And to be here in this moment, though I've been here before,
 is actually a moment for a pause to really reflect on this moment having come. There is so much work ahead of us and as it's been outlined so not only courageously but specifically by the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I want to praise them for what it took to get to this moment. I certainly want to praise you also, Mayor and Commissioners, for having the audacity
 Given the times we're in and the struggles we continue to see, even those captured on cell phones, to recognize not just the importance of equity and a sense of belonging for all of us, particularly people of color, in this city of roses, but that it flies in the face of the assumption that equity is not going to benefit all of us.
 that when we, when our lives matter, when our communities are addressed as communities, when the work of working for and representing all of the citizens begins to be the work that is charged, informed, and led by our elected representatives.
 That will be a powerful statement that Portland not only has history, Oregon has history, but it is creating new history, new equity, new opportunity, and a new sense of belonging. I cannot in any way minimize the importance of feeling that you belong when decisions are made, when allocations are granted, when decisions about where the money goes,
 who the money goes to, whose neighborhoods can be whole and safe and not just when they're gentrified. When we began to plan for a future that includes all of our futures, as been so carefully and very eloquently expressed by my colleagues, that is a day that three years ago I might not have been able to imagine could actually happen. I've always had hope
 The audacity of hope, as our president says. But to be audacious about hope in the face of constant disappointments about who gets hired, who gets trained, who gets retained, who's able to take advantage of the services.
 I want to mark this moment today as a pivotal moment in moving our city forward, in moving and representing and leading in equity as we do in Portland and so many other areas. I want us to be the bike capital. I want us to be the commuter capital. I want us to be the dog-friendly capital where people who do or don't have dogs but have a sense of
 belonging, owning and feeling a critical participant in this city's mission and its work can stand proudly and say I am a Portlander, I am an Oregonian, I matter, I'm visible, I'm represented, I'm employed, I use services, I have access, I matter and particularly a child like me many years ago
 who was raised in Portland, who was advantaged by public school education, who lived in wonderful neighborhoods, but was black and thought to be less than. I would like to be able to express the joy and the satisfaction of being a part of the diversity of this community that builds and makes it what it is. I can't appreciate Dante James and his staff enough for taking the constant steps of helping us fall forward
 move forward on equity and I thank every one of you for whatever it took to come to today to amend non-binding to binding and to begin to set a tone the work ahead is hard the work ahead will be questioned there are people who don't get it there will be people who resist but if your leadership is more than this moment and I believe it is
 then you will set a tone and we can figure out all the details about how to move us in a way that's challenging and opportunistic. I'm going to hold out hope and I'm going to spread the joy of this moment.
 of seeing what can happen in a city that says it works 24-7. On equity, I would expect the same. So I want to thank you. I don't want to challenge you or chastise you today. Although as a voting member of the public, that's my right. I want to appreciate you for doing what you're elected to do, to lead and serve all of us. I look forward to the evidence, the benchmarks, and the outcomes.
 of this endeavor. And I thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Erin. I'm glad you were here. Thank you all. Any questions for this panel? The record will reflect that it was Shota Zono who began the cheering from the third row in the back. Thank you. Thank you all. Dante, do you have others you have arranged to have testify? I just want to thank very, very much those who came to offer remarks.
 If I may, maybe it's unusual, before you conduct your vote, I would like to ask my staff to all come up here so they can be a part of this vote. We have to take other testimony first, though. Oh, there's more testimony. It might take. Then I'll be back. Thank you. Do we have others signed up to speak? Yes, we have two people, Charles Johnson and Shaubree Vickers. Okay, come on up. That should be ... Go ahead, Mr. . I defer to let the Human Rights Commissioner go first.
 Good afternoon. My name is Shabrie Vickers and I am here today as the chair of the Human Rights Commission. I come here representing the entire commission and want to quickly and concisely express our absolute support of the OEHR's equity goals and strategies and I urge you as city leaders to take these goals seriously.
 Recognize that the outcome is bright, not only if we achieve these goals, but as we move towards a deeper understanding of ourselves and others in our community, one where a socially just reality is the norm. Please feel okay with asking the hard questions in your daily tasks where you suspect racial inequity exists.
 The cognitive dissonance that we all experience as privileged members of this great city should fuel us on these goals in the next iteration and the next. Lastly, remember that organizations move in the direction of the questions that it asks. And so I urge you to continue to ask great questions to move us towards binding decisions.
 movements and I appreciate this moment here and there's really nothing else to say after someone like Sharon Gary Smith comes up so I'm just going to end that and say thank you for the time and thank you for the vote. Thank you, Shabrie. Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam Chairperson. My name is Charles Johnson and of course we're really just echoing the sentiments of Sharon Gary Smith but that it's important that these things become binding and there's a larger context unfortunately that's emerging
 here from the recent reporting in the Oregonian from Maxine Bernstein when we don't really get serious about fairness and Binding we're discovering that thousands of victims of sexual assault have not had their kits tested And that should be an affront to all the victims, but particularly women because women are still oppressed and discriminated against in this society and
 Part of the problem is we don't have enough benchmarking, enough real commitments. So I encourage this council to adopt binding language and to be more comfortable with having more public engagement where we talk about failures to achieve goals, systemic issues that have contributed to that.
 people's personal biases and racism that are alive and thriving in different places in the city of Portland and how we can counter those problems. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Anyone else like to speak?
 If not, then let's take a vote, please, on the resolution as amended. Sorry, Dante, you were orchestrating that and I was getting ahead of you now. So we both jumped the gun. Thank you, sir. I just really wanted all of my staff to be a part of this. Please. If I could invite them up just because I think really this is a very momentous occasion for this work in the city. And they've all been a part of this. They all do this every day. They all...
 run into obstacles every day and they all continue to come back every day because it's important and they believe it and they feel it and they want to make this city better. So thank you for letting me have my staff up here. Can we put everyone's name in the record? Yeah, absolutely. What they do. Starting with Joe. Joseph Wall, Assistant Director. Tatiana Alejade, Disability Equity Program Coordinator. Tanya Stevens, Executive Assistant.
 Judith Mowery, Senior Policy Advisor. Danielle Brooks, Civil Rights Manager. David Gallant, ADA Title II Access Coordinator. Kofi Desu, Equity Training and Education Program Coordinator. Jeff Selby, Communications Coordinator. Thank you all for being here today and for this good piece of work. Let's take a vote. Saltzman. Well, thank you for the presentation. More importantly, thank you for putting together the goals and strategies.
 And, you know, thank you. I want to thank Dante personally. I think you are the first director of this office, and I think you've really helped to set the tone. And, you know, I'm sure when you came to Portland, you recognized there are no shortage of challenges here, as there probably are in a lot of cities. But, you know, you know our history by now and know that we've overcome – overcome is not the right word, but we have witnessed many injustices in our city. Thank you.
 And it's up to those of us in leadership positions to lead and set the tone for a more just, more equal society. And I'm sure that you've done a great job of that. And I don't mean to say this in any manner of an insult, but you've kept it simple, too. I attended your Equity 101 training, my office did, and it's very focused. And it's not trying to sort of take on the whole world in one way.
 two-hour session, three-hour session. And I think these goals are similarly focused. You know, this could easily have been a 10- or 15-page document, double-spaced, single-spaced.
 And you get to a certain point and focus gets lost, and it's all a bunch of just words stringed together that sound good. I think this is pretty insightful. I think it gives me something, and it gives all of us something here that we can refer to and hopefully emulate in our everyday role here as members of city council, as heads of bureaus. So I want to thank you and the great staff you've assembled too. I know most of you, and many of you have come to know,
 I want to give a particular shout out for Jeff doing a great job on a shoestring budget and a shoestring camera putting together a first class video. But no, this really is great work and as I said it's very concise and there's a lot of merit in government these days for being concise and forthright. So thank you all and I'm pleased to support this and vote aye.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. I just echo everything you just said and also thank everybody who came here today just to sit and be present and to show your support by being here. It's a beautiful assembly of folks as I look out of here and I hope you'll come back tomorrow afternoon. We're having a discussion on housing policy and who should benefit from city subsidies and it's going to be interesting to see whether this binding city policy
 enters into that discussion as I think it should and since I believe we're all going to sign on to it, I know Commissioner Novick if he were not on vacation would also do so
 We want the community to continue to remind us, that's part of the holding us accountable, is that this is a binding city policy and we need to keep our word. Politicians, just like everybody else, should do what we say we're going to do or explain why we were not able to do it. And certainly we're not able to, going to be able to end racial disparities by the end of this year.
 We should be making progress and each of my bureau directors have as part of their annual performance evaluation, how did you do? How did you move the needle on the numbers within your bureau? And whether it's 17 different hiring managers as I think it is in parks or a smaller number than that in development services, the directors are responsible for making sure that the right questions are asked, the right people are on the panel, the right outreach is being done.
 And so your collaboration, led by Director James, has been hugely instrumental in that. This and better will do is the Salvation Army saying, the Salvation Army being 150 years old this year.
 There's some better we have to do because we can no longer afford on any different level of accountability to continue with the disparities that we have in our communities. I did disagree with one thing that you said, Commissioner Saltzman, and that is that Director James knew what he was getting into when he came here. I consider I'm quite proud of having enticed him here.
 Because it's shocking when you start looking into exactly what the disparities are which is what the state of black Oregon report that in 2009 showed it's shocking it's we're not who we think we are and we're not who we need to be So thank you Dan say for your guidance and your assembling of this great team. Thank you each one for what you do It's hard work. It is not easy. It is uncomfortable. It is Challenging and it's not going to get done anytime soon, so it's it's
 important to celebrate milestones like this and to recognize that we are making progress and we need to keep going. Thank you. Aye. You still owe me, though. Sharon's still here. I can't see her, but I just was reminded that, Sharon, if we had listened to some of the voices in the room when we took up this debate, we would not have an Office of Equity today.
 So it took a lot of strong voices, particularly in the community, insisting that we have an Office of Equity. And I want to specifically thank Commissioner Fritz and former Mayor Adams for making it a priority that we not only establish an Office of Equity, but we fund it. A couple months ago, I found myself in the rare situation of feeling discouraged about a number of things. And for those of people who know me well, I'm sort of more of a cup-half-full person than someone who gets discouraged. But there were some things that were bothering me.
 I just made a few notes and I was reflecting on how quickly history has pivoted. Henry Johnson got his Medal of Honor even though it took 100 years. Pope Francis issued his encyclical and talked about protecting our common home and changed the whole debate in America around equity and the environment. Barack Obama went down to a memorial service and sang Amazing Grace.
 and electrified a nation in talking about grace. The Supreme Court affirmed the dignity of every marriage for all Americans and changed history. And for good measure, the women of America won the World Cup, which was, for those of us who love soccer, the icing on the cake. So I'm not feeling as discouraged, but I want to thank this team for their hard work because there were a lot of doubters when we started this process. And I think the only way you disprove the doubters
 and the critics is to deliver on the promise, and that's what you're doing. And the one thing I told Dante earlier was as we talk about these roadmaps and we talk about benchmarks, I don't want to hear about this secondhand. And since I have the luxury, as with Commissioner Saltzman, of being in a position where we're going to put into place new directors, I want to be in the room when we talk about what the expectations are for my bureaus.
 And I want it to be the Commissioner and the Director making the commitment to whatever the goals we're establishing in the short term and long term for the bureaus that I have the honor of leading. So thank you for your good work. Thank you, Commissioner Fritch, for your ongoing passion around this work. And I am proud to serve on a council that even when there are new faces and new people up here, we consistently stand for equity. Bye. Thank you.
 I want to echo something that Commissioner Saltzman said a couple of minutes ago, which we had to make sure was not understood as a backhanded compliment, and that is you said that this was simple or that this language was simple. And actually in the business of government, it's not easy to produce policy that is simple and plain spoken and succinct, and you've done that here. Each of these goals is one sentence.
 Not that many words, but if you read them carefully, there's a lot of heft to this, and by making this binding city policy, this council says these words, each of them, matter. And so I like these words. I'm going to keep them handy and measure our progress against them. But when I read them here and have been listening to the testimony, actually I had these flashes of
 people that to me represent those words. I mentioned the Fire Bureau earlier. We started in my first term as a city commissioner making progress that has continued in improving the workforce of the Fire Bureau. Not long ago I watched a fire truck go by with
 a woman and an African-American man among the four in the crew. I go, whoo, I like seeing that go by. I just have that image in my mind. The other day, Chief O'Day swore in our first Somali-born Portland police officer, and I just have those people in my mind's eye as I look at those words about fairness and hiring and promotions. So those are maybe flashes of light in the progress that we still have to make, but I can see them.
 And then when I read these words about strengthening outreach, I remember the Bhutanese Chinese elders at our budget hearing who came together wearing their culturally based clothing and with translators to help them and speaking truth to power about what their community wanted from what we spend their money on.
 And I have that image of those and other groups of people from the community who came. In many cases, I think you asked the question, Amanda, for how many of you is this your first city council meeting or public meeting? And a huge number of people in that room had just come for the first time to be citizens in that sense.
 So I can see them, and then when I say, when I read, we will collaborate, I see the moment that Dante and a couple of dozen other African American men who are leaders in this community stood together at SEI and said we're serious about this commitment to the Black Male Achievement Initiative and its areas of progress that we will measure just as we do here.
 So I see those people behind the words and I know you did too when you drafted them. So I just want to thank you for putting the right words on the page, having all of us bind ourselves to them, and having everyone watch to make sure that we mean it and that we measure it and that we make more of that kind of progress. Thank you all very much. Aye. Thank you. Well done. Thank you very much.
 All right. Let's take a five-minute break, and we will then begin at 315 on our next time certain item. So let's take item 753, please. Adopt the Southeast Quadrant Plan as direction for updating the Central City Plan.
 Well, good afternoon and welcome everyone. Let me open this hearing and welcome our team to the table. We don't get a lot of chances as a city to think about the big picture, but that's what this part of the planning process is really about. And to think about the path forward for a part of the city that's very dynamic. A lot of you have been involved in this part of the city for some time, and we look forward to hearing from all of you.
 I think it's important to remember that in the 1980s when the last central city plan was written, we were a pretty different place. Employment was down. Crime was up. Central city was a place that a lot of people maybe didn't want to spend as much time and energy and investment as they do now.
 Obviously, now the Central East Side is really an economic marvel and it's doing very well and we're dealing with the problems of growth and demand more than we are with the problems of disinvestment or dysfunction.
 So I'm very interested in this part of the city, have been for a long time. I'm really interested in the work that you've done together. I want to appreciate Susan and Joe and Troy, the work that you as a Bureau have done in preparing this proposal for the Council and working so effectively with the community. There are a lot of strong opinions and strong personalities involved in this planning process, as I got to see when I had a chance to visit your committee meeting.
 And I just want to commend the work that the Bureau's done and that the community's done in collaborating on taking on a lot of tough questions and queuing them up for the Council to take up today. So thank you for work well done and for something that this Council's ready to dig into with you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and with me today are Troy Doss, who's Senior Planner, and Joe Zenner, Chief Planner. As the Mayor indicated, we're here today to present the Southeast Quadrant Plan. The plan does reflect the thoughts and deliberations of really probably a couple hundred people, residents and businesses involved, and it is recommended by the Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 While there's many, many different key issues as a part of this plan, I want you to really kind of focus your attention on just four things to start with. The first is probably the most obvious. As the mayor said, the Central East Side is a 21st century industrial district now. It has made some changes over the years. It has a diversity of jobs now. It has a diversity of...
 of industries. We have 18,000 jobs currently in the district and a forecast for 27,000 jobs by 2035. The jobs are for a variety of people, for a variety of industries, and I
 for a variety of skills and education. And I think that in our economy right now, that's really important. A second focus area is that we are creating two very fantastic transit stations as a part of this at OMSI and at Clinton Station. These will be vibrant employment areas that are built on and that will depend upon great transit for their growth and their success.
 As you know, Portland for three decades has been a national, if not international, leader on the issue of transit and land use and how those come together. Along the way, we've kind of shown the world that transit-oriented development, that we know how to do that and we know how to do that around mixed use and around housing. And now in the Central East Side, we're going to show that we can do transit-oriented development for jobs and industry too.
 A third area of focus in the plan is the waterfront. The plan will help ensure that the central east side is a vibrant waterfront destination. We are planning for more access. We are planning for more business opportunities and a quality environment.
 And finally, throughout the plan, we focused on the whole idea of change. And businesses told us that they can thrive in the midst of change. A good example of this is how all of the parties came together to mix freight and transit and bikes and pedestrians and cars. The freight committee, the BTA, the Bicycle Transportation Alliance.
 And other stakeholders really coalesce to provide and build a framework that will enhance freight operations and provide for bike and ped safety throughout the district. So again, four things to think about. Jobs. Jobs and industry on transit. A vibrant waterfront with great environment and great transportation and business options.
 You know, the great part about this plan, and sometimes I end up not always getting to say this about all the work that we do, is how all the bureaus really work together. I really want to thank my fellow bureau directors for their efforts and for the efforts of their staff, especially Troy Doss with BPS.
 Geraldine Moyle with PDC and Art Pierce at PBOT. We started calling them the three amigos. They were together at all times, it seemed, for the past two years. And the two co-chairs, Don Hanson and Debbie Kitchen. Thank you.
 They and a lot of other people's brought this plan together. I'm going to turn it over now to Joe and to Troy to provide a very brief kind of overview of the plan. Thank you. Good afternoon commissioners, Joe Zender, Chief Planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 What we're asking you today is shown in this slide. It's to adopt by resolution the Southeast Quadrant Plan and sort of to direct us to take this as guidance to complete the Central City 2035 plan, including the implementing codes. That's what's coming next. Just to remind you, what we've already completed in the Central City plan is the concept plan for the whole Central City, two of the other quadrant plans, the Northeast and the West,
 And this is the last of those four quadrant plans. The other work that's being poured into developing the final code and the plan itself deals with the FAR bonus and transfer, part of which is what we're going to talk about tomorrow. And scenic resources, zoning code we have to develop. And by July of 2016, as our objectives, we're bringing back that complete package to city council.
 The way we developed this plan over the last 18 months or so involved a significant amount of public process and actually two projects, two sort of studies that we ran concurrently where we jumped on taking an analysis of the Clinton Station area so that we were able to try to advance our development thinking about
 this soon to be opened light rail station and then the southeast quadrant plan itself and the work of the plan was overseen by a 30 person stakeholder advisory group and it was a group that worked very hard and worked in a very productive way in unique ways sometimes but productive in the end and reached consensus on this project and we had a lot of other opportunities for public outreach
 FINALLY, JUST TO REMIND EVERYBODY WHAT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT TODAY IN TERMS OF GEOGRAPHY, THE CENTRAL EAST SIDE IS SHOWN IN BLUE ON THIS SLIDE. WHEN WE LOOK OUT 20 YEARS, WE ARE EXPECTING 9,000 MORE JOBS MINIMUM IN THE CENTRAL EAST SIDE. THAT IS A LOT AND THAT IS A SIGNIFICANT PORTION, A SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION TO WHAT WE ARE LOOKING FOR OUT OF THE CITY AS A WHOLE.
 That's going to be spread over 706 acres. There's that much sort of space or land or sites in the Central East Side. A lot of jobs, but there's a lot more capacity in the Central East Side for jobs than just that even 9,000 acres. So we're going to see change, but it's not wholesale change. And that's been part of why we think the Central East Side has been successful.
 from holding the staying the course on an industrial sanctuary it's got 24 acres per job today and for an industrial district those are typically in the single district so this is a very successful place we're adding flexibility we're adding the opportunity for more types of businesses to be there so that we can even increase more beyond that 24 jobs per acre and we're doing it in a way that we think will keep the district in balance economically because
 there's even though we're talking about a significant amount of change it's not wholesale change of the whole district so with that i'm going to turn it over to troy to go through the details of the plan
 Good afternoon. I'm going to walk you through some of the big highlights of the plan. We started off with our stakeholder group and really set four primary project goals that everyone collectively agreed to. One was trying to get to our expanded employment opportunities, increased employment densities. As noted, we have a projection of about 9,000 jobs by 2035. It could be as high as 12 or 14,000 additional jobs.
 But either way, we know that even at 9,000 jobs, current zoning doesn't get us there. So we have to find a way to get there with some better working with the tools we have.
 At the same time, we want to protect the industrial businesses that are there. We're seeing a lot of growth in housing in the district. There are some incompatibility issues along the border between where housing and industry exist. We want to make sure that we can get those addressed. So we've kind of long been overlooked. There's also issue about what do we do with these new station areas? We have two significant investment in light rail in this district. We have two new vibrant station areas coming on. We want to make sure that they're safe, places that are attractive for people to go, as well as attractive for investment.
 And then lastly, we have a great opportunity here to recreate the waterfront there. This was one of the four places on the east side of the Willamette in the city of Portland you can actually get down and touch the water. Yet there's not a great opportunity to do that here yet. We think we can build around the assets of OMSI and the Spring Water Trail and other development at the station area to make that happen. In doing so, though, one of the things we heard was there was seven primary priorities that the stakeholders said were...
 If we're going to do all this, we need to make sure that, one, we really expand our industrial protections. We may be expanding what it means to be industry, but we want to make sure that we are protecting all industries at the same time. We want to maintain and enhance our parking supply and our management tools. We want to enhance freight mobility. Freight is going to continue to be a part of this district as it grows.
 We want to see that we can balance the needs of multi-modal transportation needs. We do have a number of modes that are coming through, transit, bikes, beds, as well as auto. We want to see what the innovation quadrant, extension from across the Tilikum crossing into the district can mean for this area. So expanding the innovation quadrant.
 And we want to look at how we better utilize some of the mixed-use corridors that exist in the district. I think one of the things that's overlooked a lot is that MLK, Grand, Burnside, Morrison, they're all zoned in similar ways in which the PURL is zoned, high density, mixed-use development. Yet we really haven't seen a response to that zoning pattern that's been in place for 25 years until like the last 24 months. And then lastly, we want to figure out how to overall enhance the livability of the district. And that means everything from urban forestry to parks and open space. I'm going the wrong way.
 So the first layer of this would be land use. And what we're really doing is expanding an existing tool, and we'll get to that in a little more detail in a second. But we're looking at expansion of the employment opportunity subarea to all IG1 zone properties in the district. Okay.
 We're looking at rezoning the two station areas. OMSI would receive a mix of EX no housing and EX with housing as conditional use. And then the Clinton station area, which would be brought into the central city, currently it's outside the central city, wedged between the Hand and Brooklyn neighborhoods, that would come in as a mixed-use zoning or residential commercial mixed-use zone.
 The big move here is really the employment opportunity sub area. So currently if you look at the image on the right, or sorry, on the left, that will show you the existing sub area. And that is approximately 48 acres, came into effect about 2006. It's been an incredibly successful tool. It allows for what we call industrial office or creative office space.
 These are new industries that have come along since the adoption of the industrial sanctuary, software companies, software and web development, graphic and industrial design, and studios as well. We have found a tremendous response to this. During the recession, growth was growing in this area by around 7% to 8% annually, created 1,000 jobs when most of the rest of the city was hanging on. Since that time, it's created about another 1,000 jobs. At the same time, it has not displaced the existing businesses that were there.
 So it's been a very effective tool. There seems to be a lot of support for expanding this district-wide. One of the things we're doing with that as well is right now we want to enhance what the use allowances are for that zone. So right now it's a little restrictive. It would say you can only do 60,000 square feet of that use per site. We'd like to change that to an FAR ratio of three to one. The basis for that being that a site is defined by ownership. It could be a one-acre site. It could be a five-acre site. Sixty thousand square feet is kind of a small limitation.
 The other thing we wanted to do though is also protect the district from significant traditional office and retail growth. So striking a compromise in the expansion of the EOS, what we were able to do was minimize the amount of retail you can build currently as a conditional use in the IG-1 zone. It's 20,000 square feet and lower it to 5,000 max. And with regard to traditional office, it would also be 20,000 square feet down to 5,000 in these new IG-1 areas.
 We'd also be removing the conditional use of up to 60,000 square feet of traditional office in the existing EOS. What we're really trying to do is say this is a district where industry is what we're really focusing on, not traditional office, not retail.
 The next thing is to look at as the district continues to grow, as I mentioned, we're starting to see housing response on the corridors. We started this project in 2010. We found that there was about 960 to maybe 1,000 residential units in the district. Currently there's about 1,300 either on the books or being constructed in the district. It's in the last 24 months, so one of the things we want to make sure is that we're
 what's happening because that housing is typically occurring across the street from industry. And so what we wanted to do is make sure that new development that's coming in is recording a covenant, disclosing the fact that, acknowledging the fact that I as a new tenant or a new developer am building an industrial district. My tenants in the future are going to have the charm of an industrial district. They're going to experience truck loading. They're going to experience noise and fumes and maybe different hours of operation than you might find in other residential neighborhoods because this is not a residential neighborhood.
 And so they're disclosing the fact that that's there, that will run with the property in perpetuity. And as long as those operations are occurring in a lawful manner, the city is not going to take action against those complaints. And then the next thing we want to do is take a second look at the development standards and design guidelines that are along that interface. One of the things that happens is you can be going down a street like 3rd Avenue or 6th Avenue and find that one side is zoned EX high density. The next across the street zone, IG1.
 However, the development standards are so different on those two, the only separation is really at 60 feet of right of way. We want to find out how do we maybe treat the interface a little differently, not expecting that that is the strongest pedestrian environment or that's the highest design area. Maybe that's more of the back of house functions for those EX developments and do that in a way that's putting a little bit less pressure or conflict against the industrial zone across
 The next three things we'll talk about before we close this up is transportation strategies. This plan really has been about as much land use as it's been transportation. One of the things we really want to be mindful of is the continued need to address freight in this district. It's going to be a factor as long as the district is an employment area. And it's a district-wide...
 freight designation. But there are some improvements that we could make to better get freight east-west through the district. Right now, you may know there's only three signalized intersections along MLK Grand. Makes it very hard for any mode to get across that area. So we see them queuing up in one space, all modes. So one of the things we propose to do is putting some more signalized intersections on key north-south routes, allowing for that east-west mobility to occur, but then creating some one-way streets for freight. There's a
 kind of preferential streets where they'll be able to have better turn movements and a better route to get to the key streets they're trying to get to east to west. At the same time, we want to do the same thing for the bike and pedestrians coming through the district. We know that the inner southeast neighborhoods here have a 23% commute to work by bike, and
 mode split. That's the highest in the city, highest in the region. And they're coming through this district today. And those numbers are probably likely to grow. So one of the things we want to do is give them some routes that really get them east west through the district as safely as possible, giving them one route that's very safe, giving freight another route that's very safe and not trying to combine them necessarily on the same routes.
 We're also trying to memorialize some of these improvements by enhancing our existing transportation system plan to identify where some of these newer hierarchy of streets will occur, both for freight and for bike and ped.
 And then lastly, parking is always an issue in this district. We have a finite supply of on-street parking and we have a pretty vast supply of off-street parking that currently can't be used due to some code restrictions that date back 20 years. When Park and Ride and Fairless Square were a factor that had people kind of leaving their car on the central east side and either walking or bussing across the bridges to the west side.
 So one of the things we want to do is continue working with the Central Eastside Transportation and Parking Management Association to get a better sense of how to manage that on-street supply. But in the meantime, we want to open up the off-street supply to allow that to be used by customers, businesses, and residents of the district. Because right now, if I own a surface parking lot and Joe owns a surface parking lot but he's out of space, I can't allow him to use it.
 that my space is by a code restriction. By eliminating that Room 1 prohibition, we can open up about three to 4,000 parking spaces overnight, so that's something we wanna be pursuing. And our long-term strategy will also start to involve district parking. I know that PDC is looking at a district parking facility as part of the redevelopment of the ODOT blocks. We wanna look at as the district starts to grow and become denser, where other locations where maybe a district parking or district parking incentives for structured parking becomes something we wanna put into play.
 So with that, I want to close by saying thank you to our stakeholder advisory group. We've worked with this group of 30 very diverse interests in the district over the last two years, both as part of the stationary work and as the quadrant work. And this is just a small sample of the various staff that worked on this plan. I know many of them are in the room right now. I can't call them all out by name, but I really want to thank everybody. This has been a fantastic team, and I've been proud to lead this effort. So with that, I open it up to any questions you may have. Thank you.
 Okay. Questions for the Bureau right out of the gate? I'm sure there will be more along the way. So thank you very much. I want to call first of some planned presenters, our co-chairs, Don Hanson and Debbie Kitchen. Mayor Hales and Council, Don Hanson. I'll be very brief with my comments. There are a lot of people that want to speak today, and I want to hear them.
 I am a volunteer on the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and as part of that role, I volunteered to co-chair this advisory committee with Debbie, who's with me today. And I was happy to do that. I grew up in southeast Portland, and one of my favorite jobs in high school was working in the district. I delivered produce at night.
 It was such an interesting environment. Trucks in that small district, languages of choice were Italian and Japanese. And it was really just a fascinating district. And it's been fun for me to watch it change and watch it evolve through the years. I want to talk about, you know, and I think that experience really can help me understand what the advisory committee was absorbing and the decisions they were making. First, I want to brag about my advisory committee.
 Excellent group of stakeholders. The neighborhoods were well represented with Buckman and Hand. Willamette River Keepers were on the committee. Also people that own property and operate businesses. The people that were truly going to be impacted by the decisions were there at the table all the way through. And they were very engaging over a number of months.
 And I'm sure they'll engage with you today, so you'll hear from them directly. Staff has put forward a solid plan from my perspective. It's very balanced. Troy listed out all the factors considered and the decisions made. But I'll say something really simple about their approach. They listened. They listened to the committee. They listened to the neighboring groups. And they altered their decision-making process based on that input. It was truly an engaging proposition.
 The last thing I want to talk about, so I think it's a great framework for the district moving forward. There may be some details that will come out today, but framework is foundational and very solid. I want to put in a plug for the Green Loop while I'm here.
 It was presented to our advisory committee and I think it's a great big idea for Portland. It involves the west side, it involves the east side. And could be a very unifying element on the central east side without impacting freight movement and everything else. I think it would be a solid proposition for businesses that are there now, for bicyclists, just for the whole environment. So I wanted to mention that.
 So I'm in full support of the plan, obviously, because I chaired the advisory committee, but I just think it's a collection of very good ideas. So thank you. Thank you. Debbie, welcome. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Debbie Kitchen, and I was also co-chair of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee and also serve as president of the Central Eastside Industrial Council. We do have comments that Central Eastside Industrial Council submitted.
 And we sent some of those earlier, but there's a new Exhibit 1 that is part of that that includes a list of, and I wanted to call it to your attention, because we often hear that there aren't many industrial companies in the Central East Side anymore or that most of them have been around a long time and they aren't.
 It is that sector isn't growing, but actually we put together just very quickly kind of a partial list that just showed the new ones in the last five years that have either had major expansions or new locations in the Central East Side. And it shows a diverse set of businesses. And so I guess what I wanted to say was that
 I think this plan for Southeast Quadrant is a good compromise. It does retain the industrial sanctuary. It does retain the freight district. It does allow new businesses to come in in the employment overlay.
 It has all kinds of plans for strengthening the corridors and taking advantage of that aspect. You know, we've always had, as Troy said, we've always had that zoning, and it hasn't really been activated in the way that it could. So the stakeholder advisory committee and staff work together from all the bureaus
 to look at a number of issues. I would call this plan a compromise that we can live with and build on as we go through the next phases of taking it and elaborating it even more.
 speaking on behalf of the CEIC, although we had some detailed comments that you've included, I'm not going to really go over those. Really, I think we're happy with the amendments that are being put forth today, support those, and would just like to say that we benefited a lot from our work with staff and the stakeholder advisory committee. I think we were able to come forward with a plan that does keep the industrial sanctuary and does allow this
 really exciting mix of businesses that have come there to stay and thrive. And so I think it's, in that sense, it is a great success.
 Just for clarification, this memo that you just gave us has several action items. Are those new requests for amendments? No. Some of these we've actually worked on the amendments. So the amendments that were included yesterday do cover many of those things. This was adopted by our board meeting in June, and we've continued to work on it.
 with staff and the Portland Freight Committee and others to meet many of those objectives. So everything here is covered. You're not asking for additional amendments right now? No. Great. Thank you very much. Debbie, there seems to be one area where you're asking us to consider a further protection, and that's under the right to be industrial policy. Yes. So your commentary is that the industrial disclosure statement says
 is not sufficient and there should be an additional level of protection to protect against what you describe as complaints issued due to noise, smell, loading, etc. by virtue of industrial. And what I think we envision with that is we don't have that disclosure statement.
 now at this time, and so those details are going to be worked out, and we would like to see that be a very strong statement and have rules about how it is used both when properties are sold and leased throughout the district. So those details will be worked out in the – I mean, I guess you could have an amendment that would direct staff to –
 look at it in that way and see areas that could be strengthened or some elements like that, but we didn't have specific language about that at this point. Okay. Thank you. So perhaps this might be the right moment, since you're the co-chairs. We have this package of staff proposed amendments, so I take it you and the committee recommend we adopt those.
 Yes. So I think it might be appropriate, even before we carry on into the rest of the hearing, that we take action to accept these amendments. And again, people can testify on both the plan itself that you've developed and the amendments the staff have developed. So I'm not sure if we've all got these. I hope we do. I think I need another copy, Mayor. Okay. So Joe or Troy, have we got copies for the Council of?
 amendments. We might want to even bring them back up and walk us through those first before we go on. Thank you both very much. Thank you very much. Mayor, there is one where I'm proposing to amend the amendment. The staff agrees with my proposed amendment to the amendment, but it's not technically the initial amendment. And Troy, you might want to come up and just walk us through this set of amendments, just so, the six amendments, so that everybody knows what we're talking about. Sure. May I locate that a second? Sure.
 What, you don't have it memorized? Go ahead. One more thing. First of all, thanks again to BPS and to staff for providing the cheat sheet for us. I mean, this is the model on how we do amendments, and you guys said. Thank you also for blowing it up so I can read it. And just in terms of protocol, as you go through each amendment, are you okay with taking questions on each one? Sure. Okay. Okay, so Amendment 1 is the –
 THE CHANGES IN THE DESIGNATION AND REZONING IN RESPONSE TO A PROPERTY AT THE EAST END OF THE MORRISON BRIDGE. IN 1990 WHEN THE ZONING WENT INTO EFFECT TO IMPLEMENT THE CENTRAL CITY PLAN, THE
 Most of the bridgehead development or most of the bridgehead parcels were zoned OS, open space, because they were believed to have all been owned by Multnomah County. There was one oversight. One of those parcels, the parcel in question, was actually owned by the Bollinger family and remains so today. It's a surface parking lot and has been for decades.
 They'd like to see it rezone the way all of the private development in that area had been zoned, which is EX central employment. And we think that is fine. It's consistent with the rest of the zoning in that corridor. Amendment 2 is...
 adding an action item, which would be dealing with maker economy. I know that there will be some testimony on this from Kelly Roy with ADX Portland. And she may want to change or recommend a change as to who the implementer would be. But what we're really trying to do here is make sure that we're addressing that
 There is a strong growing maker economy in the Central East Side as part of that diverse economic structure occurring. We like to make sure that existing financial tools can be looked at again, maybe some new ones developed to really help broaden and support the growth of the maker economy in the Central East Side.
 is language that came out of our conversations that Debbie referenced with the CEIC and the Portland Freight Committee. And it's changing an existing action regarding the Green Loop. And basically what it's really trying to do is ensure that when the final alignment or infrastructure design is created to implement a Green Loop over there, that it's done with freight operations in mind, that we're going to be very mindful we're not going to put it on a place that's going to degrade freight operations. It's going to try to avoid them to the extent possible.
 But even then, the infrastructure can be done in a way that leaves freight harmless, and we want to make sure that this amendment directs that approach. Amendment 4, Clinton Station Area. So during the development of the plan, we found that,
 clear visions for both the Clinton station and you could say the same with the OMSI station for how that site would be developed that would allow us to implement development standards design guidelines heightened FAR ratios Knowing that with some certainty that this is what was going to be developed we just didn't have enough clarity from the major landowners than any of the station owners to do that and
 So in lieu of that, what we proposed is that a master plan provision be in effect and that we would change the zoning to EX, but we would only give them an FAR ratio of one to one and a height of about 100 feet at OMSI and 75 feet at Clinton.
 The basis being that you could earn more height and FAR through the development of a master plan at that point. There'd be a better analysis of what the mass scenes would be like, how views would be protected, what the public benefit from that additional development entitlement would be. A lot of considerations would go in, and that would be handled through a public process. Now, if we had more certainty, we probably could have zoned around that. Now we don't have that.
 So one thing that's been asked by some folks who own property at the Clinton station was if we were able to develop that kind of a vision before the zoning is finalized, because we haven't going to be doing that over the next year, could that be substituted instead of a master plan requirement? That will be a public process. We'll be developing that code language as part of the final central city 2035 plan over the next 12 months. So if they were able to do that, yes.
 We could consider that, and that's what this amendment is putting forward. Could you remind us what the geographic scope of this is without having to turn to page V5 and what the city-owned properties are in that? Yeah, so it's largely what's known as the Clinton Triangle. So it's the areas that are east of Milwaukee and between Powell and the light rail and railroad alignment. So it is where the Gideon Fire Station facilities are located.
 And the other half of the property is owned by Stacey and Whitbeck. And it's mostly vacant property, although there is one, I believe, contracting supply business that is still located there. So collectively, there are some small pieces of property at the Clinton Station owned by TriMet, very thin band. The majority of the property there is owned by the City or by Stacey and Whitbeck.
 So my concern was that a master planning process is a full public process where the development agreement can be fully vetted and that it's a specific opportunity for neighbors to weigh in with a defined public process. Going to a development agreement, as we've just discovered on Zydel, has only opportunities for citizens to come in towards the end when the agreement's already made.
 So I'm proposing to delete this amendment. And the staff agrees with me, but I wanted to forward it for completeness. Okay. I'm officially confused. Since the cheat sheet says adopt as consent item. And I don't think you were suggesting a development agreement, right? The situation here is that you've got a legislative planning process underway and you've got
 parcels i assume this would be similar to the situation at omzi or or else if you think about the the northeast quadrant the blanchard site where you got a property owner who's got a big piece of property they've got some notions about how they might develop it but it hasn't been clarified yet and we have the book open in effect because we're working on the comp plan and you could as a property owner come forward with a specific development plan at that point with design guidelines and get it adopted
 or you could not do that and come back later and go through the master plan process, right? Yes. So, for instance, the Blanchard site is a great example. The post office site in the River District of Pearl is another example. If there was some clarity that came forward while we're developing the final code as part of that public process, that could be something that could be –
 supplant doing the master plan. It would be just as much public process, if not more in some ways because it would still be going to the Planning Commission, probably seeking advice from the Design Commission and then coming back to this body as well. So there would be plenty of opportunities to help shape those plans. That's actually what we're doing with the post office, right? We have a planning process underway. It's not necessarily going to result in a conditional use master plan. It might result in a plan district proposal or something like it that goes into the comp plan. I just want to
 I want to make sure I'm on track here. So Commissioner Fritz, are you saying that you do not support the additional language that's added? Correct. Okay, so we'll come back to that. So I'm a little confused. You don't support the underlying language or the whole language? No, the whole language is what's currently in there, and that's fine. I don't support removing the requirement for a master plan.
 because this whole comp plan is going to be so complicated and huge that it's going to be very challenging for citizens to participate at an adequate level of detail in planning this site, which, after all, is really kind of quasi-judicial. It's the city and Stacey and Woodbeck. So it seems very site-specific and needs to go through a master planning process, in my opinion. Well, help us understand, I guess, EPS,
 This says that the requirement for master plan will be waived. So who has the authority to waive it, and what effectively is the trigger, and what role do we play in that? You would be the one waiving it effectively. So what we would be doing is when we bring back Central City 2035 and the new zoning proposals for the entire central city, including the Clinton Station,
 We could be saying we think there's enough clarity here and enough shared vision that this could be adopted. We could develop the height, the floor area ratios, the development standards now and not require a master plan process as a subsequent process, as a quasi-judicial process. So forgive whether this is a really dumb question, but why would you need an amendment to do something which theoretically you could do, you could decide to do, come to us for a waiver? Sure.
 What does this give you that you don't have already in terms of seeking a waiver under certain circumstances? Nothing. Okay.
 Just clarification. Yeah, actually, now that I think about this, if this was a little more accurate, it would say then the requirement for a master plan would not necessarily be imposed, right? Yes. We're not going to require a master plan until this is all done. And you're saying we might not require a master plan if they get their act together beforehand. What we've been basically, I mean, another way of saying this too would be we want there to be public process. We want there to be certainty on both ends of the scale on what's going to happen at
 We don't want to just zone it now and hope for the best, so we want to have some ability for there to be some public review and input as to how this comes together. That can either occur through the development of the final package for Central City 2035, or it can happen as a quasi-judicial process. If that doesn't happen, it'd have to happen then through a quasi-judicial process as a master plan. Let's say a majority of the council signaled that the bar would be very high to waive this requirement.
 Would that discourage BPS from going down this path, or would you still want to have the discretionary right to do this?
 I think the bar is high anyway. So I don't know that it makes a difference one way or the other. Perhaps I'm confused by the question. Well, I'm just trying to address Commissioner Fritz's concern that she's apparently not comfortable taking this out of a master planning process, also wants to make sure there's an adequate public process. What I'm learning is that it still is within our discretion to waive it or not. And that has to be done through a public process. But if this language is in there, we may be signaling to you,
 that it would be a, that at your discretion you'll put staff resources and go through a process and come to council with that. Am I on the right track? I believe you are. What we're really saying is that if
 The parties can come together with the plan between now and the time we're actually adopting the code that goes with the central city plan and that plan that is developed, the more specifics for the site, can be done in a way that's acceptably public and vetted. We could just accept that based on review and based on URL sanction and based on the planning and sustainability's approval as the zoning for the site. It's almost like the...
 NEED AND THE PURPOSES OF DOING A MASTER PLAN WILL HAVE BEEN SATISFIED. THE PLANNING AND STAFF AND THEN THE PLANNING AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION AND THEN THE CITY COUNSEL ARE GOING TO HAVE TO JUDGE THAT, YEAH, THE PURPOSES OF THE MASTER PLAN HAVE BEEN MET AND WE CAN ACCEPT THIS. IF ANY OF THOSE BODIES FIND THIS IS NOT TRUE, THAT'S NOT GOING TO PROCEED FORWARD. YOU STILL HAVE A MASTER PLAN OPTION DOWN THE ROAD.
 Colleagues, I remind you that when we adopted the amendment to the urban renewal area, we had a pretty intensive discussion about affordable housing at this site. I suggest that having a master plan process might allow more discussion of what kinds of uses than a purely zoning code discussion.
 of the map amendment. If you want to weigh in on this, Susan, I think... I just wanted to say this is not the only site in the central city where this exact same situation is showing up. So we have Conway, we have... Post Office, we have OMSI, we have Centennial Mill.
 Those sites are all subject to master plans? Well, they're all, you know, at this level in the quadrant plan for the west side, it includes language that says consider and sort of go develop a master plan provision for those sites. And in this plan, I believe we're calling for it in OMSI.
 And I believe we called for it in Blanchard already, so you've already done this in the northeast quadrant. And that's a conditional use master plan, or is that a – when we say master plan, what are we talking about? Correct, Mayor. It's what we're talking about is inventing – it's a provision that says if you're over a certain size, and these sites are. What we really want to see is before we –
 put the zoning down on it, sort of a master plan for how you think the site's going to develop. What is that legally? What are we talking about? Is this a conditional use master plan that a property owner applies for? Is this a legislative document that we approve? What –
 Well, you know, the way we did it in Conway was we established sort of a zoning ceiling for what Conway could do, and set up principles in it for what the development had to accomplish and use those in a quasi-judicial process. I don't know if it's technically a conditional use, but it was a new process.
 that BDS through public process says this plan accomplishes those criteria of what you wanted to do on this, so you have access to this higher level of zoning. That's the master plan provision we've used so far. We also have a different version of that in Gateway, but it's never been used. It's sort of – and Conway is a good example of –
 Generally, redevelopment of Conway site at certain levels was acceptable to the neighborhood, and we could prove that it could meet the traffic impacts. But there was still concern about how the details of that and some of the specifics would evolve. And so rather than try to do that kind of planning in the abstract, we said, okay,
 This entitlement is available for that site, but the detail, the phasing, some of the other public realm improvements have to be developed before you can access that. So just, I know we could probably spend all afternoon on this. Let me just observe that there's a policy question about whether we would waive the master plan requirements. Yes.
 I also think there's a drafting problem because the way it's actually written is not how we're actually talking about it. So I would suggest that sometime later today we come back with new language that makes it clear. We may accept or reject it, but let's be clear about our intent, which is there's a limited circumstance where you could come to council to seek council approval to waive a requirement, not that the requirement for a master plan will be waived because that's directed. Okay.
 Yeah, I like that suggestion. Let's keep going and get the rest of the amendments explained. Then we can debate the policy question, but let's make sure the language has the protection. We have a lot of people queued up. You don't do it without council approval. Let's take the other. Why don't you walk us through the other two amendments? So there's a little more than two, but we'll go through them quickly. So one is an amendment to the inaction item from the West Quadrant plan. You took testimony on the West Quadrant about this, and at the time we were looking at the Morrison Bridgehead west side, the ramps that are leading off of it to Nato Parkway.
 The suggestion was that there would be a feasibility study looking at removing or reconfiguring the ramps. PBOT has done analysis already that has shown that. Steve's not here to answer this question, but perhaps you could just clarify. It's one thing to do a feasibility study. It's another to determine who pays for any of the work, which, as I understand it,
 may benefit a development that's going on there, but may not make the list of priorities for the city and its transportation. So if we're to adopt this, we're not implicitly agreeing that the city's on the hook for any portion of this other than the study. Is that correct? True. Thank you.
 That was something that the county reminded us as well because it is their it is their facility at this point And they're saying that they would want to be obviously a part of this as well So any conversation is premature about what happens there? But they have studied enough to know that removing is not a feasible. It's not feasible they need to make sure there is a connection with NATO Parkway from the ramp and
 So what they'd like to do is change the language, and this was worked out with the CEIC and the Portland Freight Committee to their satisfaction to say that we're resetting the feasibility of reconfiguring and that we would maintain southbound freeway access from the Morrison Bridge for freight trips originating from the central east side. I'm actually less concerned about stepping on the toes of our friends at the county and more concerned that by doing an assessment, we're impliedly saying that we're prepared to fund one of the options since...
 I'm not entirely clear after talking to Steve that this is a city priority. And this does not commit us to that. Thank you.
 The next one would be there was some language on a page of the document that was really introducing kind of at a high level some of the things the plan was going to do. And one of them was dealing with the needs to balance multimodal transportation. Just the current language was a little uncomfortable, some involved. So we proposed some minor tweaks to that language to make sure that it's not really setting a priority that active transportation becomes the primary mode in the district because it is a freight district after all.
 Not that we're not going to still do the active transportation improvements. And then the other was that we would be adding, there's a number of streets in most freight districts, every street's basically equal. They're all freight district streets.
 There may be a slight hierarchy on some main arterials, but in this district there's a lot of other streets that have a higher need in terms of getting people north-south or east-west of the district. So what's been proposed by PBOT is the addition of a couple priority or main truck streets in the district. We wanted to add northeast Davis to that mix that had been overlooked in the plans. We want to add that.
 Then the last two amendments are some that were offered by ODOT. They're basically really recognizing that actions to improve turn movements, left-hand turn movements northbound off of Powell into the district would need to be done with ODOT approval, which we would obviously agree with. Mayor, I move one, two, three, five through nine.
 as a package to place them on the table. Okay. Is there a second? Further discussion about that motion? And a roll call on that motion, please. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. And just to be clear, if at some point BPS comes forth with a substitute
 Amendment 4, then the council would consider that for further action. Just to be clear, we're going to work on this during the testimony and try to bring something back today so that you can see it. To be further clear, I have to leave at 515. You may not get this all done today. We've got a lot of people here. All right, let's move on. Thank you. To a panel, please, of Dan Yates, Skip Newberry, and Valeria Ramirez, assuming they're all here. Two out of three, anyway. Okay.
 Dan, I just have to ask you, on one of the slides we saw earlier, there was this good-looking guy sitting at a table in the back. That was me. Are you related to him? That was you, okay. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I want to thank Troy Doss and Joe Zender for outstanding leadership of the Southeast Quadrant 2035 Committee. I'm excited about many of the proposed changes to the CID, but I am concerned about the details of those changes. For example, the proposed 2035 plan changes the zoning around Omsey Station for the land south of Crothers Street to EXD from Heavy Industrial.
 A group of amazing PSU grad students last week presented to me concepts for the Portland Spirit 1.5 acre parcel, and those concepts included increasing our current building square footage from 5,000 square feet up to 300,000 square feet. Thank you.
 I asked them if they were aware of the approved Clinton Station plan that has Crothers Street, the only access road for the Opera McCoy Millwork on the Portland Spirit, reduced from its current two lanes with parking and full bike lanes to a single lane with super wide bike lanes from 4th to the river. They were not aware of the changes as it is not incorporated in the 2035 plan.
 I recently informed Troy about the Clinton Station plan impact on Crother Street and informed me that the Spirit, the Opera and McCoy Land would not be able to take full advantage of the new EXD zoning if the capacity of Crother Street is reduced. This means the work for our committee is thwarted by a separate planning process for resolving all this land directly next to a new multi-purpose transit station blocked from reaching its full development potential. Other details that concern me, including
 Updating our 1987 Greenway Code reflects several U.S. Supreme Court rulings, Ninth Circuit Court rulings, State of Oregon Goal 15 Greenway rules, and the Federal Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. I am also concerned about freight movement within the CID and access to our interstate road systems.
 I know some think water transit is a whimsical idea, but I'm sure many of those people also believe the return of the streetcar was equally unrealistic. The rivers are last available right away, and as the city grows, water transit will return to Portland. We need to prepare for it now. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your work on this. Just to clarify the concern about Clinton Street, which planning process is that in? The Clinton Station process.
 which I did not pay attention to because I am next to the OMSEE station process. They planned crothers all the way to the river in that process, and I did not hear about it until I read on BikePortland.org that our street was going to be taken away from us. And then I started asking questions, and...
 Last week or 10 days ago when I realized that, oh, my God, our development potential, I was basically told it's going to happen, put up with it. And then I found out that the amount of development on our property is so significant, how in the world am I going to support 300,000 square feet of potential development with a one-lane road, which they're basically proposing putting no yellow line down the middle, building very wide bike lanes and having the traffic going up and down crothers weave around each other.
 So has that specific transportation design or plan been formally adopted? Yes. By who? You. Really? From my understanding. The Clinton Street plan is, well, I've been told that it's going to. I don't think so. Art Pierce and I have had several discussions about this, and he's told me it's going to happen.
 I don't think it's been here yet. Okay. Well, there are transportation people in the room. All right. We'll get clarity on that. But I appreciate you flagging it. Absolutely. Appreciate it. And we've got a lot of material here. Could you just remind me, are you alluding to the marine overlay issue? I'm just alluding to the fact that the Greenway Code requires unrestricted public access to property along the river, which is in direct association.
 disagreement with the actual state greenway code which requires marine related marine dependent users are exempt from the setback and exempt from building the trail
 The Supreme Court rulings have ruled solidly against the Greenway, actually imposed certain rules for taking of the trail. The Ninth Circuit has leveled some large fines in the millions of dollars against Eugene and another city in Oregon for improperly assessing the trail or extracting the trail. And the Marine Transportation Security Act absolutely forbids unrestricted public access across the
 A MARINE ENTITY LIKE MYSELF. I HAVE THE LAST PARCEL IN THE ENTIRE CITY THAT I CAN OPERATE FROM WHICH WAS DETERMINED BY TRIMENT WHEN THEY TRIED TO MOVE US FOR THE BRIDGE PROJECT. SO IF WE'RE GOING TO HAVE MARINE COMMERCE ON OUR RIVER, WE NEED TO RECOGNIZE THERE ARE RULES BEYOND THE GREENWAY CODE. THANK YOU. WELCOME. GREAT.
 Mayor Hales and members of city council, my name is Skip Newberry, president of the Technology Association of Oregon. Also a member of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee. And first want to start by thanking Troy and Joe and Susan for their work during this process and the rest of city staff as well that were involved. TAO represents about 300 tech companies which includes both software and manufacturing in the region.
 One thing that I think is really important about this plan and is a big reason why we as an association support it, is it recognizes I think really well the changing nature of our economy. And its connection to the employment opportunity area specifically in this district.
 with a more modern definition of industry, um, which includes standalone software companies, as well as companies that have a mix of software and manufacturing as part of what they do. Um, they're increasingly choosing the central east side. Um, and the large majority of tech workers already live, uh,
 on the East side. So as companies continue to expand and they're looking for relatively affordable places that are larger for them to grow into, um, the central East side represents a great tool in our economic development toolbox to help retain those companies in the region. Um, and as, as they continue to grow, uh,
 The extension of the rules allowing software developers alongside Manufacturers and much of the district as more office space comes online I think that's that's important an issue that some of our members flagged that are located in the district is related to transportation and safety and I think the the plan does a good job of Note noting the issue around parking congestion is a safety issue. So use use of more efficient means
 sort of lots for off street parking and PDC's review of parking options is going to be important as contemplated by the plan. Also the increasing use of pedestrians and bicycle traffic through the district and then within it. And looking at ways, as Troy alluded to, to help reduce the tension between freight, which is also a necessary use in the area, and some of these other increasing alternative modes of transit.
 And I think the plan does a good job of that as well. Finally, I just want to mention that the economic development opportunity with the Innovation District, and in particular the catalytic anchor that OMSI represents, is really huge for the region. There's few cities that have a downtown core like we do between the OMSI opportunity and Southwest Waterfront that offer such a varied array of both large sites for corporate operations
 campus relocation as well as small maker spaces and everything in between. And the connectivity from a transportation system that connects the two is phenomenal. So the fact that this contemplates in a very central way the opportunity that OMSI presents is very important, I think, for a lot of our members as they look to this region as sort of another phase of growth as tech continues to grow.
 If I could just ask you one question. Yep. Having toured a number of those sites in the Central East Side and seen these tech companies, software folks, you remind us maybe, and many of them are refugees from other cities where they got priced out or something happened. Can you just remind us, just roughly, what are the top three competitive advantages that we have right now in that sector? Yeah, and in terms of just one qualifying or clarifying question, within the tech sector or within the district?
 in terms of competitive advantages. Well, the district, if it's narrow. Yeah, I think with the district, one thing that's exciting is the older sort of warehouse spaces and the aesthetic that that presents, obviously.
 A lot of the software folks love the sort of variety that exists within the region. And the other thing is that you have to keep in mind a lot of technology companies, especially software, are developing solutions for other markets, not for tech specifically, but for health care, for manufacturing, et cetera. So the closer they are to the users of the technology, that's where innovation occurs. And so to be able to have a working...
 sort of manufacturing area with a lot of industrial uses is really intriguing because it's a potential to be close to your customer and to prototype and test. And I think as well that having spaces that can allow small batch manufacturing and prototyping is intriguing. And I know that, you know, ADX is a big player in that
 realm. And so those are some of the things that are really attractive. I also think that the proximity to the east side where, as I mentioned, a lot of the tech talent lives, they have a lot of different routes into that district by bike, walking, public transit. And I think as that region grows, we'll have to be mindful of making sure those routes continue to be strong and safe.
 Thank you both very much. Okay. Next panel we want to call is Susan Lindsay, Nancy Stuber and Sue Pierce. Good afternoon. Welcome. I guess I'm on. You're on. I'm Susan Lindsay. I'm co-chair of the Buckingham Community Association. I think I'd like to echo a lot of what Don had to say about this process and about the planning staff.
 I've been on a number of these committees over the year as a stakeholder or whatever I am, a representative, really, for a neighborhood, and this was a very good process. I'm just regretful that east of 12th,
 doesn't have that same ability to bring together the stakeholders in such a way. The planning staff, in particular, Troy and Joe, and under Susan's leadership, they really...
 really listened to members of the committee. They really did. They went back and they made changes and they brought that back to us month after month. We went through this. There were some strong personalities on that committee. I might be guilty of being one of those myself.
 But as we move towards turning this district over to the next generation, and I think that's exactly what we're doing here, I think this plan is a compromise, and it's a good compromise. I just want to focus on a couple of things. One.
 I too opposed Amendment Number 4, which is turning into kind of a sticky wicket. So I'm seeing that you're going to discuss that further, and I agreed with Commissioner Fritz that going back to the original language is probably the simplest thing to do at this time. And second, like Co-Chair Hansen, I really want to support the Green Loop.
 And in particular, I'd like to advance the idea that, you know, that with the existing zoning, even without any change, there's a tremendous amount of potential for a lot of housing in the district. And I think and people passing through the district all the time. And so this idea of a cohesive green loop and areas where people can be in a very park deficient area where there's going to be a lot of housing. We want to make sure that we continue to focus on a green loop.
 And also I would add that it would be wonderful for those of us who have lived next to the Willamette River our entire lives and are thrilled that we – I've been swimming in it even when it was dirty, but now I really like to swim in it. If we could look at the idea of developing an option, especially if we have housing in the OMSI area, why don't we have some kind of a beach where people could get into the water? Because right now it's quite difficult to do that with a riprap.
 And finally, I would just like to say that the expansion of the EOS into the IG is going to make for a lot of changes. I mean, there's going to be a lot of retail. There's going to be a lot of increased employment, which is good.
 there's going to be a lot of conflicts that are going to take place with the increased housing. And so we have to continue to kind of work together and pay attention to it and listen to the concerns like that Dan Yates just brought up about Carruthers, you know, that these property owners have been shepherding this district for decades. And I think that
 and they deserve to be heard as we go through these big processes, as we welcome in the next generation with their jobs and their energy and their vision of what's taking place here. Thank you. Thank you, Susan. Thanks for your help. Nancy, welcome.
 Mayor Hales and members of the Commission, I'm Nancy Stuber, President and CEO at OMSE. And I thank you for the opportunity to present our position on the plan. We've participated in this planning process for over three years as a member of the CEIC, the Stakeholder Advisory Committee, and with the Planning and Sustainability Commission hearings together.
 and I too commend the staff on the thoroughness of the process and on their tenacity. OMSI is very pleased to support the Planning Commission's recommendations to the Council. Those recommendations rezone the OMSI parcels to EX with housing. However, the housing would only be permitted as a conditional use and through a master plan process.
 The conditional use criteria will reflect the current conditional use criteria for housing in the EG zone, and we look forward to working with BPS as they recommend a list of conditions under the new zoning. We support this recommendation for several reasons. First, we currently have the right to build housing as a conditional use on a large area of the site that's currently zoned EG.
 These properties are in the OMSI station area, immediately adjacent to the Telecom Crossing, and so with EG zoning, the city has already determined that a limited amount of housing subject to conditions is appropriate in this location. This current residential allowance was provided by code even before the city's significant investment in the new transit infrastructure and before it developed this exciting vision for mixed use in a vibrant waterfront in the OMSI area.
 So the recommendation appropriately preserves OMSI's current allowance for residential conditional use. The recommendation also supports the language and intent of the Southeast Quadrant Plan to develop mixed-use, high-density, vibrant and safe station areas that complement but do not conflict with industrial operations.
 And to maximize the development opportunity presented by a new transit to have higher employment densities and a diverse mix of uses.
 The recommendation delivers on these objectives by allowing for a vibrant mix of uses that will represent and respect nearby industrial uses. And then finally, the BPS recommendation leverages both that investment in the Telecom Crossing and OMSI's long history of community contribution as a major employer, an anchor business, and a public attraction in the Central East Side for more than 20 years.
 conditional housing is a tool to help develop an employment district that is diverse, market-driven, and attracts investment. This is an unprecedented opportunity for the Central East Side to capitalize on all of the assets to create the signature district for the city. So we appreciate the thoughtful deliberations of the Planning Commission on this matter, and we request that the city accept their recommendation to permit EX with housing as conditional use in the OMSI area.
 The remainder of our comments are contained in our written testimony that you have. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your participation. Susan, welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Susan Pierce, the chair of the Hossford-Abernethy Neighborhood Association, and my comments are representing that body. Our hand is, as you may know. We...
 along with everyone else, appreciate the hard work of the staff and the volunteers on the SAC who worked to put together the Southeast Quadrant. I was the representative from hand to the SAC. We have long recognized the importance of the Central East Side Industrial District, which is the Southeast Quadrant, as a
 place for innovation and creation of goods and services, unique within, as we heard recently from Commissioner Blumenauer, it is unique within the United States to have this type of a district in the central city. It represents jobs, and I think the gentleman in the last panel who talked about how quickly things can get from the central city to points of use.
 The following headlines that I'm reading from what you have in your hands are hands matters of import as the nearby residential district.
 in not a particular order of importance. One is that there be protection for the existing homes, the older homes that have been in the industrial district since before it was an industrial district, that they be protected from the conditional use, non-use curse that makes financing for any project difficult to impossible.
 Next, that the EX zone or EXD zone, that that happened in the Clinton Triangle, and that it would allow mixed use, mixed income, commercial and residential development opportunities.
 I am thoroughly confused now after the conversation about Amendment 4, but what I do want to emphasize is that Hand expects to be at the table of any discussion about how that develops. We do definitely support the idea of mixed income, mixed use in that site.
 There also should be open spaces and public spaces within the triangle. It was important to hand members. We do not want to find ourselves overwhelmed or looking at our westward vision be a solid mass of brick wall. We don't want to wake up one morning and find that to be the case. That is a result of...
 high building restrictions as well as high FAR that suddenly there's a wall of brick. So we would ask that things be designed in the way that they were in South Waterfront so that there are view lines, view corridors. Am I making myself clear? The planned infrastructure project at...
 Southeast Powell in Milwaukee, and may I say that quite some time ago I said, has anybody talked to ODOT? That structure project will help a lot to make access to the Clinton Triangle improved. However,
 It may also worsen an already very difficult situation in terms of safety for pedestrians and even bicycles and even automobile cross traffic on 11th and 12th and demands for traffic management on southeast 11th and 12th. It's critical.
 We think a light, a traffic light at Harrison is the minimum of what can be done. We have some other thoughts, and we would want to be part of any conversation about what takes place there. The concept of the Greenway is appealing to all of us. Thank you.
 The conversation should not end about where it is and what it looks like. It's not complete. There's much to be discussed. We have some ideas that are kind of bubbling up through the neighborhood, and we want that to continue beyond the adoption of the quadrant. Again, what it will look like and where the alignment should be, and we want to be at the table. Okay.
 We have long supported access to the Willamette River for the multiple uses such as boating, Susan Lindsay's swim, we have a hand board member who also is a swimmer, use of watercraft. We fully support that along with preservation of natural resources and the habitat that the river provides. We also support river transit services.
 as long as those other uses can be protected. We have, for years, worked collaboratively with the Central Eastside Industrial District, and in general, we support the comments that you received from Debbie Kitchen.
 So, Susan, thank you, as always, for thoughtful testimony and detailed. And since we're trying to simplify things today, I just want to make sure I understand one of the points that you raise about affordable housing at the Clinton Triangle. Now, Dan, would you correct me if I'm wrong, but...
 part of that packet that parcel is a fire bureau property correct and i believe you've already either stated your intention or or we've taken some action to put a covenant on that property so that it will in fact be developed as affordable housing and then would therefore be subject to the set aside is that correct correct
 I just want to make sure that we're clear on that. And that's not the entire triangle, but it's at least been decided as to the Fire Bureau portion of the triangle that, in fact, it will be prioritized for affordable housing. And I think I've said that in my – I didn't say that earlier, but I said that in my notes that the Central Eastside urban renewal area has an 18 percent as a –
 opposed to the otherwise 30% set-aside, and this is a good place to spend that money. Susan, we like to say it's a floor, not a ceiling. It's a floor, not a ceiling. That's perfect. The set-aside, so at least 18%. At least 18%. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
 Okay, let's call one more panel of four people, and that is Peter Stark, either Brad or Jonathan Molson, Ian Studi, and either Deborah Dunn or Pia Welch, whoever's here in each case representing your organization. Either Brad or Jonathan Molson. Either Brad or Jonathan. It's coming to that. It's coming to that. I mean...
 No, not going to get two for the price of one. We're going to take one. We'll take any member of the Malden family. We'll let them sort it out over the kitchen table. All right. Welcome. I think, Peter, you may be on first. Peter Stark. I'm here representing the Central East Side Industrial Council. I'm also representing the Transportation and Parking Advisory Committee, which is the TMA for the Central East Side, and that was my role on the SAC. Okay.
 First of all, I thank you for taking testimony, and I also want to make sure to give an extended thank you to the planning staff, Susan, Joe, and Troy, for a momentous effort with a number of staff, including other bureaus, PBOT in particular, BES in particular.
 This was a lot of work. It was about three years of effort for many of us and a lot of time and commitment. And having said that, I want to say that this is really good work. I mean, we should really applaud what they've done. And I sit on a lot of different committees. This one was one of the most interesting. And I guess maybe I'm a little bit more outspoken than others, but I think that the end result is pretty close to where we need to be.
 So all of the amendments that have been proposed have actually addressed many of the concerns that those of us on the Central Eastside Industrial Council have weighed in on, including the Morrison Bridge ramp. Clearly we're concerned that we have the ability to maintain freight access from the bridge. We would add that including southbound access, northbound access is also important on Nino Parkway, but that's implicit in the way that this thing will be designed.
 The language of page 3-3, item 4, talking about active transportation, I think the language is good. The amendment addresses the concern which I think was just poorly phrased, but we didn't want to lose the priority of freight in the district by placing active transportation above it. We want to have active transportation, we just didn't want to forego the freight piece.
 The green loop is an interesting one and I think the reason that the central east side spent so much time trying to get that language correct is not just that, I mean we support the green loop and so do the neighborhoods, it's to make sure that there's an opportunity to explore different ways to apply it in the district.
 And it may not be a single alignment. It may be that we have the pedestrian piece of it along our housing and commercial corridor where it would be appropriate, and we put the bike lane somewhere else. Maybe it's on 7th where it currently is. But if you put it all in one spot, that could have an impact on freight. We just want some flexibility to figure out how to make it work so it works successfully.
 A couple of other pieces noted in the CEIC letter that weren't mentioned specifically. The marine commercial overlay, I just want to mention that I strongly support the ability of the river to accommodate both freight and commerce. And I think that with the demise of the CRC, the city should be looking at maybe some kind of a system that gets Vancouver reimbursed.
 workers down to Portland and vice versa, I think would be a benefit. The marine commerce overlay could accomplish that or some other tool to allow more access to the river for freight and commuter service. The EXD expansion, that was also mentioned in the letter. There is concern about
 continuing to erode the industrial sanctuary south of Division Place. We can understand adding EXD around the station area, but moving farther south all the way to Powell Boulevard takes that whole area that's currently IG1 potentially with an EOS overlay away from the table. And that's in the letter. And then the accessory parking, which is something that the TPAC, my committee, is working on,
 We hope that there will be, you know, some clear language, hopefully today, that will allow us to open up the ability for private parking lots and lots that are currently vacant but potential lots to use for parking. We're desperate. There's a lot of growth in the district. It's wonderful, but we're going through growing pains.
 It really comes down to deviling the details. I mean, reaching the point where we need to figure out those pieces. A couple of just final points, road changes. Even subtle changes have a significant impact to freight. I'll give a couple examples. Taylor Avenue or Taylor Street, there was, to accommodate the go block development, there was a loss of about two foot of lane on that street, and this went in front of council.
 The problem is that impact may have forced that owner to vacate that site and find another location elsewhere. So I'd like to work with Steve Novick and PBOT to see if we can maybe adjust the standards so that we try to maintain certain access rather than reducing the lanes. Another one is Taylor. That's already been mentioned by Dan Yates.
 And we've met with Art Pierce and his staff, and we've met with PBOT a few times. I think this plan came through when they developed the light rail alignment. I think that was part of that plan, and that's where it was overlooked, but I'm not sure. The problem is by reducing it to a single lane where traffic is trying to pass each other is a potential nightmare. And you could have bicyclists getting hit or ongoing traffic getting hit. And if you expand to the EXD...
 It makes it undevelopable. So there's a conflict there, and maybe the city needs to buy some right-of-way. I mean, I don't know, but there's got to be another solution found that doesn't reduce the opportunity to develop. Troy's comments on adjacency concerns is real, and I think that this will come down to the detailing aspect. We need to protect the ability for industrial businesses to do business in the district. And I think you already mentioned when you talked to Debbie that,
 Right now, just saying that there's an understanding may not be enough. We have to have authority when a complaint is raised to be able to say, yeah, but they're doing everything legally. It might be a little bit noisy, but they're allowed to do that. We're really sorry you're in an industrial district. We need something, I don't know if it's a policy, but something that allows those businesses to continue to do business.
 Lastly, I'd like to say that the TMA, the TPAC, has been a successful tool. And I thank Council for supporting that effort and the policy to allow a TMA. And I just think that, you know, we're kind of an experiment. We're lagging behind what the Lloyd District's been able to do, but we've had a lot of successes. So thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Just on the noise issue, tomorrow, are you aware of the proposed change to the noise regulations to put EX into the commercial-type zone restrictions? No. So there's a hearing tomorrow. You're invited back. So what happens when you have EXD adjacent to an IG-1?
 That's a good question. That's something that we'll be talking about tomorrow. Because, you know, if I could... Well, time is going by. I'm expecting it to be a first reading tomorrow that we'll have some more discussion, so you could maybe watch from home. Thank you. I invite you to participate in that discussion because it was one of my questions about how would the proposed change affect the Central East Side. Thank you. Who's next? Thank you.
 Jonathan, go ahead. All right. Thank you, Mayor Hales, or Jonathan Malson. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm going to keep my comments pretty short. I want to echo what all the other previous stakeholder advisory committee members have said about BPS staff. It's really been a pretty amazing process. I think we started seemingly pretty far apart.
 And we really came together with what I think is a pretty measured plan to expand employment opportunities and what really is an employment-centered district. And, you know, on behalf of my father and I, we've had an incredible opportunity to work in the Central East Side and develop, you know, close to half a million square feet in the existing employment opportunity sub-area, which is –
 why I'm up here and talking is to promote the expansion of the EOS across the district. We've seen just tremendous job growth, not only in our buildings, but in other buildings that were more or less abandoned in the district.
 coming in with new industries. And these are, you know, in large part, our industrial users. We have, you know, incredible companies filled with peers of mine that are, you know, creating, you know, creating code, building software, websites, prototyping, actual hardware. It's a really diverse array of companies that we've been able to get to know in our buildings and see locate in adjacent buildings, and for the most part,
 Those companies that we do business with and we come across really enjoy the kind of grittiness of the district. They don't have issues with the adjacency of industrial users. You have a coffee shop next to Empire Rubber, which is very much an industrial user. And there's a lot of, I think, you know.
 positive things that are happening in the district and not a lot of conflict. And I think that's evidence in what Troy said relative to, you know, the lack of kind of this exodus of industrial users out of the existing EOS. So I just wanted to, you know, emphasize, I think, the opportunity that we have with the expansion of the EOS to get
 more growing businesses that are really new dynamic industries, both, again, digital media, software. TAO is in the district now in one of our buildings. So I think it's a real opportunity to expand employment in what really is...
 INDUSTRIAL AND EMPLOYMENT CENTERED DISTRICT. I ALSO THINK THAT SOMEWHAT COUNTER TO OUR OWN INTEREST, THE EXPANSION OF THE EOS IS GOING TO BRING ON A LOT OF COMPETITION FOR NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN THE DISTRICT THAT COULD DRIVE DOWN RENTS.
 and allow the district to maintain some affordability for more traditional industrial users and makers. So I think this idea that the expansion of EOS is going to lead to a wholesale gentrification of the district is not accurate. I think it actually could allow for continued and longer-term affordability throughout the district with more supply. Okay.
 Thank you. Thanks for articulating that argument. I've been weighing that one carefully myself. I know we're going to hear from people about it, but you really believe that the expansion of supply of non-maker space, if you will, will allow the maker space to remain? I think so, yeah, absolutely. Good. Thank you. Appreciate that. Yeah, take me next. Just pull that microphone down a little closer to you.
 Pia Welch, Vice Chair of the Portland Freight Committee. I know we're running out of time. I know you can read our letter. I want to say thanks for consideration for some of these amendments and taking action.
 into consideration are changes. I look forward to continuing to work with Troy Doss and other people. As we work out a lot of the details, Carrether Street is a safety issue. The loading and unloading, everyone talks about parking, and they forget about the loading and unloading of materials and how that's done or not done. And so, again, look forward to further refining this plan. Thank you. Thanks for your help. Sure. Ian, welcome.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor and City Council. I'm here today. Again, just push and let go. Not yet. Try that again.
 I mean, Carlo will bring in the reserves. Try another mic. There we go. Oh, I see. There we go. It was running out of power. I guess so. Well, hopefully we won't. Thanks for waiting for my comments. I appreciate the opportunity to speak today. I'm Ian Studi. I'm the chair of the Bicycle Advisory Committee, and I'm here to offer some comment from the committee. First of all, like everyone else, we really want to acknowledge the efforts of PBAA and the BPS staff.
 Their efforts to address, you know future transportation and mobility needs within the central east side are critical and we see this plan as a tremendous step forward for the district and
 The plan as presented today largely reflects, I think, our shared vision for a future Portland where people are safe no matter what mode they choose. However, in the spirit of aligning this plan with a shared commitment towards safety, there are some, there are a few, there's one minor change we'd like to propose. And this is sort of housecleaning. And I think, Peter, you mentioned that the language is a little awkward to Chapter 5, Section T33.
 This really relates a lot also to the city's Vision Zero strategy. As presented today, T33 states that to pursue implementation actions that enhance the safety of cyclists, but that do not conflict with efficient freight mobility. Unfortunately, this statement can easily be read as directly prioritizing the movement of freight over the safety of people biking. I think we can agree that simply isn't acceptable when we're talking about prioritizing safety at every level in our city.
 We propose this section be amended to read, pursue implementation actions that enhance the safety and comfort of people bicycling while avoiding impact to the essential movement of all other modes. This proposed language is identical to language that we've agreed on with the Portland Freight Committee and the Pedestrian Advisory Committee in relation to the TSP.
 I know this is kind of a minor kind of housekeeping issue in some ways, but it's one that's important Especially given recent conversations here at City Council I want to underscore that we're very supportive of the southeast quadrant plan As a whole the minor change to language around transportation will bring the plan into proper alignment with our shared vision for a safer more prosperous and more livable City
 I want to thank again the PBOT and BPS staff and members of the Planning and Sustainability Commission as well as all the stakeholders involved. Their hard work and commitment has really resulted in an excellent plan. I also just want to add that our committee is also very supportive of the Green Loop. We've looked at it quite a bit. We'll be looking at it as this progress on the Green Loop continues, and I want to underscore
 and kind of dovetail with some of what Peter mentioned, we are really excited about the opportunity of the Green Loop and open to the idea that it may be not particularly one alignment. But I also want to add that it really should be something that works in concert with a network that serves bicycle and pedestrian movement, but that the Green Loop is not necessarily the only method by which we will move people through this district. As Troy mentioned, 23% of...
 trips by bike in the adjacent neighborhood to this area. That's phenomenal. It also is when we look at our goals from the Bicycle Master Plan to the Sustainability Plan for the city, we know that we have a target for those numbers to go up. And this district and others around it will have to carry a great deal of that weight based on just the geography of our city. So I think we have to look very closely at the Central East Side and how it will meet our safety needs as those numbers continue to grow.
 Thank you. I can make a suggestion because we're going to lose Commissioner Fritz, probably a quorum, and Mayor has signaled or said we're going to go to another hearing date. On what you describe as a housekeeping matter, I'd love to see that in writing, and I'd like to get some commentary from BPS on that and the stakeholders, and it sounds like we could take that up at the – Yeah, I've started flagging issues. I know they have, too. I think –
 I'd like to see the specific language and then understand how, if at all, it impacts the freight mobility piece and how it fits with our Vision Zero. But it's easier for us to do that if we have something in writing and get some commentary on it. Certainly. Yeah, happy to provide that. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Okay, let's go to the SAM sheet, please. Okay. I believe we have 25 people left. The first three, please come on up, are Willie Lewinson,
 Ken Klock and Kelly Roy, and they'll be followed by Brad Molson, Mike Redman, and Jose Gonzalez. Good afternoon. Go ahead, Will. Good afternoon. Hey, guys. Nice to see you. It's been a pretty heady conversation about business and commerce today. I had a chance to look over this document.
 I'm not sure who the audience is intended for, but I always find it interesting how there's a picture of the Willamette River in all these documents and there was one page dedicated to the Willamette River waterfront and on that page there was no discussion of access to the Willamette.
 I'd like, I have a lot of points that I'm going to submit that are kind of housekeeping items. Just suggestions about how to make the document better in terms of how to create better access to the Willamette. Just, I felt the central plan did a really good job of really putting intention out there to create access. And I feel like...
 Although there are some points it isn't as pointed and directed as the central effort I'm hoping that we can take some of the language from that document and carry it forward and make sure there's more intention I It was great to hear the neighborhoods speak out and say that like to have beaches and better access to the willamette and
 I just want to emphasize that hopefully you guys will take the opportunity to read over the comments that we made. Over the last 11 years, there's been seven planning efforts related to the Lambert River. The question is, why aren't these things happening? Why aren't there greater access? This is an opportunity to put some concrete things in this document that will hopefully allow that to happen.
 And there is a lot of talk about habitat in regards to the Willamette, which is awesome. But I would suggest that that should coincide with access for people. Because if there's not a corresponding amount of access as there is to habitat, then...
 Less enlightened people might just trample through these areas. As it is right now, swimming is occurring in downtown Portland actively. I mean, people are swimming off the light boat dock on the south side of the Hawthorne Bridge and the north side of the fire boat dock, through Audre McCall Beach. It's happening now. So I would also emphasize that...
 One last as the central effort I'm hoping that we can take some of the language from that document and carry it forward and make sure there's more intention. I, it was great to hear the neighborhoods speak out and say that like to have beaches and better access to the Willamette. And I.
 Just I guess what really want to emphasize that hopefully you guys will take the opportunity to read over the comments that we made and so that Over the last 11 years. There's been there's been seven planning efforts over the last 11 years related to the Lambert River So the question is why aren't these things happening? Why aren't there greater access? this is an opportunity to put some concrete things in this document that will hopefully allow that to happen and
 and there's a lot of talk about habitat in regards to the Willamette, which is awesome, but I would suggest that that should coincide with access for people. Because if there's not a corresponding amount of access as there is to habitat, then, you
 Less enlightened people might just trample through these areas. As it is right now, swimming is occurring in downtown Portland actively. I mean, people are swimming off the light boat dock on the south side of the Hawthorne Bridge and the north side of the fire boat dock. They're at Audre McCall Beach. It's happening now. So I would also emphasize that one last point is that...
 There was a quote that said that parks doesn't officially have a plan to address swimming, paraphrasing. And when they get a chance to do it, they'll do it. I mean, I would just say that this is happening, and there's a certain responsibility that comes with cleaning up a river to the point that you can swim in it. And one of those things is creating safe areas.
 Avenues for people to get into the river, so there's a lot of communication that says it's safe to get into the river but there's no direction about how to get into it safely and That's really important. So thanks again for Looking at my comments do please submit those in writing too because as the council deliberates on the document and suggested wording changes Or additions for that matter why we don't get those from you when you can please great. Yeah, thank you very much welcome Yes, Ken clock
 And I guess I'm not a polished speaker, but I have some thoughts and some feelings from industrial manufacturer in the southeast area. I think there's a disconnect at the moment in the sense that a planner earlier in this meeting said that southeast industrial area is successful in its own right today and we want to protect that.
 And yet a couple of weeks ago, I was talking to another manufacturer there, and he said flat out to me The city doesn't want us here, so I guess it doesn't really quite gel A lot of folks have put a lot of time into this plan and it recently received a unanimous recommendation from the Portland Planning Commission Though to be sure those involved today have a vested interest in the plan I have a manufacturing business in southeast industrial sanctuary my family has operated this business in several locations and
 in Southeast since the 1950s. I read the plan, it's a large document, and I've looked at the maps and the renderings, and there are a lot of good intentions there. When studying the plan, I can't escape the feeling that what I'm being told seems slightly disingenuous based on what I see. I'm told that the plan will support and strengthen the growth of existing industrial business. What I see is a considerably reduced industrial area. In fact, I see islands of industrial area that will be completely surrounded by planned housing.
 I'm told that truck freight will move more efficiently. In fact, I see new bikeways, bike lane barriers encroaching on already diminished industrial streets, as well as a green loop three blocks wide that extends from the Banfield freeway on the north to Division Street on the south, effectively splitting the industrial area in half and further hindering industry traffic.
 I'm told that the plan will support and strengthen the growth of industrial existing businesses. In fact, I see major challenges for any industrial business attempting to remain here. There will be complaints from new housing residents from the plan, despite the so-called disclosure waivers that they are to sign, and the city will be left to sort these complaints out. A tremendous emphasis in the plan revolves around dedicated and encroaching bike lanes and pedestrian access.
 And these are not compatible with industrial traffic that is moving efficiently. And it would only increase the danger for all of us. That means everybody in the whole area. The plan has many pretty renderings that I call the ghost of Southeast future. It has lofty headings advising me, advancing equity. It could be like Sunday, parks every day, and imagine. The reality is I can't imagine an existing industrial business surviving this plan.
 While I'm not foolish enough to think that my testimony here actually matters, there are some basic facts that need to be addressed. May I continue? Chair Greg Musil, Yes, briefly, please. Keep going because I'm going to have a couple questions for you. 35 years ago, the city proclaimed Southeast Industrial Sanctuary and invited an industry here. Our business stayed, many more came, and seemingly it was a good relationship. But now we really find out that we're not your child, we're actually a stepchild.
 It is a very slippery slope to consciously dilute industry in this area while trying not to dilute it too much. There are things that you don't know and honestly could never know about Southeast Industry. What depth of interaction the businesses have here, what binds them together here, what encourages them to stay, what will make them leave. There's a critical mass of business required in order for industry to thrive.
 Other businesses you manufacture for, that manufacture for you, that provide local services or purchase materials from, there is also a critical efficiency required, whereby local businesses rely on unencumbered local street system in order to back trucks in, to unload, load out, send employees out to pick up local supplies, parts, etc., and all in a timely manner. When critical mass or critical efficiently cease to exist,
 An industry business will relocate elsewhere, again, decreasing critical mass. As I said, there are things that you do not know about Southeast industry, things that you can never understand. They're not in a book anywhere. They're dynamic. Even if you can't fully understand Southeast industry, you should attempt it and even more importantly allow for it unless of course what I'm being told in the plan is really an illusion.
 Well, I guess let me make a request instead of asking a question. It's not our intention to adopt an illusion. We're trying to deliberately adopt a plan. I understand that. So my request, I guess, for you, you've probably already done this, but I guess I'd ask you to do it more, is to turn around and get together with Debbie Kitchen, who chairs the Central Eastside Industrial Council, and tell us what amendments you want to see in this plan to get the future that you want.
 because it's not our intention to chase industry away. And so the planning, this committee of your peers and the staff have worked all these months to try to get to that point. It's an earnest effort. They may have not gotten it right, but there was nothing disingenuous about it. So now it's time to get down to words on the page and colors on the map for us over the next year of exactly what zoning should be there. And as I said earlier, I have been of two minds about whether this –
 overlay for employment should be on the industrial zoned blocks or not.
 My jury is still out on that question, even though there's a recommendation. If you think we shouldn't apply the EOS overlay to the whole district, say so. And that's something the council needs to hear. I guess the other thing, I don't know if you've been here in the last few years because I don't remember if you have. Sorry. But lots of times this council will have one citizen come in and say something useful and will change something.
 We'll do it here, too So don't feel like you said something about you're not sure if your testimony would matter believe me if you came here often you Would see that happen often where one citizen comes in and says something Cogent and we say wow that's new and we change a document or a plan or a decision So this is not a done deal. It is a recommendation it's a recommendation that obviously has a lot of agreement behind it so that has some weight and
 But if you have some suggestions for how we defend and maintain existing industry in the district, we want to hear them. And again, I would recommend just for purposes of time rather than you and I walking out on which box should be which zoning is spend some time with Debbie, who's the chair of your district and say, we need this. Well, I mean, my family's had a business there since the late 50s and I've been working there for 45 years and I'm 64 years old.
 I've never been to city council meeting yet in my life, and I've never been in this building. Well, welcome, and we hope you come back. And again, I'm serious about this. If you've got suggestions that you want us to change in this document, there's still time. I think the overriding thing is if you're serious about this,
 protecting the industrial area that's there now, everything that is done there has to be balanced with that question above it. Does this protect industry in this area that we already have? What's the name of your business? Clock Associates. Pardon me? Clock Associates. Do you have some daughters who work with you? I have had a daughter that's worked with me, yeah. Okay.
 I thought you were here once testifying, but anyway, I echo what the mayor says. Yeah, do. Let us know what you think we should change because it's a proposal. We're not simply here to rubber stamp something. That would be my suggestion. Everything needs to be prefaced with that if you're serious. We are. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. I'm Kelly Roy, the owner of ADX and a member of Portland Made.
 Thanks for all of your work on this plan and all the staff's work on this plan. I think you're aware from some of our previous testimony that Portland Made represents over 200 makers and manufacturers. Of the 100 members that were surveyed last year, they create over 1,000 jobs and over $270 million in economic activity.
 And our membership has multiplied by five times just in the last year. So if you do the numbers, 5,000 jobs, a billion dollars in economic activity. And we believe that our membership doesn't capture everything that's being made here in our amazing city. So I'm here to represent what is called the maker movement and makers. And we consider the definition of makers as people who make physical goods.
 They're not software developers in technology. And despite the desire of technology to be in the warehouses in the central east side, we need that valuable infrastructure for this growing movement in our city. They provide valuable working class, middle class jobs. And those are the types of jobs that I'd like to see the city support.
 We did a survey of our members, and there's a need for over 150,000 square feet of additional space for manufacturing. And they're unable to find it in the central east side primarily because of real estate values being driven up.
 And a lot of the manufacturing space is being converted to creative office. So in that vein, we're very concerned about the employment overlay and we actually think there should be an expansion of industrial zoning to accommodate more makers and more manufacturers because this movement is growing. So what's the maker movement?
 It's the legions of artisans and craftspeople and entrepreneurs and doers who are reinventing and reshaping artisanal manufacturing, one handmade product at a time. It's the people who are starting businesses, developing products, honing their skills, and offering support and sharing tools and knowledge with each other.
 The maker movement is gaining momentum across the globe, and everyone is looking to Portland to uncover the who, what, why, and how of this critical resurgence in artisanal manufacturing.
 As the founder and owner of ADX, I've had the good fortune to be at the helm of this extraordinary movement. I'm actually in the midst of writing a book, which I've given you information about. So the book will be written, not only about the long history of manufacturing that we have in our city, but the next generation of manufacturers who are in the Central East Side and in need of this space.
 So the amendment that was put in front of you that was from me and ADX was crafted by Troy Doss, and it is a good start. However, it isn't comprehensive. We need a full inventory of existing warehouses in the Central East Side. We need an inventory of the makers and manufacturers, including the number of employees that they have.
 that they employ, the revenue that they generate, whether they own or rent their buildings, and the amount of growth they're experiencing. Because in our surveys, we see nothing but rapid growth, increase in employment, and increases in revenue for the city.
 And then we also need the tools that we can use to protect and preserve the warehousing and manufacturing space in perpetuity because it's a critical part of our local economy. So we're looking forward to working with you and staff. Thank you.
 to uncover some of those tools but we think that the overlay zoning is a very dangerous road to go down and it will put a lot of pressure and put a threat on portland's growing maker movement which is really gaining international attention um are you two are you two in agreement
 about this? Well, I think so. But let me pose the same question back to you that I posed to Mr. Mawson, and that is, well, let me play his argument back and get you to respond. He made essentially a supply side argument, if you will, that if we apply the EOS overlay to the whole district,
 More of the vacant properties will get developed. Some of the vacant properties will get developed as creative office, and that will take some of the pressure off the remaining buildings that are used for manufacturing projects.
 Do you not believe that? I don't see any studies that back that up. Maybe it would be helpful to engage someone like Joe Courtright to do an economic analysis to see if that plays out. I did not see that play out in the Pearl District. I've been in Portland for over 20 years. Well, the Pearl District got zoned CX. I mean, that's a different story. So the question is rather here...
 which strategy best preserves affordable space for makers? I think there's no one in the room that doesn't want to do that. Well, maybe there is, but we don't. We want to preserve affordable space for makers. But I'm hearing two arguments. One is hang on to what you've got.
 If Steve was here, he would tell us who did that song. Just hang on to what you've got. And therefore, keep that industrial zoning. Don't have the EOS overlay on those buildings. And that will give the makers and manufacturers a chance to hang on because they won't get out-competed. The opposite argument is those spaces are already getting bid up and that the best way to keep them is to release the pressure elsewhere.
 You're right. It's an economic question. It's an economic question, and I don't think we have the answer. I think what we need to do first and foremost is make sure that we protect this environment
 really valuable investment that we've made as a city that you know manufacturing infrastructure does not come cheap the amount of electrical Distribution that's required the amount of plumbing and airlines that are required It's really hard to do that in new development and keep your costs affordable So that's why we're requesting an inventory of existing warehouses existing businesses
 because these businesses are already being pushed out of the district, and we're losing those valuable warehouses to tech companies that want to use them as office spaces. So it's a really...
 It's a real opportunity that we have to do a comprehensive inventory. And I know this plan has been going on for two years, but this movement has been rapidly growing in the past two years. And it's continuing on that trajectory. So we're just looking for those creative mechanisms for protecting and preserving industrial uses, again to support working class jobs. A lot of tech jobs are not working class jobs.
 jobs, middle class jobs. We are really big proponents of supporting people who don't necessarily go to college and need employment opportunities and manufacturing and this movement provide those types of jobs and so we want to see that protected. Kelly, let's assume we had the inventory.
 Can you give us a preview of what some of those tools are? And I know your handout alludes to at least a co-op model and some strategies for actually acquiring and holding. Yeah. You know, we're pretty prescriptive around here when we talk about anti-displacement, anti-gentrification. We do that at the front end now, but we're very prescriptive. This is a little...
 This is a little loosey-goosey. So what are the tools we're talking about, and what are the actual tools for which we have funding to implement?
 Yeah, well that's a good question. I mean there are other people struggling with this in San Francisco and New York. There's a handout that I gave to you about commercial land trusts that are being formed, commercial co-ops that are being formed. But we can take some hints from land trusts and land banks. We want to protect wild lands. There are mechanisms that we can put in place.
 And so I think we can look to some of those tools that are out there and apply them to industrial land. I think they're just now starting to be applied in that way in different cities around the country. We were fortunate enough to be a part of a national roundtable at the White House where cities from around the country were providing best practices. And many of those are in hot markets, hot real estate markets.
 So, we're available to help with the research, come up with the tools, but we think that protecting and preserving needs to come first and then we figure out the zoning that allows for the development of vacant land and whatnot after that. And you would anticipate a substantial amount of public funds to lubricate this effort to acquire and .
 I think it could be a combination of public and private funding. We've got a lot of examples around the city where public sector and private sector come together around things that we value, and the city affordable housing being one of them. So I think we just apply some of the similar tools, but to industrial land. Just one other question. If your worst fear was realized and there was displacement,
 Where are makers likely to go? Well, we see a number of makers and manufacturers have been pushed over to the Northwest Industrial District. We have seen some makers get pushed out to the suburbs, but then try to come back to the Central East side.
 But we would certainly lose them in our city and all of the employees that come with it. I consider the people that are making these kind of artisanal goods a huge part of our culture as a city. They're artists first and foremost who have figured out how to develop a business and a manufacturing company out of that business.
 They're investing a lot of money and a lot of resources in the buildings in the Central East Side. So, you know, I imagine they'd go to Oregon City, Gresham, other industrial areas outside of the city.
 But I think as many people have pointed out in previous testimonies, this is a really valuable thing that we have in our central city, and it's perfectly timed with this movement where there's a huge demand for industrial space. So we have what we have existing and this opportunity to expand upon it. Another big opportunity is to make everything more visible, doing factory tours...
 showing the general public what's being made in our district from Gamblin art paint to Grove made iPhone cases to fashion lines like make it good and Nell and Mary to food products like Olympic provisions and
 distilleries. All of these are kind of manufactured items and they need manufacturing infrastructure so it's a really rich mix of businesses but I would just say that the you know the threat of this creative office use that the office overlay or employment overlay allows for more of
 just takes a lot of these cool warehouses out of production, and that would be a huge loss for our city. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. I apologize. I have to leave. I have a family commitment. So I think we can continue for a while with the three of us, and the two of our colleagues can review the record. So let's keep going. The next three are Brad Molson, Mike Redman, and Jose Gonzalez. Yes.
 They'll be followed by Sarah Tunstall Diana Dana Hinger and John Bollier Thank You mayor and City Council um I won't take very long, but I think I'm gonna change what I was gonna say, but first of all I want to thank I want to thank BPS and
 for all the effort and all the people who volunteered on this on the southeast quadrant plan there's a lot of people who are passionate about the city and passionate about what happens and I guess I want to comment about the past and the future and I think really I
 I think there is an evolution going on in the central east side as well as the greater city As opposed to a revolution and we know that there are districts that have been That have quickly changed from one to another pearl is a great example but I think what Kelly's Referring to as the makers there are a lot of makers who there's a absolute explosion of people designing and making things with 3d printers and
 that occurs in more of the office setting. So I think there's really kind of a really interesting blend between industry of the past and industry of the future. And I think what Kelly tries to preserve is absolutely necessary, and we should pay attention to that. But I don't think we still need to pay attention to where the future is and where these creative design jobs, these small manufacturing jobs are. And we see these in all of our buildings. We...
 And I think the most important thing I want to say about the Central East side in particular is that we don't want to close the door on a lot of the opportunities coming there and a lot of the kind of creative firms coming there. And if you think back 10 years ago, Jonathan has...
 pointed out this many times that we didn't even know what an app was 10 years ago and now Apps run a lot of things what will it be in another 10 years? So in our in our desire to look at what the future is We have to keep the door open as much as we can at the same time. We need to pay attention to the legacy of
 businesses, the industrial businesses, including Mike over there, who we've arm-wrestled many times about and listened to and good friend. And I think coming from New York, I've watched this evolution happen where you get the
 the changes going on in districts and neighborhoods and how they conflict and how they orchestrate and how they do this very interesting tap dance between businesses and residential and new types of businesses. I think it's just part of the evolution of the district. So the plan is great. I think the most important part is that people work to find the areas of compromise. We paid attention to trying to protect the businesses
 We paid attention to trying to protect the makers. We paid attention to trying to predict what the future needs are going to be and to try to find some way of addressing most of these concerns. So thank you very much for the time. One thing about this process that's been striking to me is that
 Despite the strong feelings throughout there. We're at a moment where there is some consensus Grudging consensus yes, maybe that in some cases the best kind of consensus because no one's particularly happy But but but since the mayor raised the question I want to pose it to you What what is the consequence if we scale back significantly the proposed expansion of the EOS? You know I don't know I?
 I just feel that there is a certain amount of, there's an egalitarian kind of approach to people in the district want to be able to
 have uniformity, have consistency, have the ability to improve their buildings. A lot of these buildings, and a lot of the buildings that Kelly's referring to, require a lot of upgrade to make them work. So that's part of the city has... I mean, some of the things we could certainly address is how we deal with seismic, how we deal with improvements, what triggers the expenses and...
 So I think that we, I would hate to shut the door, especially when all the stars are aligned right now. Interest rates are still low. More, an incredible number of business individuals want to start businesses here. The Central East Side seems like one of those places where we invite people to live out their dreams a little bit. Yeah, I...
 Well, I won't respond to that, but I want to flag something for Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Saltzman. I think this discussion is a preview of some other discussions that we're going to have in the comp plan, and that is in order to get the outcome that we want, the future that we want, the shaping of this huge wave of growth in the way we want,
 Are we going to be more directive or more permissive than the plan has been in the past? For example, in a housing context, and Susan and I have been talking about this, right now you can build row houses in R2.5. Sometimes that happens. We might want in this plan to say you will build row houses in this zone. We haven't done that before. We've just said you could build row houses, you could build apartments, you could build homes.
 And that's kind of this issue. If we want traditional industry, do we say that's what we want here, or do we allow the market, as you just articulated, that's been more of the Portland approach, is to allow the market to figure it out. The CXD zone downtown, you could build a hotel next door, you could build an office building next door, you could build a housing project next door. We care a lot about the design, and we'll regulate your floor area and your density.
 So it's a big philosophical planning question that's going to really get to be serious.
 on several fronts in this plan, and maybe this is the first real clear iteration of that for the council, even having already looked at the West Quadrant, I think this is raising that issue of are we going to be very specific or are we going to let the market play a broad role? And I don't think there's a right or wrong answer, but there is a choice. Well, Mayor, in light of that comment, is it your intention to potentially propose more amendments between now and the next hearing? Yes, not necessarily my intention, but certainly to allow them.
 Good. Okay, thank you. Jose, welcome. Well, thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, commissioners. My name is Jose Gonzalez. I'm executive director and founder of Milagro. And I'm honored to represent the CEID Creatives, a coalition of arts and culture organizations and practitioners, artisans and makers who have a vested interest in the future of the Central Eastside Industrial District.
 In May, CEID creatives testified to the Planning and Sustainability Commission regarding concerns we had on a number of issues impacting work, affordability, environmental health, public safety, and visibility for arts and cultural activity in the area.
 There were some strong results coming from that meeting. One was our willingness to collaborate with the city and other bodies in addressing these issues as well as to contribute to the aesthetic plans for the area.
 And the revelation, thanks to Commissioner Oxman, that arts and culture is only briefly discussed in the Comp, Southeast Quadrant, and Central City concept plans. These few mentions would seem to indicate that arts, culture, and creative activities have not been seriously addressed with much depth or adequate representation from the creative community. We can do better.
 For this session, we have submitted a list of process and action recommendations, gathered through a series of public meetings, and shared with members of the Central Eastside Industrial Council, of which we are also a member, CEIID creatives, and other interested parties. These recommendations continue and expand upon those presented before the Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 We envision a thriving, flourishing, creatively infused neighborhood, one that serves to elevate Portland's position as one of the leading cities in the nation for creative and maker activity. And we support the Southeast Quadrant Plan, even though it's not fully formed, but are committed to working to seeing that realized in conjunction with the other plans of the city. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Afternoon mayor Gelsman, I'm creative woodworking Michael Redmond. I've been here in Southeast industrial area for 35 years Starting 82. I started in a thousand feet. I was a maker. I grew into a city block That's kind of some of what we hope some of these makers will end up doing is that they will be
 They'll incubate something, and then they'll be able to grow into their art and their craft of what they do. One of the strongest things that we are advocating for is we industrial businesses in the Central Eastside Industrial District need to have the same freight priority that we started with. We need that secured. I think you're going to see a lot of things fall into place naturally if you keep this in place. But I'm getting ticketed right now.
 So there's a contradiction. And this can be fixed real easy. So if we can just keep that, then you're going to see these people stay. You're going to see me stay. And you're going to see people come into the district because they can get their freight in and they can get their freight out. And please, don't make us get a permit. I never had to have a permit before. Other industrial districts don't have a permit. That would be awesome. I can just see that working. We need to be able to load and unload in the street like we always have.
 And that's exactly primarily what I'm saying, okay? Now, I was told by the permit department I can't have a permit on Taylor. I have two doors on Taylor. I can't have a permit on Salmon. I have two doors on Salmon. That's what your guy said to me. So can we fix this, please? Then we'll stay. And I think the reason you're hearing some people say that we are being forced out, I've never heard anybody say that they want us to leave. And I can't say that we're being forced out.
 But as I get cut a thousand times by a parking meter guy, it feels that way. That can be fixed really easy. So we're in an IG-1 zone. Troy, thank you for keeping it that way. Thank you for, you know, all the work that's been done. And they did listen to us because we were at all the meetings. I brought my kids. I got four kids that are taking over my business. They work there. My daughter's 18. She testified here when we tried to keep the street open.
 At the width it was, but it is what it is, and we're working with Andersons, and they're doing a great job. So I think we can survive that construction next door. But with that being said, please give us some teeth to work. Don't let anybody complain when they move next door to an industrial zone. You guys could fix that.
 You know where you moved, everybody else is happy, that one guy that's not happy, he gets nowhere. And move back out to the country or something. Can I just clarify something? Yes. We have lots of powers, but we actually don't have the power to prevent someone from complaining. Well, I mean, they can't legally make me move though. If you have an insight into that, I would want to get a consultation. It would help me in my marriage and with my two teenage children.
 But just a little insight on that. I mean, it's late. We've been here a long day. We actually have a lot of people come before us who live in the Pearl, for example.
 who say that there's too much noise from the bar that's in the building below them. But they move there. Or something. And from time to time, we have these discussions about what is it to live in a dense urban area, and when you bought your place, we were aware that there was a grocery store around the corner and the like. So we can't actually ban people from kibetching, but I get your point that we can make sure that people understand that there are certain uses which are allowed, and with that comes...
 accommodations and you're going to get a little more noise or something. So consider that or maybe get double pane glass or... Yes, and I think that in their building, they're building it quieter next to a border of an IG-1. But the fact is, is that the disclosures you're coming up with, just giving it strong understanding that you know where you moved, there's a bar there.
 You don't like it. We're not going to make the bar move. But you did make the church stop ringing its bell. You are considering a lot of these other things. Somehow these people get heard, and then the church can't ring its bell no more. And I don't understand that. So anyway, if you could help us. I hope we never did that. I don't know who did that, but it did happen in Northwest. And then the issue with the trucking is the bikes. Okay, so I don't have a problem with Salmon being a bike lane.
 The only problem I have is if they have priority over my unloading. We were there first. I was told to move there. Troy zoned it, IG-1. No, I mean, you know, I mean, everybody's understanding that we want to keep this this way. So can we somehow get a priority so we can all work together, love each other? I'll move as soon as I can and let you by, but you don't have priority. You came into my district. Please, you know, consider that. And keeping us there, that'll keep us there. I don't have to move.
 They tried to come and buy my building and move me to Northwest Industrial District. I tried to make it work. It can't work right now. You know, I can't make it work. I can't afford to move, even with the cost as high as they are. So...
 You know, again, that's our only problem. So I really love what you guys are doing, and I think Kelly's issues can be solved. We work for all the ADX people. They go to ADX, they learn how to do something, they come down to us, and we professionally help them take it further. And I've been working for Brad for 20 years. By the way, can I just say, what you just said about the bikes and the traffic. Priority. Well, my son and I took a bike ride through your neighborhood over the weekend, and we're going to do it again.
 And I guess I'm now ‑‑ I'm sorry Steve's not here because there's some questions I'd like to put to PBOT about how we square vision zero, safety, and then these priority uses. Yeah. Because, for example, the city from time to time encourages people to go off of main thoroughfare, go on a low impact road because it's safer. Yeah. So we map it. Mm-hmm. And we stripe it. I like it. And we say, you know, better to be there than to be on a high traffic zone. Yeah.
 This may be a philosophical question, or maybe I think it's worthy of a bigger conversation, but does Vision Zero compel us to create a level playing field in places where we understand that one use is less useful and there are greater risks, or does Vision Zero require us to be more creative about finding a protected route so that bikes, which are always getting the short end of this, right, because they're exposed, as opposed to someone surrounded by 3,000 pounds of whatever,
 are encouraged to take a safer route. And as you mentioned this, I'm thinking, I'm not sure why are we even prioritizing one or the other. Why aren't we saying one is basically a truck route and find a place that's safer for bikes because we don't want to create those conflicts because we know who usually gets the short end of a conflict like that. And I don't know that Vision Zero compels us
 to put a square peg through a round hole, but that's a conversation I think we should have. I would hope that we would go back to when we grew up and we were told that we had to look both ways before we cross the street. And yet today, a biker is told that he has absolute priority and he isn't looking out for himself like he could be. So I think we go back to education and then I really don't believe you're gonna stop the bikers from going down the road they wanna go and I don't have a problem with that. I don't wanna say that I don't want them on salmon,
 I would like to try to make it work with everybody and look at reality, human reality. They're going to cross, they're going to go. And I would just like them to understand that there could be signage that could say that you're entering into an industrial zone. Red painted stripe signs that say this is a dangerous area. Go ahead, proceed with that. Let's educate them, proceed with caution. How about a win-win? Bring your boys on by. Would that work if there was a caution?
 Could it, Nick? Maybe so. But let's not continue that discussion now. But I'm glad you got it on the table. You've got our full attention. Yeah, that's a good point. Thank you all very much. Okay, let's take the next. The next three are Sarah Tunstall, Dana Hinger, and John Bollier.
 And they'll be followed by Mike Leftonich. I think we're going to lose a quorum after this panel, so we might have to continue after that. Dana's not with us, so if there's another person we can add. All right. Who's the next person? I'm sorry. Mike Leftonich. Mike here. How about Tom Rocha, R-O-C-C-A? Oh, Mike is here. All right. Come on up, please.
 Well, we'll take the four of you, and then I think we're going to have to continue after that because we're going to lose a quorum. Mayor, is there someone from the Pellett family here? I don't think so. I was hoping to put a question on the record about the park that's being proposed. Right. Well, obviously, we're going to continue the hearing. We might want to ask them specifically to come. So, Sarah, why don't you go next?
 I'm Sarah Tunstall, co-owner of Spool Town. We're a small run sewing factory in Southeast Industrial and we work with 80 to 100 different clients every year. I just want to tell you the story of Spool Town a little bit, how we got into the building that we're in and what we sort of see as the future of this plan. I think you all have done a lot of really wonderful work and I commend you on that. My main concern is with the employment overlay.
 what that would mean to a new startup small manufacturing business. So Spool Town started four years ago, and we started in a building of a business that we spun off from and moved into the Central East Side two years ago. And we really landed in the building that we were in kind of really fortuitously and by the generosity of the building owners who are working
 you know, blue collar bootstrappers. And they recognized that that's what we were doing with our business and wanted to sort of give us a hand in growing our business. And I think it's one of the real reasons that we were able to get into a 5,000 square foot warehouse in inner southeast that really needed no work to it and we could just move right in. It had all the power that we needed. It had compressed airlines run to it. It had electrical drops for all of our machines. All of those things were really critical to us.
 They're things that would have been extremely expensive for us in a new build. And so we needed that kind of old warehouse space to be able to move into. And so my main concern is that the employment overlay would directly pit us against tech companies competing for the same spaces.
 My feeling is that there's no way that we could afford the same spaces that those tech companies can afford. I think that Skip Newberry, who was up here earlier talking about that, was really getting to the point of why those warehouses are really interesting to tech companies. There's kind of a gritty industrial feel there, which is great. It's super cool, but it is also necessary for running a manufacturing business. And those warehouses already exist.
 and I think it's pretty critical that we protect them and are able to maintain them for startup businesses. I think that, you know, when I started Spool Town four years ago, it felt like it would be difficult to start that business. I feel like it would be really difficult now. I think that if we were competing against the same, you know, tech companies for the same buildings, I don't know if we would be able to have a business that now, you know, employs employees
 18 different people and is growing 40% a year. I'll just leave it open for questions. Thank you. Well, that's pretty clear. So, I mean, you obviously are in the camp that believes, and again, we're having this debate here among ourselves, but the council as well.
 It's better to protect that space, in your opinion, by not allowing competition for that building. Yeah. Okay. I think so. I'm glad you made that observation, too, what you just said, because I was struck when I asked Skip to list the three factors that were compelling. His first one was aesthetics, and your first one is functionality. Totally, yeah.
 Yeah, I mean, I think that over and over we think about what would happen if we couldn't be in the building that we're in. You were talking to Kelly about that a little bit earlier, and where would we go? And I think that it's a critical thing for Portland to consider as we grow is where can you have a factory if the only people who are in those factories are tech companies and they're manufacturing software? It's not the same as manufacturing a physical product.
 and there are real logistical requirements for that, and they already exist. The infrastructure is already there in these warehouse spaces. It seems silly to waste the money to try and rebuild that and to try and do it at a cost that I don't think that we could afford. Thank you. Well said. John, welcome. Thank you. Mayor Hales, city councilman. My name is John Belier. I am the past CEO of Stacey and Whitbeck.
 and currently chairman of the board. Our company has an office on the inner southeast side, and I live on the southeast side. I'm here today to talk about the infamous Amendment 4 that you've heard so much about today, so I'll be very brief. I know we've already talked about it quite a bit. I think all I'd like to say is that we did propose that language, but it came because the work that had been done, we thought that, you know, we...
 Overall, we support the recommended draft plan as presented and particularly we strongly support the recommendations of the plan to include the Clinton Triangle in the Central East Side. We are the large property owner there on the Clinton Triangle. It's just ironic that two years ago nobody was really paying attention to that property and we've worked with the city and the other bureaus about ideas to reshape that area.
 Going without the master plan perhaps and of course with your approval that that should be accepted Was just something we were following out of the Conway Development idea so I think you know I sitting here today listening to other public comments that have been made
 If it comes down to that, you want a master plan, then that's certainly something we would follow through with. It would add time to it, of course, and in any business world, any development world, time is, interest rates are low, as Brad said earlier, and we'd like to be on the forefront instead of on the tail of a development opportunity. But if that's what's required, then we'll do it. We have had a lot of interaction with the city already on the property there. We've come a long ways.
 I don't think, I mean, the idea of low-income housing, I'm not going to say it was my idea, but it was one of the ideas that I brought to the table before I heard anybody else mention it. And I'm still a big proponent of it. I think it's a great concept for that area. And it's just a fascinating piece of property that, like I said, has gone overlooked for a long time. And whatever comes out of Amendment 4, if we're successful in crafting a better language, then that would be great. That's all I have to say.
 Well, your situation is a little peculiar, and it merits more discussion, I think, between you and the council and the bureau. And that is when we talk about OMSI or the Blanchard site or the post office, we're talking about a single property owner. In the case of the Clinton Triangle, we're talking about you, the city of Portland, and actually three or four other people, right? Because there's some small parcels in there as well. So who does the master plan?
 I don't know the answer to that question. So we ought to talk that through and understand that when we say to Conway, you must do a master plan, they can plan for their own property. So can OMSI. Obviously, it would be a little absurd for us to require you to plan for our property with a master plan. So I'm not quite sure how this gets resolved. I appreciate your flexibility. This is a different situation than those others.
 I will say that your piece of property has gotten more attention from this council than any other piece of property in the City of Portland. So on some level, I'm delighted to actually have you here talking about it because it seems to be the third hearing or fourth hearing where it's come up. And it has some special magical power, apparently. But the Fourth Amendment that has not been yet put on the table but we're debating does, in the amended language—
 suggest that if there's a clear vision, you mentioned a moment ago that affordable housing could be a portion of it, but if we dispense with the requirement of a master plan in the event there's a clear vision that's been embraced and comes to us for approval, do you have a sense of what that vision could be? There are a number of issues. What do we put this way? What is your vision for the property? I think the simpler pieces to say, you know, listing in order would be affordable housing, number one.
 commercial and some residential in that order the property itself we own the small triangle that's jammed up against powell and the railroad and the city owns the beautiful piece of property on the on the frontage roads there there's utilities in the way there's not good access at powell and 12th i mean there's just a lot of issues to decide before anybody can really come together with a cohesive plan everybody keeps asking us for a plan but we don't we there's a lot of unknowns out to
 be discussed, vetted, and decided. And once those are worked out, then the plan, I think, becomes much easier to do. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. This one? That's fine. I actually have a one-page handout. Was I supposed to submit that earlier? You can just give that to Carlos. She'll give them to us. Thank you. So I'm Mike Letnich, and I am a business and property owner. And I wanted to talk about the green loop and specifically the bridge over Interstate 84.
 However, before getting to that, I would like to say that I do support the EOS overlay. No one wants condo towers, but this overlay seems like the just right evolution for the district. So, regarding the green loop and the bridge, I think a lot of people are in favor of the green loop, so this might be a little bit redundant. But I've given you a handout that's an aerial photograph that was taken in 2007, and it shows the property that we manage highlighted in yellow and the two potential bridge locations.
 As a reference highlighted in pink is where the Hasolo development is happening in the Lloyd district. We have about a dozen tenants that work in our buildings.
 They are a mixture, I think a really good diversity of what essentially side is all about right now. We have software, we have photography, film production and design build shops. Our business is also a design build business. We moved there 15 years ago and sort of became accidental developers just because we were lonely because all the buildings were vacant around us.
 We have roughly 300 to 400 jobs, depending on seasonality, just in the two buildings. And I want to say that roughly a quarter of those ride their bikes to work. All the bikes are stored in vertical racks inside the tenant spaces. And I figure at least 80, maybe 100 cars are not shoehorned into the streets of the Central East Side because of that. I think that we would have more commuting by bike if bike infrastructure is improved.
 Sure, there are diehards that will ride on busy streets with average visibility, but most people aren't going to do it if it doesn't look and feel safe. Portland is known as bike friendly, but other cities are passing this up because they realize that it attracts young, smart people, the lifeblood of a city's future. I hesitated to say this, but I did live in New York for four years, from 07 to 11 when we were trying to start an East Coast office. And I actually commuted from Brooklyn to Manhattan daily.
 And I want to say that the infrastructure there has improved really quickly. There's protected lanes and cycle tracks all over now. And that's kind of the competition that I think Portland's having with bike friendliness. Anyway, our buildings are at the south side of the proposed bridge. The city and the planning department have our full support.
 This is a vital underpinning and catalyst to the whole green loop, and we hope that it's not just in the 20-year plan but the five-year plan. We do realize this is an expensive investment, but so are parking garages, and in a way so is Portland's reputation as a place where it's nice to live and work. Thank you very much. Appreciate that.
 Well, again, I'm sorry, I think we're going to lose a quorum here, so I'm sorry we're going to have to continue this hearing. Let's take a moment, if we can, and make sure when we know that is. I think it's July 29th. Was there an amendment to number four that was drafted by staff? I think if we're going to a second hearing. Yeah, we'll have time to look at amendments. They'll have time to bring that up. Thank you very much. Thanks, John. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you, Sarah. So, yeah, I think we should make sure we know when we're going to continue the hearing to. So July 29th at 2 p.m., does that work?
 Okay, so again, for those of you that signed up today, obviously you'll remain signed up. Sorry that you were not able to speak today, but we'll take you first if you're here on the 29th, and we'll continue both the public hearing and then get to council discussion of potential amendments. If, by the way, those of you who haven't gotten a chance to speak yet are still here, I'll give you the same request that I did to the folks that were here, and that is if you have suggested language changes or additions or deletions or anything else,
 do try to get those to us in writing in advance. And that way the staff can prepare a matrix of potential amendments that the Council can consider. It doesn't mean we can't consider something new that day, but it just helps keep the work organized. So if you can get recommended amendments to us in advance by getting those to the Planning Bureau, I assume to Troy Doss's attention,
 then the rest of us will be better prepared then. Mayor, can I add a comment to that? Please. You know, it's one thing that's clear to me from today is that there's kind of a delicate balance in terms of the package that's been presented to us, and I'm getting a sense that everything's connected, as John Muir would say. So we're talking about, you know, potential changes to this plan, but it –
 We're going to have people cheer us and boo us depending on where they are and how they view the world. So what I would ask, in addition to any amendments we have from the community to be considered, if there are any substantial amendments with respect to EOS overlay or anything else, I would hope that we would get those at least a week before the hearing so that we also have a chance to,
 to pick up the phone and call Susan and say, help, could Joe come over and give us a little briefing, or could the team come over and give us a briefing? Because I think particularly if we're going to be making a decision at the next hearing, I would really benefit from the chance to get your feedback ahead of the hearing. So, thank you. And I guess one more reminder, and that is this plan is adopted by resolution. It's instructions for the planning bureau as they continue the process of updating our proposed comprehensive plan.
 So, actually none of this goes into effect in terms of zoning until the final comp plan document is approved by the council. We're trying through this quadrant planning effort to resolve the policy and strategy issues at the front end, then get the zoning map to conform with all those previous decisions. But nobody's zoning actually changes as a result of the vote that we'll take probably on the 29th. All right, thank you all very much. We're recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m.