Wednesday, July 8, 2020 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, good morning. Can you please call the roll? Good morning, Mayor. Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. Under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending.
 remotely by video and teleconference, and the city has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. The meeting is available to the public on the city's YouTube channel, eGov PDX, www.portlandoregon.gov slash video, and channel 30. The public can also provide written testimony to the council by emailing the council clerk at cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov eGov.
 The Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and to promote physical distancing. The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your patience, your flexibility and your continued understanding as we manage through this challenging situation to do the City's business.
 We do not have communications nor today. So we will go with the time certain item first. That is time certain item number 521, Carla. Second reading. Or we can have the city attorney read the rules. Oh, yeah, I forgot. That's like the best part of the whole meeting. Go ahead. Who do we have here today from the city attorney's office? It's Lori. Hey, Lori. Good morning. Morning. Good morning.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda at PortlandOregon.gov backslash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify yourself.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. All right, good. Thank you very much for that, Lori. We appreciate it. First item, Carlos 521, time certain second reading.
 re-adopt remanded ordinance for the Central City 2035 plan and amend the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan map, transportation system plan, Willamette Greenway plan, scenic resources protection plan and zoning map, authorized adoption of administrative rules and repeal and replace their central city plans and documents.
 Very good. Thank you, Carla. This is the second reading. Obviously, we've had extensive presentations and public testimony on this item. Is there any further business before we call the roll? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. I want to start by really appreciating the very thorough testimony that we received in relation to updating the Central City Plan
 I'm very mindful that in 1972, which was the very first time we thought about what does downtown Portland look like, I suspect that the diversity of participants were a lot different than they are today. As we imagine what Portland's central city will look like in the year 2035, there's some things we know absolutely.
 What we know is that English probably will not be the primary language spoken in the central city, in the city of Portland. What we know is that there will be people from a whole host of ethnic communities that have never had the privilege. Well, I won't say never had the privilege, but certainly not in 1972 when we started this process, were not actually valued members of the table, I will say.
 What I know is that people come to what the city of Portland should look like from a lot of different perspectives based on their lived experience. I will tell you that a plan is a document. It is what you do with the document that determines whether or not the plan lives up to the values that you espoused. And my view, we have done a remarkable job
 updating the Central City Plan in a way that I hope will lead to a much more equitable outcome by 2035. Doesn't mean that our work is done. It doesn't mean that this is the end of the conversation. We must continue to have this conversation with a whole host of individuals.
 I find it a little ironic that a lot of people's reasoning for not wanting to make changes was because of their belief that there would be a racially disparate outcome. And I have to kind of giggle at that because I don't know if you've been paying attention in the central city concerned, but.
 We have a traditionally racially disparate outcome in the central city. And it is my belief that ensuring that every community takes the advantage of growth and the disadvantages of growth equally, I think this plan puts us on a track to do that. And so I am honored to support this update of the 2035 Central City Plan, and I vote aye.
 You daily. Well, I supported these changes to the comprehensive plan in 2017 and I still support them. And I want to respond to some of the testimony that we heard a few weeks ago, both for and against readopting the remanded ordinance. I deeply respect the time, energy and expertise of the members of our historic landmarks commission. My support of the height changes in Old Town Chinatown was in no way meant as disregard for the commission.
 I consider them to be the experts on these issues and the backstop for what can be built in our historic districts. However, I have a different charge than members of the Commission. As a city council, we have to weigh issues such as affordable housing and displacement, economic development, and the viability of the business district along with historic preservation considerations. This was the context within which I made my decision.
 The Old Town Chinatown Historic District is somewhat unique as a historic designation as the, sorry, the historic designation is cultural rather than architectural.
 I want to make it clear that I absolutely support this historic designation and would not have supported these amendments if I had evidence that development at the proposed heights would threaten the historic designation. I've enjoyed this neighborhood since I was a child. I worked in this neighborhood as a teenager. Members of my extended family, Ruth and Louis Stratikos, did business in this neighborhood and their names are on the Chinatown Gateway. And I patronize many businesses in the district to this day.
 This neighborhood has been struggling for decades. Some successful businesses have recently moved out of the district to relocate elsewhere, and I fear for the recovery of the district post-COVID. Old Town Chinatown needs investment and development, both commercial and residential. Little of either has happened despite the considerably higher height allowances in the previous comprehensive plan.
 We heard from some community members that affordable housing is not needed or wanted in the historic district. Affordable housing is needed everywhere in our city. More market and luxury rate housing is decidedly not. We have a shortfall of tens of thousands of affordable units and a surplus of market and luxury rate units in the thousands. To be clear, when we were talking about affordable housing and private development, we were talking about...
 units at 60 to 80% of median family income in a city where market rate housing is unaffordable to anyone earning less than 120% of median family income. This is workforce and student housing. This is housing that would be affordable to many of the essential workers who are currently risking their health to serve our community while struggling to afford market rate rents.
 I would have never supported these height changes if I believed they could pose a threat to the Lanzhou Chinese Garden.
 I was pleased to hear that Lansu no longer has concerns about potential negative impacts and that the Old Town Community Association also supports readopting the remanded ordinance. My intent with supporting the height change adjacent to the garden was to give as much flexibility to the developer as possible on that site, knowing that any negative impact to the garden would require revisions.
 Finally, I want to thank everyone who gave testimony in support of our green roof standards. It was my pleasure to work with community advocates and city staff to develop what at the time were the strongest green roof standards in the country. I don't know if that still stands. But thank you to BPS staff for all their hard work on this, in particular Joe Zender for taking the time to regularly brief our office. I vote aye.
 This is a sad day. The first Central City 2035 plan adopted by the Council in 2018 was the culmination of years of robust public process through stakeholder groups in various quadrants and numerous hearings at the Planning and Sustainability Commission and at Council.
 One of the primary reasons I voted no on the original plan and why I vote no today is that the council made a decision to cater at the final hour to a single developer's request for additional height on block 33. This action undermines the careful staff work to explore conflict of interest around zoning changes and height allowances, ensuring that no developer represented on an advisory board was inappropriately rewarded with height increases. If you check the history books, this was a problem.
 We heard from many proponents of more heights in the area who have actual or potential conflicts of interest that were sometimes declared, sometimes not. More significantly, Council's decision to increase height on five of the ten blocks in the new Chinatown-Japantown Historic District erodes years of public process and design guidelines to right-size the district. I share a core value with my colleagues on the Council that we are in need of affordable housing options that serve all Portlanders.
 particularly those who are low income and at risk of displacement. And I also understand from the Old Town Chinatown Community Association that they also want market rate housing since there's so much low income housing in the district already.
 As we heard in the testimony in May, out-of-proportion development threatens the historic and cultural integrity of the new Chinatown-Japantown district. In order to be recognized, a historic district has to be large enough with existing buildings still intact. As we heard from our historic landmarks chair, we're ignoring the most basic principle of design guidelines, which is compatibility with the original historic buildings. This
 This means we should be measuring massing and height against historically significant buildings, more in the range of 1 to 7 stories, not 15 stories, and on 50-foot quarter block lengths rather than the 200 full block lengths. A 200-foot height allowance will mean that the new construction overwhelms existing quarter block buildings original to the district, some of which are in dire need of repair and restoration.
 Despite the revised findings, I believe this decision erodes the city's investment in the historic Chinese and Japanese American communities in Portland, undermines the role of the Historic Landmarks Commission, is out of compliance with Comprehensive Plan Policy 4.48, and ignores the guiding principles the city adopted for this fragile historic district.
 I thank Clare Adamson, my senior policy director, for her outstanding work on the Comprehensive Plan and Central City 2035 Plan, even while she's currently deployed to the Emergency Community Coordination Centre.
 I also honor Lynne LeReece and Lauren King in the City Attorney's Office. It's unfortunate that the findings try to explain how incompatible heights are compatible. It's unfortunate that the City Attorney was asked to justify the Council's last-hour decision and that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability refused to reconsider the Council's hasty spot zone or to compromise with historic preservationists. Thanks to community members who testified today,
 particularly Kristen Minor and the Historic Landmarks Commissioners, Lynn Fuchigami of the Japanese American Cultural Museum, Jackie Peterson of the Portland Chinatown History Foundation, Peggy Moretti of Restore Oregon, and Steve Dottere representing the Architectural Heritage Center. In my opinion, this decision does not honor the Chinese and Japanese heritage of the new Chinatown-Japantown district. No. Wheeler.
 Central City 2035 lays the groundwork for Portland to continue to be a thriving economic, cultural, educational, as well as recreational hub for the region in the coming decades. And if the last several months have taught us anything, it's that change is inevitable. And I noted in an article this morning that
 talked about some information that had been out there for quite some time. Based on median household income, there is not a single neighborhood in the city of Portland that an African-American family can afford to live in. Not a single neighborhood. So when we start talking about other important values, for me, sort of a baseline question is, are those things important
 if our city is not accessible by all of the people who actually want to live here.
 And so that is also something that's on my mind. This is a balancing act. There was nothing easy about this. Balancing the needs for housing, the needs for cultural and educational and recreational opportunities, balancing the needs for an economy that doesn't just benefit the few that are fortunate enough to be able to live in this city, but actually thinks about prosperity as something that can be shared broadly amongst all members of the community.
 not only today, but in terms of where we think this community is going to be in the years ahead. The plan, I believe, is a bold one. It carries on the tradition of previous plans that resulted in transforming Harbor Drive into Waterfront Park, a parking garage into what is now Pioneer Courthouse Square, sometimes referred to as Portland's living room, and of course, Brownfields into the Pearl District and the South Waterfront.
 What this plan does differently is that it sets the stage for a vibrant, equitable, and healthy city core. The plan helps us realize our goals for more affordable housing, yes, but also increased resilience in the face of climate change and economic recession, and better jobs and more of them thinking more broadly.
 oddly about who can gain access to those jobs. In other words, we've really broadened the scope of planning in the city through this central city plan. The plan proposes a mix of old and new industry in the central east side, stronger safeguards of our iconic scenic views, and a deeper focus on our greatest natural feature, one that has been far too long neglected, the Willamette River.
 During this readoption, we heard a lot of testimony about the effect of this plan on the Chinatown-Japantown district. The council finds that the evidence presented was not persuasive to show that the Pacific Tower increased height in the district had or will have adverse effects.
 And we see the Pacific Tower supporting the preservation of nearby historic resources by returning residential living to the district, filling in the street wall, using the consistent exterior materials, and now increasing the potential for nearby contributing resources to achieve economic viability for both rehabilitation as well as reuse.
 I want to thank everyone who's been part of the 2035 process over many years. I also want to thank the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for guiding the city through this thorough planning process over the years from a basic concept plan to quadrant plans to the initial adoption and now this re-adoption of the overall plan.
 And particularly, I want to express my gratitude to Andrea Durbin, who is at the ECC this week, and her team, Joe Zender, Rachel Hoy, Tori Das, Mindy Brooks, Debbie Bischoff, Brandon Spencer-Hartle, Nicholas Starin, Mark Raggett, and Sally Edmonds for their incredible and hard work shepherding the original process as well as this readoption process.
 I also want to thank city attorneys, Linda Lee Reese and Lauren King, for their guidance and continued attention to detail throughout this process. And finally, Kristen Dennis, Tia Williams, Cupid Alexander, and Mustafa Washington on my staff for their hard work. I voted aye on this previously. I'm happy to vote aye on it again. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you.
 Next item is the consent agenda. Has any item been pulled off of the consent agenda? Yes, Mayor. We've had a request for 525. 525. Let me just circle that there, Carla. And could we please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda? Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye, the consent agenda is adopted. Now we'll return to the regular agenda. Carla, could you please read item number 531? Adopt emergency temporary limitations on the fees third party delivery services may charge restaurants during the COVID-19 emergency. Excellent, thank you. Commissioner Udalli, why don't you kick us off on this, please?
 So Carla, first of all, I'd like to move to accept the substitute exhibit A sent out in the Tuesday memo. Second. Thank you. My senior policy advisor, Andreas. Before you do, you're open a lot. Why don't we so I don't forget, why don't we have vote on the substitute? I think we were wanting to receive testimony before. Okay, very good. But we're not.
 Correct. Okay. Yeah, thank you. My senior policy advisor, Andres, will be providing more context for this amendment during his presentation. So if it's all right with everyone, we'll wait to vote on the amendment until after testimony. I'll now turn it over to Mayor Wheeler, who has graciously agreed to co-sponsor this with me before I give my opening
 Thank you. In case anybody wonders, Commissioner Udaly and I did not make the dress rehearsal for this earlier today. So thank you, Commissioner Udaly. I'm proud to co-sponsor this item. And of course, I've heard directly from dozens of people in the restaurant industry about their struggles to keep their businesses afloat. In addition to the fact that all of their customers are.
 are asked to stay home. We've heard of the immense disadvantage that these delivery apps present for a restaurant's ability to stay in business. I've asked the community to help us identify the unique ways that the Portland City Council can support our local small businesses, and this rose to the top. And I hope to have all of our support on this because it's truly important. And with that, Commissioner Udalli, I'll turn it over to you to invite up our panel.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm very excited to introduce this ordinance. In response to calls from our Asian Pacific Islander and restaurant communities, we are proposing the strongest COVID protections for restaurants in the country. Local restaurants are a vital community asset that of course provide food and jobs and contribute to the culture of our city.
 This ordinance protects restaurants who are struggling during COVID by setting fee caps on third-party companies. Caps are set at two tiers, a 5% cap if the order is delivered by the restaurant or picked up by the customer, or a 10% cap if the third-party company delivers the order. Here to present on the ordinance is my senior policy advisor, Andres Oswald.
 Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. For the record, Andres Oswill, Senior Policy Advisor for Commissioner Chloe Udaly. We developed this ordinance with APANO and the Portland Independent Restaurant Alliance. These are trusted community partners who have raised concerns about the fees restaurants are charged by third-party food platforms during Prosper Portland's COVID listening sessions.
 These organizations work firsthand with restaurants struggling to stay afloat during the COVID pandemic and economic crisis. Here to present some of the qualitative firsthand experience of restaurants in the Jade District is Jenny Lee, Papana's advocacy director.
 Good morning. Thank you so much, Mayor, Commissioners, Andres, for the opportunity to speak with you this morning. My name is Jenny Lee, and I am here, and also a registered lobbyist with the City of Portland, speaking on behalf of APANU.
 So virtually every Portlander treasures our food scene, but for BIPOC and immigrant residents, our restaurants are essential anchors of community. They are gathering places for families and elders, they serve the food we grew up eating, and they create wealth, jobs, and economic opportunity.
 Right now, it's these cultural and community assets that are at imminent risk of closure. APANO is based out of the Jade District, the heart of Portland's Chinese and Vietnamese immigrant communities. With the pandemic, we have already suffered losses of irreplaceable community anchors, such as Wong's King, the site of so many family gatherings and celebrations for Chinese Portlanders. And I'm sure many of you here today share some of these memories.
 We need to be sure that our remaining restaurants have a fighting chance at making it through this crisis, and we have an opportunity to do that today. If our businesses fail and leave, the community will leave as well. Protecting our local restaurants is a critical anti-displacement strategy. We are grateful for the investments that the city has already made in our local businesses, and this ordinance is the next step we need to keep these restaurants afloat.
 At Apano, we advise small businesses in the neighborhood, and we have heard countless stories. Just one of our clients, Pure Spice, is representative of many of these. Owner Chingua Tan faces delivery fees of 25 to 30%. And as a result, she can barely pay her rent, her food costs, or her workers.
 Other restaurants have tried and simply have not been able to scrape by. They've exhausted themselves by attempting to prepare and deliver food themselves, and this is simply not sustainable. Their only option is to close, hopefully just for now, to stop losing money. Other Jade District restaurants have considered signing up for delivery services, hoping for a way to survive, but found that there was no way to break even, given the fees.
 And it's not just the Jade District. BIPOC businesses more broadly are some of the most impacted and their closures will represent some of our city's deepest losses. They have the least bargaining power with these platforms because they often serve meals that are affordable to many Portlanders. And these are the same businesses already facing systemic inequities as they are the most shut out of white dominant systems of banking, access to capital and government assistance programs.
 It's up to our city to ensure that out-of-state corporations can't take advantage of the desperation of our small business owners. We can't risk relying on the benevolence of these platforms during a crisis. These delivery systems are indeed an important service, and that's all the more reason that we need balanced regulations that level the playing field during this pandemic. By passing this ordinance, you will help establish a lifeline for these important cultural assets.
 Thank you for your consideration of this measure and your ongoing commitment to supporting Portland's BIPOC and immigrant-owned small businesses, and that we hope that you will take action today. Thank you. Thank you, Jenny. Next, to share more on the quantitative reality of Portland restaurants is Katie Conner, an organizer with the Portland Independent Restaurant Alliance. Thank you so much, Andreas. Hello. My name is Katie Conners. Thank you for the council for having me here today on behalf of the Portland Independent Restaurant Alliance.
 We'd also like to thank Commissioner Udeli's office for working with us and APANA for supporting us every single step of the way. To local small restaurants in the city, this ordinance represents a potential path of survival. We understand the extremity of this crisis. Every day we are witnessing restaurants of every kind close indefinitely and we expect the number of closures to grow exponentially in the coming months as PPP money runs out and as diners decrease, as unemployment rises.
 The Independent Restaurant Coalition performed a study recently that found that 85% of independent restaurants may not survive this crisis. We need your help.
 We support the emergency measure taken by the state and the city to protect our communities. One of the first actions PIRA took as a group was to ask Governor Kate Brown to close our dining rooms. We understand that the safety of the community and our teams is dependent on the limits set on on-premise dining. But we need another sustainable source of revenue to allow us to continue serving the Portland community.
 From the data that we have collected, we have found that businesses using delivery services are paying an average of 25 to 30% on commission on every transaction ordered through these platforms. Most of them have not been able to negotiate these commissions successfully. And even though there are temporary measures taken by these companies to help during the peak of the COVID-19 crisis, most of these measures of lower commissions are now expired.
 Since the expiration of these lower rates, many restaurants have opted out of delivery completely because they simply cannot afford the commission. We understand that delivery services are essential at this time and want to be able to offer it to our guests, but not at the expense of the sustainability of our businesses.
 Right now, every sale counts. Every dollar counts. In data collected by Wompley, who is tracing transactions at open restaurants and bars to document the effect of the economic crisis, it was found that Multnomah County restaurant sales are down by an average of 77% compared to the same time last year.
 At the end of Q1, Uber Eats national gross bookings were up by 52% compared to last year, for a gross profit of $4.68 billion. On July 6th, it was stated by the company that they were up more than 100% in bookings year to year. We understand their need to come out against this ordinance. They are beholden to their stockholders and therefore must fight every chance that their market value may dip. To these third-party multi-billion dollar companies, this is business as usual.
 We are fighting in favor of this ordinance because this business environment is anything but usual. Without the cap on these commission fees, the greed of out-of-town corporations will forever damage the vitality of Portland's independent businesses. If the Council takes action now and delivers a fee cap, you will not only support the restaurants of this city, you'll be supporting our teams, our landlords, and our suppliers. We are stronger together. Thank you so much for considering this. Thank you. Thank you, Katie.
 As partners, Apano and Pira helped us understand the dire situation that Portland restaurants are in, and the role that third-party fees play in this. We've tracked policies as they developed in other cities, but this ordinance was not developed until local restaurants began calling for a cap independently. Following the lead of other cities,
 We worked with our partners to develop an emergency ordinance using the strongest components of other cities' protections with an eye to cities similar in size to Portland. Keelan, if you could pull up the presentation and just let me know once it's up. Keelan, did you hear that? Carla, are you there? Yeah, yeah. Sorry, this is Keelan. I'm trying to pull it up. Sorry, just a moment. No worries. Thank you. There we go. Perfect. And if we could move on to the next slide. Perfect.
 Because of COVID, many restaurants, including long-time Portland establishments, may not survive this crisis. The threat, as Jenny put it, is most dire for BIPOC-owned businesses. The virulent nature of the pandemic has led restaurants to rely on delivery and pickup services, as restrictions and consumer confidence have decimated their ability to provide dine-in service.
 While there have been some concessions offered by platforms, these discounts have largely ended, while the pandemic continues to increase in severity. Existing agreements charge restaurants up to 30% or more per order, which is unsustainable for most restaurants operating on a thin profit margin. Next slide. Sorry, one before that. There we go.
 In response to the feedback from the Portland Business Alliance, Uber Eats, and DoorDash, we have added an amendment which creates a lower cap for companies that do not include delivery service for an order. In conversation with these delivery companies, they brought to our attention that some platforms allow customers to pick up an order or the restaurant's own delivery team might complete the order.
 in the interest of creating a level playing field, we're adding a 5% cap for orders where the third party does not include delivery service. Next slide. So with our amendment, this ordinance sets two tracks for the fees the restaurant is charged. If the order is not delivered by the third party, then the most they can charge the restaurant is 5% of the order. If the order is delivered by the third party, then the most they can charge is 10% of the order.
 Further, the ordinance prevents restaurants from reducing compensation to delivery drivers because of the cap and sets a $500 penalty per restaurant per day to restaurants to platforms that violate this ordinance. The protection would be in effect for the length of the COVID emergency and for 90 days after. The approach is responsive to the reality of restaurants.
 Until Portland restaurants are able to open completely and customers feel safe returning to an unrestricted dine-in experience, restaurants will continue to be reliant on pickup and delivery orders, and these caps will be necessary for restaurants to stay open. Before turning it over to public testimony, I want to be clear about one thing. This ordinance has been introduced for the sole purpose of protecting Portland's cherished restaurants.
 and the crucial role that they play as employers, food providers, and local businesses. As Jenny and Katie have presented, these regulations are desperately needed, and we're happy to answer any questions you have about them. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Andres, could you do me a favour on the substitute that Commissioner Udaili put forward? That is a substitute. That is an amendment. Is that correct?
 That is correct. It replaces existing in narrowest terms described what that amendment does relative to the original to the base ordinance. Yes. So the substance of it is adding the 5% cap for companies where the customer is picking up or the restaurant is delivering. It also makes minor language changes to clarify and avoid confusion about which platforms we're referring to.
 Very good. Thank you. All right. If there's no further discussion, we'll go to public testimony. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? We had two people, but I only see one right now. All right. Rebecca Cordia. All right. Welcome, Rebecca. Three minutes, please. Name for the record.
 Hi, good morning members of the City Council. Can you hear me? Yep, loud and clear. My name is Rebecca Cordia. I'm a Portland resident and a delivery worker for DoorDash. I would like to address the council today to express my concern about their proposal to limit fees that delivery companies can charge restaurants. So I recently just moved to Portland from St. Louis, Missouri, after finishing my master's degree in speech-language pathology.
 But as we know, COVID hit, so this kind of disrupted my job search. And I need extra money to help pay bills and kind of help my fiance with groceries. So I found DoorDash a good way to make that extra cash. Although the job search has honestly been a roller coaster, being a delivery driver worker has provided me with a steady stream of income during the really challenging time.
 So one of the most beneficial parts of being a delivery worker is that I can pick my own hours and I can turn on and off the app whenever I need to. So I can continue to do search for full-time work and to complete the process that I need to obtain my licensure to start my CFY year, my CF year in speech language pathology when I'm not driving. So I feel like I've made a decent amount of money that I will likely keep
 doing this work after I get a full-time job, whenever I'm not working at my job. And I feel like I'm doing the community of service by being able to deliver right now because I honestly have been delivering to a lot of elderly people, going grocery shopping for them who are not able to do so themselves. So I'm providing them meals.
 So like many other people, I need this income right now to make ends meet. And any kind of law like this one that the city council is proposing to put a limit on the amount that delivery companies can charge restaurants for delivery services would directly hurt workers like me.
 So the fees that you're trying to cap go directly to paying delivery workers. And I can't afford to lose out on much needed income because of a law that would actually do more harm than good, mostly during times like these. So thank you for considering people like me before you vote. Thank you very much. We appreciate your testimony, Rebecca. Thanks for being here today. Yeah, thank you. Very good. Is there any further discussion on this item?
 We will vote on the amendment first then. Carla, please call the roll on Commissioner Udalli's amendment. Hardesty? Udalli? Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. To the main motion, please. 531 as amended. Please call the roll. Hardesty?
 This appears to be a really good measure, especially during COVID-19. My only pause is the young woman who just spoke in public testimony. I hope that we will be monitoring to make sure that drivers are not the ones that are
 negatively impacted by this policy. I absolutely think we must pass this, but I am concerned that corporations find ways to make sure that somebody else suffers the loss. So I will vote yes today, but I will be working with
 Commissioner Udalli's office to ensure that there are no unintended consequences from this action. And I want to say to the young woman who spoke,
 Please bring directly to our attention if there's any change in your economic situation based on this action. I think many times people try to scare their employees into believing the change will negatively impact them. And so I don't have I have more trust in the restaurants than I do right now than the corporations that do.
 that are trying to take advantage of this situation. So I'm very happy to vote aye. Udaly?
 Well, I'd also like to thank the woman who came to give testimony today and assure you that we definitely have workers in mind when we crafted this item. And it includes a provision that compensation to drivers cannot be reduced. But I do have to say, if your business model is predicated on gouging
 your clients and underpaying workers, you need to find a new business model. So as much as I'm concerned about these drivers and all people who are relying on
 the gig economy to earn a living, we can't allow these companies to run unchecked and price gouge and exploit during a crisis. And that is what we are responding to. I wanna give a shout out to a few, a couple local options, Beeline Urban Delivery and CCC, which is another bicycle delivery service.
 If multinational corporations can't make this work, maybe we can make delivery work on a local level.
 So I have a number of people I wanna thank first. First, my senior policy advisor, Andreas Oswald for his quick work moving this in the past two weeks. This is his first council presentation since joining my office. We nabbed Andreas from the Housing Bureau, sorry, Director Callahan, I'm sorry.
 Thank you to Prosper Start.
 Yeah, Prosper staff for elevating this issue raised in your listening sessions, Jamie Dunphy in the mayor's office for all your support, and Adrian Del Cotto and Naomi Sheffield in the city attorney's office who worked on this around the clock to move it forward quickly. Most importantly, I wanna thank APANO and the Portland Independent Restaurant Alliance for your partnership in developing this ordinance. We could not have done this without you, so thank you.
 This policy represents the strongest local protections for restaurants during COVID. This protection lasts 90 days beyond the declared COVID-19 emergency. Even after restaurants are able to open at full capacity, they will continue to be over reliant on third party orders until customers feel safe going back to dine in at pre-pandemic levels.
 For restaurants on razor-thin margins, this provides much-needed relief. It prevents food delivery costs from being offloaded onto the businesses that make the food and ensures that driver compensation rates are not reduced. This ordinance will help ensure that local restaurants stay open, keep people employed, and continue contributing to Portland's economy. I'm very happy to vote aye. Great. Well, I'm going to turn it over to Dr. Dupre.
 Well, I'm very glad that we are finally recognizing that these companies that just provide an online platform and then benefit off the work of the people who prepare the food and the people who deliver the food are getting some restrictions put on how much they can gouge both parties. And so I honor Commissioner Eudaly and Andres and your staff for the
 bringing this to council quickly. As an elderly shut-in person, I've been very grateful to the local restaurants. And I'm fortunate that I have a son that can pick up for us from the local restaurants and also one where I can walk and they bring the food out
 outside to put in my bag for me. So other people don't have that ability to do that. And so we're grateful to the drivers and appreciate that they need to make ends meet as well. Like my colleagues will want to hear from drivers, my suspicion, as I know, is what I
 isn't the intent of the ordinance. I would imagine that the, a lot more restaurants are going to opt in now that they can actually make a profit rather than basically making pennies. If 30% is going to the company. And I,
 I'd be willing to bet that 30% does not go to the delivery person. I do hope that people will pay attention to this ordinance and recognize that the delivery people are providing a vital service and tip them generously. Also tip your restaurant as if you were eating in. And thank you to all of the businesses who are so vital to our economy and frankly to my diet for decades.
 not having to eat the same thing day after day. Bye. Wheeler.
 I want to thank Commissioner Udaly and her team for this great work. I'm proud to co-sponsor this item, and I want to thank the members of my team who are engaged as well. I believe this is perfectly in line with how other cities across the nation are helping their restaurants to get through this crisis. We are directly responding to the police and the needs of small businesses here in the city of Portland, and we're supporting the local restaurant industry
 through this time of crisis, and also I believe protecting the incomes of delivery drivers. We're leading with Portland values. I think this makes a lot of sense. I'm proud to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you all. Next up is item number 532, please.
 I appoint Kimberly Horner to the Portland Housing Advisory Commission for a term to expire July 7, 2022. Director Callahan, good morning.
 You're muted. Good morning, Mayor and commissioners. Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. It is my true pleasure to ask for your support to support Kimberly Horner on the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. Kimberly currently serves as the Executive Director for Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives, or PCRI, a culturally specific affordable housing developer and service provider serving the Black community, primarily in North and Northeast Portland.
 Ms. Horner's experience in economic development, local government, and affordable housing blended with her commitment to advancing equitable outcomes for the BIPOC community makes her an excellent candidate for the commission, and I am very grateful that she is willing to commit her time and expertise to the Housing Bureau and the city through the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. I also believe that Kimberly is on the call this morning.
 for any council members who, or if she would like to say a few words, or if council members would like to talk to Ms. Horner themselves. Good morning, Kimberly. Anybody have any questions or thoughts for Kimberly? Or Kimberly, did you wanna say a few words? I just wanna say good morning. I wholeheartedly welcome the opportunity to participate on this committee, and I am very grateful that the
 the city and Shannon has looked at me as a person that should be appointed to the committee and I hope to serve the committee well. What a little about me, I grew up in the city of Thousand Oaks my father was the former mayor of Thousand Oaks for several terms and my upbringing was spent going to city council meetings.
 From there I began work in federal government, working for Congressman Brad Sherman. And then after that, I started work for the city of Oxnard, starting as an intern and finishing my career as the economic development director.
 So I believe that my experience in local and federal government will help me bring some good contributions to the committee as well as the good work that we're doing at PCRI. So if anyone has questions for me at this time, I'm happy to answer them. Otherwise, thank you for the appointment. Very good, Kimberly, we're glad to have you here. Commissioner Fritz has her hand raised.
 Thank you for being willing to serve. I was just wondering where is Dalton Oaks? Dalton Oaks is in Southern California. It's about 40 minutes north of Los Angeles. It's on your way to Santa Barbara. Many people know Dalton Oaks as one of the safest cities in the United States, and it's been noted for that for many, many years. Thank you.
 My daughter lives down there, I bet she's heard of it. Thank you very much. And thank you again for being willing to serve. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Kimberly. I just wanted to say welcome and oh my gosh, with your background, it sounds fascinating that you are in affordable housing. How did that happen?
 When I worked in city government for the city of Oxnard, we were typically that agency as the redevelopment agency to provide the financing to developers to build affordable housing.
 And I believe the state of California made a very big mistake when they ended redevelopment throughout the state of California to shore up a $30 billion shortfall that California had back in 2011. When they did that, it eliminated a lot of the provisions that were available
 particularly the tax increment, the housing set aside piece that allowed for redevelopment agencies to pair with developers to get affordable housing built. So that was my experience working for the city of Oxnard and in housing and it's always been a big interest of mine, particularly providing clean, decent living standards for black people and people of color.
 Well, Kimberly, we are lucky to have you. So thank you for your willingness to serve the city of Portland. One day we won't be meeting by virtual reality. And I would love I bet you've got stories. I'd love to have coffee and find out more about your story. Please. Welcome.
 And I've been tracking your career too. And I very much look forward to having that coffee with you, even if it's virtual. But yes, I have tracked your career and it's been a phenomenal career ride that you've had as well. So thank you for the work that you do. Thank you, Kimberly. Appreciate that. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion? No.
 Carla, please, actually, is this a report? I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. Motion from Commissioner Hardesty, second from Commissioner Udalli. Any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty, Udalli. Well, I'm very grateful for your willingness to volunteer your time and expertise to PHAC Director Horner, and I vote aye. Fritz.
 Thank you for taking the time to be here today. It's nice to meet you even virtually. And thank you for the time that you'll invest on the Commission. It is significant and important, and I hope you find it very satisfying. Bye.
 Wheeler. Thank you, Kimberly, for your willingness to serve. This is obviously an important commission. It's our primary forum for the discussion of affordable housing policy, strategy, resources. So the experience that you bring from PCRI as well as your prior experience is critically important.
 And I look forward to both your insights and your guidance as a commissioner on this important commission. Couldn't be happier that you're stepping forward. And we look forward to many years of service and leadership on your part. I vote aye. The report is accepted. The appointment is approved. Thanks, Kimberly. Next item is 533, please.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Organic Waste Receiving Facility Project number E10804 for an estimated amount of $7,821,000. Colleagues, the Environmental Services Commission
 operates the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant in North Portland, which turns wastewater into a variety of renewable resources, including biogas. This project today is a partnership with Metro. Environmental services will take food waste collected by Metro that would otherwise go into the landfill and instead send it to the city's main wastewater treatment plant.
 It will reduce the amount of food that goes into landfills on one hand, and it'll increase the amount of biogas that BES can produce as renewable energy on the other. Here today to present the project is Paul Sudo. He's the engineering manager, and Jeff Mogg, project manager, and both of them are from Environmental Services. Welcome. Thank you for being here today.
 uh good morning uh thank you mayor wheeler for the introduction and commissioners for the record my name is paul pseudo engineering manager with bes um i'm just going to do a quick intro here that this is a project we've been working on for a few years now it's an exciting project where bes is continuing efforts to leverage the city's columbia boulevard wastewater treatment plant to increase our renewable energy opportunities
 and in particular for this project to recover waste streams, essentially, to produce more energy at the plant and for the community. So Jeff Mogg is here and he will lead the presentation and I will be here to answer any questions. I also want to highlight that Holly Sternkorb from Metro is also here attending if there's any Metro specific questions as well. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, well, good morning, Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. For the record, my name is Jeff Mogg, and I'm project manager for the Organic Waste Receiving Facility. I'm going to start a presentation here. All right, Metro has implemented regulations to reduce commercial food waste going to landfill and plans on collecting it and processing it into liquid food waste at the Metro Central Transfer Station.
 This commercial food waste consists of food scraps and expired food products, such as produce, bread, meats, and dairy. It will be turned into a liquid with the consistency of a smoothie delivered by tank or truck to the plant. We will also be allowing deliveries of fats, oils, and grease from haulers that service grease traps at food service establishments such as restaurants and grocery store delis.
 The project provides a significant opportunity to increase biogas production. The bugs in the digesters basically eat this food and produce more biogas. The increase in biogas results in more renewable energy that displaces purchased natural gas and electricity. The increased renewable energy production at the plant supports City Climate Action Plan goals.
 And this photo here shows a truck unloading at Gresham's Fats Oils and Grease Receiving Station, which has been operated successfully since 2012. Biogas will be used to generate renewable energy, electricity, and heat for the wastewater treatment plant operation, which will result in substantial savings over utility costs annually. Fats Oils and Grease haulers on Metro will be charged by the gallon for any load that they deliver to the system.
 Fat soils and grease comes from grease traps at food service establishments. In this slide, or in this picture, you can see looking down into the grease trap through the maintenance hatch, you can see that there's a baffle that prevents the grease from the kitchen going into the sewer system itself. And these grease traps are typically cleaned quarterly. Okay.
 If the fats, oils, and grease are not removed, it ends up in the collection system where it causes plugs and overflows. This photo shows an example of typical food waste. This is produce, rotten produce, and then past date tubs of dairy products. The new metro regulations will result in the recovery of 50,000 tons of food waste that will be directed to the wastewater treatment plant each year.
 The regulations are being phased in over three and a half year period, and they will first affect businesses generating 1,000 pounds a week, then those generating 500 pounds a week, and finally by September 2023, any business generating over 250 pounds per week will be required to separate their food scraps. We have a memorandum of understanding in place with Metro at this time, for mutual development of a commercial food waste processing system.
 It defines roles and responsibilities, timelines, and communication protocols. An intra-governmental agreement is expected to be completed by the end of the year. Metro is currently starting the design process for the facility at this time. And this picture shows a typical truck that will be used to deliver the food waste and fats, oils, and grease to the organic food, the organic waste receiving facility at the wastewater treatment plant. Here's an overview of the system.
 These are the existing digesters at the plant and then this is Portland Road right up here. The system is going to be constructed in two sections. The purple side is for the food waste and then the orange side is for the fat soils and grease. In mind the system has five tanks. Each tank is 21 feet in diameter and about 15 feet tall. And then there's pumps to unload the trucks, mix the tanks, and feed the digesters.
 It also has an odor control system for the benefit of workers and neighbors. The digesters are fed slowly, 24 hours a day, to maintain stable operation and a steady supply of biogas. The biogas is used as fuel in the co-gen engines over in this building here to produce renewable electricity and heat for use at the plant. Or the biogas is burned in the...
 boilers over here in the digester complex to provide heat at the plant. There's a triple win with this system. Approximately 10,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent will be eliminated each year. This is the equivalent to the carbon footprint of about 150 homes. The system strongly supports the city's climate action plan goals for reducing carbon emissions through diversion of food waste and generation of renewable energy.
 Annual revenue is projected to be about $1.2 million, with a payback target of 10 years. Revenue comes from TIP fees, reduced electrical and natural gas bills, and synergy with the renewable natural gas system currently completing construction. There are also clean air benefits. Emissions and associated toxins from diesel vehicles will be reduced because of reduced haul distances.
 Also, there will be less use of natural gas and grid electricity. The construction contract is estimated to be about $7.8 million, and the total budget is about $10.6 million. The level of confidence on these numbers is moderate, and the schedule shown here coincides with Metro's schedule to complete their new facility. With that, I'm done with the presentation. Thank you very much for your attention, and are there any questions for us?
 Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Fritz has her hand up. Sorry, I couldn't find the unmute button. Thank you for the presentation. I understood Commissioner Fish's cherished hoop-to-power program because with the solid waste from the wastewater treatment plant, that methane is going to need to be...
 otherwise burned if it wasn't turned into liquid natural gas. And I also somewhat understand turning the fat soils and grease into natural gas for use in the energy. The food scraps could be composted. And wouldn't that be less impactful to the environment?
 Great question, Commissioner Fritz. I think what we found, I think in the industry is that actually anaerobic digestion provides a more sound environmental solution than composting. For one thing, it reduces truck trips, so you don't have to haul. Typically composting is over, they have to be in more kind of rural areas due to all the space requirements. And
 you miss out on recovering the energy from it because composting is typically an aerobic process, whereas the digestion process we use at the Colby Boulevard treatment plant is anaerobic, so it's a different type of bacteria, so it tends to produce methane for us that we can beneficially use. But head-to-head, the environmental footprint has tipped more toward being more centralized and toward anaerobic digestion.
 Thank you, that was an interesting answer. Also, I'm wanting to make sure that not all of the food scraps are going into this process. In other words, I mean, the advantage to the compost is that then it can be used on the ground to grow food, more food. So will there still be plenty of food waste going into the composting system?
 Yeah, that's our understanding. So one key thing there is we didn't get into the nitty-gritty specifically. This is targeted toward a lot of commercial establishments. So we'll still have the residential program, the food waste and compost with the mixed lawn clippings. So that program will still continue.
 So from our understanding, there's plenty of this waste to go around, so to speak. So it's just gonna be a portion of the waste stream that will be harnessed. And it's basically, it's the remaining fraction that's still going to the landfills. So the compost, this won't, to restate, this won't change the current program or the residential program of composting. Did that answer your question? Got it. Yes, it does, thank you so much. You're very welcome.
 Any further questions, colleagues before we move to public testimony? May I? Sorry. I'm sorry, I had a question, my hand's up. I'm sorry, thank you. No worry. Paul, thank you for that presentation. There's a lot of food waste in multi-family apartment complexes because we haven't figured out how to do composting there yet. What's the plan because
 If we're talking about really having the best bang for the buck, I think that we are missing a whole demographic group that would compost if it was made easy for people to be able to do that. But there's certainly no way easy way to do that in a multifamily apartment complex.
 Great question, Commissioner Hardesty. I don't have the answer to that. I agree that that would be a great opportunity. I kind of maybe pull Holly Sternkorb into this from Metro if she can speak to that specific point, because I know Metro has looked at where to focus their recovery efforts. Yeah, because we pay a small fortune. We just don't get any of the economic benefits of paying a small fortune for garbage pickup.
 Good morning. Thank you, Commissioner Hersey for that question. And I think thank you for the opportunity to be here to represent Metro's partnership on this project. Regarding food scraps collection at multifamily, that is something that is being worked on. So you'll will be seeing this over over time having that added on to multifamily collection programs.
 Is there any analysis on what people are being charged for this service as compared to the benefits of the service that they're getting? It appears that there's not a standard charge in multifamily apartment dwellings. Is that an accurate statement, Holly? Yes.
 It is in questions about actual collection costs really should be directed to the city, the Bureau of Sustainability and Planning. The garbage haulers collect the food waste and set the rates for commercial. So I really can't address the question on rates charged at multifamily. Okay.
 It impacts what service you get, right? So there is a connection. I hear you that you aren't the one to respond to that. Thank you. Very good. Carla, is there public testimony on this item? No one signed up, Mayor. Very good. Anything else before I send this on? Not seeing anything. This is the first reading of non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you all. Next item, 534, please.
 Authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights necessary for construction of the Goose Hollow Sewer Rehabilitation Project E10683 through the exercise of the City's eminent domain authority.
 Colleagues, in May, the City Council unanimously approved the Goose Hollow Sewer Rehabilitation Project to repair and replace about two miles of sewer pipes in southwest Portland. The project is designed to minimize construction impacts to the properties and to upgrade the sewer system to better protect public health properties and the environment.
 To accomplish these project goals and keep the project on schedule, the city needs to acquire certain property rights. Here today with a brief presentation are Joe Dvorak, Engineering Manager, and Yang Zhang, Project Manager, both with the Bureau of Environmental Services. Joe and Yang, please take it away. Great, thank you. Good morning, Mayor and members of Council. For the record, my name is Joe Dvorak with BES.
 The Goose Hollow project is one of many in our large scale sewer rehabilitation program. The last remaining piece of engineering for this project is to obtain permanent and temporary construction easements. Young has prepared a very brief presentation with more details, and then we're also available at the end if you have any questions. Young. Thank you, Joe, and good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. And for the record, I'm Young Zhang with BES, the project manager for this project.
 So today we'll give you a brief overview of the steel easement we acquired for the project to complete the construction of the steel repair. Next slide please. As just Joe mentioned, this project was presented to the Council two months ago for a
 authorization of the low bid. So the project includes about 50 deteriorated pipes, and which are in 50 to over 100 years old in the Goose Hollow and the Southwest Hills neighborhoods.
 Among those 50 pipes, so there are two pipes that we've done, the city has no sewer easement. So on this slide, on the right side of this map, so we show where those two pipes are. So one is in the Woods Hollow neighborhood, that's near Washington Park, and the other one is in the Southwest Hills neighborhood. So for the sewer, so sewer easement is needed for construction as pipe on those private property. Next slide, please.
 So here is a summary of those two pipe locations on the private property and the proposed construction method as well as the public outreach activities. As shown from aerial view and you can see those two pipes highlighted in red are crossing the private property and those two pipes is
 next to the property line between the two neighboring property. So unfortunately, we don't have the East Manhattan in either of those property.
 So in order to rehabilitate those pipes, we propose to use a cute in-place pipe. It's called CIPP. This is a trench-based method. It will minimize the impact to the property owner. And also we need to use a small repair method to repair the broken parts of the pipe as we need it in this property.
 Besides mailing to other residents on this private property about the projects, the BES public involvement team has directly contacted the property owners about the planned construction scope.
 No opposition was received. With the project moving forward, our PI team will continue the outreach to property owners for access needs and the easement requirements and project schedule. So next slide please. So here is a summary of what we needed through easement.
 So, a cleared easement needed to be approximately 15 feet wide. As this pipe is next to the property line between two neighboring properties, so this easement will cross the two properties. So totally we need easement in full property. So this size is required for construction and also for long-term the maintenance needs.
 The cost of the easement in this property will be determined by the independent appraisal during the M&M domain process after this gets approved. So project design was completed in June and the project was advertised last week. So it is anticipated the project construction will start in November this year. So we pray for to acquire the
 position of those through easement by early November. So that's what I have for today. Any questions? Very good. Colleagues, any follow-up questions? Carlin, is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up for this item, Mayor. All right. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you for the presentation. Thank you.
 Although I'm gonna pull it back, could you read item 535 please? Mm-hmm. Authorize grant agreement up to $73,000 to Southwest Neighborhoods Inc. to provide outreach, technical assistance and community involvement for watershed projects in Westside sub watersheds. After discussions with the Bureau and my team, I'm going to pull this back to my office. Next item is 536.
 except guaranteed maximum price of $17,989,637 from MWH Constructors Inc. for the construction of the corrosion control improvements project. This procurement report is for a Water Bureau Bull Run treatment project that will construct a corrosion control treatment facility at the borough's Lusted Hill facility.
 The project will protect public health by controlling corrosion of lead and copper plumbing materials into drinking water. We have Chief Procurement Officer Lester Spittler here to present the report. Good morning, Lester. How are you today? LESTER SPITTLER, Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. I'm doing well, thank you. COMMISSIONER WHEELER, Great. LESTER SPITTLER, Commissioner Fritz, do you have any talking points that you wanted to go through? COMMISSIONER FRITZ, No, thank you. I'm just available for questions later. LESTER SPITTLER, Okay.
 So Michelle Cheek and I from the Water Bureau are going to present on this item. Michelle is going to share a presentation with Council. Let's see if I can do this. Success? Yes. Okay, fantastic. Okay, good morning. My name is Michelle Cheek and I'm an engineering supervisor with the Portland Water Bureau and I'm here today with Lester to talk about the Corrosion Control Improvements Project.
 The city's source of drinking water is the Bull Run Watershed. Our current water treatment includes both disinfection and corrosion control treatment. The current corrosion control treatment has been in place since 1997. We currently adjust the pH of our water to approximately 8.2 using sodium hydroxide. This pH adjustment makes the water less corrosive, which reduces the amount of lead from household plumbing that dissolves into drinking water.
 The corrosion control improvements project is part of the Water Bureau's ongoing efforts to minimize the corrosion of lead in home and building plumbing. The project will further reduce lead in drinking water through improvements to our corrosion control treatment process. These improvements will be in place by April of 2022.
 The project is being designed and constructed to meet the requirements of the Environmental Protection Agency's lead and copper rule, which regulates how drinking water systems manage lead and copper in drinking water. The Water Bureau and the Oregon Health Authority have agreed to a compliance timeline to complete this project by April of 2022. Our improved corrosion control treatment will adjust the chemistry of the water
 by using sodium carbonate and carbon dioxide to increase the pH of the water to 8.5 and increase the alkalinity of the water. The increased alkalinity of the water will improve the stability of the pH, which increases the effectiveness of the treatment.
 This project will be constructed at the Water Bureau's existing Lusted Hill facility, where corrosion control treatment occurs today. The project will primarily be located on existing Water Bureau property, with the exception of new underground chemical feed piping, which will extend into new and existing easements to connect to our existing water conduits. This is an aerial photograph here of our existing Lusted Hill facility.
 The new facilities will be located directly adjacent to our existing facilities at Weston Hill. The new facilities will include a new building to house the new treatment system, a new utility water pump station, and associated piping and support systems. The project will require specialized skill and expertise in the construction of dry, liquid, and gas chemical feed systems for water treatment facilities.
 And in the bottom right of the slide there, that is a screenshot from the 3D model of the design documents showing new facilities adjacent to the existing facilities.
 The project is under a compliance deadline from the Oregon Health Authority and the completion of the project is required by April of 2022. We recently completed the 90% design of the project and will begin construction later this summer following execution of a construction contract. We're on schedule to meet our compliance deadline. And with that, I will turn it over to Lester for a few slides. Thanks, Michelle.
 For the record, I'm Lester Spittler, the city's chief procurement officer. As you see here, council authorized ordinance number 188621 in September 2017 to exempt this project from the competitive low bid process. In doing so, it allowed us to solicit a request for a proposal for a construction manager slash general contractor or CMGC delivery method. The CMGC procurement method is a two-step process. It begins with a pre-construction services contract
 where we hire the construction contractor while the project is still being designed so that the contractor can contribute to the design process along with the owner, Water Bureau, as well as the design team and the engineers.
 The pre-construction services also allows early involvement with the construction team and provides the following benefits. Concurrent acquisition design and construction functions, ability to acquire materials and order fabrication incrementally, reduction of risk of construction delays and unanticipated costs, and evaluation of total project costs based on the design because of the collaborative effort. Next slide. We issued a RFP in December of 2018. We received three proposals in January.
 of 2019, they were reviewed, evaluated and scored by a five member committee consisting of representatives from the Water Bureau and one member of the Minority Evaluator Program. The committee selected MWH as the highest scoring proposal. As a result of that, the Water Bureau entered into the pre-construction services contract with MWH for a not to exceed amount of $332,500. Next slide, please. This is the second, oh, Michelle, sorry, you're gonna do this one, right?
 Yes, correct. Sorry. That's okay. So as I mentioned earlier, in addition to reducing levels of lead at customers' taps, the project will benefit the local contracting community through the solicitation of subcontract and equipment procurement packages. Okay.
 These packages will be solicited through local advertisement and outreach to the local contracting community. MWH Constructors has committed to utilizing 25.91% of their hard construction costs for disadvantaged minority-owned, women-owned, and emerging small business firms. And Lester will talk about that in a little more detail in the next couple of slides.
 So this is the second city project that the city's Community Equity and Inclusion Plan applied to. Along with the Community Equity Inclusion Plan, or CEIP, we have a Community Equity and Inclusion Committee that acts as the oversight committee over these projects. Currently, the committee is overseeing three projects. This is one of them.
 The purpose of the CEIP is to improve and increase construction, contracting, and employment opportunities for racial and ethnic minorities, women, and economically disadvantaged individuals on city projects to ensure that the city is making conscious and specific efforts through its contracting process to not discriminate or indirectly perpetuate the historic under inclusion of racial and ethnic minorities, women, and economically disadvantaged individuals in the construction industry and trades.
 and to ensure that the city receives the benefit of a highly skilled and well-trained workforce and provides opportunities for firms that reflect the diversity of Portland in the contractor and subcontractor pools. Next slide, please. So the CEIP has higher goals than projects that...
 do not have the CEIP applied to. So typically our aspirational goal is 20%, but in the CEIP we ask for 22% and we prioritize that being 12% for disadvantaged and minority-owned firms, 5% for women-owned firms, and the remaining 5% can be any number of the certified certifications.
 The workforce goals are higher as well. There's 31% of total apprenticeable labor hours by trade that need to be performed by minorities, 22% and 9% for women. And the same at the journey level. We have 28%, which is a higher goal than lower dollar projects, and that's split between 22% minorities and 6% for women. So at this point in the process, MWH has come up with a plan in response to the CEIP,
 They have attended several CEIC meetings, they presented to the committee, they've taken feedback and incorporated that committee. And they presented at a meeting yesterday.
 And we have a member from the CEIC here to provide testimony, Connie Ashbrook. There's also the contractor and Andre Ball on the contractor's team here to present a little bit more on their plan. But we'll finish the presentation and then hand it off to them. If- Excuse me, Mayor. Before Lester, you move on, Commissioner Hardesty has her hand up. Sure.
 Thank you, Lester. I appreciated the opportunity to talk about this briefly yesterday. So as I look through this community equity and inclusion plan commitment, what I am trying to measure is what you have said to this council in the past is that the reason why we continue to fail in reaching our goals around minority contracting has been because we are forced into the low bid process.
 And so that's been the message that we've received. So my question is, in this particular proposal, we have hired two outside consulting firms
 to identify minority contractors. Don't we already know who all the minority and women and emerging small business contractors are? And to me, that seems to be adding costs that should be unnecessary if we have actually created the relationships that we should have. Yeah, I can answer that.
 So the contractor in their proposal in response to the RFP, they put together a team and each and in the RFP, we ask for certain responsibilities to be covered on the contractor team. So in addition to, you know, project superintendent, the project principal, the project manager, we also ask for
 for a diversity and equity and inclusion person that's going to be on their team, that's going to work with their, the subcontractors and the prime contractor and conduct the outreach because the city is happy to do it, but we want to see collective accountability on behalf of the contractor as well. And if they're going to,
 have this large contract with the city, then they need to embody the same values as the city. So we looked at- The city's paying for it. It's not that the contract is paying for this service, the city is.
 Well, I'll just say that typically in a design builder or CMGC, there's usually there's members on the contractor team that that work for the contractor and the city in this case helps them by facilitating meetings with the committee and troubleshooting and connecting them with certain organizations or individuals for certain scopes of work.
 or needs on the workforce side so that they can find minorities and women and find minority-owned firms for that work. And is it because the primary contractor is an out-of-state contractor and doesn't have those relationships? Yes.
 Um, as opposed to a local contractor. Yeah. But I think they've, they've hired, they've hired Andre Baugh, who, you know, has the relationships and has the local knowledge. So from a team perspective, even though they're an out of state contractor, they've hired someone that we all know and trust will, will.
 will help them. I think you are not understanding my question, so maybe I'll rephrase it a different way. If this was the exact same contractor and the primary contractor was a local contractor who had worked with the City of Portland in the past, would we expect the same additional costs hiring consultants to actually do outreach to minority women and emerging small business members?
 Yes, in other proposals where local contractors have responded, they have also had members on their team that had this focus for them. Thank you. Any further questions? I'll entertain a motion. We're not finished with our presentation yet. Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. That's okay. So Michelle, I think you're going to take the next slide. Yeah. Yes, sir.
 So we're here today to recommend the award of a CMGC contract to MWH constructors for the construction of the corrosion control improvements projects for a GMP of $17,989,637.
 This requested contract value includes MWH constructors GMP to complete the work shown in the 90% design documents, an additional $850,000 owner allowance to cover construction of chemical feed piping, which was not fully defined at the 90% design milestone. Carrying this work as an allowance minimizes the inclusion of an excessive contingency and their GMP.
 And an additional $1 million for owner control contingency to cover any unknown or unanticipated work that may come up during construction.
 As the prime contractor, MWH Constructors is required to manage the project, self-perform all procurement, and self-perform installation and startup of the soda, ash, and carbon dioxide systems. The specialty work is approximately $4.7 million of the hard construction cost and is excluded from the requirements of the Community Equity and Inclusion Plan.
 MWH Constructors has submitted a subcontracting plan in accordance with the CEIP, which details how their bid packaging plan will be structured to distribute the remaining $9.5 million of hard construction costs to achieve the goals and requirements of the CEIP.
 As part of their pre-construction services contract, MWH Constructors has advertised four early procurement packages for the carbon dioxide storage and feed equipment, the soda ash storage and feed systems, the pre-engineered steel building and tree removal. The steel building package was competitively bid with MWH.
 Co-bid firms, that's the Certification Office for Business of Inclusion and Diversity, firms specifically invited to participate. And the tree removal package was provided exclusively to co-bid firms for competitive bidding, with three firms attending the pre-bid site visit and two firms submitting bids.
 The remaining subcontracts will not be advertised until the construction contract is executed. We'll follow MWH Constructors subcontracting plan, which is described in more detail in the next couple of slides and was also included in Exhibit B to the report to Council. We have Michael Harmon, Ben McGathey, and Andre Baugh from MWH Constructors here today to help answer any questions on their subcontracting plan.
 As mentioned earlier, MWH constructed active to exceed the goals of the CEIP by committing approximately 26% of the construction costs to the MWESB firms. Their subcontracting plan identifies multiple tools to maximize subcontract opportunities to COVID firms and engage with workforce providers to maximize opportunities for minorities and women.
 Three procurement approaches will be utilized, each of which has specific participation requirements.
 Their informal selection process is for packages less than $150,000 and are only sent to COVID firms. A minimum of three COVID firms are targeted for each package. The best value selection process is for packages greater than $150,000. Selection is determined based on a number of criteria, including price, qualifications, and COVID participation.
 Bids that fail to demonstrate compliance with COVID participation goals are considered non-responsive and resistive.
 Their price selection is also for packages greater than $150,000. Here the selection is made by lowest responsive bid, but must also demonstrate compliance with COVID participation goals. Again, bids that fail to demonstrate compliance with these goals are considered non-responsive and rejected. These procurement approaches highlight that COVID participation is a priority for this project.
 And I won't cover this table in detail, but it lists all of the subcontract work packages, the planned procurement approach for each and the COVID participation goals for each, which adds up to the target 25.91% of the hard construction costs. And this is the end of our presentation, but as Lester mentioned, we've got a member from the Community Equity and Inclusion Committee here to talk
 provide some testimony and we also have MWH constructors available to answer, help answer any questions you may have. Let's go ahead and move to Connie, if that's okay. Can I go ahead, Lester? Yes, Connie, hi. Good morning, Mayor and Council Members. My name is Connie Ashbrook. I'm Principal of Ashbrook Consulting as well as Co-Chair of the National Task Force on Trace Women's Issues.
 I'm a member of the Community Equity and Inclusion Committee, the CEIC, that is monitoring projects that have a community equity and inclusion plan component. Many of you know me from my pre-retirement years when I founded and ran Oregon Tradeswomen for 21 years. Mayor, you gave a wonderful speech at one of our pre-apprenticeship graduations. Thank you for that.
 I'm here to support execution of the construction contract with MWH and moving forward with this project. MWH has been very responsive to not just the letter but the spirit of the CEIP, the city's approach to eliminating disparity in its public works and thus alleviating poverty in its residents.
 MWH has been meeting regularly with the CEIC and has welcomed our suggestions for strengthening their approach to diversity and equity in contracting and workforce. For instance, early on we provided detailed criticism and suggestions for their initial community equity and inclusion plan, and they immediately went back to the drawing board and came back with a stronger and more responsive plan.
 I also want to praise their recently discussed best value scoring matrix that they talked to us about at the committee meeting yesterday that includes awarding points for equity factors. Of course, most of their plan has not yet put into action at this phase.
 but I have every confidence that they will achieve the goals of the CEIP. I hope you will vote to execute this construction contract with MWH, thank you. Thank you, appreciate your testimony. Good to see you again, thanks Connie. Commissioner Hardesty has a question. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Connie. What a pleasure to see you again. I knew you wouldn't be retired long. You say you are on a CEIP.
 And how long has that committee been convened? It's been about a year now, maybe not quite a year. Let's probably have the details. And is this a committee that will monitor the day-to-day activities of these contracts or are you just, what? What is the role of the CEIP committee as it relates to the equity goals that the city has laid out for this contract?
 Yes, so we are meeting monthly and we get reports from the city's workforce training and hiring program and procurement department on both the contractor diversity and workforce diversity. And so are you getting real-time information or when you get your information at your meeting, how old is that information and can you act on it immediately? Yes.
 We can act on it immediately to the best of our ability. And I think the information we get is about a month old. I think it depends on the cycle of reporting versus...
 the committee meeting times. Well, I guess that's kind of my concern. I'm just wondering if you have information in a timely enough manner to change the direction of the work that the contractor is about to start doing, or if you're a committee that's just reviewing things after the fact. I do believe we get information early enough to provide strong feedback and guidance.
 One of the discussions we had yesterday at the committee was what is our ability to ask for penalties for a contractor that's not following through. And so we really need to go back and outline that and make it really clear and see what the formal authority is to provide those penalties and meaningful penalties.
 We are monitoring three projects right now, Capitol Highway, Sullivan's Gulch, and Corrosion Control, and only Sullivan's Gulch is in the construction phase. Uh-huh.
 Thank you, Connie. That's been really helpful. I share the same concerns that the committee has because if you're not receiving timely information, it cannot be changed in a timely manner. So I appreciate hopefully getting a report from the committee sometime
 about those three projects and kind of whether or not this process has added value. I greatly appreciate the volunteer work that you and other committee members are doing. But as you know, Connie, we have not found the magic combination to actually achieve the goals that the city continues to set. And so again, thanks for coming out of retirement and doing a few of these things for us. Have a good day, thanks. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Very good. Thank you, Commissioner. Does that complete the presentation, Lester? It does. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. All right. Very good. Is there any further discussion? If not, I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Daley, second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Carla, please. Yeah, Mayor, I was just wondering if Andre Bar wanted to say anything.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. I would just, to the comments of Commissioner Herstein, say one of the best practices in my 25 years of doing this work is having, if you will, a watchdog that the CEIC can do and talk to contractors. I've been on the other side
 and had those committees, they become very effective in delivering your goals, the city values. So I will tell you, so far they've been very effective with this contractor and I think the other contractors and the people that are on that committee
 have given the authority can change the projectory of a project that seems off track if they get the information as you've indicated early enough and I think the city's committed to providing that information to the committee is my understanding. So with that, if we or any other contractor they're monitoring those off,
 I think you will see corrective action put for the contractor. And but I don't think at least for this project and for MWH, we're not going to be off track. We are going to deliver on your values that the city has set forth and not only meet them, but beat them.
 And we're going to do it with, you know, the underutilized, historically underutilized people and focus on that. Very good. Thank you, Andre. We appreciate it. Thank you for your service. Any questions or discussions on this item, colleagues? Carla, please call the roll. Artisty. Artisty.
 I am grateful that there is a community oversight board that will be monitoring this. I have to say, I'm really nervous when we create a process whereby we promise a lot of goodies and at the end of the day, additionally, we don't bless you. We promise that we're going to live up to our values system and
 and really achieve it. When we're talking about such significant public dollars as this contract represents, I certainly have an expectation that we would exceed any minimum requirements
 But this city council recently passed a resolution really prioritizing community members. And those are the then the communities that have been least prioritized as it relates to contracting with the city of Portland. I do not expect one committee to solve all the problems that the city of Portland has.
 achieving our goals around contracting, but I will be looking to this committee to provide some real life, real time information that helps the city as the city receives both the audit and will tell us about how much in achieving our goals, and then the direction that we give to procurement.
 to make sure that we live up to the resolutions that we pass here at the city council. I look forward to attending one or two of these meetings to actually see in real life what happens in this group. I know Connie's not a pushover, so any committee that Connie's on has gotta be a committee that's very thoughtful. And so I am reluctantly voting aye
 But as Lester already knows that I am a thorn in his side because I want us to not just achieve minimum goals, but I want us to have extraordinary growth in how we identify contract with and work with minority and women-owned contractors. And in the last 18 months, I have not been that impressed.
 I am hoping that this process will provide us some opportunities to really rethink who has access to public dollars. That's my bottom line. I'm following the dollars everywhere. And what I've seen so far, I'm woefully disappointed. So I'll keep my eye out. I will vote yes. And we will see in real time whether or not we are achieving what we all say our value system requires us to.
 I vote aye. Udaily, Fritz. Udaily Muthunayake, UDAILY. Well, this project is significant for multiple reasons. First, it does achieve the compliance schedule that we at the Water Bureau is required to have regarding treating the water to a pH where the lead that may be in people's homes is less likely to leach in. And so, it's important for public health.
 everybody should continue to know that just run your tap for two minutes before at the beginning of the day until it's cold and then you will have delicious safe drinking water so thank you to michelle cheek and the team at portland portland water bureau and lester spitler for the um
 Thank you, Connie Ashbrook and Andre Bar, who have been involved in this conversation for the 11 and a half years that I've been on the Council. And this actually does represent significant improvements in what was happening 12 years ago. And as Connie mentioned, it is one of the first three projects that are going through the community.
 equity and inclusion process plan with the commission doing the oversight. It's a construction management general contractor, and that's how we get to higher than the minimum. And I know that Andre will work with the consultant to make sure that when the project comes back to council long after I'm gone, it's finally complete, just gone from the council, hopefully not gone from the planet,
 that Commissioner Hardestube will be happy with the results that you're going to be able to achieve with this process. So, you know, this is our best strategy
 thinking on the way forward for achieving better contracting numbers and the outcomes that we all have been striving for. And I really appreciate that. Finally, I would normally thank all of the folks in the Water Bureau who have done the engineering and consulting on this. And so I do thank you. I also honor Mike Sturer, the director of the Water Bureau.
 who has served the Bureau well for 17 years and is going to be retiring shortly. So I thank you, Mike, because he has definitely focused on resilience and safety and getting these infrastructure projects done that will make our water supply safe and secure and abundant for generations to come. Very happy to vote aye, and thank you, colleagues, for your support. Aye. Thank you.
 wheeler hi the report the ordinance is excuse me the report is accepted uh colleagues we still have 13 items based on the time frame of what's been provided by bureaus they are proposing the remaining items would take about two additional hours i remind you that we have a long afternoon agenda starting at two so i would ask us to
 be expeditious in our process as we move forward. I'm going to try and speed this up a little bit if you don't mind. So Carla, could you read items 537 and 539 together? They are actually related, 537 and 539.
 537 authorized revenue bonds to refund outstanding bonds and revenue bonds in an amount sufficient to provide not more than $4.3 million to finance improvements to the Headwaters apartments project and 539 amend the fiscal year 2020-21 budget and authorize amending the intergovernmental agreement with home board and payment of up to
 to $5,175,233 and appropriation of $1 million for capital repairs to the Headwaters Apartments. Colleagues, the Portland Housing Bureau came into ownership of several projects from the Portland Development Commission
 as a result of the creation of the Bureau back in 2010. Home Ford is performing services as the asset manager for these properties covered under an existing intergovernmental agreement. One of those services includes development services such as contracting on behalf of the city for repairs. During a capital needs assessment in the fall of 2019, it was determined that one of the properties, the Headwaters Apartments,
 required a roof replacement due to defects. The following ordinances will one, allow the city to move forward with the coordinating and financing of these capital improvements and related costs. And the second will allow the refinancing of existing bonds previously issued for the project. With details, our PHB Director, Shannon Callahan and Debt Manager, Matt Jara. Welcome.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I do have a brief PowerPoint if we could pull that up and I'll try to go through very, very quickly if I can. Carla, can you pull up the PowerPoint that's associated with item 539, please? So much to be getting that just a second here, Shannon.
 Thank you. Just a moment. There. So, as the Mayor mentioned, the Headwaters Apartments was constructed by PDC in 2006. Late last year, in approximately August, we noticed during a capital needs assessment some roof defects that upon further investigation, we realized that the building was not in good
 was having a catastrophic growth failure. At that point, we moved very swiftly to relocate tenants on the fourth floor of the building over the Thanksgiving holiday weekend and our partners at BDS actually yellow tagged the fourth floor meaning that it is unsafe for occupancy. In the meantime, next slide please. In the meantime, can you advance one more time?
 In the meantime, we've made safety and immediate repairs to the building, and we are now prepared to use what we hope are rain-free summer months to actually remove the roof and do the repair and replacement. Next slide, please. This gives you an idea of some of the damage that we encountered in the building, and completely unexpected, especially for a building of this age. Next slide. Thank you.
 This is a breakdown of what we expect the project budget to be. That said, we are asking for an additional 25% and in case there are things that we do not expect as this roof replacement has been very unexpected and we have encountered a variety of different issues with the roof and the structure of the roof throughout this process. Next slide.
 So we plan to modify our agreement with Home Forward to allow them to complete the needed repairs so that we can take advantage of the summer months and also move the tenants back in the building that have been relocated. We'll be using some portion of project reserves for the repairs, and then Matt Garrick is here to talk about the refinancing proposition that we expect to be able to implement.
 get the rest of the funding needed for their repairs. Thank you. If you could take the slide down and Matt, I'll turn it over to you. Thank you, Shannon. Thanks, Shannon. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. The ordinance under item 537 authorizes the city to issue bonds for financing $4 million of capital improvements for the Headwaters apartments, plus additional amounts for financing costs.
 In addition to the $4 million borrowing, the ordinance also provides authorization to refinance the city's existing series 2005A limited tax revenue bonds related to the Headwaters apartments. Currently outstanding in the amount of 7.2 million. The 2005A bonds require above market interest payments and will be refinanced for savings. Under current projections, total present value savings for the refinancing will be approximately $970,000.
 Similar to the terms of the 2005 A bonds, the upcoming borrowing will be secured by both the full faith and credit of the city and the net revenues of the Headwaters apartment project. However, the project's operations are expected to continue funding all debt service costs. Taking into account the savings of the refinancing and additional debt service related to the capital improvements,
 Projected annual debt service is expected to be roughly the same as current debt service levels under the 2005 A bonds. However, the final maturity of the Headwaters bonds will be extended from 2035 to 2040.
 The city's debt management team expects to place the bonds directly with the bank as a private placement, given the desire to maximize future prepayment flexibility. We anticipate the financing will close mid-August of 2020. We're asking this to be authorized today as an emergency ordinance in order to fund the capital repairs as early as possible this summer. And with that, I can answer any questions on the financing. Thanks, Matt. Colleagues, any questions at this point? No.
 Does that conclude your presentations for both 537 and 539? Yes, Mayor. We're here to answer any questions or go deeper into the ordinance if needed. All right. Commissioner Fritz, then we'll move to public testimony. I just wanted to ask, this is a relatively new building. Is there no liability on behalf of the developer? Commissioner, there is a 10-year statute of limitations in the state of Oregon if we were to pursue a construction defect.
 And so we are outside of that time horizon. We have engaged or are engaging an insurance consultant to assist us with possibly filing insurance claims. Thus far, we have not been successful. But we do not have a recourse at this point against the developer now. Thank you. Very good, colleagues. Any further questions for Matt or Shannon?
 Seeing none, Carla, do we have any public testimony on item 537 or 539? No one registered for either of those. All right, very good. With that then, Carla, please call the roll on 537. Hardestine. Thank you, Shannon and Matt, for that very succinct but detailed report.
 Matt answered my question about the emergency and Shannon answered my, actually Commissioner Fritz asked my question about why aren't we making a developer fix this problem? And so I hate when I don't have any questions that come out of things that are emergencies. So I vote aye. You Daley?
 Well, if this is the quality we can expect from new construction, it doesn't bode well for the theory that today's market rate housing will be tomorrow's affordable housing. This is just a terrible situation and I appreciate everyone's efforts. I vote aye. I'm sorry, I didn't hear if I was called, but I'll just go.
 That's okay. Thank you, Director Callahan. Obviously, this is a bad situation which you're making the best of. The main thing is that you're looking after the tenants and getting the building fixed. So, thank you for doing that. And thank you for the debt management staff for doing it as least expensively as possible. Aye. Ms. Wheeler? I vote aye. Thank you. The ordinance is adopted 539. Please call the roll. Ms. Hardesty? Udaily?
 Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you both for your presentations. Carla, let's go back to 538, please.
 Grant voluntary recognition as provided under ORS 243.6663 to the Professional and Technical Employees Union, Local 17 to represent the collective bargaining interests of city employees in the classification of engineer two, job class number 3003046. Colleagues, this is an important
 ordinance, and I'm pleased to bring it forward. The purpose of this ordinance is to grant recognition to the Engineer 2 classification in a represented status under the Pro-Tex 17, and to modify the terms in the collective bargaining agreement to the letter of agreement.
 The classification of Engineer 2 was adopted by the City Council back in December of 2018 and revised again in 2019. There are currently four incumbent employees in that classification. The incumbent employees have signed, quote, showing of interest, unquote, cards, indicating their interest in having ProTech 17 as their collective bargaining representative.
 No other labor organization has demonstrated to the city a showing of interest from the incumbent employees in the classification of engineer two. The incumbent employees have shown no interest in being represented by any other labor organization other than ProTech 17. Joining us today is Chief Human Resource Officer Kathy Bless. Good morning, Kathy. How are you today? Oh, it's Ann Marie, but you're muted, Ann Marie. Welcome. Can you unmute?
 Ann Marie, can you unmute? You're muted. We can't hear you. Let's try that again. Sorry about that, guys. No worries. Good morning. I'm Ann Marie Kevorkian-Maddy. I am with the Bureau of Human Resources with the Labor Relations team. And I'll be sitting in for Kathy Bliss this morning.
 First and foremost, I wanted to just say that the ordinance before you provides recognition, as the mayor described, to the Engineer II classification under the ProTech Union. And I'd like to acknowledge that it's critically important to the city, VHR, and labor relations to create collaborative relationships with our union partners.
 And so by approving this ordinance, voluntarily recognizing this group of employees into the ProTech bargaining unit would be representative of this collaboration. I don't have any additional information, I think that is necessary for this ordinance, but if you have questions, I'm available to answer. Thank you, Ann Marie. Colleagues, any questions at this point? Carla, is there any public testimony on this item?
 No one registered. All right, we're making good progress here. Please call the roll. Hardesty, Udaly. I just wanna acknowledge the city's voluntary recognition of these employees and I'm proud to be part of a pro-union city council and I vote aye. Fritz.
 Appreciate the work done by Human Resources and the employees involved, as well as Protect 17 for the great work that they do. Aye. Wheeler. Yep, good work all around. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. And Anne-Marie, thank you for filling in. We appreciate it. Carla, next item, 540. 540.
 Authorized 17 subrecipient contracts totaling $5,062,200 for services in support of providing affordable housing to include emergency home repair, home ownership counseling and education, and renter services, including relocation assistance and education and advocacy.
 Colleagues, Portland Housing Bureau's subrecipient contracts leverage city funding sources to help some of Portland's most effective nonprofit organizations provide the housing services our community needs the most. The services are provided to Portland's low to moderate income residents. Obviously, at this time, those services, if anything, are oversubscribed.
 A robust and intensive public planning process informed the priorities for CDBG funding, objectives and strategies of the services provided in these subrecipient agreements. With us today to give a few more details about this ordinance are housing program coordinator
 Emma Deppa and I also see Shannon Callahan is standing by as well. Or Shannon, are you doing the presentation on this? Actually, Mayor, I'm just here to support my team members. Our two managers of the Neighborhood Housing Program Teams, Ms. Dana Shepherd and the Rental Services Office, Kim McCarty, are on the call just to briefly go through the contracts that we're gonna be entering into as well as the reporting requirements.
 for our service providers. With that, I'll turn it over to Dana. Thank you. Thank you, Dana and Kim. And I'm sorry, my comment, she did not have either of you listed. I apologize for that oversight.
 No problem at all, Mayor. So good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Again, my name is Dana Shepard, and I am the Neighborhood Housing Preservation Teams Manager at the Housing Bureau. So the master ordinance includes the PHB subrecipient contracts that exceed $100,000, so it does not include all subrecipient contracts.
 So I will speak to the nine of the 17 contracts lifted in the master ordinance, which are managed by the neighborhood housing preservation team, also known as NHP team. And Kim McCarthy can speak to the others.
 So the NHP contracts provide the following services. We have the homeowner access program and that's the home buyer education and counseling. So we have a host of PHP partners in their culturally specific organization. You heard from one of them today actually, Kimberly Horner and other partners, they support Portland residents with one-on-one counseling and also group financial counseling, again, culturally specific counseling.
 And then we have the Foreclosure Prevention and Home Repair Grant Program. And both of those are a part of the city's home retention strategy. So homeowners receive small grants to address their critical needs, health and safety issues, such as weatherization materials, accessibility features, wheelchair ramps, and then also they address BDS violations to avoid fines.
 So just to let you know about how the contracts work, we have assigned contract managers along with PHB data and finance teams who work collaboratively in determining outputs and measurable outcomes. They collect and track and get regular reporting from the subrecipient contractors, and that includes data and narrative reports. And then also along with that,
 We have regular on-site program and fiscal monitoring of the subrecipients. And I will go ahead and pass it along to Kim McCarthy to speak about the others. Thank you, Dana. Good morning, Commissioners, Mayor, and Kim McCarty with the Rental Services Office.
 And as Dana outlined, we have a robust process for monitoring our subrecipients and communicating with them to develop the scope of services. The focus with all of the rental service office subrecipients is to address impediments to fair housing. And we do that by focusing on our culturally specific partners
 and their clients, which are primarily are black, indigenous, Latinx, and other communities of color and also individuals with disabilities. So specifically, as Dana outlined, for this particular master ordinance, we have a number of subrecipients, but we're focused just on the ones with over $100,000. So I'll go through those in order.
 Our largest subrecipient is the Community Alliance of Tenants. And they have a number of programs that are addressed to address the needs of renters. First is their education and outreach and their helpline. They answer calls from thousands of residents, most of them from Portland and Multnomah County.
 They also do one-on-one assistance with tenant advocacy. So many renters need help with writing a letter or calling their landlord or seeking an attorney and they help them with navigating that process and getting that kind of assistance. Community Alliance of Tenants also has
 a number of partners, Metropolitan Public Defenders, APANO, ERCO, and SCI, to name a few. And that's a really important part of this work that they're doing, that they do it in a collaborative environment and they act as a pass-through agency for resources to those partners. Next is the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. We contract with them to
 renters primarily in the city of Portland understand their fair housing rights. Often this type of advocacy can take years. You can imagine someone who's experienced discrimination and access to a rental unit or they have maybe experienced harassment.
 or failure by the landlord to offer some kind of accommodation. That kind of work takes a lot of understanding of fair housing law, it can take years to go through the court system. And so while they answer hundreds of calls every year, they specifically do about 50 investigations that are fair housing related.
 And then they also do fair housing testing to give us a sense of where the types of fair housing violations are taking place so that we can better focus our resources on those types of impediments that people are experiencing in the rental market. Our other partner is Impact Northwest. That's a social service organization, but they specifically work with us with renters that are experiencing...
 types of scenarios in their housing where they are experiencing an environmental health problem. So this could be mold, lead, types of issues that the landlord should be addressing but they're not addressing and those residents need help with moving to a safer location. And they help us with about 50 households a year.
 Legal Aid Services of Oregon helps us both with fair housing cases and with landlord-tenant disputes. Probably about 50 cases are related to fair housing and over 150 are landlord-tenant types of cases where they're going with a renter to court to address security deposit issues, eviction notices, and those kinds of things that help people stabilize people and keep them in their homes.
 Excuse me, Kim. Yes, sorry. Can I break in and ask the question? I've been trying to break in, but you've been on the roll. So you were, I want to go back to your description of the Community Alliance of Tenants. And you said something about they partner with other cultural specific organizations and they are the pass through.
 of resources to some of these other organizations. Some of the ones you mentioned are a lot bigger than the Community Alliance of Tenants. So I'm just trying to figure out how that relationship works when mega organizations are receiving pass-through dollars from a small community-based effort. What's the logic in that?
 You're on mute. Oh, there you go. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you for that question, Commissioner. You're welcome. So ERCO, yes, of course, is a very large organization, but I'll just explain the reasoning here first.
 Community Alliance of Tenants is working with APANO, SEI and ERCO and also Metropolitan Public Defenders to embed some of their workers in those organizations. So over time they realized that they weren't reaching people where people were naturally going. So people are seeking services at ERCO as an example.
 or they might be coming to a Pano because that's a place that they're very comfortable. But the staff at ERCO or at a Pano may not have the in depth knowledge of landlord tenant law to address the needs of the people that are coming to them. And some of that information was getting lost when they would say, well, just call Community Alliance of Tenants and they'll take care of you.
 Maybe that person doesn't follow up on that phone call. Maybe they needed that help right then and there while they were in the office at a Pano. So they so Community Alliance of tenants is taking with their partners, is taking a different approach and having staff part time at those locations to specifically address the needs of those clients that are looking for landlord tenant type of advice.
 Very good. Thank you. Thank you so much, Ken. Appreciate that. That's very helpful. So the last subrecipient that I wanted to talk about is Urban League. Urban League of Portland has a very innovative program that they've been working on for the last couple of years in partnership with the Legal Aid Services of Oregon and Fair Housing Council of Oregon.
 It's also a partner, the main partner in terms of clients is El Programa, so there's been a,
 a recognition that our black and Latinx community members are more at risk of experiencing fair housing discrimination. But we also can know from our partnership with Fair Housing Council of Oregon that many of our community members from the black and Latinx community are not calling. They're not seeking the help. They may not be getting the help that they need. So with Urban League and El Programa, we have...
 their clients coming to an organization that they feel comfortable with. And then they, those stories and those people are partnered with Fair Housing Council of Oregon and LASSO. And as a result of that partnership, we are finding better outcomes. People are calling, people are sharing their stories, and they are getting the legal services that they need. So that concludes my presentation. And I'll take any questions if there are any. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions at this point?
 Carla, do we have public testimony on this item? No one registered. All right, very good. Then with that, call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udalli. Mm-hmm. Fritz. Thank you for the presentation and for all your work. That's very helpful to get more explanation about what the services are. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you, Dana, thank you. Kim, you guys are doing awesome work. Really appreciate it, makes it easy to support. I vote aye, the ordinance is adopted.
 Next item, 541, please. Establish code sections to administer the FAR transfer from existing affordable housing and three-bedroom unit FAR density bonus option programs that were approved through the Better Housing by Design Zoning Code Project.
 Colleagues, the council approved the Better Housing by Design Zoning Code project back in December of 2019. The project included bonus programs created to increase the development of housing affordable to low and moderate income home buyers and renters across the city.
 The Portland Housing Bureau is here today with code allowing the Bureau to effectively administer both the affordable housing bonus transfer program as well as the three-bedroom bonus program that were both approved back in December. And so with that, I believe we have Matt Scheibold and Dory VanBakkel here. I see Dory and Matt, are you with us as well today? Yeah.
 You have just me today, Matt is out this week on furlough. Well, Dori, you'll do great. Welcome, thanks for being here. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. So just a quick rundown. So code section 30.01.150 is an addition to the affordable housing code to establish the floor area ratio transfer from existing affordable housing program. For properties with existing housing affordable to households
 earning up to 60% of median family income to transfer floor area ratio to another site. That's based on zoning code subsection 33.120210D1A, which went into effect March 1st of this year. And additionally, code section 30.01.160 is the
 addition to the affordable housing code to establish the three bedroom unit FAR density bonus option program to encourage more family sized units by providing a 25% FAR bonus for projects with three bedroom units affordable to households earning up to a hundred percent in median family income based on zoning code subsection 33 120 211 3c and
 And this went into effect June 1st of this year. So codification of these programs in Title 30 allows the Housing Bureau to move forward with rulemaking, ensuring effective administration of the programs, which are already available under the current zoning code. And with that, I'm happy to answer any questions. Very good. Any questions for Dory at this point? Seeing none. Carla, has anybody signed up for public testimony? No one registered. Okay.
 Very good. This is an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. It's impressive how quickly you've got this done. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, Dory. I would like to...
 unless somebody tells me why I can't, I'd like to read items 542, 543, 544, 545, and 546 together. Okay.
 542, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Burney 1, located at 5980 East Burnside Street. 543, approve application under the multi-unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Burney 2, located at 5960 East Burnside Street.
 544, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Cesar Apartments located at 1604 Southeast Cesar Chavez Boulevard, 545, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Prov 3 Apartments located at 5505 Northeast Gleason Street.
 and 546, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Pepsi Blocks Phase 1A, Building A, located at 827 Northeast 27th Avenue. Very good, and colleagues, I am taking item 545 and pulling it back to my office. So 545 is coming back to my office.
 And Dori, you're up for all of these. Welcome. All right. I am going to share my screen, so give me a moment, please, to get a presentation up for you. Sorry, I'm having technical difficulties. I can certainly just go ahead without the presentation, too, real quickly.
 So I do have... Dori, this is Kielan. I can bring it up if you would like. Okay, that'd be great. Yeah, I don't know why I was suffering through that. So I'll proceed.
 Starting in February of 2017, any building adding 20 or more new units is required to contribute to the city's affordable housing inventory through the Inclusionary Housing Program. Developers must choose from several options in order to fulfill inclusionary housing requirements, providing affordable units in an otherwise market rate building, sending units to another building, or paying into the Inclusionary Housing Fund.
 And so the multiple unit limited tax exemption or multi program is one of the financial incentives provided to inclusionary housing buildings making units affordable rather than paying a fee in lieu. And each multi application as you know, comes before city council for approval. So, and that's so if you wanna move through the first slide, please, Keelan. And that's what I just described there. And so if we can move on to the next one.
 So the applications before you today, with the exception of Prov 3 Apartments, which we did pull back to make a technical change to the ordinance. So the other four projects that we are hearing today are for the Cesar Apartments on Southeast Cesar Chavez Boulevard, Bernie 1 and Bernie 2 on East Burnside Street, as well as the first phase of the Pepsi Blocks project,
 on 27th and Sandy in Northeast Portland. If you'd like to go to the next slide, please.
 So first for the Caesar Apartments, this project, the developer selected in the residential only apartment building to restrict at least 15% of the units as affordable at 80% median family income for 99 years. And that amounts to eight of the total 51 units with restricted affordability.
 So the building's affordable units are representative of the total units in the building. It will be comprised of four studio, three one-bedroom, and one two-bedroom units. Okay.
 So outside of the Central City Plan District under the Inclusionary Housing Program, it means that a project is eligible for a tax exemption on only the units with the restricted affordability. So in this case, those eight units and an associated percentage of residential common areas will receive the exemption and the other 43 market rate units in the land will be fully taxed.
 And so as you can see with that, can we move to the next slide? Excuse me, before you move, Mayor, I have a question. Yes, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Cori. My question is what is the square footage of the market rate units? Are the studios, one bedrooms and two bedrooms the exact same average as it is for the affordable units?
 Yes, so per the Inclusionary Housing Program guidelines, the affordable units need to be at least 90% of the average square footage of all the units of that type in the building. So these averages are inclusive of both the market and affordable rate units. And do you know what the square footage is for SROs? I don't know that there's a particular cutoff for an SRO specifically within building code.
 Because what we're calling a studio, I would call an SRO. So I'm just curious as to whether or not these are really units that people can afford to live in when they're that tiny. And the fact that we're calling them studios and one bedrooms and what looks like very, very tiny units, I guess I'm concerned, but if, and all the market rates are supposed to be 90% of the same square footage,
 The affordable units need to be at least 90% of the average of that unit type. So the average square footage of all the units in the building for the studios are at that 285 and the average of all the one bedrooms is 396 and so on.
 When units or developments are reviewed by planning and zoning through the Bureau of Development Services, they only deem dwelling units to be those that have a full kitchen and bathroom, as well as, and then any bedrooms, we also determined to have full egress access and to have windows.
 And so an SRO in that case would be different in that it wouldn't be subject to even the inclusionary housing because it's not considered a dwelling unit. So there is a difference in that case and it's not deemed strictly on size. Thank you. You're welcome. So as far as looking at the tax benefit,
 Since again, this is only restricting the affordable units in the building over the total 10 years, there's roughly $85,000 in taxes that will be exempt. And per unit over the 99 years of affordability, that's a little over $100. And so next slide.
 If we compare that then to the average rent discount between the market rents and then the studio rents, there's about $188 difference per month for that. Obviously those things change over time, both on the affordable and the market, but that's the best we can do to kind of make an average of what that monthly savings is compared to the value of the tax exemption. Wanna go to the next slide?
 Can we go back to the last one again for just a sec, please? Sure. So there's only a hundred dollars difference between a less than that between an affordable studio and a market rate studio.
 It's like a 10-mile difference. And because these are smaller buildings or smaller units, that's probably why there is a lesser difference, right? And even within the market, these aren't going to be at an extremely high cost for market rents. That's very interesting. We're giving a 10-year tax break for $10? Yes.
 Tick box off? No, it's, well, $188 compared to, what was it, $108 on average. And, you know, remember the tax exemption is only for the first 10 years. And the affordability is going to last for the 99 years through inclusionary housing. And so even if the market gets to be more expensive, these are still going to be limited to the affordable rents.
 To 60%? 80%? This is an 80% MFI? This project is yes, based on the option that they selected. Thank you. You're welcome. Yeah, and if we can skip through PROV 3, this is the one that we're pulling back. And next we have Bernie 1.
 Just bringing up my notes. So under the inclusionary housing option for this project, which is also a residential only apartment building, the burning one is required to restrict at least again, 15% of the units is affordable at 80% of median family income for the 99 years. So out of the 29 units, there's four with restricted affordability.
 And the buildings units or affordable units are representative of the total units in the building. And so that comes out to two studio one, one bedroom and one two bedroom units. And again, outside of the central city plan district district these four units will be the only ones benefiting from the tax exemption over that timeframe. And the rest of the units will be fully taxable. And so we want to,
 Scroll through that to the next slide. And again, that comes out to an average about $114 per unit over the 99 years.
 compared to, I think we have the same rent difference in the next slide because the market rents are similar than, so it's very similar average rent discount. So these are smaller projects, the market rents on them wouldn't have been a lot higher but still over what the minimum affordable rates would be for a building of this size. So we'll move on to Bernie two.
 which is similar, obviously being developed by the same folks. And this one, they also chose the same option of 15% at 80% of median family income. And that results in six of 42 units with restricted affordability. And based on the unit composition, ends up to be three studio, two one bedroom, and one three bedroom units.
 And those again are the only units that will have the benefit from the exemption in this case. And we can go through to the next slide. And the average on that is 118,000 based on our estimate of what the total taxes and therefore the exemption would be. And next slide please.
 And just based on the rents they proposed in this building, it actually ends up being a little bit higher rent difference so between the affordable rents and the market rents for this particular project. So we can move to the final project, which is the Pepsi Blocks Phase 3, or Phase 1, excuse me, Building A. And this one is a little bit more unique in that
 So with this building, they're required to restrict at least 8% of the units as they've chosen the 60% immediate family income option. And again, that's for 99 years. So that amounts to 18 of the total 219 units in the building that will have restricted affordability.
 For this particular project, the developer opted to reconfigure the building's required number of affordable units by providing an alternative mix based on the total number of bedrooms required by the IH option selected. And so by reconfiguring the total number of bedrooms into the affordable units of two bedrooms or more, this results in a building with a smaller overall number of affordable units, but they're providing affordable family-sized units.
 And so with that, and with the option originally selected, the 8% of the building that was selected, they would have needed to provide six studio, seven one-bedroom, and four two-bedrooms, as well as one three-bedroom unit, which totals 24 bedrooms.
 So to walk through that reconfiguration option, the final result is that there will be two studio, four one-bedroom, three two-bedroom, and four three-bedroom affordable units. Again, that's over that full 99-year period or at 60 percent of median family income. So this building is restricting an additional 31 of the total 219 units.
 to include five studio, nine one bedroom, nine two bedroom and eight three bedroom units to also be affordable at 60% of median family income.
 making a total of 44 units of the 219. And they're doing this because the building is part of a planned unit development. The developer is planning to fulfill the inclusionary housing requirement for the whole site, so the additional buildings that will be built within the planned development.
 by consolidating these additional units in this particular building that's getting built first. So the Housing Bureau will be reviewing the subsequent building permit applications on site and confirm that the units provided in this building fulfill each future building's responsibilities as those also come in for permit.
 So only since this is also outside of the Central City Plan District, the 44 units that are being made affordable over that 99 year timeframe will receive the exemption as of the completion of this building, even if the units are being sent from other buildings that are built later on. So- Dori, can I ask a question about that last comment you made? Yeah. So there will be five buildings and we'll
 in this mixed use environment, right? And you're saying that the developer wants to build all the quote unquote affordable rate units in the first building that will be built? Correct. And you will be monitoring the other buildings for what? So because the program has that 90% discount,
 of the average square footage requirement. For instance, it has a few other requirements about consolidating units into one building. So we'll want to make sure that the units that they've chosen to fulfill, that the mix of studio, one bedrooms, two bedrooms, etc., does meet indeed the standards for each of the additional buildings that gets built. And so...
 If they're not able to fulfill that down the road when one of the other buildings is built, they'll have to provide units on site in those buildings. Thank you. I actually was concerned about this because I was concerned that the affordable, well, the 60% MFI units
 would be something that would be down the road. So I'm very supportive of those units being built first, because we've had that experience in Portland where developers run out of money halfway through a project and oops, what didn't get built was the affordable housing unit. So I think this is a good model for us to be moving forward. Thank you. Thank you. If you wanna move to the next slide, please.
 So this is a description then of the per unit and total tax exemption over the 10 years. So a larger building than the other ones we were looking at, but still about the same or similar per unit expense of the $127 per year over that full 99 year period. And when we're looking at then, if we can go to the next slide, and then can we go to the next slide, please? Okay.
 Very good. Commissioner Hardesty, did you have another question? No, Mayor. My hand was left over. Very good. All right. Well, I think I've said it all then for these particular projects, but yes, I'm happy to answer any other questions that any of you may have. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions before we move to public testimony on these items? Very good. Carla, is there any public testimony on 542, 43, 44, or 46? No one registered, Mayor.
 Very good. With regard to item 542, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Fritz. Thank you for all of the very clear presentations. I'll just say that once, but I mean it for all of them. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. 543, also in emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye.
 I think this is the one that I was really concerned about the size of the units. I just hope that we are evaluating whether or not we are providing a truly livable space for folks who are in need of truly livable space that's affordable. I vote aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. 544, also an emergency ordinance. Hardesty. Udailey. Aye.
 Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 546 is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, Dori. Great presentation. Carla, if you... I show that as an emergency. Is my asterisk wrong there? That's weird. Mine does not. Is yours the most recent one? Maybe my agenda...
 You're looking at 546, is that correct? Oh, you know, you're right. I have a, I switched mine around. No worries. Okay, good. So if you could read 547, please.
 Authorize intergovernmental agreement with Prosper Portland in support of the ongoing implementation of housing functions at the Portland Housing Bureau and economic opportunity functions at Prosper Portland. Colleagues, Prosper Portland and the Portland Housing Bureau share important responsibilities in providing the highest level of services to Portland residents.
 Prosper Portland provides economic development services, while PHB provides access to affordable housing. These agencies provide funding oversight to each other to ensure the most effective programs possible. And I believe we have, yes, there she is. There is our director, Shannon Callahan, ready to take it away. Good afternoon, Shannon. Good morning.
 Good morning. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. This is our annual IGA with Prosper Portland that we enter into each year, which states the detailed scope of work for our shared responsibilities for funding levels in next year's budget. Due to the length of time and the schedule you still have to go through, I want to just be here to answer any questions you might have. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Any public testimony?
 No one registered. Call the roll. Hardesty? Oh, 547. I'm sorry. Udaily? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Thank you, Director Callahan. I understand Anna Shook and Mike Johnson also worked on this, so I want to acknowledge their hard work. Thank you all for this important continuation of this IGA.
 And with that, I vote aye. And the ordinance is adopted. 548, please. Approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize a competitive solicitation for the use of the alternative contracting method of negotiated request for proposals for construction of the outer division multimodal safety projects. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor.
 The purpose of this ordinance is to authorize PBOT and procurement services to use an alternative contracting method for the outer division multimodal safety project.
 The community requested that PBOT pursue this alternative approach out of concern for the safety of people traveling along the corridor and impacts to local businesses given all of the projects that will be under construction at the same time over the next two years. Here to present for PBOT is Elizabeth Telstrom.
 Thanks, Commissioner Udaly. And good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Elizabeth Tilstrom. I serve as a Capital Project Manager for PBOT. And I'm joined today by Carrie Waters, PBOT's Contract Equity Coordinator, and Lester Spittler, the City's Chief Procurement Officer. And I have a presentation that I am going to share. Bear with me.
 And please let me know if you can see this. Yeah, looks good. Okay, great. Thank you.
 So, we're here today, as Commissioner Udalli mentioned, we're here today to request authorization to pursue an alternative contracting method for the Outer Division Multimodal Safety Project. For this presentation, I'm just going to briefly provide some background information on this project and some other projects occurring along the corridor, and then hand it off to Lester and Kerry to provide more information on why we're recommending this alternative
 as well as information on our contracting equity strategy that we'll be pursuing as part of this alternative process. So our project area for the safety project is on Southeast Division between 80th and 174th. So takes us as far east to the city limit.
 As you may be aware, Southeast Division Street is a high crash corridor. Over the last decade, we've had 19 fatalities and 129 serious injuries. We've been working on improvements to this corridor since 2011. However, in 2017...
 Following a year with five traffic fatalities in Southeast Division, the community asked the city to take action and do more to address the serious safety issues along this corridor. So as a result, City Council directed PBOT to develop a safety action plan for division and authorized funding for a more comprehensive capital project on the corridor. So when we started this project in 2017,
 Division Street ranked number one on our high crash corridor for all modes. So that includes people walking, biking, and driving.
 And so when we studied the corridor to better understand the safety issues, here's what we found. So the street is very wide. It measures 76 feet curb to curb. And just for reference, an intersection of division say between Southeast 11th and Cesar Chavez is it's 36 feet curb to curb. So this is more than double the width when you get east of 82nd.
 So for outer division, we have a very wide street. We have two travel lanes in each direction, as well as a center turn lane where vehicles can enter in from either direction. We have really long distances between signals, which results in drivers speeding along this stretch. And then the lack of frequent signals leaves many of those legal pedestrian crossings at intersections unprotected.
 We also have existing five foot bike lanes next to that outer travel lane where we have vehicles speeding sometimes on average of 45 miles per hour. And then finally, the street is very dark. So we have a lack of street lighting. If there is street lighting, it's unbalanced. It's on one side wherever we have utility poles that we've been able to use.
 attached lights to. So all of these existing conditions, really lack of infrastructure, have led to a lot of the safety issues that we've seen on the corridor over decades. So this slide kind of represents,
 our plan and approach for how we're gonna address those safety issues on division. Some of these things PBOT has been able to implement over the last two years. So recently, we infilled all of the missing sidewalks. So we now have a continuous sidewalk corridor along this segment of outer division. We moved forward with emergency projects to implement or to install speed safety cameras, speed reader boards,
 We added new street lights at key areas along the intersection where we have transit stops or where we have had pedestrian fatalities. And then we also permanently lowered the speed limit to 30 miles per hour.
 So all of that work was recently completed. Now with this upcoming outer division multimodal safety project, we'll apply the rest of this plan. So we'll build those raised center medians to address a lot of the turning movement crashes we're seeing along the corridor.
 We'll be installing 10 new signalized pedestrian crossings to create safer and more frequent opportunities for pedestrians crossing the street. In conjunction with those medians, they'll also shorten the crossing distance for pedestrians. So, you know, they have a safe refuge in the middle. They don't make it all the way across. We'll be adding even more streetlights through this project and then installing protected bike lanes. And so here's just kind of a quick,
 image of the existing conditions on Southeast Division Street, and then a rendering of what that future cross section is gonna look like under the safety project.
 And briefly just wanted to touch upon our public involvement efforts through this project. So even though the community asked for this project in response to all the fatalities occurring, we still wanted to do and we wanted to have a really robust outreach process. So this kind of summarizes it. We partnered with APANO and Division Midway
 for the entirety of our outreach. And through their efforts, we were able to provide our outreach materials in eight different languages and then also hold events and have translators at those events as well as specific in language, business meetings and focus meetings with the community.
 And this slide kind of, you know, our outreach efforts kind of lead into this slide. So in addition to all of the community events, we've held monthly partner coordination meetings with APANO and DMA and all the other agencies working along the corridor. So that includes TriMet and ODOT and Prosper Portland and Housing Bureau just to coordinate all the work along this corridor. And so the list in front of you.
 just reflects the work that's planned in the public right-of-way. And so there's more, you know, there's housing projects going on, but this is just what we're doing in the roadway. And so it was through those partner coordination meetings, and this is kind of why we're here today, where our partners and business owners and local property owners realized that there's going to be a lot of work occurring along this corridor at the same time.
 And the snapshot of the map you see at the bottom of this slide is a sample. This was an internal working map that PBOT staff had and we were working on just to make sure all of the projects are coordinated and talk to each other and the designs work together because we are all working in the same area at the same time. And so the community came to PBOT and asked us
 to do more out of concern for public safety with all these contractors working out there, as well as just the fact that it's gonna be such an active construction zone and impacts to the local business community. And so we worked with procurement to identify
 an alternative method that will give PBOT a little bit more control and actually reduce risk cost and delay risk for us, as well as require them to do more in terms of outreach and coordination with the businesses, as well as coordination amongst all the contractors that are gonna be working out there. And so Lester will talk a bit more about the benefits of that approach. Briefly, here's our funding.
 It was started as an emergency project, so we kind of have a piecemeal funding approach for this, but in total, we have a little over $9 million to deliver this safety project. And then here's our schedule moving forward. So if we receive authorization today, our plan is to advertise the RFP next month and run that evaluation process through October.
 At the same time, we are completing the design for this project. So we'll have those final plans in September. And then once the contracts in place, which we're expecting sometime early 2021, the contractor would mobilize and begin construction. And then our goal is to complete all of the work by spring summer of 2022. As you're probably aware, TriMet's division transit project is already under construction along the corridor.
 And their plan is to begin testing summer of 2022 for that new transit line. And so we would like to construct our improvements and be out of the way, have all those new signals in place so that TriMet can begin testing their line. So that is our schedule. And with that, I will turn it over to Lester to talk more about this alternative approach.
 Very good. Thank you. Thanks, Liz. For the record, Lester Spittler, the city's chief procurement officer. So we the project team and procurement staff examine for delivery options. One is the traditional low bid. The other is a design build. The other is the general contractor. And lastly, the negotiated RFP which we're asking for authorization to do today. We're asking for the negotiated RFP
 because it provides many benefits that a low bid approach would not. Is there an advancement on? There we go. So with a request for proposal, the city can evaluate proposals from contractors and we can evaluate their project approach, who their team members are, and their schedule that they're proposing for the actual construction of the work. We can also evaluate their workforce diversity commitments along with a subcontracting plan. Next slide.
 So when we come to city council and ask for authorization to exempt a project from the low bid, we have to address findings that are both in statute and city code. There's 14 findings and we're required to address those and publish those two weeks in advance of council hearings, such as the one that we're having right now.
 So, Liz and the project team and procurement staff have done that. We published those. We have not had any questions or anybody reach out to us. The following are some of the highlighted findings that support the use of a negotiated RFP on the project. First and foremost, we do not believe that issuing a RFP will result in any less competition than a low bid. In fact, we think that it might result in more competition.
 We believe that RFP will facilitate cost savings due to reducing risk of delay claims, and that's because we get to evaluate a contractor's approach in their proposal. With a low bid approach, we basically just have to accept the lowest responsive price without seeing their approach, their team, or their schedule.
 And lastly, there's various public benefits that will result by using a negotiated RFP. We'll be able to see, again, their approach, how they're going to collaborate with other agencies, how they're going to collaborate with those other contractors, utilities. We'll be able to see their approach on outreaching and engaging with local businesses and residents to make sure that they're sequencing the work to minimize disruption.
 We'll be able to see their approach for increased neighborhood communication, public safety. And lastly, we'll be able to see how they're going to propose to maximize opportunities for certified firms and maximize workforce diversity on the project. So by doing an RFP, we have the ability to evaluate all of those. And I'll hand it off to Carrie Waters to present the last slide. I'm certainly available for questions.
 Great. Thank you so much, Lester and Liz. Hello, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Keri Waters, and I serve as PBOT's Contract Equity Coordinator. So I help to engage our diverse business community and to align internal processes to make sure that PBOT is a great agency to work with.
 I would first like to share how encouraged I've been by your recent conversations in these council sessions about the need to push ourselves as a city away from a compliance-centered approach towards one that leads us to bold, visionary contract equity solutions that leverage city project dollars for economic justice. I look forward to the procurement services work session later this year to discuss the larger policy issues that will unlock opportunities currently constrained within our current system.
 But in the meantime, I have been an enthusiastic proponent of alternative contracting methods to the low bid model, like the construction RFP being proposed before you today that allows us to consider criteria apart from cost alone, like corporate responsibility as well as other qualifications. I'm excited to share that we have already been getting the word out.
 about the Outer Division Multimodal Safety Project. We've circulated our summer and fall construction forecast last month, which I've shared with our community-based organizations focused on contract equity, including the National Association of Minority Contractors, the Oregon Association of Minority Entrepreneurs, and the Professional Business Development Group.
 I've had the opportunity to present to NAMAC in last week's virtual membership meeting, and there was a great deal of interest on this project, in particular, as a construction RFP. I shared that this would be coming forward as a council agenda item this week, so perhaps some of them are listening in right now as we speak.
 Many thanks to Liz for reaching out both in terms of helping to get the word out about the project in our diverse contracting community, but also to support with shaping the solicitation itself.
 I look forward to supporting with this process over the next month, both to ensure that the criteria and scoring help to deepen our equity commitments in action, as well as to learn more about the specifics of the solicitation so I can help to ensure that subcontracting opportunities are shared to those that need to hear about them as we learn more about the breakdown of the bid items.
 In addition to sharing about the subcontracting opportunities within those networks I mentioned already, I look forward to distributing this information even more widely with those who may not be affiliated with the organizations I mentioned.
 We will review and share information with those who have done work with PBOT already, who are documented in the city's contract compliance reporting system. And we have also initiated development of an internal engagement tracking database, which our community service aide, Zelia Guzman Torres, helped us to build out last year, in which we are working to expand via Tableau with a live link to the COVID database.
 So in addition to subcontractor engagement, we look forward to engaging with prime contractors themselves to learn more about their approach to outreach and engagement and to avail ourselves in helping to increase more meaningful engagement that leads to the contract equity outcomes that we all aspire to. So that's all from me for now. Unless we have any immediate questions, I'll turn it back over to Liz to wrap us up. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate the presentation.
 Thank you. Great. And thank you, Lester and Carrie. So with that, our recommendation is to accept the findings before you which is exhibit A to the ordinance, authorize the projects exemption from competitive bidding, and then authorize a competitive solicitation for the negotiated RFP contracting. So with that, we'll take questions. I know I sped through my portion just to try to get all of this completed. So yeah.
 Very good. Is there any further question before we move to public testimony on this item? That was a very thorough presentation. Much appreciated. Carla, is there any public testimony on this item? No one registered, Mayor. All right, very good. This is an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Hardesty. I greatly appreciate the presentation.
 And I think it was very well laid out. The case was made. I certainly look forward to seeing what comes in through this negotiated RFP process and how this informs us as we move forward and revitalizing how we contract at the City of Portland. I'm pleased to vote aye. Thank you, Daly.
 Well, thank you, Elizabeth, for the presentation. This is just a smart way to do business on a very complicated and lengthy project, and I'm happy to vote aye. Ms. Fritz. Well, thank you, Elizabeth and Kerry, for the presentation. I am very glad to see these improvements being done in an area of the city that has long been neglected. Aye. Ms. Wheeler. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you.
 Last but not least, 549, and then we have one uphold item as well. 549 next, please. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet for Friends of Frog Ferry funding in the amount of $40,000 as part of local match for the transportation improvement funds discretionary grant in the amount of $200,000 Frog Ferry operations and finance plan. Commissioner Udailey.
 Thank you, Mayor. This IGA reflects a commitment made between TriMet, Friends of Frog Ferry, which is a Portland-based nonprofit, and the City of Portland to explore a potential new transit service in the region using the Willamette River as an uncongested corridor. Here to present for PBOT is Mauricio Leclerc. Good afternoon. Can you hear me? Okay. I'm the supervising planner at PBOT. I'm here
 provide you some more information. I don't have a presentation because we're just getting started with the work. So basically the work that we are asking to embark on this IGA is to do operations studies and finance plan for a potential transit service that would serve the region and very much Portland. So
 This is in the Central City 2035 plan. It's one of the recommended studies, transportation studies, and river transit visibility study basically to explore funding mechanisms, phasing, and implementation of river transit. So, Franco Fragferic was formed a few years ago to advance his work.
 And we've been doing some preliminary work, reconnaissance, if you will. And so far, we've done better modeling and indicate that this is a promising idea. However, we need more technical analysis to really understand it. We have no ferry in the, no transit service in the region now, so we need technical analysis to advance the work. We think that it has potentially great benefit in terms of providing a new resilient system
 an additional Tritilian transit mode in the city of Portland, also provide a sustainable clean energy mode, but also an equitable move in the sense that we can probably serve the St. John's Cathedral Park area, which seems very far away and people tell us how long it takes to get there by transit. So this is an exploration. We're partnering with TriMet and Friends of Fort Ferry to advance the work.
 So we're happy to come back once we have the results, about a year, but at this point, it's just to initiate the work and to provide the local match required to get this $200,000. So TriMet applied and they awarded $200,000 and we provide local match for 40,000 and then Friends of Frog Ferry provided the last $10,000. So that's basically as quickly as we could go on what the item is about.
 And I can happy, I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you, Mauricio. Commissioner Hardesty has a question. Can't hear you. Thank you, Mauricio. Mauricio, my understanding is this Porn Ferry is it will be a for profit organization, is that correct?
 Well, it's a nonprofit organization. And you're talking about what would this be if we proceed with transit service? My understanding is that the organization will be running a for-profit ferry. Is that correct? Yes.
 It's not my understanding. I think it's a nonprofit organization. So I think the president of Frank Ferry may be lined up for testimony. She may help you with that question. We had a detailed conversation about, what, two years ago during a budget conversation when they were trying to get $200,000 out of the city of Portland.
 Now they're trying to get 40,000 out of the PBOT. And my question is, what are we getting for this investment? Why are we putting any money into this at all? And from the city perspective, even from TriMet's perspective, we wanna advance transit in that region. From TriMet's perspective, but again,
 Okay, go ahead. Please finish. Yeah. So we think, again, this has been in our plans for many years. It's an uncongested corridor that serves populations along Portland that could benefit from another expanded transit service. And we just want to explore that option. There's a lot of technical issues. The stop, the location, the docking, the vessel. So we need more information to really get to the bottom and provide a more thorough financial operations plan. And that's what we're embarking on.
 And again, what is the role that PBAT is being asked to play in this process? We will manage the contract. Tramit is the recipient, but we'll manage the IGA. I will be managing and Tom Mills will be managing. The funds are going to Frog Ferry to develop a funding plan so that the city and Tramit understands how much, what are we talking about in terms of cost and benefits of running a potential as a service. At this point, we're not...
 We're not awarding a contract to anybody. We're just trying to understand the benefits of the potential transit service. Thank you. And if I could just clarify, I mean, we declined to fulfill that funding request a couple years ago, but this was what we offered as an alternative, that if FrogFerry went out and found significant amount of funding that we would contribute
 these matching funds and that's it. Mayor? Very good, all right. Any further questions? If not, we'll entertain public testimony on this item. No one signed up, Mayor. All right, please call, oh no, this is a non-emergency ordinance, so we don't even get that. So this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you all for the presentation.
 And then we had one item pulled from the consent agenda. Is that correct? 525, yes. All right, can you read 525?
 authorize a one year agreement with the Regional Arts and Culture Council to administer art programs for the city and provide for payments. Very good. First, I want to acknowledge that the COVID-19 public health emergency has obviously placed disproportionate strain on Portland's arts ecosystem. Many of our cultural institutions, venues and artists have been first impacted by the stay home, save lives mandate.
 and it seems likely the Portland arts community will be amongst the last to resume so-called normal activities. My colleagues and I recognize the anguish that Portland artists feel in the midst of such an uncertain future. We all cannot imagine a Portland without a strong, vibrant, and creative community. It's integral to who we are as a community. It's in our DNA.
 Yet, at the same time, the demands of this city are unprecedented and we're all moving ahead into an unknown future together. At the beginning of this year, the City Arts Program and the Regional Arts and Culture Council were in the very beginning stages of developing a new long-term cultural arts program for Portland, which would chart our strategy and our vision for the years ahead.
 Fast forward a few months into the pandemic, we're moving towards an unknown future across all of our sectors. In light of these uncertainties, the city in Iraq made the decision to enter into a one-year agreement with the Regional Arts and Culture Council, to add flexibility to our partnership and provide additional time to assess the needs of the arts community.
 RAC has already taken steps to respond to COVID-19, but over the next 12 months, it's my hope that within conjunction with the Commissioner of Arts and Culture and the City Arts Program, we will begin developing a plan for a more resilient arts ecosystem that serves all of Portland. With that, here to present is G.N. Kim. Welcome.
 Thank you, Mayor and good morning, Council. I guess it's lunchtime now. I'm Jeanne Kim, the City Arts Program Manager with the Office of Management and Finance.
 Just the purpose, you know, this, Bee who had pulled this item, she thought it was the CARES Act. And so I redirected her to next week's session and well, she'll provide testimony. But this is just a one year contract. As you mentioned, Mayor, this agreement is largely the same as prior agreements with RAC.
 It moves forward a few changes. It provides more clarity and transparency about how special appropriations are being allocated within RAC's administration and programs. It includes language about how the city and RAC will work through the requirements of federally funded projects, and it provides kind of a 12-month runway for the city arts program, RAC, and our partnership with the Commissioner of Arts and Culture to kind of
 analyze long-term effects of the coronavirus and determine what the best use of the resources of the city are to help kind of mitigate that impact. And then, you know, once we understand what our new normal is, we plan to develop a multi-year contract with RACC.
 with some new goals that address the concerns that we know are happening right now with the coronavirus. And, you know, I'll just say that, you know, the City Arts Program, we really look forward to partnering with RAC over the next 12 months, along with Commissioner Udaly's office to, you know, figure out what our next steps are to address all the things that are happening within the arts ecosystem. So that's it.
 Very good. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any further comments, questions? Carla, is there any public testimony? No. Bea Marston had her questions answered. All right. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you very much. And with that, we'll call the roll. This is an emergency ordinance. Hardesty, you daily. You're on mute, Commissioner.
 I want to take a moment to appreciate all the vital work that RAC has undertaken amidst this crisis without any additional support from the city, and in fact a budget cut for the 2021 fiscal year. They developed and administered a statewide survey to see how the pandemic was affecting our communities. Thank you.
 They provided seed funding and conducted fundraising for the Emergency Fund for Artists and Creative Workers, raising over $200,000 and funding nearly half of the eligible applications submitted. And they've worked with local arts funders to create and fund the Oregon Arts and Cultural Recovery Program with $1.5 million in investments.
 and preference given to applicants that are led by and primarily serve disproportionately impacted communities, including black, indigenous, communities of color, low income, rural, geographically isolated, LGBTQ and individuals with disabilities, refugees, immigrants, and other vulnerable or historically underserved populations.
 or organizations that serve as a hub or facilitator for small organizations, unincorporated groups, and individual artists. This contract will provide more transparency to RAC's operations and provides more special appropriations funding to artists and arts organizations at a time when they're really hurting. So thank you, RAC, thank you, GN, and thank you, OMF and Mayor, I vote aye. Thanks.
 Commissioner Fritz. Oh, sorry. I was not muted, and then I muted myself. Aye. Wheeler. Happy to support this. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. I vote aye. I forgot the most important part. The ordinance is adopted. Congratulations. Thank you, everybody. I'll see you back here at 2 p.m. We are adjourned. Yes, Mayor, I'm here.
 All right, good afternoon everybody. This is the Wednesday, July 8th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here.
 And I am also here under Portland City Code and State Law. The City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference. And the City's made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. This meeting is available to the public on the City's YouTube channel, eGovPDX, www.portlandoregon.org.
 The public can also provide written testimony to Council by emailing the Council Clerk at cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov. The Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and promote physical distancing.
 The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your continued patience, flexibility, and understanding as we manage through this challenging situation to do the city's business. Now we'll hear from Legal Counsel on the Rules of Order and Decorum. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This is Lindley Reese. How are you? Good, thanks. I noticed your haircut, by the way. Thank you. Your hair is sacked up, Lindley. Thank you, Commissioner.
 We have some rules that I will announce. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda at PortlandOregon.gov backslash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony...
 and individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presenting officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting, and please be aware that all counsel meetings are recorded. Thank you.
 Very good. Carla, we have one item for this afternoon, item 550. If you could read that, please. Amend planning and zoning code to extend the expiration date for some land use approvals, maintain inclusionary housing rates outside the central city and gateway plan districts, and allow for virtual neighborhood contact meetings. Very good. And just by way of giving us all context, I'll provide some introductory remarks in a moment.
 There are a number of amendments that I'd like to introduce on behalf of the Bureau, four to be specific. We're going to hear some public testimony on those amendments. The record's going to stay open for one week, and then we'll roll this over to a second reading to vote on the amendments.
 And potentially, if an emergency clause is later added, a final vote tentatively scheduled for July 22nd at 3.30 p.m. You don't need to remember that right now because that will all be covered later in this hearing.
 First of all, I want to thank BPS staff for presenting the expiration date extension project, the subject of today's hearing. As we all know, the COVID-19 pandemic has had a widespread impact on our city, including on the construction and development sectors of our economy and on the development review process here at the City of Portland. At the start of the pandemic, the city staff heard
 from land use review and permit applicants about the difficulties in meeting development review deadlines following the closure of the Development Services Center.
 While the Bureau of Development staff have adapted to a new way of conducting land use reviews and issuing permits remotely, there still remains a concern that slowdowns to application processing and on job sites, physical distancing requirements, and COVID related economic uncertainty are causing land use reviews to expire before applicants can actually act on them.
 These concerns led to a recognition that the city could take proactive steps to provide some relief to applicants affected by the pandemic. As the exploration project unfolds,
 began to take shape with the focus on extending the expiration dates of land use reviews. Several other COVID-related issues that could be addressed by the zoning code amendments began to emerge. Today we'll hear from staff who will present recommended amendments to Title 33, which is the city's zoning code, that address these issues.
 I'm going to turn it over to BPS staff Joe Zender and J.P. McNeil to walk us through the proposal this afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor. For the record, I'm Joe Zender, Chief Planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I'm here with J.P. McNeil, as the Mayor said, who's also from BPS and who's our lead staff on this project.
 So the package we have, proposals we have today includes eight amendments. Most of these are changes to extend the effective dates for steps and approval in the land use review process. It's similar to the packages approved by city council in response to the last recession. The impact is to give applicants more time to complete projects without having to start over.
 And the package also includes some changes in specific plan districts and interim code provisions. I'll now turn it over to JP, who's going to walk us through the eight amendments. Thank you. All right. Thanks, Joe. Good afternoon, Mayor and members of the City Council. As Joe mentioned, I'm JP McNeil. I'm a planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm here to present the expiration date extension project for you today.
 So as the mayor mentioned, this is a project that would address several issues related to the administration of the zoning code and the economic disruption that's been caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the disruptions that's had on development markets. So the proposal brought to you today will amend Title 33 to provide relief to applicants impacted by the pandemic. So I am going to quickly share my screen.
 Hopefully everyone can see that now. Okay, so Let me Oops, there we go. All right, so I
 These are the eight proposals that I'll be covering today. I think Joe already mentioned them. Before I get into the proposals, though, the impacts of the pandemic are felt at various stages in the development review process. So to help illustrate how the proposals fit into that process, I want to give a brief overview of what a large project coming in for review and permitting goes through at the city. Note that not all the projects...
 go through all of these steps. It depends on the size and the level of complexity of the project. But before submitting for a land use review, most large projects go through some form of early assistance, whether it's an optional early assistance appointment or a design advice request or pre-application conference, which is required for most large land use reviews.
 Also, for many large projects, the applicant needs to go through the neighborhood contact process, and that requires presenting the development proposal to neighbors and the neighborhood association to get feedback on the proposal before they submit their application.
 Some, but not all, projects need to go through a land use review. And at that point, city staff evaluate the development proposal against the approval criteria in the zoning code. There are a variety of different land use review types, many of which I'm sure you're familiar with, the design review or environmental review or subdivisions.
 And subdivisions, just to note, because there's a proposal about final plats, and that final plat is the second part of the subdivision process, so just hang on to that.
 And then after approval of the land use review, the applicant can submit for the building permits. So this project touches on pre-application conferences, neighborhood contact, final plats, land use reviews, and then there are a few other things in the zoning code it touches on as well that aren't really captured in this sequence.
 moving into the proposals and they're ordered in the way they move through the development process. So, as I just mentioned, pre-application conferences or pre-apps as they're commonly called, they're part of the land use review process that provide applicants with technical design and procedural assistance
 prior to submitting their application. And so this proposal would extend the timeframe for pre-application conferences from one year, which is what the current code is, to two years.
 The next proposal is the neighborhood contact proposal, and this addresses the issue of holding public meetings at a time when social distancing causes problems with that. So to meet social distancing guidelines, this allows meetings to occur virtually provided there is a phone-in option as well. The next proposal is the land use reviews, and this one is a little more complicated so there's a graphic here to try to help explain it.
 So the zoning code contains regulations that specify when land use reviews expire. Most approvals expire after three years of the final land use decision, provided that development hasn't already begun. Now, due to the pandemic, the processing of permits has slowed down. Construction timelines have slowed. Financing is harder to obtain. And there's just a generally uncertain market condition happening now.
 So this means that some land use approvals have expired or will expire because it's more difficult for projects to move forward. This increases project costs, causes delays, and could hinder the city's economic recovery. So to address those issues, this project proposes to extend the expiration dates of land use reviews and preliminary plans approved between July of 2017
 through the end of this year, through 2020, and those would all be extended until January 1 of 2024. So looking at this graphic, all of the projects that are within that blue period would be extended until the end of that green arrow to January 1 of 2024.
 And just as a note, this project aligns with similar land use review extensions that were passed in 2009 and 2012 that were in response to the Great Recession of 2008. The next proposal is the final plat extension. So as I mentioned, the final plat process, it's the second step of the land division process.
 And so currently the code says that a final plat that's been inactive for 180 days can be voided, and this extension simply extends that 180 days of inactivity to 365 days of inactivity.
 The next proposal is for the Conway Master Plan proposal. So the Conway Master Plan, it's a plan that's guiding the redevelopment of the Conway blocks in northwest Portland. So this is in the photo here. It's a large site of approximately 17 acres that's currently being redeveloped. And the Conway Master Plan was
 approved in October of 2012 and is good for 10 years. So it expires in October, on October 2nd of 2022. So this proposal would extend that expiration of from October 2nd, 2022 until January 1 of 2024.
 And one reason for this is that we've heard from the neighborhood association that they support this because there were concerns of what would happen to a public park that's part of a master plan if this were to expire, the economy master plan were to expire before the project has been completed.
 The next proposal is the non-conforming upgrade agreements. Excuse me, JP. Sure. Mayor, I have a couple of questions, a couple of slides back. I've been trying to get your attention. Okay.
 I'm sorry, when I have the presentations up, the participant list disappears. So I apologize for that. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. JP, could we go back a couple of slides to the land use VB slide? Sure. Thank you for this one. So explain this to me again. So we have projects in various stages of development.
 from July 2017 through the end of this year. Why an arbitrary number like January 1st, 2024? What's the magic in that? Well, the magic was just looking forward three years. We kind of looked back at the previous land use review extensions and what they did, and they were granting about three years out into the future.
 And so that gives us three years from now or the end of this year for applicants to figure out to get their projects completed. There is some thought given to not wanting to go too far in the future because codes and the code changes over time. And so if we have approvals that are approved in 2017 and we were to, you know, indefinitely extend it, things, you know, and it's 2022.
 2028 or something things are have changed over time so so we wanted to balance that. Thank you JP that's exactly my point I think what we thought in 2017 about what the best land use opportunities were and what we would think in 2020 could be as different as night and day.
 And so the fact that we are headed into unknown economic territory, some big things have happened since 2017. One is the climate justice resolution that we just passed as a city council. Another is us prioritizing BIPOC communities and the
 lack of investment in those communities in the city of Portland. And so are we tying ourselves into old plans that are not going to be adaptable to the new visions and the new priorities that the city of Portland is trying to move forward?
 Well, we would be looking things that were approved in 20. So for example, a design review that was approved in 2017 would be yes, extended till 2024. The idea, I guess the, the question of the policy issues of allowing things that were approved in the under that was allowed in 2017. And if that, the, the,
 General climate has changed in between now and then. I think those are policy issues that the council can hammer out. We were looking back at the economic impact similar. We had a model from 2008 that looked at the economic recession then. And so we were looking at providing similar relief as was done then because the economy is in flux right now.
 But what happened in 2008 is African American community was devastated, and they have not recovered from the economic devastation of 2008. And so if we're going to put the same policies in place that we used in 2008 without a racial justice lens, then we're going to get the same outcomes that we got in 2008.
 I take your point, Commissioner Hardesty. We did not have, this was a pretty quick project that was moving through the process quickly to try to capture things before they expired. And so there wasn't a lot of time spent looking at this in the same way through the racial justice lens.
 So Joe, I see you may be trying to pop in here. I mean, why would the city council tie our hands to 2024, especially as it relates to land use, knowing what we know today based on what we knew in 2017?
 Um, so the, uh, kind of, you know, and I don't know, uh, the specifics on the permits that are in that pipeline. That blue part is sort of the pipeline, like before permits that are still to be filed. Uh, and we were trying to just respond to the economic change. Uh, since 2017, I was trying to think, I can't remember we, uh, adopted, uh,
 the inclusionary housing, but I think this captures all those projects that would be still working through the land use system here are all going to be have inclusionary housing. If they trigger it would apply.
 That's not true, right? Inclusionary housing didn't trigger it. February 2nd of 2017. Yeah, that's part of what we looked at. We had a version before Central City Commissioner, so that's what that is, I think. But that was the main one I think we had our eye on. And Joe, Commissioner Fritz wanted to get in on this as well. Commissioner Fritz.
 Well, I just wanted to comment that we haven't made all that many changes. Well, we've recently made some changes to the zoning code, which may make it more attractive to do different kinds of developments. If you don't have to use the permit that you've already got, if they decide that it's more favorable to start over, they can. But otherwise, the rules in effect, when they apply it, are the rules that count now. So we wouldn't  until you 
 hopefully next year make some changes in the zoning code to address the issues that you are concerned about conditional hardesty, the rules would still be the same in the zoning code. So I don't really see how you would get to a different outcome.
 Thank you for that, Commissioner Fritz. I guess for me, if we haven't done a racial justice analysis about which of these projects are will be beneficial and which ones won't, then I'm not sure why we would extend it to give the opportunity to extend land use decisions through 2024. I would suspect that coming out of this economic downturn, we would want more flexibility and not less.
 I can understand some extension, but a blanket extension is what is giving me some concern, especially for these huge land plots that, again, we were thinking one way before the pandemic hit. And I think our priorities and our thought process might be a lot different now.
 And so what I'm hearing is just kind of a blanket extension as compared to any analysis about what makes sense and what doesn't based on the current economic climate and based on what we learned coming out of 2008.
 So if I could jump in on this, because this is a good discussion and I'm appreciating it. This isn't just about the economic downturn. The reason we're extending the deadline is these are projects that were put forth in good faith under the rules that existed in the city of Portland.
 slowed the process down when we shut down the Bureau of Development Services. And so the concern that we're trying to address here is we've had developers that have gone out, that have done the work, they've gone through their review process, they've secured necessary community approvals, they've received their financing, and we're
 we slowed the process down. And so this is an effort to make good on what is effectively a partnership by extending our deadline so that these projects aren't unilaterally now over the timeframe that was allowed because we were the ones who slowed it down, if that makes sense.
 Thank you, Mayor. That does make sense to me. Yes, I understand that. And that makes sense to me. What I don't know is that what the magnitude of this extension means.
 And maybe I will learn it as we continue in this conversation. But that hit me as an opportunity to do something different based on where we are as compared to us extending our timeline to continue the status quo. Yeah, no, and that's a point well taken. And my suspicion is we're not doing this with any confidence.
 expectation of a quid pro quo for many of these developments or projects, my guess is that even with the extension of these deadlines, some of these projects still aren't going to happen as a result of the economic consequences of COVID. But this is really a focus on our piece of this and making good on the partnership and the efforts that already have been made by these development projects under the rules as they existed at the time.
 Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate that. That's very helpful. And I just want to say the sound is really bad this afternoon. I don't know. People keep fading in and out, and there's an echo. All right. Well, then let's  well, I'll try to  I try to turn off my monitor when I can because that seems to take some of the bandwidth, and then let's all make a good effort to stay muted when we're not talking. That helps, too. Okay. Are we okay to continue the presentation? Go for it. Okay.
 So where was I? I was at the, we made it past the non-conforming, or to the non-conforming upgrades. I think we made it just past that one, and we're getting to the inclusionary. JP, I don't think you covered that one. Okay, did I not? Okay, I think I started on that one, and then you're right, I didn't finish it. So the non-conforming upgrades agreements, so not just real quick, non-conforming upgrades are required for large alterations on sites with non-conforming upgrades. Okay.
 Generally, we're talking about upgrades to things that are not, that don't meet the current zoning codes for parking, landscaping, bike parking.
 screening, parking screening, things along those lines. So in some cases the applicant can enter into an agreement with the city that extends the period that they can complete the upgrades for a certain period of time. And so this would, this proposal would extend the timeline for any non-conforming upgrade agreements that were in effect when the pandemic hit, which
 We set the date as March 8th of 2020, which is when the governor first declared a state of emergency. So from March 8th of 2020, we extend that timeline through to January 1st of 2022. Okay, the next proposal is the inclusionary housing extension.
 So this one's a little different. So the inclusionary housing standards, they set the rate at which affordable housing units must be provided for residential projects with 20 or more units. And so these standards are the rate at which affordable housing must be provided or lower for areas that are outside of the central city and for gateway units.
 And so to date, since the inclusion of housing was originally passed, these rates have been extended by two years. They were set to expire at the end of 2018, and they were expired and set to until January 1st of 2021. So and just as you can see here under the current code, the standards in Central City or Gateway, 10% of units for.
 for projects that are subject to inclusionary housing, 10% of all units has to meet the 65 or 60% median family income, or 20% of the units have to be at 80% median family income. And outside the central city or gateway,
 It's 8% and 15%. And so this project poses to delay that the January 2021 increase of the affordable housing rates outside the central city gateway for an additional three years to 2024.
 And the final proposal, this is actually something that is pretty straightforward. It's something that, it's fixing something that we missed with the Better Housing by Design project. When that was adopted, and these terms that are on the screen here, they should have been added to the list of terms chapter of the zoning code, and they were inadvertently left out, and so we are adding that in now. That's it for the proposals.
 We received eight pieces of testimony written to the PSC. To date, we've received two pieces of written testimony to city council that I've seen. And I believe there's seven testifiers registered to speak today at the hearing. The PSC? I'm sorry, the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Thank you. Thank you.
 And so that's it for the presentation that I've got here. This is just more information is at the project website. So unless there are any questions, I will turn it back to the mayor. Any questions at this point, colleagues?
 All right. Before we open the hearing to public testimony, I'd like to introduce four amendments to the PSC recommended draft and the ordinance that has been submitted. I'd like to move and second these amendments now so that we can hear public testimony about them. My colleagues and I will also be able to ask questions and discuss these amendments after public testimonies should we so choose. First, I'd like to propose an amendment,
 that aligns the start date of proposal number three for land use review decisions retroactive to the start of the pandemic. Specifically, the amendment I propose moves the start date back to March 8th, 2017, as was discussed.
 I understand that we cannot apply the retroactive amendments to sites in unincorporated Multnomah County or to land divisions. So staff's proposed language excludes those situations. We'll call this mayor's amendment number one. Can I get a second? Second. Second from commissioner Ewe Daly. Second, I'd like to also introduce an amendment to extend the proposal to allow for virtual public meetings.
 until January 1st, 2024 to match up with the other proposals. We don't know how long this pandemic will be with us, and it makes sense to extend this proposal longer than the end of this year, should it be necessary. We'll call this Mayor's Amendment Number 2. Can I get a second? A second from Commissioner Hardesty.
 The third amendment I'd like to introduce is to reduce the amount of time the lower inclusionary housing rates would continue to apply outside the central city and gateway from three years to one year.
 The inclusionary housing program is a key zoning tool for increasing permanent affordable housing. I'm committed to a Portland Housing Bureau study focused on ways to improve the inclusionary housing program and believe one-year extension provides a reasonable time frame to align with this effort. We can always, of course, extend it if necessary. We'll call this Mayor's Amendment 3. Second. Commissioner Fritz? Yes.
 Sorry, Commissioner Daley seconds. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a question? I had a question about the previous one, but if you want to, you're not done with your amendments yet, right? Yeah, I'll get through the last one and then I'll be happy to go back and answer questions. And so the final amendment I'd like to introduce will postpone the effective dates of the system development charges for the bureaus of environmental services, water and transportation.
 The pandemic has impacted the number of building permits BDS has been able to process, of course, causing delays that impacted applicants' abilities to get permits before the SDC fee increases became effective on July 1, 2020. This amendment delays the effective date of the new rates until August 1st,
 2020 to account for permit crossing delays at BDS allows applicants to minimize the financial impact of the SDC fee increases. We'll call this amendment four. Can I get a second? Second. Second. Second from Commissioner Fritz representing the utility bureaus. And then Commissioner, you had a question regarding, I believe it was amendment two. Is that right, Commissioner?
 Yes, that's correct. It's about the virtual meetings. Yes. So I'm a little concerned about extending to 2024. And although virtual meetings are more convenient for some people, they are very difficult for other people. And so as you move forward, I would be...
 concerned if the city decides to go to all virtual meetings. I mean, we just see how few people sign up for communications here and how few people testify. And then if you were talking about land use hearings, those would be very difficult to participate from remotely and to get evidence into the record. So I'm willing to support the amendment. I just wanted to put that on the record that that's a concern I have. Thank you.
 Yeah, and that makes good sense. And, you know, I think we want to modernize the process. And we heard from a lot of people that, yeah,
 First of all, we don't know how long the pandemic's going to be with us. And number two, there are some cases where being able to do it virtually might encourage more people to participate. But I think that's still very much a live conversation. And I don't know if Joe or somebody from the Bureau has additional commentary or thoughts on that. Yeah, this is Joe Zendermayer. We haven't done research into how to forecast how that's...
 going to affect participation. We actually have just recently adopted the new neighborhood notification or neighborhood contact requirements. So all of that's new enough that we don't have data on.
 We were, for the purposes of what we're putting through city council here, it seems to be working, but we haven't done research to the neighborhood associations. Okay, very good. And I see Commissioner Hardesty has a question. Then I'm going to turn it over to Kurt just to briefly talk about the utility bureau amendment that we also just put on the table. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. My question is the enabling us to use virtual meetings for neighborhood activity doesn't actually require us to use virtual meeting. Am I right in how I read that?
 because if we are able to do more in person, we may want to do a combination of the two so that we give people various opportunities to be able to participate. So that's my question in regard to what Commissioner Fritz put on the table. And I guess my second one is, I would feel better about virtual meetings when people who signed up for communication, we could see them.
 and have some kind of engagement. I think it's not the same kind of interaction when the public testifies, when we're not able to actually see them, right? Even if it is virtually. So I knew we were working on that. I don't know where we are in that process, but this amendment actually brought that back to my attention, that that was a commitment that we had made months ago, so.
 Commissioner, I do believe that people who have the technology can be seen on camera. The problem is people like me don't have the technology to have that visual. So then that introduces an inequity that some testifiers are able to be seen and others are not. Well, actually, I thought that we were not
 visualizing people who were signing up to testify on events. We were purposely not putting their visual on the screen because we did not enable that.
 So not to take anything away from your point, Commissioner Fritz, because I agree. I agree that the fact that we don't have a language interpretation happening simultaneously is a barrier to people participating. The fact that we have to ask for sign language is a barrier for people to participate. So this will not solve all our communications problems, but it might be a good tool to not disband resources.
 when this pandemic has ended. All right, well, there's certainly room for discussion there and we'll keep it open for public testimony if people have thoughts on that. Commissioner Udaly has been waiting patiently. Commissioner Udaly.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to quickly add that coming up with alternatives for civic engagement during the shutdown as well as bridging the digital divide have been near the top of my list of priorities and something my office has been working on diligently. We're in the process of
 negotiating a contract for an online civic engagement platform that I think will just be a godsend during the shutdown, but will continue to be vital
 afterward because so many more people will be able to participate than can show up to our weekly city council meetings. And we are working on that digital divide issue as well. So just want to acknowledge those are valid concerns and good work is being done. And I support this amendment in the meantime. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. And Kurt, you wanted to provide a little bit of context for the Utility Bureau Amendment Number 4. Thank you, Mayor, members of City Council. For the record, Kurt Krueger with Development Services Division within the Portland Bureau of Transportation. My comments will be brief, but I wanted to provide context for the request to consider this amendment today. Today, I'm speaking on behalf of my colleagues at the Bureau of Environmental Services, the Water Bureau, and PBOT.
 Development bureaus typically bring annual fee change ordinance to councils in the spring with new review fees and system development charges taking effect on July 1. SDC fees for water, BES, and transportation automatically adjust outside of the plan review period.
 fee adjustment process. In a typical year, the month of June is a very busy period for BDS as customers rush to submit building permit applications in advance of these fee changes on July 1. Due to the impacts and disruptions that COVID pandemic has created, not all of our customers have been able to successfully submit building permits in advance of last week's July 1 deadline. This amendment would push out the effective date of the new SDC rates, 30 days, and the new rates would go into effect August 1st.
 This extension, if approved, will reduce some customer frustration and project costs for those unable to get their permits into the queue. I appreciate the council's willingness to consider this amendment, and also want to thank the city attorney's office and your council staff for helping us pull this together in this amendment in the last 24 hours. Thank you, and I'm available for questions if you have them. All right, great. Thank you very much for that.
 Today we will now hear public, we have four amendments on the table. We'll hear public testimony on the proposal.
 Since we're holding this hearing remotely, we will be holding the record open for an additional week until 5 p.m. on July 15th. For members of the public who'd like to submit additional written testimony, testimony can be submitted by visiting the project website at www.portland.gov slash BPS slash PDEP and click on the link to email testimony to the council clerk. All right, so we have people signed up.
 I believe, Carla, we have seven people signed up.
 My notes say two minutes, but is there any reason, legal counsel, why we can't give people three minutes today if there's only seven people signed up? No, you certainly can give people three minutes. Let's give people three minutes name for the record. And I also want to remind anybody who may be testifying today as the lobbyist, you must declare which lobbying entity you are authorized to represent in accordance with Title II of the city code. Commissioner Uday, can you have your hand up?
 Nope. Good. All right. Good. Carla, go ahead and call the first individual, please. First person is Allison Reynolds. Hi, Allison. Hello. Can you guys hear me? Loud and clear. Okay, great. So I am Allison Reynolds with Stoll Reeves.
 And I would like to express my appreciation for the city taking action to alleviate impacts to development from the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic recession. I'm here in support of the proposal before you and to also speak in support of Mayor's Amendment No. 1, which is the amendment to backdate the relief this ordinance gives to projects to March 2021.
 And so as the mayor explained, this amendment gives belief to projects whose land use approvals had not yet expired as of March 8 of this year, and will ensure that the projects impacted by the COVID-related processing slowdowns can go forward.
 I'm working on a project that is directly impacted by this amendment with the developer of the Pearl East office building at Northwest 13th and Gleason. And that project's land use approval will expire before the relief under this ordinance becomes effective if that amendment isn't adopted. If the amendment is adopted, then that will not, you know, that project won't expire.
 And this group has been actively pursuing a building permit for the project since November of 2019, which would have given them more than enough time to get that issued under normal circumstances. However, the processing delays that BDS needed to implement to prioritize essential projects during the pandemic, which we fully agree with them doing, that started in March, made it impossible for Frillies to receive their permit on time.
 And so I believe this amendment fulfills the goal of this project, provide relief to projects impacted by both the pandemic processing changes that BDS had to implement and the economic recession. And so I urge your support for that. Thank you. All right. Thank you, Allison. We appreciate it. Next individual, please, Carla. This is Dana Koczyk. Hi, Dana.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and City Councilors. I'd like to reiterate Allison's appreciation for the City considering this extraordinary relief during these extraordinary times.
 I'm testifying on behalf of clients that are in favor of the Conway Master Plan Amendment and the Nonconforming Upgrades Amendment. The Conway Master Plan Amendment will allow that cohesive and comprehensive master plan that was supported by neighbors after an extensive process to be extended for a short period of time.
 This amendment is supported by the Northwest District Association, property owners, and developers in the master plan. I also support and request your approval of the proposal related to non-conforming upgrades to allow folks that are trying to upgrade their property additional time because of the delays to on-site work and permitting. With that, I'll conclude my testimony, but I encourage you, if you have any questions about either proposal, I'm happy to try to respond.
 Thank you, Dana. Appreciate it. Next is Christy White. Hello, Christy. Can you all hear me? Yep. Thank you. This is Christy Carlson-White testifying on behalf of a number of developers and landowners who work both inside and outside the central city. First...
 Thank you for responding to the moment we're in with this thoughtful proposal and recommendation that I believe is calibrated to the market challenges that are presented by COVID. I'm just going to testify quickly on two issues. First, fully support the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendation to extend permitting timelines, including for those projects in Conway. The impact of COVID has hit those projects like every other in planning and approval stages during this difficult time and this
 extension will help the community realize the full vision of the Conway Master Plan.
 I also have testimony about PSC's recommendation to extend the current IH rates to 2024. I understand and may have from your presentation that the city has prioritized the study of that current program and is about to launch that study, but was delayed like everything else by COVID response. That study is badly needed to diagnose how we are truly doing on production of IH units.
 Anecdotally, and this is anecdotally from my end of the continuum where I see projects trying to go forward and failing, it seems we're not yet delivering on our aspirations for IH unit production. I think we need to study why we have what seems like a lower count or a more anemic response than we've aspired to.
 and how to increase that production that is more badly needed than ever. PSC proposed a 2024 date, which would allow for that study and then any changes that were necessary for the IH program to boost production.
 But if what you're saying mayor is that we're gonna study this and we need a year to study it. And as a result of that study, if we need further extension because we need to adopt program changes that will help production of units, I think that's also a result that would be positive as long as we understand and diagnose this issue and my clients can do what they can to help meet the city's aspiration on production of IH units.
 Thanks for this opportunity to testify. Yeah, thank you, Christy. If I could just briefly respond to that as well. So to be clear, my interest in doing an IH study has not wavered at all. I think it's incumbent upon us when we pass any policy to know what the impacts of that policy is, whether it's positive or negative. And I have said,
 that if the IH program needs a true-up or revisions, I'm certainly open to introducing that as the housing commissioner. And I had proposed that study. In fact, I had funded that
 that study. But what happened of course is that we went into an economic tail slide and many many things that the City of Portland was planning on doing went by the wayside as we sought to
 close the $75 million budget gap that was prior to all of the questions around police expenditures. And so we took the resources that had been allocated towards that IH study and put it in emergency rental assistance instead through the Housing Bureau. So that doesn't mean I'm any less committed to it or think it's any less important.
 I just had different priorities with the budget in the heat of the moment, given that we have this massive budget shortfall and emergency community needs. I have a longer term question that we can talk about later.
 which is, you know, I was prepared to do that market study this year, assuming that we were in a relatively stable market. And right now, I would say the real estate market is anything but stable. And I'm not sure this is the right time for us to do a market analysis in real estate.
 the midst of an obvious economic shock. So the question that I will have for everybody is, what is the right time to re-engage the study and have it be meaningful as opposed to right now where I don't think we'd have meaningful results? That's a longer term question.
 Thank you for your testimony. The answer is yes, I'm committed to it. I'm just looking for the right time to be able to do it, and I'm open to people's advice and counsel on that. Next individual, please, Carla. It's Ezra Hammer. Hi, Ezra. Hi, Carla.
 Good afternoon, honorable mayor, honorable commissioners. Ezra Hammer here with the Home Builders Association of Metropolitan Portland. Thank you for letting me join you this afternoon. We want to thank Sandra Wood and Joe Zender with Planning and Sustainability Bureau for working on these critical amendments.
 we've been supportive of this process from the beginning and thank the planning and sustainability commission for moving forward. What we believe is a fair and reasonable package, giving the, given the severe economic downturn that,
 that the housing market has faced coupled with the city's necessary triaging of accepting new applications and processing existing applications in order to respond to the pandemic. These twin challenges create unique situations that we absolutely believe are parallel to the challenges we faced in the Great Recession.
 If you look at the number of dwelling unit permits polled for March, April, May, and for preliminary data in June, we're looking at 50% decreases year over year, which will be tremendously impactful nine months and 12 months from now when those housing units are not available for Portlanders to purchase and rent.
 So again, we urge you to move forward with this package quickly. We thank you for your consideration and have a wonderful day. Thank you very much. Appreciate it as always. Thank you for being here. I lost my screen here. Yeah, I've had the same problem. Oops. Never works when you want it to. Thank you. Gwen Baldwin. Good afternoon, Gwen. How are you today? I am doing well. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. I'm
 So, Mayor Wheeler, Council President Fritz and members of the City Council, my name is Gwen Baldwin, and I'm here today as Executive Director of Oregon's Smart Growth, an organization committed to walkable, livable communities that are economically, socially, and environmentally sustainable and feasible.
 Oregon Smart Growth deeply appreciates the elements of the expiration date extension project and supports the adoption of several of the proposed amendments, including an extension of the option for virtual neighborhood contact until 2024, the language that applies the extensions to projects that have expired since March 8th or will expire,
 And when the impacts of COVID-19 created a pause for many project reviews, as well as the SDC fee increase suspension, these amendments are absolutely in line with the underlying goals of the ordinance and reflect an understanding and support of feasible housing and employment development in these challenging COVID-19 times. At the same time,
 I am concerned about the proposal to reduce the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommended three-year extension of the inclusionary housing rate outside of Central City to just one year. And as the Mayor has raised, this concern would be mitigated if we knew that the housing study, the inclusionary housing study, the Council approved more than a year ago was refunded and back on track because the alignment is really important.
 that if there is the data and analysis known, then we can apply it, all of us, to make good policy decisions into the future. But to have the expiration date happen before that data has been gathered and understood, I think, is pretty challenging.
 And I truly appreciate the initial reprogramming of the funds to address the pandemic. You know, that was a tough time and everyone responded quickly and understandably.
 Now we're at a point where it's important that that council restores that funding and develops a robust scope through the Market study to really look at all the elements of the program So that the inclusionary housing program can really produce the level of affordable housing It was envisioned to create in the more than three years since council implemented the inclusionary housing program Just 76 affordable rental units have been actually added to the market so completed and rentable
 That's not a program that's working as it needs to be to meet the need for housing affordability in this city. So I urge council joining the mayor in committing to funding and moving forward a robust market study scoped with stakeholders and done in time to a form that
 data-driven policy review at the conclusion of the extension. So very much appreciate it. If that timing is such that that year doesn't make sense, then I would encourage that to go back to the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommendation for a three-year extension.
 I also want to just thank again the council, the mayor, and particularly the planning and sustainability staff for all your work on this package under very tight timelines. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Next is Kurt Krieger. Hi, Kurt. Kurt Krieger. Hi.
 I'm with Bridge Housing. We are a developer of affordable housing, including the recently completed VERA. Thank you, Mayor, for participating in our virtual dedication ceremony last week. Bridge has about 1,200 units of affordable housing in the Portland area. We have about six projects in our pipeline. Company-wide, we have 12 projects under construction in three states and 76 affordable housing projects.
 underway. We've been in business 37 years and we're committed deeply to social equity and
 and furthering the goals of equity and inclusion through housing. We have a board of directors. Ed McNamara is our Portland-based director, and you may know him as a former city staffer for Mayor Hales. I would like to speak today to Mayor's Amendment No. 3. I was prepared to support the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommendation for the extension of the current...
 offsets for inclusionary housing. But the mayor's recommendation with his sincere commitment to undertake a robust, transparent review of the offsets, I think is very appropriate. I happen to be housing director for the city of Portland in 2015 to 2017 when inclusionary zoning was launched.
 and take personal point of pride that we undertook a very robust inclusive process in nine months from the date that the preemption on inclusionary zoning was passed by the Oregon legislature in a
 to make the ordinance effective February 2nd, 2017. We did that because we wanted the vested pipeline of projects that were already already had land under contract to be able to go forward. This obviously extends that vested pipeline a bit further, but it is appropriate to evaluate whether or not the
 financial and non-financial offsets to inclusionary zoning are correct and correctly reflect the marketplace as the mayor so eloquently mentioned. I'd be happy to respond to any questions you might have. Thank you very much. Thank you, Curt. Appreciate it. And the last person who signed up is Michelle Vives. Greetings.
 I am unmuting. Thank you. Can you hear me okay? Loud and clear. Great, thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Michelle Vivas and I represent Douglas Wilson Companies. Douglas Wilson Companies supports the City of Portland and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's efforts to address the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the development market.
 We are the court-appointed receiver for the property located at 1400 Northeast Multnomah, commonly known as the Mosaic Superblock, a five-acre site across from the Lloyd Center Mall that is currently a parking lot.
 The project for the site was entitled in September of 2016 for two mixed-use buildings with 677 apartments, 12 live work units, and approximately 38,000 square feet of retail. The project is supported by the Sullivan's Gulch, Kearns, and Lloyd Community District Neighborhood Associations. As the court-appointed receiver for this property, it is our responsibility to preserve and enhance the value of this asset.
 The Exploration Data Extension Project Ordinance seeks to provide projects more time to endure the current state of the market in the midst of a great economic uncertainty, and acknowledges the impact to city permitting infrastructure to ensure development projects in Portland continue to move forward.
 To that end, as noted in our submitted written testimony, we suggest the following amendment to the Exploration Debt Extension Project, and I will read it out loud here to you today. Within the city limits, final decisions that authorized 20 or more dwelling units and became effective between September 1st, 2016 and January 1st,
 2021 expire if a city permit has not been issued or approved development by January, 2024. And such approved development includes affordable dwelling units consistent with the requirements specified in chapter 33.245.
 We hope this feedback will be incorporated into the ordinance. At a time in Portland's history when housing and commercial development are greatly needed to bounce back from the economic impacts of COVID-19, it is critical to protect local market asset value and capture development opportunities that translate into a boost to the local economy. Thank you again for bringing this ordinance forward. We look forward to further discussing with you.
 Yeah, good. Thank you. And Michelle, I appreciate it. And I want you to know, I put some thought into this as well. And I asked both the Bureau staff, as well as the city attorney staff to look into this and see if there was any way for this to be viable within this particular ordinance.
 Because the project that you represent, I think, is a very worthwhile one, and it represents a significant commitment to affordable housing. So it's something that philosophically I am very much supportive of and want to support. However, as your letter to the council indicated, the permits to the project expired well before the pandemic.
 And so this particular ordinance that's before us right now, it's obviously aimed towards the Land Use Board of Appeals, and it's focused specifically on remedying the impacts of COVID-19 to the development review process. And so there are many development efforts that...
 I would say are worthwhile that fall out false outside the scope of this particular proposal, which we have to keep narrowly focused on economic fallout from COVID. But I am committing my staff to creating equitable relief measures and I want to keep the conversation alive. I just don't think it's appropriate in the context of this particular ordinance that is focused narrowly on the COVID piece. Um,
 And given that your permits expired well before that, if we shoehorn it into this ordinance, I think it puts the whole ordinance at jeopardy when it gets to LUVA. So I just wanted to give you full transparency on my thinking around that.
 And Mayor Wheeler, I wanted to thank you for that opportunity as well. I do understand that we will be further discussing this with staff, and I appreciate that opportunity. Most certainly understand your point of view and do not want to at all in any way jeopardize the effectiveness of this ordinance. So thank you very much. Yeah. So hang in there. Let's continue the conversation. Thank you, Michelle. Will do. Very good.
 Carla, does that complete public testimony? That's all who registered, Mayor. Oh, very good. Okay. Colleagues, I don't know if there's any further comments or questions today. Mayor, do you want to vote on the amendments? No, we're going to keep those open. Okay. Commissioner Daly, did you have a question? I just wanted to make a couple comments before we end. Sure. I wasn't clear on how...
 the vote was going to go. I just want to express my support for the IH extension and say that we, my office has received a lot of input on this topic, both for strengthening IH and for weakening the requirements. So I'm also really interested in that analysis. I want to
 know that we are getting a fair deal as well as giving one to developers.
 And then I also support the delayed SDC increase. I know that PBOT permitting has a three to four week backlog due to the COVID shutdown and the challenges of development review staff working at home. And it just wouldn't be fair to penalize developers for challenges that we're facing on the city level. So thank you for those, and that is it.
 Excellent. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Hearing no further questions or statements from my colleagues, I want to thank staff who've worked so hard to prepare this proposal quickly to address the COVID-19 impacts on our development review customers. The record for oral testimony is now closed. As a reminder, the record for written testimony is still open. It will close on July 15th at 5 p.m.
 This matter is continued to July 22nd at 3.30 p.m. for a vote on the amendments. If Council is in full agreement on the amendments and overall project at that hearing, we do have the option, if we so choose, of adding an emergency clause and taking a final vote on the ordinance. Unless there is anything else for the good of the order,
 That concludes today's hearing. Thank you all. We are adjourned. Thank you.