Okay, good morning. Good morning, Carla. Good morning. Please call the council to order. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Udaly. Wheeler. Saltzman. Here. And our first order of business is to elect a new president of the council. Mr. President, I nominate Commissioner Amanda Fritz. I'll second that. Okay. Any further discussion? No.
 I want to disclose I have no conflicts of interest. Commissioner Fritz has offered me no monetary or non-monetary consideration for my vote. Well, great. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Hello.
 Well, I would note that Commissioner Eudaly has done an absolutely fabulous job as President of the Council in her rookie six months. And so I very much appreciate that. It's a load that I'm going to be carrying for the next six months, just for people at home and those wondering. This is largely a ceremonial position which rotates. There's not any particular significance to it being my turn.
 and its chief functions are in a disaster. The President's Council serves on the Disaster Policy Commission, and also in the Mayor's absence runs the City Council meetings. Those are the two most major things that we do, and so I'm proud to accept the responsibility for the next six months. Aye. Fish. Congratulations. Aye. Saltzman. Congratulations. Aye. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 And the gavel. Indeed so. All right. So, as usual, we are asking everybody to observe the rules of decorum in the city council chambers. If you like something, do twinkle fingers or thumbs up. If you don't, then twinkle fingers down or thumbs down. Please don't make noises during people's testimonies. It tends to disrupt and make the meetings longer. And anybody who doesn't follow the rules of decorum will be asked to leave.
 And if they don't, then there'll be more serious consequences. Hopefully, we are all working together to make city council something that's safe and welcoming for everybody. With that, please call communications item number 752. Request of Dennis Morrow to address council regarding village gardens. He called and is not able to make it. Okay, thank you. 753. Thank you.
 Request of Chris Sobroto to address council regarding village gardens. Welcome. All you need to do is state your name for the record. We don't need your address. And you have three minutes. After 30 seconds to go, there will be a beep to warn you you're nearly up. And at the end, it will be a lot of beeps. So please wrap up at that point. Welcome. Thank you. Chris Sobroto.
 Good morning. I'm the program director at Village Gardens at Janus Youth. And as a person who has seen the power of working collaboratively to create change in our communities, I'm simply here to thank the city for your support over the years. I want to tell you a quick story about food.
 Many people talk about food as a problem. We don't have enough of it. We don't have the right kind. We can't afford it or it's hard to find time to cook it. But there is also a different story. There's a story of food as a solution that has created safe neighborhoods, economic independence and healthy connected communities.
 So Village Gardens is based in North Portland affordable housing neighborhoods and they are layers and layers to what we do. We grow food, cook food, sell food and share food as a means to build community resilience. Thank you.
 And to date, the work of Village Gardens includes free community gardens, community orchard, chicken program, Food Works Farm, which employs about 30 youths a year through urban agriculture, a market gardener program, which supports small business development for refugee and immigrant farmers, and a seasonal farmers market that brings fresh local produce to a low-income neighborhood.
 And thanks to the ongoing support of the city, Village Gardens also hosts Village Market. It's the only nonprofit grocery store in the city that actually authentically puts healthy food on a level playing field. Village Market came out of a two-year community process in New Columbia, which is Oregon's largest affordable housing neighborhood.
 Community leaders identified that the neighborhood needed a grocery store that was easy to get to, that was affordable, that carried culturally relevant and healthy options, that provided a place of employment for neighbors, and did not sell alcohol, tobacco, and lottery tickets.
 And it's been around for almost six years now. And what has been a game changer for the neighborhood is the introduction of the Good Food Program through the support of the Portland Children's Levy. The Good Food Program gives SNAP eligible customers a 30% discount on fruits, veggies, bulk, whole grains, dairy, eggs, and other healthy pantry items.
 And so last year we were able to provide over $12,000 in good food discounts. And we were able to provide 18,000 apples, oranges, and bananas free for kids on their way to and from school. And in the last year, the purchase of produce overall has increased by about 20%. We currently have 11 neighbors who are hired as staff in the market. We stock whole tilapia, goat meat, teff flour.
 and seasonally produce is stocked with certified organic vegetables from our youth farm and market gardener families. So we serve about 400 customers a day.
 with over 30% of our sales through SNAP. So we also have a pilot project that over the next year is working with partner organizations across North Portland and St. John's to distribute $30 in veggie vouchers to about 200 participants. And we've seen an 80% redemption rate just in our first month with over $1,300 in veggie vouchers spent on fresh fruits and vegetables throughout the neighborhood.
 You know, we know the food system that exists simply doesn't work for low-income communities and communities of color, so it's all about creating models that provide options and autonomy. And the city's ongoing support of Village Market is a truly integral part of the solution. So I just really want to thank you, thank the city council for making this community vision a possibility. Chris, since Dennis isn't here, can I just ask two questions? The first is...
 Tell us about the farmers market, hours of operation, where it's located, and how people can get more information. Yeah, our farmers market is every Thursday from 4 to 7 through August 31st. And what's really exciting about it, all the vendors are from the neighborhood, so they're first time folks trying to figure out what it means to start a business and do retail and kind of work around all those barriers that might be in place for folks at bigger, more established markets.
 Yeah, it's on Trenton and Newman. And, Chris, let me just say you are a fantastic city partner, and we're so proud of this partnership. The county and the city jointly invest in Village Market along with Home Forward. You said something in your speech, in your remarks, that I think should be called out. You said that the Village Market doesn't sell alcohol, tobacco, or lottery tickets. Okay.
 And there are some who would say that without those three, it's very difficult for a small neighborhood grocery store to be successful. And the fact that you have persevered and have bucked that trend, and also the fact you continue to highlight healthy food, particularly healthy food the closer you get to the register, which, again, goes against the grain of most grocery stores, is to be applauded. Right.
 On behalf of the city, just know how proud we are of this partnership. Thank you. Thank you so much. And thank you, Commissioner Fish, for getting the dedicated ongoing money to supplement that. It's something that I'm very proud of supporting with you. Next item, please.
 Item 754, request of Robin Ryan to address council regarding facilitate introductions. He called and is not coming. Thank you. Next one then, please. 755, request of David Keefe Davis to address council regarding stalking away the First Amendment, targeting of cop watchers, whistleblowers, and activists by the city. I don't see Mr. Davis, so next item, please.
 7.56, request of Mary Pavito to address council regarding state efforts to reduce toxic air pollution. I don't see Ms. Pivoto either. If she comes a little later, we might be able to see if we can pick that up. But otherwise, I hope that she will reschedule. I know things are still happening at the legislature, so she's perhaps down there.
 Thank you. That concludes the citizen communications. I have two items pulled from the consent calendar, numbers 764 and 766. Does anybody want to pull any other items? Seeing none, please call the roll on the remainder of consent. Saltzman.
 Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fish? I'm pleased to support the consent agenda, but I want to call out item 759 and the action we're taking to appoint new members to the Portland Utility Board.
 and pleased that so many quality people in our community have stepped up and have offered to serve. Particularly pleased that Hilda Stevens is joining the pub. She owns Bozzy Beer Brasserie and serves as president of the Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association and I think is an example of the service
 the sort of the type of person that we're seeing who is stepping up and volunteering to serve in our utility oversight body. We're very pleased that these individuals have agreed to serve, and we thank them for all their time and energy. Aye. Fritz. Aye. We're a little ahead of schedule for the time certain at 945. I do see a firefighter in the back. Are you here for 766? Yes. So if you could please read 766, we'll take that. That was pulled off the consent agenda. Okay.
 If that's okay with you, Commissioner. Yeah, that's fine. 766, authorize a purchase order with Skeeter Brush Trucks, LLC, for the purchase of three wildland brush trucks for a not-to-exceed amount of $700,000. And I believe Mr. Lightning pulled this. Would you like to come and tell us your concerns, or would you like to have the staff presentation first? Okay. So if you could come forward and do a presentation. Thank you.
 And I appreciate you being right on hand so that we can take care of this now. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Jay Kuo, Senior Business Operations Manager for Portland Fire and Rescue. So today with me is Fire Marshal... Good morning, my name is Nate Takari. I'm the Fire Marshal for Portland Fire and Rescue. So we are here to present our ordinance requesting Council's authorization for purchase of three brass units...
 from Skitter Brass Truck Company. This vendor is selected from Houston, Calveston Area Council's cooperative purchase agreement that can be used by other government. The purchase amount is total of $700,000.
 which are entirely funded by the 2010 GO bond, public safety GO bond. So that's kind of... Any questions? Not sure what the concern is, but if you could stand it. Does anybody on the council have questions? You could take a seat and we'll ask Mr. Lightning to come and tell us his concerns, questions. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. One of the concerns I had, again, is just on...
 In my opinion, when we have items in excess of $500,000, everything should go on the regular agenda and not on the consent agenda. The public needs to have a better understanding on what we are purchasing. And one of the things I just want to do, ask on these wild brush trucks, is do we currently have these type of trucks owned by the city?
 And again, what I want to see on the, if we do, on the current trucks that would probably be taken out of service, I want to make sure these are not donated to any nonprofits, given to any nonprofits. I want to see these put up for auction and the money go back into the funds at the fire department. I don't like to see anything given away. I don't think the city should be giving away any type of vehicles.
 And basically I wanted to have a clear understanding on that by purchasing these vehicles now, will we be, like I say, taking out of commission current vehicles and how many? Thank you. Thank you. And if you'd like to come and respond to that. I will say in response to the first point you made, Mr. Lightning, that Mayor Wheeler has not.
 set a council rule of anything over 500,000 goes on regular agenda yet certainly something that he and his staff might consider
 Okay, about the rejure. So our replacement criteria is for front line fire apparatus of 15 years or 120,000 miles mileage. And the question is, so we own some already, do we? Yeah. So these three are due for replacement over 15 years, and we always kind of put into rejure for another five years before we...
 We donate most to other smaller fire departments that don't have that kind of equipment. And then we go through a surplus process with the state, surplus process for sale. But usually the price is very low, so it's not worth much money. Do we have any idea where the three that we are taking out of service are going to go to at this point?
 Those are still in reserve first. Uh-huh. Yeah. Do they go to fire companies within Oregon or elsewhere? We most are in the local, in Oregon State, but we do have other, like go to Mexico, like fire engine and truck for sister city. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you very much for being here. Thank you. And the council discussion, please call the roll. It's not an emergency. Mr. Second reading next week. Thank you.
 And now it's 9.45, so we can do item 757. Proclaim July 2017 to be Portland Prep Awareness Month in Portland.
 So, Madam President, I'm going to welcome our honored guests forward, make a couple introductory remarks, ask you if you would do the honor of reading the proclamation, and then we'll turn it over to Peter. This morning we welcome Peter Pariseau, a pinch hitting for Tyler Tremere, Executive Director of Cascade AIDS Project, and he's joined by Carlos Negrete and Morgan Jade.
 The city of Portland is deeply and proudly committed to public health, and our commitment is more important now than ever because of the repeated efforts in Washington, D.C., to cut funding for important health services and to eliminate health care for tens of thousands of Oregonians. That's why we're proud to be leading on a local level and thankful for partners like Cascade AIDS Project. In April, CAP opened the Prism Health Clinic.
 a new resource for specialized health care for the LGBTQ community. I think Peter will tell us it's the first such specialized care facility in the state of Oregon, which is a very proud day for our community. And it represents yet another great partnership between the city and Cascade AIDS. And by the way, the city was very proud to support PRISM with a $100,000 grant from our special appropriations fund.
 And now I'll turn it over to the President of the Council to read the proclamation. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, and thank you for your work on this important item. Whereas everyone in our community deserves access to comprehensive information and medical options for preventing HIV, and whereas without public health interventions, one in every 214 Oregonians will contract HIV in their lifetimes,
 And whereas in July 2012, the United States Food and Drug Administration approved the first medication for use as HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP, signaling a new era in HIV prevention. And whereas PrEP is highly effective, providing up to 99% protection against HIV infection.
 And whereas the state of Oregon is a national leader in HIV prevention, covering the full cost of PrEP for most Oregon Health Plan recipients. And whereas the city of Portland has supported local non-profit Cast AIDS Projects Prison Health Center, a primary care facility specializing in health care for LGBTQ plus people. And whereas current efforts in Congress to appeal the Affordable Care Act
 Affordable Care Act and undermine public health presents significant risks to the fight against HIV infection. And whereas the City of Portland is deeply committed to public health, supporting access to health care from all members of our community and working with partners like Cascade AIDS in the fight to prevent HIV.
 Now, therefore, Ted Wheeler, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of roses, does hereby proclaim July 2017 to be Portland Prep Awareness Month in Portland and encourages all residents to observe this month. Thank you very much. Peter, welcome. Thank you. So that's what I'm gathering. It's like it's a vaccination year.
 It is a – I should let our PrEP navigators, Carlos and Morgan, talk more specifically about it. But it is a preventative measure that you take once a day. Do you guys want to – Peter, why don't you start by the information yourself and then just – Sorry, I'm going to talk to myself. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Peter Parasso. I'm Director of Strategic Development for Cascade AIDS Project. And with me today, we have Carlos Negrete and Morgan Jade, two of our fantastic PrEP navigators, who will give you a little bit more information about what PrEP is.
 and why it's an important preventative strategy for us to engage in. And then we can answer some questions. First, we would like to thank – oh, I'm sorry. My name is Carlos Negrete, and I would like to thank the city of Portland for joining us against the fight of HIV. It is our privilege to be here today representing Cascade AIDS Project and Prism Health PrEP program.
 As mentioned earlier, July of 2012, the FDA approved the first medication as PrEP, which stands for pre-exposure prophylaxis, and is a new provincial tool that can protect against HIV up to 99% if taken as prescribed.
 Hi, I'm Morgan Jade. Thanks for having us today. So with this new tool, we were able to start a new conversation about HIV prevention in the 21st century and open the door to see what other prevention tools are out there and what new tools can be available in the future. We know that PrEP works, but when it comes to the HIV fight, we can't move forward without addressing the disparities and lack of access faced by our communities, especially queer people of color.
 We need to focus on encouraging our communities to talk about new prevention tools and let them lead the conversation when it comes to HIV prevention. We thank you for being here, and we encourage to start the conversation to break the stigma of HIV and PrEP. We welcome you to think of how you can bring PrEP Awareness Month to your community and loved ones. And the first step is to start a conversation.
 So in answer to your question, Commissioner, the PrEP is a once-a-day pill regimen. So it's basically an HIV medication that you take as a preventative measure, and it prevents you from contracting the infection if exposed to it. So it has a 99% effective rate and has pretty much been adopted by most major metropolitan areas, San Francisco, New York, L.A., Seattle, as their primary prevention tool to stop the spread of HIV. Okay.
 And it's entirely covered on the Oregon Health Plan? It is entirely covered by the Oregon Health Plan. I mean, we are fortunate in Oregon to have a really robust insurance program for PrEP and for HIV care.
 We do. For private insurance, it can be a little bit more complicated. The copay, it's an expensive drug, so a month of PrEP, although it has recently been deemed to be a generic sometime probably at the end of this year, but a month of PrEP costs about $1,500. Okay.
 And so private insurance oftentimes has some significant co-insurance requirements for drugs of this type. So we work with our PrEP navigators to make sure that people have access to copay assistance from, you know, either from the drug manufacturer or from the Oregon Health Plan to help offset those costs. So our goal is to make sure that everybody has access to PrEP regardless of their ability to pay. Okay.
 Peter, I have a question, but first a comment for people new to the council. Peter is actually a veteran of this building and worked for former Mayor Sam Adams. So welcome back. Thank you. Tyler was in D.C. recently as part of a large demonstration in support of protecting the Affordable Care Act.
 and I saw some of the press coverage, and I was really alarmed at some of the consequences of repealing the Affordable Care Act on the LGBTQ community. And I wonder if you'd just take a moment to give us kind of a very high-level sense of what's at risk if we repeal the ACA.
 Yeah, I mean, it's – I think we've probably all read about the stories of what's happening with the ACA. If repealed, it will have a significant effect on Oregon's ability to provide coverage for HIV-positive individuals and health insurance for LGBTQ plus individuals as well. So, I mean, we'll see. There are – the disparities faced by the LGBT community with regards to accessing good primary care healthcare are significant and well-documented, and so –
 We're just creating another barrier to allowing people to access health insurance. I mean, I don't have the numbers at my fingertips, but we'll see a significant reduction of the number of people covered in our program, and there may be some risk of...
 on how Medicaid, how they want to restructure Medicaid, how well Oregon Health Plan is going to be able to cover the things that we're currently covering now. Well, another example of where this debate is really a question of life and death for people in our community. It really is. I mean, taking away health insurance from millions of Americans is tantamount to a death sentence for a minority of them, certainly. So PrEP sounds like an amazing drug. Who discovered it?
 It's manufactured by Gilead. Actually, it's Truvada. It is a drug that is taken as an HIV medication. And so one of the other uses for the drugs that it was approved by the FDA was as a preventative measure. So it basically prevents the virus from being able to be uptaken in your immune system. It basically kind of builds a shield around your immune system cells. And so if someone is to get HIV in their body,
 they have this barrier around all their cells. So the virus can't get in and start replicating. And in order for it to start working, you have to be on it, for example, for seven days. And depending on the risk or the exposure that you have, there's a time period that you have to be on it in order to work.
 And we currently, we're offering a PrEP clinic out of Prism Health, which is our LGBTQ plus specific primary care facility that you guys help fund. So thank you for that. And our goal is to have one day, basically one day turnaround time to get people prepped. So you come in, if you're at high risk, you fall into one of the risk categories and you're a candidate for PrEP, we will hopefully be able to do the blood work all in one day and send you out.
 on your way with a prescription for PrEP that you can fill either through Mellow or at your regular pharmacy in that same day. Typically, that has taken somewhere between a month or a couple months to do if you're going to Kaiser or another larger health system because they'll run the lab. It'll take several weeks for the lab to come back, and then you have to come back and get it retested.
 before you can actually get the prescription. So what we're really hoping to do with Prism is compress that timeline down to one day to make sure that everybody has access to PrEP when they need it and how they need it. Great. Thank you. Peter, before we...
 We close out this item. You've got a couple of events coming up, including two big events this fall. Why don't you tell us about them? Oh, sure. Thank you for the opportunity. September 9th is Portland AIDS Walk. I hope you will all consider joining us. It is happening at the Neighborhood Fields Park, one of my favorite parks in the city. Thank you for that as well. And that is, I believe, starts at 11 a.m. on September 9th. And then the next event that we're having is...
 our World AIDS Day celebration and lunch, and that is going to be not actually on World AIDS Day this year because of the way the day fell, but it will be on December 4th, and that will be happening at the Nines Hotel. So, again, we'd love for City Council to join us if that is meant. Thank you very much. Any questions? Did you want to take a picture, Commissioner? Sure, let's do that, yeah. So we can go assemble. Perfect. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Commissioner Talsman, do you have anybody here to do the other item that's pulled off consent? Which item was that? It's 764 for streetcars. Yes. Oh, yeah. Yeah, we do have people here. Okay, so let's do that one next, and then we'll go into the regular agenda. So please read 764. Okay.
 Authorize intergovernmental agreement with Sound Transit for cooperative procurement of modern streetcars. Good morning. Good morning. I believe this was originally on consent and was pulled. Yes. So I'll speak briefly and then wait for questions and comments. This ordinance authorizes a cooperative procurement agreement with Sound Transit...
 As you may know, Tacoma is one of the few cities that operates a streetcar of the same size and type as we do. They are working towards the procurement of new vehicles, and they have included in their request for proposal the option for the city of Portland to purchase cars through them, should we wish to do so in the future. Okay.
 This agreement puts the procurement agreement in place. It is not authorization to purchase vehicles. It is not assurance that we would ever even use this contract. But under Washington procurement rules, apparently there needs to be an agreement between the two government entities. And is there only one place that one can buy streetcars?
 So my understanding is they've done a request for proposals and there are a number of vendors who have responded. I truthfully do not know as they work through the selection process which company they're going to contract with. So I'm assuming that they have different standards for participation by minorities and women and other protected classes that we do. So how can we be sure that whoever they choose is going to be the best for Portland?
 Well, we do not have to use this contract. It will be available to us as a means to purchase should we wish to do so. If we don't find the contract acceptable, we're under no obligation to use it. Thank you. That's helpful. Anybody else have questions? I'm assuming that there may be some cost benefit to it.
 ordering together. Because we have similar vehicles, yes, they would basically have the specifications already prepared for the vendor at the time they did the RFP. So it would potentially save time and money. Thank you. I believe Mr. Lightning pulled this one as well. It's a pair of testimony if you don't mind hanging around. The questions have been answered. Thank you very much. Now this one again is a non-emergency ordinance that passes to second reading.
 All right. Thank you very much, everybody. Let's go to the first item on the regular agenda. Item 768, revised transit lodging tax code to provide administrative subpoena authority to the director of the revenue division to ensure compliance with short-term rental laws and regulations. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Madam President.
 And we welcome Thomas Lanham to explain this matter. The city of Portland regulates short-term rentals like Airbnb and HomeAway. We have a duty to ensure that guests are safe. For example, that every short-term rental unit has basic safety features like a working smoke detector. Unfortunately, many of the short-term rental companies have done everything they can to thwart regulators and in doing so are putting consumers at risk.
 Despite repeated promises from some of these companies, over 70% of all short-term rental units in this city continue to operate illegally. Today, we are seeking council approval of a new tool to help ensure public safety and compliance with our rules. And with us this morning is Revenue Bureau Director Thomas Lanham to walk us through the ordinance. Welcome. Thank you, Commissioner. My name, again, is Thomas Lanham. I'm the Revenue Division Director. And joining me is Scott Mody from the City Attorney's Office. Should you have any questions for him?
 I think Commissioner Fish covered the background pretty well, so I'll be brief. The ordinance before you this morning arises from prior City Council direction and Resolution 37287, passed on May 24, 2017. The ordinance grants administrative subpoena authority to the Revenue Division to enforce provisions of the transient lodging tax code.
 Enforcement of the city's fire life, safety, and tax code provisions is extremely difficult in the short-term rental market because websites such as Airbnb, HomeAway, and others obscure the actual listing address and contact information until a location is actually booked and paid for. On some of the websites, hosts can actually drag and drop a pin anywhere they choose on a map representing their listing location.
 And this is what is displayed to guests and city enforcement officers, which obviously complicates the enforcement environment. The Revenue Division has one staff person assigned to investigate thousands of potentially noncompliant listings and locations. And this person must currently attempt to correctly identify actual rental locations using multiple databases and tools before determining their code compliance.
 This is a very time-consuming and frequently problematic approach to enforcement. In some instances, our enforcement officer is ultimately unable to determine the actual location information from the sparse information available and must move on to the next listing. City Code currently grants the Revenue Division authority to require short-term rental websites to provide host information. Thank you.
 The Division has attempted to exercise this authority on multiple occasions, including assessments of thousands of dollars in civil penalties, but the short-term rental websites have refused to comply, citing federal preemption. Many of the websites have taken the position that absent subpoena authority, the Revenue Division cannot require them to provide host data. Subpoena authority is necessary to quickly and accurately identify short-term rental listings and locations.
 If this ordinance is adopted by council, it is our intent to request only that information which is necessary to enforce the city code and no more. Such information will, at a minimum, include the listing address, host, manager, or agent name and contact information, and any other records necessary to validate the legality of the listing or the location. And I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have.
 So we have a letter from Airbnb that states the city council should reject the ordinance because it conflicts and is preempted by the Federal Stored Communications Act, or SCA, which was passed to protect due process and privacy rights. Is that true? Are we preempted by the SCA? Commissioner, this is Scott Motey for the city attorney's office. I believe we are not.
 City Charter, specifically section 2-105 , which is the police power provision of the Charter, we believe allows Council and then by delegation under 2-104 to give us, that is the city authority, to issue the subpoenas.
 Basically, that 2105A was enacted by the legislature as part of the city's legislative charter back in 1903, and therefore our position is that the SCA does not preempt the city from issuing the subpoenas. So that, you know, I could cite some additional cases to you, but that's the gist of our opinion. So that section of our charter...
 It goes back to 1903? Yes. Yes, it does. I assume we would argue that it's not preempted because of its...
 Long time. Yeah, and I think... Antiquity almost. Sure, and there's provisions in the SCA that specifically state if there is a state authority, that is a state authority to issue a subpoena, then the SCA does not preempt. And by basically analogy, because the city's charter was effectively adopted by the state legislature, we get the same authority. Okay.
 Thank you. Let me just add my two cents on this. I haven't seen the letter from Airbnb, but I will say, having reviewed the record in the HomeAway litigation, which is about a foot or two feet of pleadings that both Ken and Scott in the legal department have worked on, we may disagree, we probably disagree on a lot of things with some of these big Internet short-term rental companies.
 One thing we can agree on is their creative use of legal arguments to thwart regulators. And they have every right to claim every single preemption and defense known to man. Having read the pleadings, though, I give them credit for being especially creative in all their theories. And at the end of the day, and this is my interpretation, what they fear the most is that if we get the information of where their hosts are located –
 And if we enforce the law, it may be that a lot of those hosts cannot come into compliance with the law. And that means they won't be able to collect a fee from people advertising an illegal unit on their platforms. And since there's a lot of money at stake, I'm not surprised that they've kicked up so much legal dust. I will also say that if...
 If someone gets a lawful subpoena from the city, they're, of course, free to challenge it in a legal proceeding. So if they believe it's preempted or they have any other defenses, I can assure you Airbnb and HomeAway will not be shy about going to court and trying to convince a judge. I agree with that, Commissioner. We've certainly had several lawsuits over the course of the last few years.
 I will offer just kind of a homey analogy because I think sometimes the legal stuff gets complicated and we lose track of the human side. In my view, the position taken by these big Internet out-of-state companies that are matchmakers, that match guests with hosts, is not dissimilar from the Hilton Company announcing that as its new policy, they're not going to publish the address of their hotels.
 You would say that's absurd if Howard Johnson and Motel 6 and the Hilton said that it's a matter of privacy. We're not going to disclose where our hotels are. That is sort of the equivalent of what these Internet companies are doing. And as a result, they are potentially putting guests in harm's way. And that's the part where the city has a concern. Thank you.
 To add on to that, Commissioner, we're not asking for the purchasers' information. Is that correct? People who rent Airbnbs? Correct. Our concern is there's a host and a guest. When guests rent, we want to make sure they're safe. And literally we're talking about things like a working smoke detector. And so we want to make sure the guests are safe. And the only way we can do that is to ensure that the law is enforced as against the host.
 Currently, a lot of these companies refuse to disclose the address and the names of their hosts, making it very difficult for Thomas to do his job. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you very much. If we hang around and see this public testimony, we might want you to respond to. Thank you. No one else signed up? Okay. If anybody would like to come testify on this item in addition to Mr. Lightning, please come forward. Good morning. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Okay.
 One of the things that Airbnb and HomeAway, and I suggested when some of the representatives were here, is a course on the smoke detectors. And I wanted to take it one step farther to also have a fire extinguisher in every room. And I think they were open to those ideas. And it's my understanding that Airbnb and HomeAway are also beginning to have units that are inspected.
 for a certain plan that they offered to certain guests that state that these units have been inspected for safety purposes to make sure these units are safe is, in my opinion, the main objective on these type of units. And again,
 It's my understanding they're moving forward in a positive manner in that direction. Now, on the SEA Act and the privacy issues, I'm in total agreement with Airbnb and HomeAway from their position, and I feel that they will challenge you impossibly. When we're talking on the charter itself, in effect in 1903,
 I think we would all agree that a lot of these things are outdated and not up with the times. And we have to really look at this again to understand the direction these high-tech companies are going. And when we're talking about something put in place in 1903, I really don't think they were thinking in the Portland location of Airbnb and HomeAway and the amount of dollars they're bringing into this city basically through the world.
 As far as on how they're operating their businesses, I think in the long run we'll see the true benefits to the city. And, again, safety is my number one priority too on any type of unit, whether it's just apartment buildings, hotels, or, again, Airbnb and HomeAway. So I think they're moving forward and making progress. Thank you. Good morning. Mary Seidt.
 There's another safety issue that I think should be brought forward that a lot of people aren't aware of, and that's the safety of neighbors where these units are being occupied. In the building that I live in, there was a problem for about a year with people subleasing their units through Airbnb. Okay.
 What this meant to people like me residing in a building in a downtown core area was that people that we did not know were having free access to come and go in our buildings. And the unfortunate thing was that the management had no way of identifying what units...
 except by what the neighbors were telling them. So this proposal that you have, this ordinance, will also help management companies in buildings where people are illegally subleasing through these venues to protect the people living in those buildings from, who knows, might be renting these spaces just to get into that building.
 And so that's just another safety feature. And so I fully support this and appreciate what the city is doing in this arena. Thank you. Council discussion? This is an emergency. Please call the vote. Saltzman? Well, I appreciate this action here. And I do think issues around whether it's constitutional for us to require these records will be
 No doubt determined by the courts, but it's our step here to move the ball forward here and act on behalf of our residents and our guests who visit our city to make sure that they are safe. That is the prime imperative. Udailey?
 I'm very pleased to see this ordinance go into effect. Short-term rental hosts are operating businesses out of their homes. We require businesses to have permits. We require businesses to have fire inspections and working fire extinguishers.
 I just find it nonsensical that short-term rental hosts would be treated any differently. We have an obligation as a city to enforce our code, especially around safety for the guests in these short-term rentals. And as Mary said, there is a problem with safety for neighbors and neighborhoods. I live across the street from two Airbnbs.
 And there's also the issue of the impact on our housing stock. And without the addresses and names of these hosts, we have no way of knowing whether hosts are listing illegal full-time year-round Airbnbs. So that is another issue of mine. And frankly, these companies have created platforms where they aid and abet
 their hosts in flouting local rules and regulations. So I'm thrilled to vote aye. Fish. So I appreciate the eloquent words of my colleagues. Let me just step back for a second and make sure everyone understands what we're doing today and what we're not doing today. What we're not doing today is preventing companies like HomeAway and Airbnb from operating legally in our community. That question has already been decided.
 What we are doing today is giving the Revenue Bureau another tool to ensure that people are following the law. And to those who would like to frame this as part of government run amok and the regulatory state run amok, let's be clear about what the obligation of the Revenue Bureau is. It is to ensure that someone has obtained a business license, is paying taxes, and that the units are safe.
 As Commissioner Udaly noted, those are the obligations we impose on every business in our community. And where we are talking about the safety of a guest, we have, I think, even a higher burden of ensuring that the unit is safe. We have been fought and resisted at almost every juncture over the last few years in our efforts to enforce basic health and safety laws.
 And I'm very pleased that in the last six months this council has taken so many affirmative actions to attempt to bring the industry into compliance with the law. I want to thank Ken McGeer and Scott Moda for the outstanding legal work they've done. A lot of it's unheralded. But these companies litigate every question extensively and appeal every issue.
 until they settle. And we're seeing a pattern of obstruction, obstruction, litigation, and then settling in some city and establishing the national precedent. It would be a point of pride, I think, for our city if we became the standard that other cities then can piggyback off of in ensuring public health and safety. Again, I want to thank the voters that overwhelmingly passed Measure 26-194, which gave us the authority to update our code, to adapt to changes in technology.
 I'm proud to serve on a council that issued a subpoena demanding that Uber turn over certain records. And today's action is another in what I consider a sort of a suite of actions we've taken today.
 with the primary purpose of protecting public health and safety. God help us the first time someone is seriously injured or worse in a unit that is not safe, and we didn't do everything in our power to ensure that our basic health and safety laws are enforced. I'm very proud to support this today. Hi. Fritz. Fritz.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your leadership on this. I did learn in correspondence with an Airbnb host this year that it is possible to put the permit number on their platform. It's not mandatory, however. So there's obviously many things that we could do, and I share my colleagues' concerns for safety and inspections. Every other business has to do that. Why shouldn't these be exempt?
 When it comes to issues of health care, with my 27 years as a registered nurse, my colleagues often defer to me. On issues of law, I always take Commissioner Fish's guidance on his legal mind as to the issues that some of the platforms have raised. And on affordable renting housing, obviously Commissioner Udaly is the leader in experience, and I appreciate her thoughts on this one. So it's not...
 It's more complicated than it might seem, and still this is, I believe, another step in the right direction. So I believe 769 has been pulled back to the Mayor's office, so please read the title.
 Authorize application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Community-Oriented Policing, for a grant in the amount of $625,000 for the fiscal year 2017 COPS hiring program grant program to partially fund five police officers for 36 months. Without objection, return to the Mayor's Office. 770, please. Do you want it there?
 Accept bid of Titan Utilities LLC for the middle housing rainfall-derived inflow and infiltration pilot project laterals for $3,922,244. Do we have a procurement person here? We either have procurement or Scott. I have some talking points, but normally the council will provide them. Should I frame it and then see if the council has questions so we can set over? Sure.
 The purpose of this ordinance is to authorize the interim chief procurement officer to execute a construction contract for the Middle Hillsdale RD-2 pilot project laterals in the amount of $3,922,244.
 Ordinance number 188248 was approved by City Council on February 22, 2017, authorizing the Chief Procurement Officer to issue a competitive solicitation for the Middle Hillsdale RD to pilot project laterals on behalf of BES. The construction cost based on bids received is $3,922,244. The engineer's estimate for the project was $3,400,000, and the confidence level was high.
 Based on the bids received, BES anticipates the construction contrast to cost $3,922,244, which is 15% over the engineer's estimate. The Middle Hillsdale RD-2 pilot project, which is a fancy word for rain-derived inflow and infiltration,
 pilot project will rehabilitate house laterals to keep stormwater and groundwater out of sanitary sewers in the Burlingame Basin of southwest Portland. The City of Portland has found that to achieve needed RD2 reduction in the system, rehabilitating the mainline sewer system and laterals is necessary. This project rehabilitates both public and private portions of the laterals.
 There is a total of $2,400,000, or 62%, of DMWESB participation, which is very high, on this project, including the prime contractor at 41.5% and certified contractors at 20%, apportioned as follows. DBE 780,000, performing traffic work, saw cutting, trucking, and sewer work.
 WBE 10,000 performing arborist and tree work, and ESB 15,000 performing plumbing. Titan Utilities LLC is located in Beaverton and is a state-certified ESB contractor. I'll turn it over to the President. Thank you, Commissioner. That was very interesting and well done. Any questions from Council? Does anybody want to testify on this? No one signed up. Hearing none, it's a report. Move acceptance of the report. Thank you.
 Second. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fish. I'm particularly pleased with the equity numbers on this project. Well done both to procurement and to BES. Aye. Fritz. I agree. It is good to see this. Aye. Next item, please. Thank you.
 Item 771, authorize a contract with Applied Technical Systems, Inc., to provide telecommunications cabling and related services not to exceed $2,500,000. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Beth Fox. I'm the Communications Division Manager for BTS, and this is a contract that we're exercising. I am not sure if procurement is here today or not, though, to speak to this if you have procurement questions. I do know it's a cooperative contract.
 contract. Thank you very much. It was a mad rush. I'm very, very sorry. It's all right. Thank you. I'm really sorry. It was kind of a long run from over there and it caught me totally by surprise and out of breath. I'm really sorry. It takes everybody by surprise when we're actually on time these days. We could maybe have Bev read your thing for you. If you have to.
 Okay, the Applied Technology Systems is a cooperative agreement tied to, actually was to a Multnomah County agreement that we're picking back on to. So it's fully authorized by procurement standards, and if you have specific questions about the ordinance or what we're acquiring with it, Beth is here. No questions? All right. Thank you very much. Anybody want to testify on this? No one signed up.
 And this is an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fish? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Thank you very much. Just came in the nick of time. You have the next one, too? We do. All right. Next item, please. Item 772, authorize a contract with Motorola Solutions, Inc. in the amount of $14 million to provide public safety communications equipment and related services. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you. Motorola's solutions are public safety equipment. This is a standard master agreement that has reached the end of its 10-year life cycle. So this is a new contract to basically roll it forward and keep the same systems all in place for the next five years. Question on something of a contract of this size. Okay.
 What are the factors that you take into consideration, whether to extend an existing 10-year contract or go out and do a new procurement? Basically, that would be a bureau-based decision, but the thought process is with all of the equipment already in place, going out and redoing all of our systems.
 The cost in that would be huge. You would spend a great deal more than we would trying to simply moving our standard existing systems, which are fully functional and working quite well, forward. And then same line of reasoning. Without a broader RFP to test the marketplace, how do we ensure that the contract price with Motorola is in line with the market? Okay.
 The pricing structure in the agreement, which was already determined to have been effective, is rolled forward. All we're taking is inflationary increases. They're not upping the cost of specific items, you know, racking them up 40%, 50% or something like that, simply because they have the standard type inflationary increases are all they're taking. So we're rolling forward the base pricing just as it was. And what was the previous contract's number? Yeah.
 The contract number? Yeah, no, not the number. What was the amount in the previous one? Over the 10-year period of time, I believe the amount came to about $38 million. That also included monies from the recently concluded public safety, the PSSRP radio project.
 So costs outside, if you removed all of the costs from the PSSRP radio project, we're at about $24 to $28 million during that 10-year period of time. So this is significantly less. It's a five-year contract versus a 10-year contract. And why is that? The city charter requires us to do a five-year contract, and then it allows us to do a five-year extension should we choose to. We're limited at five years by charter.
 Well, the first one, they said the charter was 10 years. Charter said we have to do it every 10 years. We're required to either re-solicit or, in any event, write a new contract after 10 years. So we can do a five-year contract. Then we can do, we're allowed to do a five-year extension, which is 10. And then we're done. We either have to have a new contract or a new solicitation. In any event, it results in a new contract.
 I remember the initial purchase being quite controversial, and I share Commissioner Fish's concerns about how do we know. I mean, some technologies have come down in price over the last 10 years. Well, I guess a related question, if I could, because that –
 is what's the shelf life of this technology? So one of the things you said was, well, we've already made a huge investment in the technology. I understand that. But technology, I mean, every year it seems like my iPhone becomes obsolete. So when do we have to consider a complete overhaul of this system because technology has made the big leap forward?
 I think most technology needs to be updated within three to five years, barring cell phones, which tend to be almost a yearly occurrence. The brand-new equipment that's just been put in by the PSSRP project, much of that equipment can be in place and maintained for up to ten years. Yes.
 The equipment that we're going to be purchasing or would be purchased on this master agreement would be the radios and the accessories for those radios. And with the new digital upgrade to the radio system, the radios themselves are actually twice as expensive as the older radios were. So if we approve this ordinance, which essentially is a five-year extension of your existing contract,
 Is it likely that in five years when you come back to council, that's when we'll be discussing whether to put the whole thing out for bid again for purposes of seeing whether there are competitors who want to come in and offer a better package? I don't know if that's what we're going to do, but I believe at the end of five years we have the ability to assess whether or not that's what we want to do. I think the thought process is to be at about four years roughly. Okay.
 give or take, and begin the evaluation process in the marketplace and see what kind of looks out, what else is out there. So we start to look at that, and then at that five-year point when we would need to extend...
 We should have the information in hand to say, do we extend or do we go for a brand new look? Do you need a friendly amendment to confirm that that will be the protocol, that within the five-year period you'll do that assessment and that this doesn't just become an automatic renewal in five years? Certainly, Commissioner, it's your guys' prerogative to do that if you would like, but that's our standard process. That's what we would do anyway. Okay. But truly, it's up to you. Before you make that amendment, Commissioner Udell, do you have any –
 If that's your standard process, I'm content with building a record on that question. But I think if this is approved, I think when you come back in four to five years, the council at that point should have a more comprehensive discussion about whether the entire system needs to be put out to bid. Thank you.
 Certainly. I think you've made an argument that this five-year extension is in the public interest. I think beyond that, there are questions that the council will have to grapple with. Certainly. Thank you. Commissioner Seltzman. So are current radios equipped for digital? Yes, we just concluded the PSSRP radio project ended at the end of the fiscal year, and we're completely on digital today, and so are the majority of all of our stakeholders. Okay.
 So all the handheld radios used right now are digital? Yes. But the replacements, this authorizes payment for the replacements as the equipment wears out? Sure. We have a lot of radios that are in apparatus as well, and many times the vehicle radios need to be repaired for one reason or the other, but this allows us to purchase replacements.
 Is there currently an active contract? I noticed this one, previous one, expired in May. Has there been some kind of carryover that has the city or any of our partners been prevented from or allowed to continue buying since this contract expired? No one has been prevented. The PSSRP contracts at the end of the fiscal year allowed us to purchase if there was anything that came in on that. I've spoke to stores recently, and then we do have a state contract in place that allows us to make smaller purchases. Okay.
 If anybody had a very large purchase, I would say over $10,000, we may not be able to leverage the state contract, but we can today. So this is a down as an emergency ordinance, that the current contract's already expired in May. Colleagues, I'm feeling I don't have enough information to vote on this today, particularly in the absence of the mayor. It's a $14 million contract.
 contract. So I'd like actually more of a breakdown of the specific things that this $14 million would pay for compared with what were the costs of those things in the previous project. I mean, obviously, twice $14 million is $28 million, which is part of what you said in your answer, but I can't tell from the information I have as to how it's done. So I'd like...
 I won't be here next week. Carla, do we have four people next week? Yes. You're just going to set this over with the emergency clause for a week? Well, we'll certainly take public comments, yes. But I would like for that to happen, set it over for a week with the emergency clause so that Mayor Wheeler can come back and answer any. And in the interim, I can get any information that I would like.
 Anybody like to testify on this? I have one person signed up, Shedrick J. Wilkins. If you could take a seat, we'll be back if needed. Thank you. Morning, Mr. Wilkins. I'm Shedrick J. Wilkins, and I think the Motorola company is probably the greatest telecommunication company in the entire world. I think the first thing they did is they took the starter battery for a car and used it for radios in a police car.
 And I think, too, that people talking can convey a lot more information than a bunch of digital bits going into a computer. I mean, people can say a building is City Hall. South of City Hall, something's happening. They don't have to go into the address and drags everything down. So...
 I learned this when I was a scout in the Army. People talking can convey information faster and respond faster, assess situations. You can say everything looks okay. There's no need to send a lot of bits over the phone. Another thing, too, is we do have hard drives with a lot of information like city locations. There's no need to send a lot of high-speed information over the air.
 Yeah, there really isn't. Also, Motorola is a robust company. They made these little walkie-talkies for the Army, and you can bang them and do anything you want with them. So if they work in different kind of weather, the military insists on that. That's why things cost a lot of money in the military. They just don't assume it works. You start getting another company that has cheaper or something, you may risk that under certain conditions it won't work.
 So that's all I'm going to say. Motorola is, in fact, Motorola almost beat Intel to the 32-bit processor in 1986. For a voice communication company came this close to issuing the 32-bit processor. And Intel, they died up and Intel's got better lawyers or whatever. It's a true story. That a voice communication almost got into the digital age. Okay.
 Of the computer. It's headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, which is pretty much the center of the United States. And I could only dream about working for such a company. So that's it. Thank you. Commissioner Fish, since you won't be here next week, would you like to make your friendly amendment and then we'll just vote on this? No, I was persuaded from the testimony that that's part of their practice. Okay. Thank you. Any other comments on this one? So we'll set it over until next week. Please read the next item.
 Item 773, direct the Portland Housing Bureau to adopt median income and maximum monthly rent guidelines. Second reading, call the roll, please. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fish? Aye. Sorry. Reclaiming my time. One of the challenges we have in government is we use a lot of jargon and acronyms that obscure things.
 And in the housing world, we're as guilty as in any other area. And when we had a presentation on this, the director of the bureau said we're moving away from using MFI and instead using AMI. I don't find MFI or AMI very helpful. So just to underscore what we're doing today, we're updating the guidelines. But to put the human face on it,
 When we talk about very poor people that cannot access affordable housing in our community, we're talking about people who make 30 percent or less of the area median income. And for a single person, that's $15,000 a year. And for a family of three, that's $20,000. And I just think we ought to take one moment to reflect on a family of three earning $1,600 a month pre-taxed.
 And from those resources covering rent, food, clothing, medical expenses, incidentals, emergency, and all the other costs of living. And the answer is it's impossible. And that's why we have programs which subsidize the housing for people who are at 30% of area median income or less. It is also why we're seeing increasingly people on our streets –
 who have no resources and are battling addiction and mental illness, because frankly we don't have the kind of housing they need to turn their lives around. And that is something I hope the council takes up in earnest in our next budget. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Sorry, I got ahead of myself there. Next item, please. Item 774, amend contract with TriMet related to development and funding of the Portland streetcar system and shared regional transit goals. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Thank you, Madam President. This ordinance authorizes an amendment to the existing 2012 master agreement between TriMet and the city for operations of Portland's streetcar. The master agreement identifies each party's cost-sharing responsibilities for streetcar operations, and this amendment links the calculation of annual operations funding from TriMet
 to streetcars cost per revenue vehicle hour. This allows the parties to develop and review budgets based on total vehicle operating hours, which is a good thing. Catherine Levine is here again from PBOT to explain in more detail or answer any questions, Council, that may have. Thank you. As Commissioner Seltzman indicated, this ordinance would authorize an amendment. It would be the first amendment to the 2012 agreement between TriMet and City of Portland. Thank you.
 This is sometimes referred to as the master agreement between the two parties in which they acknowledge their mutual goals of supporting regional land use and transportation outcomes for the city of Portland, that those are dependent somewhat upon public transit, both bus and streetcar being available to provide frequent service. Okay.
 This amendment specifically ties our budgeting to a performance metric, which is the number of revenue operating hours provided, the amount of service provided. Questions? Did anybody sign up? No one signed up. Would anybody like to speak on this? Thank you very much. Next item, please. Thank you.
 Item 775, amend the boundary of the Southwest Dulf Court, Spring Garden Street Local Improvement District to construct additional street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements 111 feet west on Southwest Spring Garden Street and create a new pending lien record 43352 Southwest Spring Garden Street. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Thank you, Madam President. This existing LID, which is going to construction this summer, is another case study in which the Bureau of Transportation and the Parks Bureau are pooling their resources to achieve better results. We now have a developer who will help fund an extension of these sidewalks, and thus we are mending the boundary of this LID. And there will also be significant stormwater improvements along Stevens Creek.
 So I'll turn it over to Andrew Abbey to show us the amended boundary and answer any questions. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. This will be a very short presentation. It is only one slide, and Carla is passing out the hard copies. So I put a pink circle around the –
 property that has opted into the LID, and we notified all the existing property owners in the LID of the proposed change. We received no remunerations against this scope change, and so the request is for council to pass this to a second reading and approve this next week. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Questions, council?
 This is a leading contender for the most economical PowerPoint of 2017 award, the coveted award, one page. So well done. Thank you. Very nice that the additional property owner kind of completes the LID. I know that that took some work on your part. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody wish to testify on this? No one signed up. Seeing none, it moves to second reading. Next item, please.
 776, create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Northeast 27th Avenue and Holland Street local improvement district. Commissioner Salzman. Thank you, Madam President. Bureau of Transportation is pleased to form this LID with 100% petition support for its creation. This project will support efforts by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality,
 to build a transfer station to handle debris collected by River City Environmental in a responsible manner that is also good for the environment. This project is also good for Portland's economy, as it will help facilitate the continued expansion of River City Environmental, a rapidly growing small business in Portland. Again, Andrew Abbey is here to answer any questions the council may have.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. As you pointed out, we had 100% petition support for this LID as amended. We did not receive any remonstrances against the LID formation. I gave a council presentation in May, and I wasn't rerunning that presentation today, but happy to answer any questions you might have. Questions? Seems straightforward. Thank you. Does anybody want to testify on this?
 No one signed up. And that's another non-emergency. We move to second reading. Next one, please. 777. Authorize the acquisition of 2.2 acres of real property at 1610 Southwest Taylor's Ferry Road for $525,000 to be used for natural area purposes and increase the capacity of the park system. Thank you.
 Thank you. This is in Portland Parks and Recreation. It's an exciting property that we've determined that the seller only wanted to sell it as a whole property, but still there's a house on it which may be habitable and is not needed for environmental protection. So I think this may be getting us the best of both worlds. Emily Roth from Portland Parks and Recreation will explain more. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. Emily Roth, Portland Parks and Rec Senior Planner.
 This is the property is presently owned by Eric Fry and it is off of Taylor's Ferry Road. It will be a piece adjacent to Marshall Park and it will allow us safe access from Taylor's Ferry to Marshall Park. It also allows us to buy property that will increase our protection of Owl Creek and the riparian area. We don't often get this opportunity.
 It is a joint purchase, once again, between the Bureau of Environmental Services and Parks using Parks SDC funds and the great agreeing money from the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 We intend to protect a lot of the properties in the environmental zone. And so our intent is to restore the environmental zone and do a property line adjustment and sell off the house on the front for a property that would still be usable within the city of Portland.
 There is an outbuilding on the back that is at the edge of the conservation zone that we intend to remove along with a lot of invasive species.
 Thank you very much. And that presentation was even more efficient. Zero PowerPoint slides. I can just hold this up so that people can see it. That's essentially the property will be petitioned off at the top to keep the house next to the road. And the rest of it, as Emily said, will go to extend and access Marshall Park. So it's a particularly prime property. And I appreciate Commissioner Fish and the Bureau of Environmental Service for partnering on this one. It has multiple benefits. Yes.
 And if I could just clarify, the Bureau of Environmental Services is covering 10% of the acquisition costs of the greater green funds. But as you pointed out, once the sale of the lot is affected, then all or a portion of that will be reimbursed on the sale proceeds. That is correct. Thank you. Any other questions? All right. Thank you. Stick around. Is there any public testimony on this one? No one signed up. Mr. Lightning, please. Mr. Lightning, very good.
 My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Now, I do like the fact that you did an appraisal on the property to determine your value. Again, I always ask the City of Portland, when you're selling the City of Portland's properties, have an updated appraisal done. It's very important for the taxpayers of this city to have an understanding you are getting money
 fair market values for these properties. Now, issue number two, I do notice on the cottage you're looking at demolition on this. My understanding, I guess the term might be reconstruction. Are you planning on using the materials again? Because we've heard time and time again that you're against demolition.
 I just want to know what type of practice you're going to use on this cottage. Issue number two, I understand you will be selling the house also. Was there any estimated value on how much you will get just for the house being sold on the current market? Because you've stated that you'll also take those funds and apply that back to the cost at this point. And I guess just from my position,
 some of these outlining properties of these parks, is it really necessary at the end of the day to purchase these properties? We have in the parks division, you control close to 8,780 acres. You currently have tax lots of close to 1,800. As you know, the city of Portland is the largest landowner area.
 in the city. And again, I've stated my position is that I want more private investors having access to that property. And the reason why I say that is so that I don't want to lose that tax revenue that goes back into your general fund. And that's the only reason why I'm saying that. A lot of people may hear, not understand my position, is that we want to make sure that there's that balance created that
 to where we're not jeopardizing our property tax revenue to pay reasonable salaries, to pay pensions. And that is my position, is just to make sure we're not acquiring too much real estate. And other than that, I don't have a problem with this overall purchase due to the fact you will be selling the house and going in that direction. Thank you. Thank you. I'd just like to go over some of those questions.
 There is a question on the cottages, whether it's a shed or a habitable dwelling. We'll certainly be looking into that more, whereas clauses don't direct some of the things that...
 The direction does not reflect some of the where-hous clauses, so we'll be able to do that as time moves forward. Certainly the value of the house is something that we'll find out. My guess is that it might even be more valuable on a lot of a reasonable size, because as we all know, property owners are responsible for maintenance of environmental zones, and that's a lot of land that now the city will be using.
 owning and maintaining, it is a crucial piece in between some of the other properties that if fully developed would significantly impact the environmental resources and Triumph Creek. So we're just going into it with the certainty that we are going to set partition off, which is not
 an easy task, so that'll take some time. But we will be keeping the home in private ownership, hoping to do. We'll go through the usual surplus property procedure that Commissioner Fish pioneered. I suspect that...
 there won't be any city bureaus or others that will be wanting to use it. It's in a low density area with very poor transit service, so in terms of affordable housing, it doesn't have all that much capacity. So therefore, I think, Lightning, your point about keeping it on the tax rolls is a good one, and that is part of what we're doing. We do need to purchase it. So do you have anything else to add, Ms. Roth? No.
 I just wanted to say that the cottage or that outbuilding in the back is in very, very poor shape. It is collapsing. It's a hazard at the site, and we will follow our demolition policy that anything that can possibly be recycled and everything else we will do our due diligence. Great. Thank you very much. Seeing no further discussion, it's an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, it's always great to add to our park system. Aye. Aye.
 You, Daly? Aye. Fish? This is a good day. I just want to highlight a few things. First is the tremendous partnership between the Parks Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services, and this is yet another example. Two, as Commissioner Saltzman said, here we are adding to our inventory of natural area, protecting natural area while also protecting riparian habitat. And three, the financing system for this is a good deal for taxpayers and ratepayers.
 Ninety percent of the cost will be borne out of so-called systems development charges, which are fees that developers pay when they develop. So developers are helping to acquire this. Ten percent will be paid for through from the Gray to Green Fund, which specifically targets these kinds of acquisitions. But even that investment will be reimbursed from the proceeds of the sale. So I think this is a good deal for the community, for ratepayers and taxpayers, and it's well-structured. Aye. Fritz.
 Thank you, colleagues. I will be putting this document into my physical record, and we will email you the PDF to add to the council records. I'm really pleased for this to be coming through. It's been a challenging one to think through. Emily Roth has done Yeoman's work, and I really appreciate it and excited to be adding this other piece forward.
 to the Tri- and Creek Linkages, as we call it, with the headwaters sites on one of the last remaining free-flowing streams in the City of Portland. Motion passes. Next item, please. Thank you.
 778, authorize a competitive solicitation and price agreements for furnishing sewer improvements for non-conforming sewer construction. Project number E08748 for an estimated $3 million annually. This is second reading. Any further discussion, colleagues? Please call it off. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fish? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Next item, please.
 7.79, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Energy Northwest in the amount of $8 million for the operations and maintenance of Portland Hydroelectric Project. Commissioner Fish. Madam President and colleagues, we're joined today by Gabe Salmer and Dave Peters to walk us through this. And here's a brief overview. Thank you.
 In 1982, the City of Portland began the operation of the Portland Hydroelectric Project at Bull Run. Since the beginning, the city has sold the power to Portland General Electric, who operates, maintains, and repairs the facilities for the city. Since 1989, the Bureau of Hydroelectric Power has reported directly to the Portland Water Bureau. In the city's budget, its finances are kept separate from those of the rest of the Water Bureau.
 Proceeds from the sale of the power generation pay for debt service and project administration costs. All the excess profits go to the city's general fund. The power sales agreement with Portland General Electric expires on August 31, 2017. Dave Peters and Gabe Salmer from the Portland Water Bureau are here today to update us on a new operations and maintenance agreement and a summary of the next steps to ensure successful operation of the hydroelectric project at Bull Run. Gabe, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you so much, Commissioner. That was a very nice overview. And I will let Dave Peters, our principal engineer, go through a little bit more on this particular contract. Thank you. My name is David Peters, principal engineer with the Water Bureau. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for that introduction. Madam President, Commissioners. Commissioner Fish provided a nice overview of this contract. Thank you.
 And so I won't go back over those details. But as he mentioned, the current power sales agreement is coming to an end. And because of that, we need to develop four agreements that will replace the agreement that we had with Portland General Electric. Those agreements will be coming to you at several different times. Our next plan would be to come to you at the end of July with the power purchase agreement and the transmission maintenance agreement.
 This agreement is coming ahead of those because Energy Northwest will be doing the operations and maintenance of our facilities, and they will need to hire or relocate employees to Portland to start that operation on September 1st. And so we moved this one up to allow them time to go through that process to get people hired and trained to come out to our facility.
 For this agreement, we selected Energy Northwest because of their extensive experience in hydroelectric work. They run facilities up and down the West Coast. That was important to us because of their interaction as a public agency and their interaction with hydroelectric facilities. They bring a special knowledge to our facilities to provide the support for us.
 As a public agency, they're a nonprofit organization, so we were able to enter this intergovernmental agreement with them. One of the key things, though, that they bring is that it's not just the employees that will be on the site doing the operations and maintenance, but they have a strong bench in their organization that provides technical support to those employees that will be here.
 So the engineering, the management of that operations and maintenance will be provided by this organization. So we've worked closely with the procurement office and the city attorney's office in developing these agreements. We have support from both those offices here if there's questions that I can't answer. And at this point, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Questions? Do they just operate hydroelectric facilities? Yes.
 No, they actually operate a variety of energy facilities. So they also do wind and solar and nuclear. So what do they used to be named? Energy Northwest sounds like one of those catchy names when agencies rebrand themselves. Didn't they used to be known as something else? I don't have their full history. But they do operate the one nuclear power plant in Washington State, I'm taking. They do. They do currently, yes. Does that give us any pause for concern? No. Okay.
 So if it was...
 A comment by the City Budget Office in the fiscal impact analysis. It says, obviously, that it's $8 million for a five-year term, and the first-year costs are expected to be $2 million. Given that negotiations for the new power purchase agreement, power transition agreement, and scheduler agreement are still in progress, it is uncertain whether the hydroelectric operating fund will have sufficient revenue from power sales to cover the estimated total costs.
 City Budget Office notes that if revenue is not sufficient to cover unmet hydropower liabilities, then the general fund may be liable under the new agreements. Could you comment on that, please? Sure. We've done – well, the negotiations have been going positively with Portland General Electric.
 for the power purchase agreement. And we had a negotiating agreement Friday where we've agreed to all the commercial terms, and we're now working through the details of the financials. But all of our previous work on the financials of that contract indicate that we'll have a positive outcome.
 through the life of this contract, which means revenues will exceed the expenses. So that's what we plan to bring back to you at the end of July is that agreement, and we can talk some more about how we've done those evaluations and what that balance is. In terms of...
 this agreement, this first year, we believe we do have enough funding to get through this first year. And regardless, we will have operation and maintenance costs during that first year that we'll have to take care of. And we believe that there's enough in our funds to be able to cover that. So at this point, we're feeling pretty good about the transition to these new agreements coming into place all at the same time.
 And so I'd probably speak for the whole Council is that that should be a bottom line in your negotiations, that the general fund should not be at risk to bail out this function. You know, technically the general fund has been at risk all along because, and as you know, this fund returns money to the general fund every year. In fact, I've had my eyes on this money for some other purposes.
 We are required to make a switch here. Portland General Electric no longer wishes to operate the facility, so we're making this change. And we're keenly aware of we share your desire to make sure that we operate within the fixed system here. And so there has traditionally always been some risk to the general fund, even in the years when we were returning profits to the general fund.
 But we're required to make these changes, and we're using conservative assumptions, Commissioner Fritz, and we will be very mindful of the Council's concern that this not become a burden to the general fund. That was exactly what I was hoping to hear. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Further comments, questions? Would anybody like to testify on this item? Mr. Shedrick Wilkins signed up. Thank you. Yeah, I'm Shedrick. I'm intrigued by this group about Commissioner Saltzman's concern about nuclear energy
 I think Hanford was – They actually have no plans to operate a nuclear power plant in the Bull Run watershed, but we'd be happy to take a friendly amendment if there's a concern of the council on that. I make a comment about tainting a conversation by mentioning the fact that this group – Your mic is off there. Sorry. Could you press that button? Your mic got turned off. Push the button? Yeah, it got turned off. It should be green. Okay. There you go.
 Yeah, actually, I think there are like six major nuclear weapons facilities around the world, and we need to use nuclear power to clean it up. Centuries from now, we won't have any oil early. And the worst thing you can do is take a fence and padlock the thing. So if I wanted to, I could move to Richland. I used to like nuclear power and just live there and deal with that, although...
 If there is any waste floating around or something, I'm probably shorting my life or something. It also has a 50-foot cooling tower. It's a turbofan cooling system, not the big, huge hourglass concrete thingies. But anyway, I really am interested in the hydroelectric power system because it makes –
 Pure aluminum for planes, which you can't do with natural gas or anything. You have to have an electric furnace. You have to have an electric furnace to make silicon chips. And you have to have an electric furnace for making uranium if you want to go on that side of it. But basically aluminum, everything is usually made out of metal nowadays. Planes, not wood. And computer chips are running the modern world. They can do fairly intelligent activities, you know.
 So, drive cars. The thing about it is I am going to be very critical of the future about, although I like solar energy, solar cells, these things are basically off-the-grid technology that can run your phone or your computer or your lights. It is not a path to renewable energy. Actually, hydroelectric power is renewable.
 Okay. The sun makes the water come out of the ocean, it falls on the mountains, and it runs down the generators. It is renewable energy. Okay. And like I say, you can make certain things, certain metals that you can't do with a fossil fuel furnace. They learned this in the Second World War. But I really would say that...
 There's nothing wrong with people like are homeless, living off the grid in a sleeping bag, having a small solar panel, power up their phone, their computer.
 Lithium batteries are great now for laptops to live off the grid. But I am totally against any concept about this renewable 2050. You're not going to put solar panels on all the roofs. You're not going to have wind generators all over the place. It's not going to work. So I side with the dam people. I side with the natural gas people. Somewhat a little bit restricted with the nuclear people. And, you know, get it right that...
 And solar cells are only good for solar panels for small off-the-grid kind of existence. Thank you very much. This is a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, please. Item 780, authorize intergovernmental agreement with Oregon State University in the amount of $10,178 for the Cascadia subduction zone at Bull Run Watershed Project.
 Second reading. Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fish. Aye. Fritz. Aye. And the final item, please. Item 781, assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Thank you. Do we have somebody from the auditor's office? Yes, we do. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Sherry Matias from the auditor's office. Good morning.
 I'm Mike Teller. I'm an inspector with Sidewalks Department over at Maintenance Operations. This ordinance is for sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city. Any remonstrances have been pulled and are not in this assessment or ordinance. Is that what was the remarkably concise presentation? Is there a competition going on this morning for sure? Could I, since we're well ahead of schedule, and there's obviously a new sheriff in town. We have a new president, and we're out of here at 11. Okay.
 In my prior life when I was a homeowner, I paid for some improvements on my sidewalk, as did all my neighbors. And we had a conversation about how to make the notices be more friendly and also provide additional information about
 whether you could finance the improvements and things of that nature. Could I ask at some point, when it's convenient, just to get a copy of what we currently use as the template for notice? I'd be just curious about how it's been restructured. Yes. Thank you. I have a couple questions. This is an extraordinary amount of money. I'm wondering how much of it is the actual cost of the repairs and how much are fines and fees involved?
 The auditor's office charged the 10% fee, and everything else is from the sidewalk maintenance office. And some of that includes permit fees. Okay. Which would be a minimum of $60 up to a maximum of $500. So does this person own multiple lots? Some people own multiple lots. It's based on tax lots. Each one of the items are what's repaired. Okay. I get it. Okay. Okay.
 So a street in my neighborhood, I walk by every day. I suddenly notice there's a lot of sidewalk repairs going up. Does that mean the city's been to that street recently? Is that why? It could be that there's a sidewalk inspector go by on a complaint. It's driven by complaints. So when a sidewalk inspector gets a complaint, he'll inspect the block face.
 not just the one individual property. He'll do the block, please. Okay. Thanks. I'll use my old neighborhood in Grand Park as an example. My understanding is there was a complaint about a sidewalk in the vicinity of my house, and the inspector then inspected what a two- or three-block radius or whatever the guidelines are.
 and discovered that lots of sidewalks needed to be repaired. So we actually tried something new and different. We came together as a collective, pooled our resources. We had a particular neighbor that took the lead on this. We then, because we got all these solicitations from companies that,
 Once they found out we had to do this, offered to provide the services. So we went through a process of selecting someone, got the best price. In fact, we got a discount because of the volume. And then we coordinated the work so it was all done roughly the same time. But that's why, as I learned the hard way, a complaint about one person's sidewalk often leads to lots of citations because the inspector is already there and they're going to tour the immediate area. Yeah.
 and cite everybody that has a problem. Correct. In my neighborhood, of course, in my old neighborhood, the problem was typically caused by the roots of trees in the right-of-way. Correct. And...
 So these become liens against someone's property. And do we have any assistance to offer very low-income homeowners, like seniors? Not at this time. We used to have senior citizen deferrals, and that was phased out about nine years ago. So there is no assistance for senior citizens or low-income at this time. But we do offer financing. Okay.
 Do you have any idea why that was phased out? It was a state program. Oh. Yeah. Okay. And the question about financing was the issue we raised, I think, about a year ago, which is making sure that in the FAQ and in the notice, the homeowner is apprised of the fact that there is a program through which they can get financing at attractive rates, which was not as clear, I think, in the documents that I got. So that's what I'll be looking for in my own thing.
 All right. Would anybody like to testify on this? No one signed up. Seeing none, it's non-emergency, so it moves to second reading. Anything else for the good of the order, colleagues? Seeing none, we have no meetings this afternoon or Thursday, so we are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you.