Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. A quorum is present. Mayor Hales will be joining us a little later this morning. Colleagues, the first order of business today is to elect a new council president.
 I would ask for a motion to nominate Commissioner Dan Saltzman as council president for a term ending December 31 of this year. So moved. Second. The motion has been moved and second. Could you please call the roll? Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Fitch. Aye. It's unanimous. Congratulations, Dan. Thank you. Well, thank you. Here we go. Okay. So the first order of business is...
 The rules for council meetings. The purpose of council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business. Preservation of order and decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before council. The public is welcome to attend council meetings. During the meeting, there will be time-limited opportunities for public comment on various agenda items. Although citizens can sign up for communications, public testimony on a council calendar item must address the matter being considered.
 please state your name for the record we do not need your address if you are a lobbyist please disclose that information at the start of your testimony if you are here representing an organization i ask that you please disclose that as well unless otherwise informed each community member will have three minutes to speak in front of council at two and a half minutes you'll hear a beep and a light will flash on the box before you at three minutes you'll hear four beeps and the lights will flash and that will be the time for the next person to speak
 i ask that you respect the time limit so there is time to hear from each person who has signed up to speak if you have any handouts please give them to the council clerk and she will distribute them to us please testify only to the matter at hand organ law organ law allows the public the opportunity to attend council meetings the council rules direct the presiding officer to preserve order at these proceedings and allow the public opportunity to offer testimony
 specifically addressing currently pending matters. Council rules of procedure seek to preserve the public order and to ensure that council's deliberations proceed efficiently and that all who want to participate get to be heard. Conduct that disrupts the meetings, for example, shouting during people's presentations or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. Please show your support or displeasure with your hands, i.e., thumbs up.
 hands up and down this is a warning that anyone disrupting the proceeding may be escorted from council chambers and excluded from City Hall lastly if needed the council will take a half hour break at approximately 12 or 1230 depending on the schedule and I'll announce that when we reconvene or I'm sorry forget that last point okay so we are now ready for council communications
 Sue, read the first item. Item 780, request of David Keith Davis to address counsel regarding war on cop watchers by the city. Okay, so Mr. Davis isn't here. Will you read the next communication, please? Item 781, request of Alexander Krokus to address counsel regarding affordable housing and job polarization crisis. Would you please come up? Welcome. If you could just give us your name, and you have three minutes. Alexander Krokus, thank you for hearing me.
 For 17 years, Oregon has prohibited enacting mandatory exclusionary policies to create affordable housing. Only two states in the entire nation refused to provide this vital protection to their local citizens, Oregon and Texas. Senate Bill 1533, which was passed on our state legislators during the last legislative session and recently signed into law by Governor Kay Brown, was promoted as a solution to our affordable housing crisis. The generally accepted formula for pricing affordable housing units is derived from applying 60% of the region's annual median wage,
 Unfortunately, Senate Bill 1533's definition of affordable housing is households with incomes equal to or higher than 80% of the median family income. According to Portland Housing Bureau, the median family income for a family of four in 2015 was approximately $74,000 in Multnomah County. Applying the minimum 80% coefficient factor against the region's median wage for a family of four is equivalent to just under $60,000. Thank you.
 If the threshold rose to 90%, then a local family would have to earn almost $67,000 annually to be able to afford any of these exclusionary zoned units. In rural and urban areas encompassing the entire state of Oregon, middle-wage jobs have been continuously diminished, while low- and high-wage jobs have increased significantly. The disemployment pattern is defined as job polarization and perhaps could be considered similar to the infant stage of cultural imperialism.
 The Oregon Office of Economic Analysis displays an over 20% increase in high-wage jobs in urban areas from 2008 to 2015. Low-wage jobs also rose in the Portland metro area by 20% in the past decade, while middle-wage jobs have decreased by almost 10% in the same time period. The top four occupations for individuals located in the Portland metropolitan area had an average medium wage of only $24,000 in 2012.
 The top specific occupation was a retail salesperson, followed by food preparation service, including fast food. And the third top local profession was a cashier. In 2015, office and administrative support, sales and related occupations, and food preparation and service related occupations provided the most employment support.
 The average median annual wage for those top employment sectors, which employed over 370,000 local residents, was only $31,000 in 2015. Applying 80% as the co-efficient factor for the initial determination enables housing developers the favorable opportunity to appeal to a wealth or out-of-state customer who possesses the monetary capacity to actually afford one of these units. Our local affordable housing crisis will continue to exist as long as we allow retailers,
 realtors and developers to use this higher threshold in the initial determination for pricing structures. This new exclusionary zoning law essentially discriminates against families making less than a minimum of almost $50,000 here annually in Portland. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Please look into that. Thank you. Sue, could you read 780 now? Mr. Davis is here. Request of David Keith Davis to address counsel regarding war on cop watchers by the city.
 Hey, Mr. Davis, you know the rules. You have three minutes. So you guys seem to have a real big problem with even the words child sex trafficking being mentioned in City Hall. And I was hoping Mayor Hales would be here since he's at the top of the feeding chain of getting funds from child sex abusers just like Nick Fish, Dan Saltzman.
 And Steve Novick, I'll give Amanda Fritz thumbs up for not accepting any funds from Terry Bean and other child sex abusers. And, you know, you say you must address the agendas on the item. Well, last week I was arrested here, and I was actually speaking on the agenda items. And then...
 That caused a chain reaction where three other people were arrested, including Joe Walsh. And you guys wouldn't even let him use the bathroom, which is an ADA violation. Okay? And because I dared to mention the words child sex trafficking on an agenda item talking about safe streets, if you cut off citizens and have them arrested within 30 seconds of speaking, how do you know what...
 what I was speaking about. Just because I dare utter the words child sex trafficking when we're talking about safe streets, you know a lot of things in society are interconnected. And it's not all just like it has to be specifically about this code or that code. It wasn't that. OK? So you guys illegally had people arrested. Cop watchers. OK? Two of them were cop watchers. OK?
 And also Mary Ang, too. She's a cop watcher, too. So three cop watchers got arrested. And then you have Joe Walsh, a 70-year-old vet. You deny him even taking a crap in City Hall. He had to go cost the taxpayers $5,000, $10,000 to go take a crap in an ambulance. And, you know, District Attorney Rod Underhill has no problem with out-of-town mayors smashing cameras like mine that was smashed after the Rose Parade last year.
 OK, by Greg Moss. And then you guys all hung out with him, shaked his hand and said, oh, we're really sorry that it went down like this, Greg, you know? And so you have no problem with out-of-town mayors smashing cameras of citizens, even though it's on video. Yeah.
 And those charges get thrown out, but then here you are arresting activists at City Hall and people like me who filmed Barry Joe Stull getting beat up on November 25th, which you guys still haven't even provided the surveillance camera footage from City Hall because you're covering up.
 for your crime, okay? I was falsely imprisoned, falsely charged with crimes, and I filed a tort claim against the city, which you guys know about, okay? Okay, Mr. Davis, your time is up. Thank you. Thank you. Please read item 782. Mr. Davis, please have a seat. Request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address counsel regarding hard sports versus soft sports. Well, maybe you guys could actually answer some questions instead of
 And I'm like, okay, I'll listen to things but never address the issues. I didn't do this on purpose, but... Welcome, Mr. Wilkins. Just give us your name, and you have three minutes. I'm Mr. Shedrick Wilkins, and I'm here to say that I just read in the Oregonian that
 yesterday that the corporate tax was denounced by the Oregonian, mentioning no mention that this tax is for schools, making a billion dollars for public schools. So it's likely to pass. In 1999, there was talk of school cuts, and I remember the first thing they were going to cut was sports.
 not science teachers, they're the most valued art history, but sports. This was very serious. Then I think Mary Vera Katz and Bev Stein, Multnomah County, passed the county tax. So I had to pay three, like your art tax, Saltzman. So it got shucked off. But coming around again, hard sports to me is football, baseball.
 And baseball, hockey is a very hard sport. People have helmets on. Soft sports are more like basketball, volleyball, or soccer. Those are soft sports. I think we should cut hard sports.
 from our school programs. Baseball is clocked at like 80 miles an hour now, and these people get injured by these hard sports in our public high schools. I think another example was when I was in the Army, in the artillery, we played touch football. We were not allowed to hurt ourselves. We're supposed to hurt other people if there's a war. We didn't play hard football.
 the officers wouldn't allow it you know as officers of the city you should not allow high school kids to bust each other bust each each other up take take steroids so they can be professional sports players this stuff needs to stop i do like portland oregon because the fact that we do not have a the seahawks professional football game team nor do we have a professional baseball team
 like the Mariners. So we're ripe for this. Whenever I talk here, in December, if the corporate tax fails, I will address the Dixon Building, which is near the Lloyd Center, and have the children in this area in Oregon go to school here.
 So I think we should eliminate hard sports. Also, Commissioner Fish and I have had a flu for the last three weeks. It's not a bad one. I mean, I've had ones where I've thrown up. I think we got it from the Rose Festival fleet. But anyway, we need to have medicine work on these diseases. For the last three years, I've been getting sick. I remember...
 From 2003, there was something went around. And for 10 years, and all of a sudden the last three years, we need to concentrate. Maybe we're on the verge of a pandemic, and we need to deal with that sort of thing, making sure we boost our immune system, use maybe stem cell technology, and forget this sports stuff. Like I said, we didn't play hard sports in the Army. We weren't allowed to.
 thank you mr welkins uh could you please read item 783 783 request of crystal olinsky to address council regarding five percent vacancy rate uh i don't see miss olinsky here so could you read 784
 784 request of glenda hughes to address council regarding small business and contracting with the city and um she contacted me she's ill and we'll have to reschedule okay great so that completes our communications and we're ready for our first uh time certain
 good morning sorry i'm late apologize for being late folks we just had a wonderful announcement this morning between walnama county and the city of portland about opening another 200 bed homeless shelter so very proud of that partnership and uh it's going to open in time so that the folks that have been staying in the peace shelter will have a place to stay so commissioner saltzman the housing bureau and everyone else are still doing great work and this was just one more sign of that so we announced that this morning so yeah i think we can suspend the rules and see progress
 I'm really proud of that. And everybody, you hear the phrase, it's not my department. This is a case where the Sheriff's Office, the Police Bureau, and Multnomah County, and City of Portland all said, well, actually, it is our department. So good stuff. All right. So we're ready to move on to the time certain. Oh, sorry, consent. And we have some items removed from consent already, namely 793 and 796. All right.
 Any other regular agenda? I'm sorry. No. Oh, they sure are. I'm sorry. They were just flagged So I have no items removed consent so far anything else Okay, anyone want to speak on a consent item? All right, then we'll take a vote on the consent calendar as printed, please I know that I Okay now time certain 785 I
 785 accept report on 2016 summer free-for-all program well I just want to cue this up for Commissioner Fritz we were both out at Dishman Community Center last week and the summer has begun and there's a lot of great things happening in our park system for everyone particularly for young people and I just want to thank you for the great work that the bureau is doing and I know that for the folks that are here to speak from the bureau this is the work of heart not just head so it's
 pretty fun to see the culture and the community happening out there in our community centers in our parks so thank you Mary I certainly appreciate your partnership and that of the community as well as our wonderful staff in Portland Parks and Recreation this is an especially wonderful time to be the parks commissioner as we tell you about the summer free for all summer break is a joy for many children and families it can be difficult for the one in four families experiencing poverty in Oregon
 If lunch is not provided during the school day, which after the schools are no longer in session, families may struggle to find other options to provide food and basic needs. Summer free-for-all makes a real impact on families. We'll serve more than 100,000 lunches at 27 different sites this year.
 This program, when you add it all up in in-kind cash and general fund support, totals more than $1.8 million. Its value is priceless when it comes to community building and livability in our city. Summer free-for-all is a citywide opportunity to activate our parks and playgrounds in a productive, positive way all summer long, and it's possible because of our great partners, not only the Council who provides general fund support, but also Comcast, Bank of America
 Portland Parks Foundation and local school districts, all working together to invest in summer free-for-all. You'll hear from our community partners, but first turn it over to Director Mike Abate. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Mayor, Commissioners, I'm joined by Recreation Services Manager Eileen Argentina and our Development Manager Shelly Hunter. And this morning we'll tell you a little bit about the movies, the concerts, and the playgrounds that we're proud to offer this summer. And we're going to talk a little bit about how we're creating the performance spaces and showcasing local artists that make Portland a vibrant arts community.
 and how we're establishing that arts focus within the Bureau, building successful partnerships that lead to culturally relevant programming. And you'll hear from our generous partners, as Commissioner mentioned.
 So Summer Free For All exists as a gateway to arts, culture, and recreation in Portland. And Summer Free For All is a community-centered and powered by the hundreds of volunteers that give their time and treasure and encourage groups and individuals, other individuals, to do the same. Since branding the program as Summer Free For All six years ago, we've seen an incredible growth in community demand for these programs.
 So we spent some time this year investing in the program. We established a mission statement, which read on the screen, it says, Summer Free for All empowers Portlanders to create and cultivate community by providing free, accessible, and family-friendly summer activities that celebrate our city's growing cultural diversity.
 We're striving to improve the reach of the program by building partnerships with community-based organizations, by diversifying and training our staff in cultural competency, and also by diversifying the programming offerings. Hundreds of hours working with 68 groups will yield a total of 283 free events of culture, art, and recreation at 94 sites throughout the city.
 Our playground program activates 46 sites throughout the city with a variety of recreation activities, arts, crafts, and expects to serve more than 105,000 lunches at 27 different sites throughout Portland.
 Through the generosity of our sponsors and partnerships with local school districts, we've worked to close the nutritional gap for children during the summertime, when those who need it the most lack access to free and reduced lunch programs. We're proud of this work because, as you know, as Commissioner said, nearly 60% of Portland's youth qualify for the free and reduced lunch program.
 So here to talk a little bit more about the program offerings is Recreation Services Manager Eileen Argentina. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. With a budget of $1.8 million, this premier outreach program is leveraging public investment with private donations to put our community's artists to work.
 So we've been listening. We heard you, Council. We heard the general public weigh in through our audience intercept survey last summer. You've told us you want Portland to be a community in which arts are accessible and high quality. We've built a program that pairs a nationally renowned artist with the best of the local art scene, the classic with the indie. We're paying 82 local performers to play in some of Portland's best spaces or parks.
 Interested in seeing a performance that marries Afro-Mexican and European music traditions together? Come to Park Lane Park on August 13th to see Colectivo San Jarocho de Portland, a fabulous local band. While we couldn't possibly cover every artist in our lineup during this presentation, we want you to know we offer something for everyone. This summer we're offering a lineup of well-known local performers such as Edna Vasquez, Norman Sylvester, Porter Flass, Gervona, and Portland Festival Symphony.
 And thanks to a sponsorship with our partner Latino Network, along with funds from our director's office, the Kristen Knapp Fund, and the generosity of the band, we were able to collaboratively bring local band Grupo Antifaz to our second annual Festival Latino this year. Grupo Antifaz is a community favorite and is regularly heard on El Rey's radio waves.
 We've added a children's concert series at Unthank Park, and we were also able to offer a variety of up-and-coming artists the opportunity to play for the large crowds at our movies events, such as Pop Goji and Oleada.
 We're bringing the arts to the forefront. As Mike mentioned, we're reorganizing recreation services to create an arts, culture, and special events department. This reorganization will bring together arts-related programs and facilities under one manager. It'll include Multnomah Arts Center, Community Music Center, a summer free-for-all urban parks programming, and it'll provide a basis for championing and maximizing collaboration with local arts organizations. We expect to have the new arts, culture, and special events manager on board in August, if not sooner.
 We've worked with the East Portland Neighborhood Office, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, and other community-based organizations to refine our marketing plan. This year, we're offering marketing materials in nine languages, Arabic, Burmese, English, Simplified Chinese, Nepalese, Russian, Spanish, Somalian, and Vietnamese. We have added Arabic in anticipation of the arrival of refugees seeking safe harbor in Portland.
 Partners like the East Portland Neighborhood Office, who now offers an Arabic language class on Sundays, are invaluable in this process of community involvement. Translating these materials has been a resounding success already. Over 2,700 people in four weeks have visited our translated marketing materials on the Portland Parks website, and we've also printed and distributed nearly 50,000 translated marketing pieces.
 Last year, we worked in partnership with Latino Network and El Rey to produce the inaugural event, Festival Latino. This demonstrated our commitment to engaging new audiences through intentional and strategic program design, marketing strategies, and partnerships.
 We were able to engage with the Spanish-speaking population through this event, with over 1,000 people in attendance. And we are now happy to say that this season, three of our 42 upcoming movie events will be offered in Spanish due to community requests. As nearly 20% of Portland's residents speak languages other than English at home, we look forward to continuing our work with these partners and others to meet the needs of new and diverse communities. And to speak more about our partnerships, I'll turn it over to Shelley Hunter, Development Manager.
 Thank you, Eileen. This is a partnership between the community and the city. They give us hundreds of hours and tap into their networks to engage support and donations that help us build a revenue stream for this program, which costs $1.8 million.
 Over $180,000 was raised by community volunteers and committees for Summer Free For All. That budget includes 19% cash from sponsors and donors, 28% from the city's general fund, and 54% from in-kind donations. We found that corporate sponsors care, and one in particular cares a great deal. Comcast has become our title sponsor for this year's Summer Free For All after three years of investing in the program. Thank you for their continued generosity.
 Oregon Blueprint, El Rey, iHeart Media, and Comcast are collectively donating roughly $900,000 for printing and broadcast advertising support. This is a significant savings for the program, and it enables us to keep the program free while broadening our marketing reach and building brand recognition.
 We also offer local businesses the opportunity to get involved in their community by sponsoring events through Summer Free For All. The coordination of in-kind donations and sponsorships by our community partners and fundraising committees continues to engage and activate the community throughout Portland. Each event is a celebration of months and months of planning, a shared success between community members. And now I'll turn it over to Mike who will introduce some of these partners.
 Thanks again, Council, for your great support of the summer free-for-all program. And now we've got three members that are coming to testify. I want to first introduce you to Rebecca Brown with Comcast, who this year, as Shelley mentioned, is our title sponsor. And just ask her to say a few words of why Comcast is interested in this. Excuse me, could you put the folks on? Thank you, Mike. Okay.
 Good morning, all. So at Comcast, we do care, and we are strongly committed to making a difference in our communities and working hard with our neighbors to do so by finding and supporting programs that are meaningful and impactful, like Portland's summer free-for-all program.
 As Shelley mentioned, over the past three years, we have invested $85,000 in financial support and over $150,000 in on-air support to Summer Free For All because we do clearly understand that while it is about fun and entertainment and play, it is also more than that. And it is at the heart of efforts to realize a healthy Portland.
 We know we're still living in a time where families struggle to provide fun experiences for their families. And at Comcast, we believe that every child should have the opportunity to create summer memories that last a lifetime. I know I have many fond memories of park play when I was younger. So that is why Comcast is proud to help present a program that provides all Portlanders with access to the arts and recreation and fun times.
 Great. Thanks, Rebecca. And now I want to introduce a Portland legend and a premier performer in our concerts in the parks program, and that's Norman Sylvester. Hello, I'm Norman Sylvester. I'm here to speak about the park series. I've been working with the park series for many years. But what I see more than networking, I see fellowship. Fellowship is more of a spiritual word for what's happening in the parks. When I look out from my stage, I see fellowship.
 children dancing and playing and families relaxing. I see disabled citizens. I see senior citizens all enjoying this. It's just a valuable resource. For me to network my art and see the multicultural diversity, it really touches me.
 touches my heart to perform in the parks. I'm working on the Washington Park 100-Year Celebration as we speak. That's coming up on August 4th. And I just want to say one thing right here. Can we sing in the session? Some of us may be able to. I'm free for all is important to our town. Fellowship, love, and unity in every park in our town.
 Music, movies, and playground fun. Swimming lessons too. Summer free for all. Family fun for me and you.
 Thank you, Norman. Thank you so much. And I want to introduce Joaquin Lopez, the arts and culture manager from Latino Network to say a few words as well. Hard act to follow. Yeah. Sorry, Joaquin. I'm an artist too. Good to see everybody here. I wrote a few things. Otherwise, I get tripped and I'm not too eloquent. My name is Joaquin Lopez and I'm a proud Latino.
 Latino Oregonian and performing artist with the fortune of working at Latino Network as the arts and culture manager. Familiar with Portland's community parks as a boy, I cannot tell you the honor it is to work alongside the team at Portland Parks and Rec. Is this on? Oh yeah, push it. There you go. There you go. This on? Okay.
 It's like talking to a greater spirit. Never in a million years did I think I would be collaborating with Portland Parks and Recreation, creating events like Festival Latino, a cultural marriage of summer free-for-all and Latino Network. This event alone exposes the richness of our Latino culture to over a thousand people. On August 13th, we invite you to join our families at Noche de Familia, which
 Happening at Park Lane Park in Rockwood, our summer academia camp youth are screening their first self-made documentary short about their summer experience. Our ballet folklorico will perform traditional dance and we'll even have live son jarocho.
 Safe spaces to be a family and positive cultural visibility are the beautiful benefits that Summer Free For All and Latino Network create. Slowly, we're creating a cultural pulse, integrating our families and youth into public spaces, communicating, we see you, you're beautiful, and you belong. Thank you.
 And no testimony from me is complete without a shout out to my fellow artists who hold the rhythm of life in their hands. Summer Free For All hires so many musical artists throughout the summer, beautifying the ether with melody and song.
 It is an honor for Latino Network to walk beside Portland Parks and Recreation and contribute to Summer Free for All. We have no doubt Festival Latina and Noche de Familia will continue to grow and evolve, beautifying our parks, our people, and our wonderful city, Portland, Oregon. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Happy to answer any questions for this team. I think I ask this every year, so I really appreciate the...
 The meal programs offered at the playground programs, but I know they end on August 26. When does the Portland Public Schools and other school districts begin next year or in the fall? We have closed the gap, Commissioner, with the exception of three days of staff training and some days that the schools that actually make the lunches are not available. We've filled every other available date with lunch programs. So three days. Yes.
 Three gap days this year? Yeah, I can get you the details at the end of the summer, because you asked a specific question, and I don't have the number of days here. But the school districts prepare the lunches, and so we've expanded. We picked up, I think, seven days last year additional at the end of the summer. And I'll get that back to you, what days they're not available to make the lunches that we distribute. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions?
 thank you all very much any other invited testimony anyone else want to speak on this report we have two people signed up mary eng and michelle hunter come on up are either michelle or mary here okay i guess they've left all right can i hear a motion then to accept the report so moved second roll call please well thank you for the presentation and uh i'm very impressed with all the different languages that the uh brochures are printed in
 And appreciate all the sponsors and everybody stepping up to make a great summer for Portland residents and our kids in particular. So thank you. Bye. No problem.
 Thanks very much for the presentation. Thanks to the sponsors, thanks to the staff, and thanks for the songs. Just . Great. I hope everybody will get out and see not only the events in your local park, should you be fortunate to have a local park. We're working on closing that gap as well, and we'll have three more parks coming online very shortly. Thank you to all the volunteers who really embrace
 providing additional help on this concerts and the movies. So try going to a park that's not in your neighborhood and maybe even volunteer. It's really fun. Thank you very much to Eileen Argentina, who's our amazing recreation manager who manages not only this, but is currently looking at doing the hiring that the council passed
 funding for. Thank you to Shelley Hunter, who is an amazing development person who contacts so many different people and companies and encourages them to be part of this wonderful experience. Thanks to Comcast, Bank of America, and everybody else. It's truly something that's win-win-win and everybody has a good time. So invite some of your neighbors to come with you or meet some new neighbors that you didn't know would be there. Thank you very much, Council. Aye. Aye.
 I just went through the list of events, and Sue, I have to put an absence in starting in a week through September 1st. And there's no way that I can do my day job and hit all these great events. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for continuing to grow Summer Free For All and expand it and deepen its connection to the neighborhoods.
 Mike, I think the decision to create an art and culture position as part of your reorganization was inspired. And frankly, as the arts commissioner, it is actually the lead bureau, in effect, other than RAC, for delivering art to the public. And I think to have a position that leads that effort was really smart decision.
 I want to acknowledge that we continue to grow the Healthy Meals Program, and I want to just give a shout out to Emily York, because it was Emily and your team years ago that really leveraged the fact that there's federal money available for us to grow that program. And I think once upon a time we served 40,000, 50,000 meals. Now it's over 100,000. Hunger is a huge problem in our community, and how proud we all are that Portland Parks is serving hungry families.
 And let's also, as Commissioner Fritz said, let's give a shout-out to all the public-spirited businesses that are sponsors and all the folks who are volunteering to make this happen. I think this is Portland's favorite city service. I'm not sure, but we can double-check. But I think it's among the most beloved, and it's something that this council is very proud to support. Congratulations to everyone. Hi. Thank you.
 It's a great summer, and this makes it much better. So thank you, Comcast. Thank you. This list of sponsors is quite impressive, not only in its length, but in its diversity. I mean, we have news media here, Z100, K103, El Rey Radio. We have corporate good citizens led by Comcast, but also other local businesses as well. And then we have
 the nonprofit sector we've got the latino network and east portland action plan the portland parks foundation and public sector centennial dining services and portland public schools so it's really great work by the bureau to have this depth and breadth of sponsors supporting this great event so thank you it is really a privilege to see this happen every year in our community and sweet music for all thank you
 aye good work okay let us move then agenda starting with item 792. 792 adopt requirements for deconstruction of the city's oldest and most historic houses and duplexes this is the second reading let's take a vote please southman hi novick i'm pleased to support this ordinance today and thank the mayor for his leadership for bringing it forward
 Climate disruption is one of the most important issues facing the city and the world, and there's a lot of things we can do at the local level to reduce our carbon emissions, and promoting deconstruction rather than demolition is one of those. Deconstruction has significant carbon benefits because a much higher percentage of building materials are reused or recycled in deconstruction than in demolition.
 We heard from BPS in February that deconstructing one house as opposed to demolition saves about 20 metric tons of CO2, which is equivalent to taking four cars off the road for a year or planting 16 acres of trees.
 In fact, I'm told that the carbon savings per house is now even greater than taking four cars off the road for a year because the market for energy recovery from dirty wood has dried up with the closure of a Newburgh mill. As a result, all of demolition material now goes to the landfill and reuse is even more important. We're a city with a cutting-edge climate action plan and this action we're taking today walks our talk in that plan. Portland we think will be the first city in the country, perhaps even in the world, to require deconstruction rather than mechanical demolition for a subset of buildings.
 If implementation goes smoothly, I hope we'll see other cities try this strategy as well. We have the potential to multiply our impact. Deconstruction has other benefits beyond climate change, too. With deconstruction, there's less dust in neighborhoods for all of us to breathe, and deconstruction creates a new career pathway into the construction industry. Of course, this program needs to work on the ground, and I understand the concerns raised by homebuilders that there simply might not be enough capacity to handle the increased demand for deconstruction that this requirement will prompt. Thank you.
 To this point, I very much appreciated Commissioner Fish's suggestion that BPS send City Council a letter in October prior to implementation about the status of the trainings and the capacity of the firms to take on the additional work we expect to come out of this requirement. I'll be looking for this letter and hope that it brings good news about the number of contractors and workers trained, but if it looks like we need additional time, we could press pause. The same is true when we receive updates from BPS about the program at 6 and 12 months after the effective date.
 In addition to the update from BPS, I also want to point out that by only requiring homes and duplexes built before 1916 to be deconstructed, we're in effect sticking a toe in the water to test this plan. Homes built before 1916 account for only one-third of demolitions, and while the ordinance said it's a goal of including houses built before 1941 in the requirement by 2019, it doesn't prescribe an automatic basing.
 These are moderate provisions that would combine with the requirement for BPS to present implementation updates to Council of six months and one year. It should provide some assurance we won't get into a situation that grinds infill residential development in the city to a halt. In addition to thanking the Mayor, I'd like to thank Director Susan Anderson and Michael Armstrong and Sean Wood of BPS for their work in this code. I'm pleased to vote yes. Aye. After that.
 inclusive speech. I was I was saying you said it was only a third. I was impressed that it is a third of homes demolished in the last two years were built in 1916 or earlier and if we don't preserve these old houses and We can at least preserve the good parts of them to be reused. Thank you very much mayor. Good job. I Thank you mayor and thank you BPS for bringing this forward. I thought the hearing that we had on this was fascinating and very informative and
 And one of the things that struck with me is that we're really just phasing this in rather slowly. And I think to those who are either skeptical or concerned about how this is going to work, the fact that we've targeted one class of homes, which will represent about a third of the houses that are demolished,
 and we're projecting about 100 houses will be impacted in year one. I think it's prudent, Mayor, to sort of test drive this and see how it works and then fine-tune it. Over a decade ago, I remember when what was then called the Housing Authority of Portland undertook its largest HOPE VI project, which was the redevelopment of what used to be called Columbia Villa.
 And they had the idea of deconstructing the single-family residences. And it wasn't a complete deconstruction, but it was a good-faith effort. And I learned a lot about deconstruction then. It wasn't something I knew a lot about. Fast forward, on Friday, Jamie Dunphy and I went out to Kenton. And in addition to paying our respects to Paul Bunyan, who, by the way, needs a good paint job, so I'll be asking all of you for a modest contribution, we visited Salvage Works, which
 And Salvage Works is a big success story in our community, and PDC has played a huge role. And it's fascinating going through their campus because they have some of the great products of deconstruction for sale. And it's raw or refined, and it's wood that's come out of a big part of Portland's history. And they are thrilled that we're about to pass this.
 because for them it means expanding their footprint, more business, and they're ready to accept the challenge of making this work. So I think it has the potential to be good for our local economy, for the people who do the work, and the companies that will be in the secondary market. I appreciate, Mayor, that we're phasing this in to really test drive it, and I think it's another example of Portland trying to sort of lead in the area of climate. So today I'm proud to lend my support. Thank you.
 I talked a lot about this last week, but just a few thoughts. One, what we're doing here. You know, we just celebrated our parks, and they are something, I think, about Portland that we take for granted and that other cities don't have. Other cities have maybe one or two big signature parks like Stanley Park in Vancouver, but they don't have the pattern of neighborhood parks that the Olmstead plan laid out for us and that we're still implementing more than 100 years later.
 The other thing that other cities don't have is just mile after mile after mile of streets surrounding those parks.
 many cases with great old wood frame houses that are still standing many cases now in good condition That is a treasure for our city other cities don't have that they might have a few neighborhoods like Queen Anne and Seattle But they don't have the fabric that we have of these houses many of which were built about a hundred years ago And they're great old houses. They're beautiful. The craftsmanship is evident and popular and unfortunately now expensive and
 since I bought the first of those old houses myself when I first became a homeowner in Portland for $60,000 and then sold it. Darn. I know they've become expensive. One of my favorite books about architecture has the title Frozen Music.
 That's what architecture is. And the music of these houses is beautiful and should not be lost without thought and care and a careful examination of all the alternatives. And then if it does have to be lost to be done the right way. So I appreciate the council support for this and the community support for it. It is the right thing to do. And I,
 expect fully though I won't be here when we take up the question the council takes up the question of how about the next third I suspect that we'll be able to do that given that we are walking first and running later on this good work so again Sean thank you Sean wood at the Bureau planning sustainability I hear I hear there's going to be a celebration over there and there should be for your good work Elisa canes back thank you for for your support for this work
 The Bureau staff has done a great job. I also want to particularly recognize Jackie Dingfelder, my former environmental lead in my office, who's now off learning from other cities but who advanced this idea, and Zach Lanosky, who has brought it to the finish line in good order. So thank you all for great work. I'm very proud of this, and I think it's going to do a lot of good, street by street, house by house, all over a great old city. Aye. Thank you. Okay, let's move on. 793. 793.
 793, authorize a contract with VersaTerm, Inc., for maintenance of the Regional Justice Information Network in an amount not to exceed $3,500,000 over a five-year term. Okay, we have a presentation. I think, Tim, our mayor is here from the Police Bureau. We have an amendment to increase the amount.
 So maybe I should take the amendment, put the amendment, well, I mean, let me make your presentation, then we'll take up the amendment. You can explain why we have to amend. Yes, sir. Good morning. Good morning.
 This is to authorize a contract between Versaterm and the City of Portland for the maintenance of the Regional Justice Information Network region in an amount to be amended, hopefully, to $3,790,000. $3 million. $3 million, sorry. $3 million, $790,000. This is a five-year contract for the warranty program.
 We had a one-year warranty with the original purchase of the system, starting with final acceptance on July 14th of last year, and we wish to continue to receive technical support from Versaterm under a separate executed maintenance agreement. One-third of the necessary funding for this contract comes from Portland Police. The other two-thirds is shared by our regional partners, 40-plus other law enforcement agencies. Anything else to add?
 would you add your name for the record please i'm sorry tamra mayor and kim roark so um and and this software is up and running and working yes sir yes sir that's important because we we have a thoughtful technology oversight process here we want to make sure we're getting what we planned on yes sir we went live on 14 july or 14 april of last year so it's just over a year in the works
 Okay, so let me move the amendment to change the amount to $3,790,000. Is that even? Yes. Yes. $3,790,000, so I'll move that amendment. Second. So discussion on the amendment. We'll top the amendment and see if anyone wants to testify on this item. So roll call on accepting the amendment, please. Houseman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Bish? Aye. Hale? Aye. Any other questions for our police bureau team?
 thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item anyone signed up okay come on up please good morning for the record my name is charles johnson and of course i'm not a specialist on all the data systems that are used by either our police department or the oregon department of justice or the fbi but i do think that probably more than just myself
 has read from the Associated Press that the city of Portland will be left out of the FBI's 2015 crime report, following problems with the new record-keeping software used by local law enforcement. So I'd like to know if there's any connection between this $3 million system contract and...
 this rather unfortunate inability to interface with the Department of Justice's Federal Bureau of Investigation? Okay, good question. Do you want to address that? Yes, sir. The...
 All law enforcement agencies are required to report their crime statistics into the FBI's crime data system. For 2015, because we had transferred to a new system and because we went from UCR reporting to O'Neill's reporting, which tripled the amount of data reports we were required to report, we were still in the process of attempting to convert the system to report the state requirements. We never made it there at that point.
 That was a problem with trying to code. It was not just a regional problem. There were other agencies in Oregon that had problems converting their current RMS outside of region to report that data. We are in the process of converting to NIBRS, which is the...
 normal federal requirement and getting rid of O-Nibers. We received approval from the state police to do that, and we are currently in the process of doing that. Do you expect this will be a one-year problem as a result of all that? We had a grant that we submitted, and we came to council two or three weeks ago to get approval for that grant to help us with that conversion, to get away from the coding problems that O-Niber caused,
 to get us to the nivers and that we expect that to take about two years we're going to fix 2016 first so we can make our february deadline to report and then we're going to go back and correct the 2015 data and submit it we will submit it to the fbi to report our crime data it did not make the publication because it was not submitted before february of this year but it will be accessible on their website once it's submitted i wait for that complete answer even though i've known as one of
 harsh meanies about some of our progress on police reform. It's a complex bureaucratic issue that it's not all the fault of the Portland Police Bureau. There was some Oregon State specialized reporting. Is that separate? Yes. Oregon State does that separate? The complexity of the O-Nibers caused problems with the new system, and the two of them together just caused additional issues. Thank you, ladies. I appreciate the question and the response. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay, anyone else and let's take is this this isn't emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please Very glad to see first the term getting into the contract means all of our system talks together together. Well, thank you. I Thank you, I and the second item on the same subject I
 794, authorize a memorandum of understanding with RTI International for resources up to $48,700 to facilitate the Police Bureau Regional Justice Information Network transition to national incident-based reporting systems. Okay. Speaking of that grant, your report.
 Yes, sir. We came before you three weeks ago to request approval to apply for the grant. The sum of the grant was in excess of $400,000. The grant is not going to be awarded until October, November timeframe, but it's going to take us at least six months to make the transition from O-NIBRS to NIBRS. So we have talked with the Bureau of Justice Statistics and
 And in coordination with RTI, they have offered us a pilot program, which gives us the cost to fund the conversion through the vendor, VersaTerm, $48,700.
 in advance of the grant funding. So it's a piece of that grant that we received approval from in advance so we can start now, get that six months going, and still be able to make the February timeline. That's great. Good work. Other questions? Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Gosselin? Aye. Novick? Aye. Thank you for your work. Aye. Mish? Aye. Thank you.
 Yeah, thank you for your good management of this complex change. It's not easy. And, oh, by the way, acronym control, NIBRS, stands for National Incident-Based Reporting System. Yes, sir. In case anyone wonders. And O-NIBRS is the Oregon version of that. That's right. So we do a lot of acronyms in this room. It's always good to explain them. Good work. Thank you very much. All right. Thanks a lot. Thank you. Okay, let's take 795, please. Yes.
 $795,000, accept bid of Skyward Construction, Inc., for the Portland Communications Center Seismic Upgrade Roof Replacement, Mechanical Upgrades, and Envelope Repair Project for $2,786,000. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Sharon Raymore. I'm with the Facilities Group. I'm going to be the project manager on this project, and I'm here to answer any questions if you have any for this. And I'm Larry Pellett from Procurement Services.
 So we have a $2,886,000 project here. I guess the two things that jump off the memo we got are
 the one bid and the difference between the original estimate and the final bid amount. Would you care to comment on both? I can speak to that. So, yes, so we had a mandatory pre-bid meeting and five prime contractors were in attendance. However, come bid time, we did just receive the one bid from Skyward. To speak to the difference in the cost estimate versus the bid received,
 We did a professional cost estimate with the 100% construction documents, which is basically the plans and the specs, all of the details on the project.
 However, I think that the difference can be kind of spoken to as an indicator of the current construction industry and that we're experiencing a boom with private and public sector opportunities. And I did reach out to the contractors that did not bid to kind of find out, you know, what it was that prevented them from bidding. And essentially, it was, you know, that there were
 more opportunities elsewhere that maybe weren't as complex. And then the second piece of this project is that because it's at the communication center and this is a 24-7 operation that's going to remain occupied during construction, that there's a lot of risk to be held. The level of due diligence that we're requiring of the contractor is on the upper side.
 side of the scale of, you know, so that because we can't have any of the critical facilities going down? You know, I've been on the council long enough to remember during the recession that firms that didn't typically bid for certain kinds of work were bidding because they wanted to keep their crews busy. And they were undercutting the market because they had fixed costs, and so they wanted to work. Are we at risk of the reverse now, where because of, you know,
 The fact there's so much activity in our community, we're getting fewer bids, and people are bidding at a premium. And so it's sort of a double whammy for us? You know, I think that that is at play in some ways. But essentially, the premium is a great brain jog for me in that any work that's part of the program,
 part of this project because it's a seismic upgrade, the roof replacement, exterior envelope repairs, and HVAC equipment. Anything that's deemed really disruptive that would prevent the 911 call operators from being able to hear their conversations has to happen during the low call volume times, which is Monday through Thursday, 2 a.m. to 6 a.m. So with the contractor's means and methods being
 theirs to determine how they go forth and execute the work. Having to account for a very odd-hour swing shift potential is, I think, also driving the cost up. Just one last question. Where there is a significant gap between the estimate and the final bid, and we see this a lot. I mean, this isn't the only one. Sure. What's the circuit breaker in our system where 
 we ask the question, do we need to do a do-over and figure out whether there's a different way of presenting this project to get a more competitive bid? You know, I think it's case-by-case dependent. We are within our budget so that we were able to absorb essentially this larger number and more.
 So the construction documents are solid. I mean, the plans and specifications, the design team put a lot of effort. There's a lot of coordination going in on it. It's that means and methods piece that the contractor really has the liberty to determine. With the parameters that we established in the documents, they get to decide how they will actually nuts and bolts put it together. And so that piece...
 is hard to represent in a cost estimate because it is up to the contractor to determine that, the means and methods, execution of the work. So, you know, I understand what you're asking. I think that the nature of this specific project, I don't know that we could package it in another way because of the nature of the facility, the critical facility, that it's just kind of going to be a hairier project of complicated...
 very unique characteristics, and it's also the magic words that you're still with the budget. Yes. Ding, ding, ding. Other questions? Yeah. Sharon, first of all, thank you very much for your work on this contract. I've got a question about the timeline. As you said, a significant element of the project is replacing parts of the roof of the communications center, which houses the 911 operations floor, as well as BTS staff. Given that it's already July 6th,
 How much of that roof repair work do you think we might be able to get done before the rain starts? So the plan is to essentially front load the nature critical, the weather critical elements of the project. You know, there's a lot of cross connect between the mechanical equipment on the roof, the seismic members of the roofing structure, as well as the roof. So those, we'll be working with the contractor to kind of hammer those pieces out
 with the weather window that we have. Yeah, so we are taking that into consideration, absolutely. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, a motion, please, to accept the report. So moved. Second. Roll call, please. Councilman. Aye. Okay.
 Thanks to procurement and OMF for bringing this contract to us today. This is a very big deal for the Bureau of Emergency Communications. Repairing the roof has been a high priority for us for several years.
 the roof leaks onto the 911 operations floor when snow accumulates, and you can imagine the problem that causes since our 911 call takers and dispatchers rely on computers that have to be working 24-7 so they can answer calls and send help. We've been able to literally rig up buckets and tubing to keep water away from computers, but there's a constant fear that that system will fail, and it sends a terrible message to our hardworking call takers and dispatchers who have to navigate around buckets when they come to work.
 We were pleased to secure funds for the project in the 2014 fall bump through the major maintenance and asset replacement project fund. We hope that the construction will begin last summer. I understand that these processes take time. Our folks, of course, are anxious to get the project done this year and not wait for the summer of 2017, so I'm glad that we're expediting whatever we can expedite. It would be a shame to endure another winter risking water damage to expensive technology.
 Sharon said we do hope to be able to front load the portion of this project needs to be completed during nice weather and then what we can finish the rest of the project indoors this fall that are requiring everything going well including the timely securing of permits from the various permitting bureaus so I want to say that if we hope that all the city bureaus will touch the project in the coming weeks will coordinate when possible expedite the review of this contract and the required building permits
 Number one is obviously city core service that we can't simply turn off for a period of time. So I'm glad we'll all be able to work together and get the project moving this year. So thank you very much, and I'm very pleased to vote aye. You're welcome. Thank you for all your work on this. I'm really impressed that after the contractor turned in a bid with no participation from women and emerging small businesses and minorities, you were able to work with them to get to 27%.
 Sorry, 20.7% or $331,000 of subcontracting work. So that's really impressive. Thank you. Aye. Fish. Aye. Bales. Good work. Yeah, obviously buckets and other expediencies in a 911 center are a very short-term solution. So this is the right thing to do. Aye. Thank you. Aye.
 Okay. We need to wait on Item 796 until the city treasurer is here and she's doing interviews and won't be back until 11. So we're going to move on and return to that item and take up 797, please. 797, Authorized Health and Welfare Contract Administered by the Bureau of Human Resources, Health, and Financial Benefits Office.
 with Express Scripts, Inc., for pharmacy benefit management, effective July 1, 2016, through June 30, 2021. Okay. Ms. Buss, good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Kathy Bless, Health and Financial Benefits Manager. I'm here today to speak on Ordinance No. 797, authorizing the contract with Express Scripts and the City of Portland
 to provide pharmacy benefit management services to the city. The acronym for pharmacy benefit management is PBM, so I'll be referring to that for the remainder of my talk. A PBM acts as a third-party administrator for prescription medications. We reimburse the PBM for costs incurred for prescriptions, and by contracting with Express Scripts, the city gets the value of their discounts, broad network pharmacy access, and,
 safety and efficacy programs, and the management of a restricted formulary. Express Scripts was the RFP finalist from the selection committee that included one labor and one management representative of the Labor Management Benefits Committee. Subsequent to the selection of Express Scripts, the LMBC committee voted to implement a restricted formulary, providing additional savings to the plan. The city spends about $8 million on pharmacy costs for the self-insured health plans.
 The estimated annual savings for the new PBM contract is about 2.5 percent, which is estimated at $860,000 per year each year over the contract period. This savings is projected off the current cost of prescriptions and significantly decreases the 10 to 12 percent inflation we've experienced in pharmacy costs over the past few years.
 The new contract is also a significant factor that allowed the city to lower the out-of-pocket maximum from $3,500 to $3,000 for employees and to hold the rates again for the second year in a row on the city court plan. Change is always difficult in a health plan, and changing to a new pharmacy PBM is no different. We began communicating about the change to express scripts with the first annual enrollment information sent home and via email in mid-May.
 Temporary ID cards were mailed out with confirmation statements on June 27th, and Express Script started mailing its welcome kits and ID cards at the same time.
 Express Scripts also has extensive online and app capabilities, allowing participants to access cost information by pharmacy, by location, brand or generic equivalents, and whether they can fill the prescription for a 30-day or 90-day period at any of the area pharmacies.
 Three hundred and seventy-six of the 10,650 plan participants have received letters indicating that they may be affected because of the new formulary that was put in place July 1st. Express Scripts will work with plan participants and providers to safely transition to a covered medication or work through at the appeals process to provide non-covered medications as an exception because of a medical need.
 We have also worked with the Healthy Foundations Program to provide assistance as a local resource for concerned participants. So at this time, I'm happy to answer any questions that you have and also request that you approve this contract. Thank you. Thank you very much. Questions for Kathy? Well, I guess I'm still trying to wrap my head around this restricted formulary, and can you just explain in sort of lay terms what that means for all of us city employees who are currently using prescription medicines and...
 What changes, headaches, may we anticipate in the next month? Month or so? Sure. Sure. So restricted formularies are market standard at this point, and they 
 For larger PBMs, such as Express Scripts, they have a lot of buying power, and they can make significant cost savings to groups that they work with by only providing maybe four of the eight medications that are offered in the marketplace that maybe all eight are therapeutically equivalent.
 So they contract with a few lesser of the vendors. It provides the city a bigger discount, less cost to the participant when they're picking up their prescriptions. That's a basic premise around a restricted formulary. It does not restrict the newest and greatest medication that saves lives. That's not what a restricted formulary is about. It is about looking at...
 the wide variety of medications that are available, and selecting the ones that are most effective and add the most value. So can the pharmacy do that without having to get a new prescription from my doctor? Typically, it depends on a plan. We do have, in our plan, we have some safeguards for that. So if a doctor says dispense as written,
 then the prescription, so long as it's on the restricted formulary, then it's dispensed as written. So the pharmacy will not automatically override that prescription. If the member just says, you know, I'd really like this one, then the pharmacy will check with their doctor to see if there's a medical need. If the medication is not on the restricted formulary, then there's appeals processes.
 Maybe you're allergic to one of the medications that are on the restrictive formulary and there's a medical reason for you to be on something else that's not covered. That's covered through an exception process, and that involves a provider, the patient, and the pharmacy. Thank you. You bet. Thank you.
 I don't mean to give you a hard time about this, and I assume this is something I can work out with Scripps, but I just have to say that I went the other day to renew my prescription for these eye drops I have to prevent me from getting glaucoma and going blind. Historically, I've been able to get three months' worth of those drops, and they were looking under the new insurance and said, well, we can only give you an 18-day supply.
 If it turns out that I really have to go down to the pharmacy every 18 days, I'm going to get my eye drops, I'm going to have a bone to pick with these Scripps people. So I'll try to work it out, but I just wanted to give you a fair warning. Please let me know if there is a problem, because the expansion of access to a 30-day prescription from a 90-day prescription, we used to be able to get 90 days through Fred Meyer, Target, and Walmart, and now it is 
 Safeway, Costco, Walgreens, and all of the other ones. So it is a much expanded 90-day network, but it might be medication-specific, so we could look into that if you'd like. I just got my card and information yesterday, Commissioner, and you can sign up to have them delivered to your home by the mail. So that way it doesn't really matter if it's 18 days or three months, if they're just showing up regularly. I thought that was a nice benefit. I hadn't seen that before.
 Can I ask you a question about the flexible spending account? Yes. So for those of us that have opted out because we have a spouse on another health care plan, um,
 we get this now credit card. Yes. And is the credit card front load all the money or does it get put in pro rata? So an FSA card front loads your entire election. So if you had elected $1,000 in a flexible spending account, all $1,000 is available to you on July 1st. It's one of the great things about an FSA that it allows you to have the money available and then pay for it through the plan year.
 And then at the pharmacy, the best way to use the debit cards, copayments at a doctor's office and at a pharmacy. Those are just clean swipes. Benefit Help Solutions is not going to email you and ask you for additional information. So those are very easy ways and convenient ways to use the FSA. I applaud you for that because the old system in terms of documentation was perfect.
 That was a little cumbersome. Arduous. A little arduous. And it covers my entire family? It does. All eligible dependents. On behalf of the Fish-Shechter family, thank you. You're welcome. Okay. Other questions or issues to raise with Catherine? Thank you so much. You're welcome. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Thank you very much. And this is an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please. Aye. Aye. Great.
 Well, thank you, Kathy Bless and the Labor Management Benefits Committee. This shows that health care doesn't have to have astronomically rising costs, and you can get better service for the same amount of money by being diligent and managing the costs. So I really appreciate that, and I appreciate having the privilege of health care for everybody, thanks to Obamacare. Bye. Peace. Thanks, Mark. Bye.
 hails thank you aye okay let's move on to uh 798 which is a second reading amend public benefits for google fiber oregon llc franchise roll call please thanks to mary beth henry and your team for this good work aye aye steady progress towards a better city thank you aye good work 799 799
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the state of Oregon on behalf of Portland State University to provide selected students with the opportunity to earn scholarships and stipends while working at the Bureau of Development Services for $51,885. Mr. Sussman. Thank you, Mayor. The Bureau of Development Services is working hard, period. They're also working hard to increase the diversity of its workforce, period.
 and better reflect the demographics of the community we serve. And part of that work is finding valuable partners such as Portland State University. The Bureau of Development Services is made up of building inspectors, architects, engineers, plans examiners, and urban planners. Communities of color are historically underrepresented in these fields. The center governmental agreement with Portland State University is a step towards building a stronger partnership between the city and PSU
 to move toward getting more students of color into the urban planning profession and getting them the valuable work experience they need prior to graduation, all while assisting the Bureau of Development Services with their high volume of work. So it is a true win-win in my book. I'll now turn it over to Rebecca Esau, who is Manager of Land Use Services Division at BDS, and Jennifer Dill, PSU Professor and Director of the Nohade Tulan School of Urban Studies and Planning, for some details.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. The urban planning profession is not very diverse. Communities of color have been historically underrepresented in the planning profession. According to the 2010 census, 81% of American planners are white, and according to the American Planning Association reported in 2013 that only 16% of its members identify as racial minorities.
 We want the workforce at BDS to reflect the community that we serve, and getting more students of color into the planning profession is part of that goal. BDS is developing a multi-pronged approach to address this issue with some short- and long-term strategies. Long-term strategies include sowing the seeds early by getting our staff out to schools and talk to kids regularly.
 to get them interested and aware of the career opportunities in urban planning, architecture, engineering, et cetera. And we also participate in the architects in schools programs. One of the more short-term strategies is the IGA Before You Today to partner with PSU and their diversity scholarship and stipend program.
 This program seeks to get students of color into PSU's urban planning program. In exchange for paying into the scholarship and stipend fund at PSU, BDS would get three part-time interns each year. This would give these students valuable work experience prior to graduation, which would help them compete at jobs for BDS and BPS, as well as other planning offices in the metro area.
 For BDS, the source of funding for this IGA is revenue from land use services fees. It's not coming from the general fund. I wanted to make that clear. Also, PSU is contributing to the tuitions for these students in this program. So they have a financial stake in it as well. The ordinance before you, it gives the BDS director the authority to renew the IGA for three years.
 and we think it's going to be a great investment for both PSU as well as for BDS in helping us get our work done and improving our diversity. And just a quick thank you to others who have been involved with us in this project.
 BDS director Paul Scarlett, and I met with Connie Ozawa from PSU many months ago, starting this discussion. She's out on sabbatical, so she couldn't be here today. So thanks to them, and also to Ross Jonak on my staff, and Elshad Hadjiev, who helped with getting all these documents finalized. This is a...
 new pilot and we hope that it's going to be the model for other projects similar to this in the future and thanks to our Commissioner for your support sure mayor council members I appreciate the opportunity to be here today
 So each year, our nationally ranked master's program, we graduate about 35 to 40 students each year, professionals who then enter the field of urban and regional planning. And about two-thirds of our graduates remain in the Portland area. Eighty percent of them remain in the northwest. But we, like many other programs throughout the country, are really trying to make some efforts to improve the diversity of our student body. We've made a big commitment to this over the past few years, and,
 And for many of our students, really the biggest barrier is financial. And therefore, one of our most effective programs that we implemented starting about five years ago is our Portland Planning Diversity Award Program, where we are reaching out and recruiting diverse students and providing tuition and stipend support.
 So we're very excited about partnering with the Bureau of Development Services to help support and expand this program in the coming years. We do view this as a partnership and expanding and collaborating on some of the future efforts that were mentioned in terms of outreach at other levels of students, elementary, et cetera, about planning. Thank you.
 We are, as was mentioned, we're contributing over $26,000 from our budget for tuition for these students. And we are definitely very committed to improving the diversity of our students and also providing an environment where they learn how to plan for just equitable and diverse communities. And this partnership is going to be a great way to continue and expand that work. Thank you. Thank you both for your presentation. Thank you. Any questions? Yes.
 Thank you so much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Yes, I'd like to. Come on up, please. I can say this because I am a graduate from PSU in 1991. Put your name in the record. Oh, Shedrick Wilkins. I have a degree from PSU in electrical engineering from 1991. When I was a student there, I thought PSU was very class-oriented. Most of the people I went to school were middle to upper class, middle class. One of my co-students, actually his father was a millionaire and his mother was a doctor.
 I was a first-generation student and it was very difficult. If I had not gone in the Army, I would not have graduated from PSU. It was too rough. And sometimes I regret going to PSU. I wish I had gone to Mount Hood Community College for a two-year program at one-third the cost. This is a good program because I do believe it's even worse that sometimes 
 People who are of different races don't have the exposure that, like she said, typically the student is a white Caucasian student. It's not fair, and any student at PSU needs every encouragement they get. Because when I was going to school, it's like you're going with these middle and upper class students. Why am I here? It's not fair. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 So this ordinance passes to second reading. It will come back for approval on our next week's calendar, but thank you for good work. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, item 800. 800, amend fee schedule associated with fire regulations. Mr. Sossaman. Yes, thank you, Mayor and members of the council. I'll let the...
 People in front of you, explain this new item, but I did want to acknowledge our outstanding fire marshal, Nate Takara, and welcome for the first time in his appearance before City Council, our new chief who's been on the job less than a week, Chief Mike Myers, and he's not letting any, he's not wasting any time. In his first weekend on the job, he's already visited all 30 fire stations in the city. So welcome, Chief Myers. Thank you, Chief.
 And we'll turn it over to you, or Nate. Thank you, Commissioner, and good morning, Mayor, Council. My name is Mike Myers, for the record. I'm the Fire Chief for the City of Portland. To my right is the Division Chief for Fire Prevention, Fire Marshal Nate Takara. He'll be speaking on item number 800. This item is going to address adjustments in our fee schedules. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you very much for allowing me to speak this morning regarding the ordinance to increase our fees for services that we provide to our community. My name is Nate Takari. I'm the Fire Marshal of Qualified Rescue. In the fiscal year 16-17 requested and in the Council adopted budget that was a proposal to increase revenue by $50,000 to help improve our ability to recover costs. Working with our Prevention Advisory Committee, which are representatives from business within our community,
 we identified fee increases and these are the three main areas first special use permit fees specifically public assembly and event permits these permits are required for large events and for any events in non-assembly type buildings the last time these fees were adjusted was 10 years ago the second is related to fireworks related permits these fees are associated with wholesale and retail related to storage and distribution of fireworks
 Also, we're looking to increase fees associated with the public display of fireworks. These fees haven't been adjusted since 2000. The third area relates to development. These include site development, street vacations, and new single-family residential dwelling units. Currently, our fire plan reviewers provide plan review for fire department access and firefighting water supply without charging for the services we provide.
 Overall, these increases will allow Portland Fund Rescue to prove our ability to recover our costs for services we provide. We anticipate these modifications to the fee schedule would generate approximately $50,000. Thank you. And these are relatively minor increases in the amount of the fee in the cases where they're changing, as I can see. So there's one that...
 It isn't proposed to go up, but just curious, under major projects group programs, surcharge for program participants, 10,000 per project. Could you remind us what that is? That's when we have these major projects within the city. They pay a special fee, and what that does, it gives them access to a fire plan reviewer. And at times they meet on a weekly basis, but they have particular access. Okay.
 The project becomes priority. So this would be something like the Collaborative Life Sciences Center or a major downtown tower or something. They time this money for them, so they pay an extra $10,000 and get direct access to a reviewer. Is that how that works? Exactly. Sort of like concierge service if they're willing to pay the extra. Exactly. And is there any fee? I haven't looked at all of the fees here. Is there any particular fee increase that is going to fall disproportionately on 
 any community organization that seeks to hold an event? I don't think so. I think it's over the broad spectrum of events. I don't think there's one particular community or group that would be adversely affected. Yeah, that looks pretty straight.
 And, yeah, another one that didn't go up, I'm just a little curious about, the, you know, re-inspection fee. So there's this stair step that, you know, first time it's, you know, $150 for violation, then it's $300, then it's $600. Are we seeing that happen very often? I don't think, maybe not, given the situation. Well, at times we do, but what we try to do is work with our customers. If there's...
 If there's minor fire code violations that need to be abated, it's usually a short time period. However, there's times when it's permit-related, and that could take up to a year. And as long as there's some progress, we work closely with the building department, and we move that forward. So if there's definite progress in abatement of the fire code violations, the reinspection fees, we do not reinstate it. So that stays frozen. We stayed away from the code enforcement fees
 believe it's three years ago we adjusted those fees so the fees that we have today in front of you the adjustment is just strictly permit related and some other items that we do a good example is when our crews our engine or truck crews provide services during development there's times that this doesn't happen quite often but it does happen every once in a while where a street would be closed
 and it's a major error, and we provide an engine to provide fire service and medical services on the other side because it's the main road and it blocks any type of emergency services. And prior to having it in our fee schedule, we didn't have the ability to charge. So we would stand by five, six, or sometimes the entire day with the engine crew without being able to get cost reimbursement. Can I also just ask you to address something that I hear from time to time in,
 And remember, when we get a phone call or an email, it's the one in 100 person that hasn't had the happy experience, right? And we don't necessarily get the 99 emails saying, boy, great job, and some of you are up. But the thing that I have heard on a couple of occasions is from a business person doing a major renovation to
 and having more than one fire marshal come and handle the project. And, again, this is anecdotal, but the gist of it is you have one person who comes in and says, do this, do this, this, and you're on the right track. And then a couple weeks later someone else comes and says, oh, you forgot to do this, and you don't need to do that. How do we  what is our system for ensuring kind of continuity at the inspector level? Right.
 So we try to minimize those type of incidents. However, what happens is we have inspectors with different specialties within the fire prevention division. So let's just say it's a restaurant. And in your restaurant, you have a sprinklage system and a fire alarm system. Those are two completely different specialties. So you would have the fire...
 inspector that specialized strictly on sprinklers. So he or she would come in, look at it, and there's a lot of times there's changes. That's why we do our inspections. There's some modifications that need to be done so that it could reflect the permits that they submitted. And then the second inspector would come in. He or she may be a fire alarm specialist, and he or she is looking at specifically just fire alarm issues, has nothing to do with the sprinkler system.
 So, again, he or she would say, hey, you need to make these corrections in order for your permit to be approved. That makes perfect sense. I guess, and you may already be doing this, but, you know, what we might hear from some of these businesses, like starting up restaurants or doing a major remodel, is,
 They just want to make sure that they get all the bad news at once at the front end. Because when they start working on one piece, it potentially implicates another piece. And to the extent possible, do we try to get all that on the table at the front end so people sort of know what all of the challenges they're going to have to work through are? It depends on the  and a lot of times it depends on the general contractor. It depends upon the timing of when the sprinklers are completed and when the fire alarms are completed, right?
 If the general contractor and they call us at the same time, then all this can be addressed all up front. But there's times it's just a timing of the project. It's based on communication. And if we get the plans up front, and a lot of times they're submitting plans. There's different vendors. There's a different company that submits for a specific permit. So if I'm doing a new restaurant, do I have the option of calling you and saying,
 with my contractor can can you send out
 X, Y, and Z, and give me soup to nuts, a menu of everything that we're going to be facing, and then we'll start engaging you at the front end before I start making investments in fixing this and being told that I have to remove the drywall because I've got to fix another problem or whatever. Is there a mechanism to get all the issues identified sort of at the front end with your current system? I believe so. If the customer request happens,
 for us to come out and advise. We do that, but the caution that we have is we ensure that the code is being met. We don't design. So where it gets to be... where it can get tricky is if we go out there and we start designing, so that's something that we don't do. We ensure the codes are being met. So that's where there's a fine line between...
 ensuring that we can give them the information they need. However, we just want to stay away from designing systems. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it comes back for approval next week. Thank you very much. Okay, let's move on then, please, to 8.01. Unless Jennifer is not. Okay, 8.01. 8.01.
 Authorize nine subrecipient contracts totaling $2,598,579 for the provision of services in support of providing affordable housing. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This council has spent a lot of time in the last few weeks dealing with the capital side of affordable housing, approving sources of revenue that will help us to build more affordable housing for our residents.
 But also as important is services. And this is, before you today, are multiple organizations that provide a broad continuum of assistance and services for low-income homeowners and renters. Funding for these contracts are included in the Bureau's approved budget. A majority of the community service providers receiving these contracts have been in partnership with the city for many years and are in alignment with the Housing Bureau's strategic plan.
 These services provide homebuyer education and counseling, foreclosure prevention, and aids in home retention by providing critical home repairs. Services provided to renters include funding for a renter's rights hotline, tenant education, and relocation referrals. These services are critical to prevent families from losing their homes, helping communities of color purchase a home.
 to prevent further displacement, and to add to the safety net that supports low-income Portlanders who are homeless or at risk of homelessness. I don't know if you have any other words. Kim McCarty from the Housing Bureau, I don't know if you have any additional comments or just wanted to answer questions. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. No, I don't have more to offer. I'm here to answer questions and take back any comments you have.
 Okay, question. Tim, this exhibit tells us the organization, the amount, and the funding type and the activity. It doesn't tell us what they have committed to doing. So how do we know at this stage of the process what the obligation is of each contractor? Okay.
 You could certainly ask us, and I'm certainly here to answer questions about what historically these contractors have done. We've worked with them for many years, and they have all historically fulfilled their contractual obligations. And we are happy in the future, you know, to add those contracts. You can see as an exhibit a typical contract. These are subrecipient contracts, over $100,000, and those are the contracts that we bring to you.
 Is there a specific one? So, I mean, we're familiar with all these organizations because we do have a long history with them. I would say that for the next time you bring this matter before council, I think it would be helpful for us to see another column which just says, for the amount of money we're allocating, what are the outcomes we hope to get? Okay. Because the dollars in isolation, it's hard to sort of,
 it's difficult to look at these numbers and know what they mean unless we know what, in effect, we're buying. Right. I think an outcome panel would be helpful, both to understand this better and then, obviously, a year later for us to track it. Yes, absolutely. Okay, other questions or guidance? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? We have four people signed up. Okay. Mike Jenkins, David Davis.
 Mary Ng, will you please come up? Kim, you can go ahead. Okay, thank you. I'm going to field the floor here. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. My name is Mike Jenkins. I'm with the Hawthorne bus. We're starting up a new program to work for an outreach program for these kind of programs that are going to be built. Also, you have a program called Bud Clark right now that is for heroin junkies to go use their heroin.
 Well, it didn't work for me. I went through that program. It didn't work. I'm building a new program. I'm putting on buses that will have showers. We'll have washer and dryers. And we'll be feeding vegan. And we're going to be talking about detoxing with hemp and kratom. And we're not going to be using methadone for 27 years. That's the problem I see out there.
 Just bringing it to you guys today. All of you got a letter at your office from me. Please give me some response and some help. I'm only me. And I think this program, I'm working with RTD to go and feed seven days a week with the bus at their new facilities. Also, I want to be able to go to Bud Clark and feed people in there that aren't getting proper fed.
 We're building these programs when we're not doing anything inside the program. I was totally lost when I went into this program. I got stage four cancer. I got a broken back. I had my leg cut off. I still have them problems today. It's been over a year.
 But I'm not going to sit on my butt and let the smoke raise. I'm out here building a community so we can go out and work with people like me and get us help. That's all I got to say. Thank you, and I hope I hear from all of you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning, Mr. Davis. Come on up. So I'd like to see you guys actually take over some of these abandoned houses to some degree and put more 
 money into that if it's actually legal to take the houses from the people, because a lot of these houses actually have owners and they might have some, you know, various health issues or other things. But in general, I think that you guys are talking about taking a bunch of zombie houses for the city.
 I think if that's going to be the case, and if you do actually take a bunch of these houses and the city becomes the owner, I think you should put them in the hands of Right to Dream 2 or other community agencies, maybe some other community groups that actually are working to house people and not make a profit from,
 off the whole poverty, pimp, crisis, capitalism role model that seems to be fueling America. And I think that actually a lot of these housing issues would be taken care of if there wasn't so much profit motive to keep people homeless and to keep housing prices so high and all that. So basically, I don't think that the city should...
 get ownership of these zombie houses that you call them. I think that they should actually be taken over by community organizations that actually aren't profit driven like central city concern and other people of that ilk that have turned poverty and homelessness into a major industry.
 I'd like to see people like Right to Dream 2 have more political power in this city, and I'd like to see you guys work with community organizations more than with these poverty-pimp corporations like Central City Concern, which also have patrols that go around and rustle the homeless every day.
 and call the police on the homeless and wage cultural war on the homeless. So, you know, maybe you guys could put some money into some real community organizations, and if you're going to take a bunch of these houses, put them in the hands of the community and...
 and stop throwing away so much money with all these poverty pimp organizations because it's obviously not working. Thanks very much. And homelessness won't be solved with affordable housing. It needs to go beyond that. And Shedrick Wilkins is next. Come on up. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and actually I agree with Mr. Davis. These zombie houses should be turned over to the public. In Hillsboro, there's a house that was donated to veterans.
 It's kind of like in downtown Hillsboro. I've been out there when I was homeless five years ago. I just don't, you know, since you have them, and then people are talking about using parks, why not just use these homes for right to dream, too, things like that. Since there were complaints from the neighbors anyway, in the first place, if there are complaints because homeless people are there, then there's not much change, but at least people can...
 A lot of homeowners don't want intrusion. Certainly, if there's any kind of disturbances, then the police can get involved. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. I have a point of order. I guess I needed clarification from our attorney, probably. I intend to recuse myself from this vote as there's a potential appearance of a conflict of interest as my partner works for Impact Northwest, which is one of the subrecipients here. This is an emergency ordinance. Do I need to...
 Leave the room, or does that statement suffice? No, you'll need to leave the room by charter. Okay. All right. Dan will recuse himself, and the rest of us will take action on this item. We'll wait until Dan leaves because I have a couple of amendments to offer. No, you don't. Okay. Roll call, please. Novick. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Ritz.
 Yeah, the organizations on here like Native American Youth and Family and Community Alliance of Tenants indicates that we are trying to reach to a pretty broad spectrum of folks to help with this work, so I appreciate that. Good work. Aye. Okay, let's return to the item we passed over because our treasurer is here and take up 796. Aye.
 796 adopt a new comprehensive financial management policy fin 2.17 payment card industry compliance good morning everyone mayor and commissioners
 So the city has a set of comprehensive financial management policies in place, and we are talking about the addition of a new one, FIN 217. As you may recall, the city is a large acceptor of credit cards for payment for services that we render, and we spent most of 2015, calendar year 2015, working very hard to become compliant with the payment card industry security standards.
 Now that the city is compliant, this policy, FIN 217, states our intent to remain so and what the minimum security standards are that we will hold ourselves accountable to.
 It goes through some definitional terms. It explains that PCI compliance is incredibly comprehensive. It talks about services, devices, software, everything that is involved in the process of accepting cards for payment, etc.
 After the definitions, it recognizes that there are many groups in the city that coordinate to protect the city's PCI compliance, particularly when third-party vendors are used. The technology group in procurement services is essential to work on the contracts.
 Treasury and BTS, particularly the Information Security Group, are critical in reviewing all RFPs and contracts in their development and prior to their presentation to you. That bureaus need to work with their vendors to have on file attestations of compliance from those vendors that we keep on file for the term that they are working for us, and
 and that in the event any third party is in breach of contract because they are not compliant, that the Bureau is required to work with Treasury and BTS to implement remediation plans that can escalate up to termination of that vendor relationship. This goes back to the concept that PCI compliance is for the city as a whole. We are only as strong as the weakest link, and so every link needs to be compliant.
 And I'd be happy to answer any questions that you have. Jennifer, first of all, congratulations to you and everyone who worked on PCI compliance. You could write a chapter in the history of this city about how complicated that was, how difficult it was to meet the deadline. And along the way, of course, we had to inconvenience a lot of people. And we are constantly getting emails from people at the Water Bureau lamenting the fact that we had to discontinue auto pay during this transition.
 and we'll have some good news for them this summer. But it was just an unbelievably complex process, which leads to my question. This was a very much top-down driven process on PCI compliance. And, you know, you and Fred and others went bureau by bureau, made sure we were in compliance, and you met the deadline. To what extent does this now decentralize the compliance process
 piece going forward? Or is there still someone at the top of the food chain riding herd on all the bureaus to make sure that we're... Oh, you raised your hand. I just want to make sure, to what extent are you asking us to be...
 tracking this and to what extent are you going to continue to track it and then let us know when problems arise? So I actually think of PCI compliance as a bottom-up rather than a top-down. The discussion of the requirement was top-down, but the building blocks to make us compliant start at the bottom level and work their way up.
 Every building block that we add to the city's payment infrastructure needs to be compliant, so they all contribute to the larger picture. At the end of the day,
 Any new functionality that gets added to the city's payment infrastructure has to be approved by Treasury. It also has to be vetted by Information Security. Let's use an example. Kathy Cook at Water decides to add an enhancement to the system, but it triggers 
 this particular requirement? Well, my guess is she would automatically reach out to Treasury and OMF and say, let's talk about this. There's actually FIN 210, which talks about electronic payments. This is FIN 217. FIN 210 talks about electronic payments.
 We're all familiar with FIN 210. You don't have to patronize us. It discusses  Obik has forgotten more about FIN 210 than you know. It discusses electronic payments and states that additions to anything that adds to the city's payment infrastructure needs to get approved by 
 Parts of OMF. So the only thing I guess I just want to be clear about is that there are sufficient eyes on this that, I mean, yes, I will say to my bureau directors, you know, here's 
 this document, we have to be compliant. But there's lots of bureaus, and this is a notoriously difficult form of government to corral everybody. I just want to make sure the same outstanding systems were in place that got us to this point for the next phase, and that it isn't just incumbent on us to be asking our bureau director. Absolutely.
 I think most people these days know about, they recognize PCI. They might not be able to tell you exactly what it means or what it requires, but there is certainly a heightened awareness and sensitivity throughout the city about the need to be compliant and what the repercussions of not being so might be, including fines or being told that we couldn't accept cards anymore. And what are the biggest users are PBOT,
 the utilities pbot is by far because of the parking meter system that's number one um and i haven't ranked them um because they're all our favorite children um but uh i would volume um i would say uh water and parks those are the big three yeah okay other questions thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item if not then let's take a vote to adopt the resolution please
 Thank you very much. Great work. I shall live in fear of the treasurer showing up in my office saying, you're the weakest link. I just want to state for the record, I was a big Jennifer Cooperman fan before I learned that her daughter and my sister share the same name. Nice work on this. And again, you know, the PCI compliance had it gone south would have been a big story. The fact that
 you got us to the finish line through an unbelievably difficult multi-bureau exercise. It's really remarkable, and thank you. Aye. Anybody else? Yeah, anybody who just checked in on this discussion today would think this was easy. Aye. Okay, let's move 802.
 802 amend intergovernmental agreement with uh portland development commission to provide funding for the design and construction of the 10th and yam hill smart park garage renovation project in an amount of five million dollars go ahead and read 803 as well cover both those 803 authorized contract with shields obelisk johnson to provide owners represented
 and project management services for the design and construction phases of the 10th and the I'm sorry yes yeah so let's take a vote please on a dog hi hi okay
 Hi. Hi. Hi. 804.
 Presentation by David Morrison on the risks of microwave exposure from wireless devices. Mr. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, colleagues. In fact, I asked Mr. Morrison to come up. As you know, I was running for re-election from January to May, and Mr. Morrison was also in that race, and he raised some issues which I found fascinating and needing to get a wider audience than the masses who came to our events.
 And Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Saltzman may remember that in 2009, the council asked the federal government in a unanimous vote for a resolution to ask the federal government to look at whether there are any health impacts of cell towers because the FCC says that we're not allowed to even consider that.
 We were not successful in getting the Congress to require the FCC to take another look at it. And now Mr. Morrison has some very helpful tips, not only for us but particularly for children. So I invited him to come and give this presentation. It's purely a presentation. There won't be any testimony afterwards. Very thankful for the City Council, especially Commissioner Fritz, for inviting me to talk about the hazards of cell phones and Wi-Fi.
 I'm also here as a member of nonprofit advocacy organization Wireless Education Action. Our work is to inform the public of the harmful biological effects of microwave radiation from wireless devices. During the campaign for city council, I showed a photograph of the human brain before and after a 15-minute cell phone call, which is up there, to students at Benson High. And Commissioner Fritz and I were both surprised at the curiosity and interest of the students.
 When asked, the kids agreed that schools should be teaching them safer cell phone use in their health classes. My interest in the health effects of microwaves began about 10 years ago when my daughter's school put a cell phone tower right in the middle of the campus. In researching the work of scientists who had studied the effects of microwaves, I found an enormous amount of material dating back over 60 years. Microwave radiation from all wireless devices...
 was classified a 2B carcinogen by the World Health Organization in 2011, which placed it in the same category as automobile exhaust, DDT, and lead. Arguably worse than lead, actually. Last year, 200 biological and health scientists from 39 countries warned the United Nations and the World Health Organization that stricter regulations for wireless devices are needed to protect the public. The big news...
 is that the debate about whether cell phones cause brain cancer just ended with a study that was completed by the National Toxicology Program. Confirmed that cell phones cause brain cancer as well as a rare form of heart cancer. The microwaves used in that study were from a single source, but now we're exposed to multiple frequencies of varying types and strengths, constantly at any given moment, anywhere, almost all the time.
 The American Cancer Society has denied the cell phone cancer connection until now. In response to the study, the chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, Dr. Otis Brawley, had this to say, quote, "...the report linking radiofrequency radiation to two types of cancer marks a paradigm shift in our understanding of radiation and cancer risk."
 All of Portland's schools have Wi-Fi, and seven schools have cell towers. All of those cell towers and all of those Wi-Fi routers emit at the same frequency that cell phones do. Some of the cell towers are located just a few feet from the upstairs classrooms. Cell towers and Wi-Fi are arguably more dangerous because of the long-term chronic exposure. World Health Organization expert Dr. Anthony Miller
 agrees. Dr. Miller says Wi-Fi networks in schools and cell towers in your school grounds could significantly increase the cancer risk in your community. Interestingly, an assistant to the principal at Riggler School said that when the cell tower was built, the kids became noticeably jumpier. A considerable number of children across the nation are already reported to be experiencing negative health effects.
 cognitive impairments, and increased ADHD symptoms. In Los Angeles, a teacher reported children bleeding from the ear and nose since Wi-Fi was installed in her classroom. Schools have been receiving huge amounts of federal funding for wireless technology, but nobody stopped to ask the question, is this technology safe? And what does it really do to learning and cognition?
 One answer comes from yet another recent study at MIT at the U.S. Military Academy that showed that students who used computers had test scores 18% lower than students without computers. Portland resident and award-winning scientist Dr. Martin Paul, who's with us here today, internationally respected for his work in environmental medicine,
 is now focusing on researching the biological effects of microwave radiation. Dr. Paul says, and if you take one thing away from here, this is the most important quote, microwaves attack four things that people value the most, our health, brain function, integrity of our genomes, and the ability to produce healthy offspring. Thank you.
 The telecommunications industry can't even get liability insurance anymore because wireless technology is listed in the highest emerging risk category by Swiss Re, a risk management insurer. We really don't have time to wait for our government agencies to catch up with science because, strange as it seems, there's no local, state, or federal agency monitoring the microwave emissions in our environment. City commissioners...
 should ask Multnomah County to enlist the Public Health Services Task Force of the Health Authority to review independently funded peer-reviewed studies, and when their review is completed, they should share the results and inform the public of simple steps to reduce radiation exposure, like Greenbelt Maryland City Council did by unanimous vote in 2014.
 Some things that can be done to reduce exposure in the meantime. Use your cell phone on speaker, which Amanda Fritz does now. Don't leave the phone in your bedroom at night when it's on. Unplug your Wi-Fi router at night. Curb device use in all moving vehicles, including buses and trains, and in closed places like elevators. Keep the phone out of the pocket or bra.
 replace cordless phones with landlines, and never use a laptop or iPad on the lap, especially the lap of a child or a pregnant woman. So we need to ask ourselves, in another quote from a friend of mine, the East Coast, Deborah Coppold, whether we are a society that is committed to protecting children, telling the truth about scientific facts, accepting the consequences of these facts,
 acting responsibly in the face of these facts and ultimately modeling how to think critically for the children that we serve. So in my mind, the first step would be to replace wireless Internet in schools with safe, cabled Internet connections. I forgot to show my photographs. Can I just run through them quickly? Well, this is a...
 photograph of the I took a reading at Meek School, way out the playground far away from the buildings and as you can see the reading is right at the top this radiation reading is right at the top of my meter and that's a school that has a cell phone on it a cell tower this is a
 photograph of the different absorption rates of microwaves at different age groups. This is a five-year-old, over three times the amount of absorption in the brain. As an adult, 10-year-old is right in the middle here. So you can see that children under 20 are much more susceptible to harm from microwaves.
 Thank you very much. I really appreciate you sharing this information. Thank you for inviting me here. Very, uh...
 Very compelling. Mr. Morrison also said that in terms of not using your cell phone on buses or in the elevator, I tend to get motion sick so I don't usually look at my phone or do any reading, but then I started commuting by bus a lot more since I've been on the council and I noticed that so I thought maybe I can train myself to be able to read, look at my phone for a few, a bit at a time and work my way up. What was interesting is that my phone's battery started running out a lot quicker.
 that even if you are not convinced of the health impacts, that using your phone on the bus, which now I look around and almost everybody is on their phone, that's one of the things that drains the battery faster than anything else. So I just wanted to share that, and thank you very much for coming in. What happens is that the microwaves get caught in like a tin can, like any sort of vehicle, and they don't really escape, so you're getting much more concentrated exposure. Mm-hmm.
 thank you very much Thank You college for your indulgence thank you okay let us move on to just a report but it's obviously important report so appreciate getting it okay so we're gonna move on to item 805 805 authorized two-year grant agreements with
 Seven organizations for programming for at-risk youth in partnership with Portland Parks and Recreation under Mayor's Community Center initiative in an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000. Well, this is a happy day and appreciate Commissioner Fritz, you and the Parks Bureau making this such a success. Last year we had more than 12,000 kids.
 using free access to our community centers and to our teen programming. So obviously there was and is a great need out there in the community, and this effort is doing a lot to meet it.
 We just unveiled the new cell phone app that allows our youth to access the information about what's going on in our community centers, which is developed by a partnership with iUrbanTeen. And Commissioner Fritz and I got to meet the young people who built this app. And it's cool and it works and it's very user-friendly. So I think it's going to get a lot of use.
 And then we have a virtual alphabet soup of community-based partners that are going to be included in this effort here today. POIC, ERCO, NAA, Boys and Girls Club, SEI, and REAP.
 but that diversity of acronyms also indicates quite a diversity of community basis in those groups, and I'm really happy about that. So, Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your partnership in this. Thank you, Mayor. I think this is a great example of why the Commission form of government works really well, in particular a mayor who cares passionately about youth involvement and looking at preventative health care or services.
 activities rather than waiting till kids get into trouble and I'm looking forward at next year to continuing this work that you and your staff have really spearheaded in partnership with Portland Parks and Recreation as council we will remember we approved two million dollars in ongoing funding to support these supportive to create supportive environments for Portland youth through the mayor's community center initiative and I hope it will continue to be called that or maybe mayor Hales is community center initiative in years to come
 And the staff at Portland Parks have really done amazing work, as have the staff in the Mayor's office, and it's truly a community effort. The funds from the initiative are directly given to these community organizations to staff programming for at-risk youth and or create new programming. Collectively, we reached over 12,000 youth in the first year.
 And the Mayor's Office, my office, the Office of Youth Violence Prevention and Portland Parks and Recreation reviewed grant proposals, which was in an open competition, to be awarded to these selected organizations in amounts not to exceed $700,000.
 And as the Mayor mentioned, many of the acronyms. Summer is a crucial time to keep the youth engaged in constructive activities. I think the next step is to look at how can we get bus passes for everybody in the city of Portland for the youth under 18 year-round and not just for Portland Public Schools in school time. So that's essentially it. Colleagues, I don't have a presentation other than just explaining that. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 if not then let's take action please on this emergency ordinance awesome well thank you mayor hales and commissioner fritz for your leadership and and making sure that we have our our youth well served by organizations that very much care about them as do we hi thank you mayor hales and commissioner fritz for this very important initiative
 I do have to say that the fact that the Mayor followed up the last presentation by praising a new cell phone app falls definitely into the category of the irony so thick you can cut it with a knife. Aye. Ms. Fritz. Ms. Well, you just hold it out here and you don't hold it to your head. That's the main thing. Thank you, Mayor. Aye. Ms. Finch.
 Yeah, I urge everybody to spend a little time in a community center this summer and just see what's going on. It's pretty magical, and I just appreciate all the good work. Parks Bureau staff is so fired up about this.
 They work so hard, so it's a great effort, and it serves so many kids. I want to thank particularly Tara Pierce and Diana Nunez in my office who have worked so hard to make this. And as a couple of moms, I think, and as a dad, I think we can all see the value for our young people. So I'm very pleased about this. Thank you. Aye.
 Okay, 806. 806, authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Riverside Basin Combined Sewer Overflow Pipe Emergency Repair Project, number E-10844, for $738,675. Thank you, Mayor. As my colleagues know, over one-third of Portland's more than 2,500 miles of sewer pipes are 80 years or older.
 This ordinance would authorize repairs to two sewer segments that are 106 years old and are severely deteriorated. And I'll turn it over to Scott Gibson. Scott. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Mr. Mayor, for the record, my name is Scott Gibson. I'm Principal Engineer at the Bureau of Environmental Services. Thank you.
 And we are here today asking for authorization to approve an emergency contract with Oxbow Construction to repair 1,021 feet of severely deteriorated public sewer. The contract amount is $738,675. So this map will show you the location of the sewer, which is the dashed line. It's adjacent to Going Street but not in the right-of-way. It crosses underneath the Union Pacific Railroad lines and spurs.
 It's a combined sewer overflow pipe that relieves the sewer system to the river in times of heavy rain. It was constructed in a ravine and has since been filled, so it's actually very deep in certain areas as the ravine was filled in with fill. And it crosses underneath the Union Pacific Railroad's main north-south rail lines. BES has a number of sewers underneath UPR rail and sewer.
 familiar with working with them, but working around the railroad in any case can be very complicated. So I want to show you some pictures of the exact alignment. In this exhibit, the light blue line is the sewer line, and you can see the rail line along with trains currently in the image. And with the inset pictures, you see some of the defects that we found.
 As Commissioner said, it's a 106-year-old brick-lined concrete pipe, and it has significant corrosion in the upper half of the pipe, and there are a number of large holes in the pipe. I have one more photo. As the alignment continues, it goes underneath the structure and up into going, and you can see in these images what we're calling out. There are fractures, and then in this image here to the right, you can see exposed steel. So that's the reinforcing steel, which is now exposed to corrosion.
 And then most concerning to the engineering team in the lower section is that this pipe is no longer round. It's starting to ovalize.
 which is indicated that it's beginning to fail. We're in a failure state. I just want to acknowledge that Scott is a pioneer of what we call anti-photoshopping. Yeah. Instead of trying to make something look better, he finds the most disgusting photographs you can find to illustrate the point. And he normally gets extra credit if there's like a four-legged creature. If there's a four-legged, no creatures in this one. Body parts.
 So we do see a lot of sewer defects and reviewing tapes, but the engineering team was especially concerned about these defects given their location and And that was why we determined that this was an emergent this justified an emergency procurement and an emergency response by the Bureau and so with that we moved into an emergency repair project the first step was to to
 define the solution. And what we're planning for this pipeline segment is to pull in a cured-in-place pipeliner to reinforce it with a new pipe inside a pipe. And that's four basic steps. We'll have a robot computer laser profile, the exact geometry on the inside. Then the manufacturing will manufacture the liner to meet that geometry. We have to build a 72-inch deep manhole to improve our access.
 Then the liner will be pulled into the line, inflated to press against the existing opening, and it'll be cured there. And so that's the engineering solution that we proposed. I wanted to talk a little bit about the emergency procurement. The procurement was done under Title V, the city code, as an emergency contract. This process started with a declaration by Commissioner Fish in support of our assessment that it was an emergency. And then from then, we...
 prepared a set of bid documents that could be bid on site and we expedited that process. The process states that the city shall seek competition for emergency contracts as reasonable and appropriate under the emergency circumstances. And in this case, we met contractors on site and we received four bids for the work done.
 The lowest bidder was Oxbow Construction of Troutdale, Oregon. The owner is June Kalkoven. They're a certified woman-owned business enterprise. The major liner manufacturer is a company called Michaels, which we've worked with as a past. They're a sub to Oxbow. But this was all these monies going to a certified firm as the prime. I wanted to talk a little bit about the engineer's estimate. In an emergency situation like this, estimating can be challenging. Okay.
 The final engineer's estimate provided at the time of bid was $685,000. The low bidder was $738,675. That's about 8% over the final estimate estimated.
 In our initial emergency declaration, we estimated the work at $750,000. We had moved the estimate lower as we were finding the decision, but the initial estimate was 2% over the final cost. So all the costs were within a range of 10%. The cost estimates were described as low confidence.
 Because at the time we were working through it, we were uncertain about what conditions we would have from the railroad. We have since worked out all of the approvals and permits for working in the railroad. But at that time, we were uncertain what those requirements would be. And so that generated a lot of uncertainty for us. See if there's anything else. So the project...
 We have a large-diameter sewer rehabilitation project budgeted at $1 million for fiscal year 2017. This project will use that money. We will postpone the work that was previously identified, so that's where we're getting the budget for this. So that's what I want to cover a little bit on the estimates. And then finally, it is an emergency, but we did our best to cover the public outreach elements.
 We've notified residents and businesses in the area, as well as the Overlook Neighborhood Association and the Swan Island Business Association. In general, because the project is located on Union Pacific Railroad right away and because it's a trenchless technology, impact should be relatively minor. We're not expecting any major inputs. Good job, Scott. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions? Any questions, Scott? So this line is used only for overflow purposes, is that correct? Correct. Okay.
 It's below the CSO tunnel system, and so routinely 98% of all the drainage would go up and through the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant. In times of heavy rain, the system overflows and relieves itself down through this line. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Councilman. Thanks for the presentation. Aye. Novick. Thank you, Scott. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Ale. Aye.
 okay 807 807 authorized grant agreements or intergovernmental agreements with 13 community groups and native plant mini grants related to the community watershed stewardship project program up to 100 000 total mr fish thank you mayor today jennifer wants you to come forward today council is considering the annual slate of community watershed stewardship grants
 Although this program began in 1995, it continues to grow and reinvent itself as diverse and creative Portlanders design new watershed projects and forge new partnerships.
 the proposed uh grantees this year or the proposed cwsp grants this year will will fund a number of innovative projects including two pavement removal projects to manage stormwater a student and elder project to create a first foods garden a johnson creek cleanup day an eco roof and wall project at a community center and a micro filtration project
 to see if mushrooms can be used to treat stormwater these grants empower community leaders and volunteers in making portland greener and cleaner and i'm pleased to welcome today the coordinator of the program jennifer devlin jennifer welcome good morning my name is jennifer devlin i'm with bes and i've been coordinating the grants program for about 14 years
 My name is Esmeralda Sanchez. I am the program coordinator working with Jennifer Devlin. Is this your first appearance at council? No, it's actually the second time. You're a pro then. You're welcome. Not quite there, but thank you. We didn't request time on the agenda today, but we're certainly here to answer questions. Esmeralda has been with us for about six months.
 She's with the Portland State University Indigenous Nations program as a student. So she's been doing the outreach to generate interest in the grants. She managed our grant selection team and will be working with grantees this year to complete their contracts and complete their projects. So we're here to answer any questions you have, if you have any. Long list of interesting partners there. So obviously you've got a lot of interest. Yes.
 No, Mayor, this is a relatively small amount of money with a pretty significant impact, and this program is not without its critics, but I appreciate the stalwart support that Council has given to this over the years, in particular Commissioner Fritz, for whom this has a soft spot. We think these grants are important.
 achieve important outcomes for our Bureau at a very modest cost engage the community and help us test innovation questions thank you both so much anyone else want to speak on this item and if not it passes to second reading next week for approval thank you very much thank you okay item it await
 808 facilitate implementation of the city's storm water management manual and source control manual well this is a council favorite mayor the bureau of environmental services first adopted the stormwater management manual in 1999 the manual requires new development and redevelopment projects to manage storm water on site whenever possible
 It's an important tool for reducing the damaging effects of stormwater runoff and protecting our rivers and streams. The Bureau has revised the manual several times since 1999 and has just completed the most recent revision.
 Here now with more information about the updates are Amber Clayton and Angela Henderson from the Bureau of Environmental Services. Ladies, welcome. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. We are here this morning to talk about some code changes to 1738 that supports the Stormwater Management Manual and what we are proposing is the new Source Control Manual. Let's pull this up here for a second. The...
 So Portland City Code 1738 authorizes BES to implement the Stormwater Management Manual, and for the last 16 years, the Stormwater Management Manual has included both requirements for impervious area management as well as source control requirements. So these are activity-based requirements for development.
 And what we are proposing is moving the source control requirements to a separate administrative rule. So the Stormwater Management Manual will continue to be the administrative rule and design requirements for impervious area requirements. So if you create 500 square feet of impervious area, you are required to manage that stormwater runoff.
 to protect water quality and public infrastructure. And we want to take the source control requirements, which had been Chapter 4 of the Stormwater Management Manual, and move it to a new administrative rule called the Source Control Manual. So that would contain all of the activity-based requirements. So, for example, if you want to pump groundwater, if you want to 
 create fueling stations, all of these things that are not directly related to the creation of impervious area. So what we are proposing in front of you today are some minor code changes in order to explicitly authorize the adoption of a source control manual in addition to the implementation of a stormwater management manual.
 There are a couple of other things that we are including in this changes to 1738. So it also includes updating the administrative review and appeal language, clarifying that removal of a required stormwater management facility is a violation of city code, and correcting a couple of typographic errors and misspellings. Yes.
 We did hold a public comment period for both the revisions to the Stormwater Management Manual, the proposed Source Control Manual, and the proposed changes to 1738. We did a variety of public notices, web subscription changes,
 services as well as a bunch of electronic media and social media. We also worked with the Bureau of Development Services. Since most of the implementation happens through the permitting process, we reached out to everybody on the BDS plans examiner subscription, and there were zero comments received on the proposed changes to Portland City Code 1738. Okay. Okay.
 So, and just as a quick summary, there's no financial impact to the city and that there's no new financial impacts to development projects. Yes, I really appreciate you providing the strikethrough. I think there may be a stenographer's error in the authority because that sentence with the last phrase deleted doesn't make sense. So if we could correct that. Yes, you are correct. Yes.
 did you we we intended to keep the word the word chapter at the end of that sentence yes that is a friendly amendment thank you but to delete maintaining the stormwater management manual why are we deleting that um because we clarify uh throughout the rest of the chapter where we mean the stormwater management manual and where we mean the source control manual great thank you and then i noticed that you've deleted the appeals to the code hearings office apart about
 This is on page seven. Yes. And this is because the auditor has set new rules for appeal fees, is that correct? Yes. So we are, the code changes specific to administrative reviews and appeals are to be consistent with the auditor's recommended changes citywide. I believe BES is also looking at the rest of the administrative rules to make sure that they're being consistent. We're just the first ones out the gate.
 And that, um...
 So remind me what the appeal fee is. Nobody pays anything at this point? If somebody appeals, or excuse me, if the first step to an appeal is an administrative review with BES, that is a $100 appeal fee, I believe. And if they are not satisfied with the results of the administrative review, then they go to the code hearings. And we do not charge, BES does not charge any fees to go to code hearings. Okay.
 So I'm just a little concerned that we've taken out the bit about reimbursing the appellants if we find in their favor the $100 that you charge for an administrative appeal. You don't refund that if it turns out they're correct? Correct. Okay.
 So that might be specific to the stormwater management manual itself, but the idea behind the recommended code revisions is that the process itself will be described in the individual administrative rules. So the stormwater management manual as well as the source control manual. And the authority...
 The code itself would just be limited to our authority to grant the review and or further appeal of whatever the contestation might be. You might change that in the administrative rules that they get refunded if they prevail? Yes. Thank you. Is that a friendly suggestion? I know you're looking to it, Commissioner. Thank you. We'll report back to you. So we'll make the one friendly amendment to the Section 010.
 No other suggested amendments. And anything else you have in the way of questions for these folks? By the way, Commissioner Fritz, thank you for doing it in a redline format. She has previously made the request of all the bureaus where there's substantial changes to a complex document that we do it in redline. It actually makes it much easier for us to track, so thank you for being faithful to that. That helps. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 okay they're here all right thank you both we'll let those folks come up and testify and then we'll move it on thank you thank you Iverson and Marianne Fitzgerald good morning good morning welcome morning okay my name is Al Iverson I live on Southwest 36th Avenue near Gabriel Park
 I am a professional engineer registered in civil and environmental engineering. I am here to ask you to delay approval of the stormwater manual until it addresses stormwater management in southwest Portland better than it does now. I had submitted comments to BES before and during the comment period concerning sections 1.3.1 and 1.3.2, but I received no response addressing these concerns. These sections are about how stormwater is to be discharged.
 Portland needs a different approach to stormwater management for southwest Portland. Southwest Portland is geologically different than on the other side of the Willamette River, and for that reason, the stormwater now and in the past has always followed a different pathway. Portland's stormwater management approach needs to be expanded to accommodate that different pathway.
 All stormwater runoff in southwest Portland eventually ends up in the Willamette River, mainly by way of Tryon Creek and Fano Creek, not as groundwater like on the other side of Willamette River. These two creeks are fed by numerous named and unnamed creeks, which are in turn fed by smaller creeks, seeps, and springs. Most of this last group do not flow year-round, and when the area was settled, the practice was to fill them in and install field drains to keep the pastures from getting soggy.
 When the area became urbanized, stormwater still had to find its way to the Willamette, and in many cases, our street system became the uppermost part of the drainage system, to the detriment of the street system. The guiding principle stated in Section 2 of this ordinance, controlling stormwater runoff before it runs off of individual sites, simply does not mimic nature in southwest Portland. A better guiding principle would be like the one I offered in my comments to BES. They are...
 The City of Portland's approach to stormwater management in southwest Portland emphasizes the use of various facilities to treat and convey stormwater through natural and constructed features to a natural stream in a matter not detrimental to the stream or natural areas. Please delay the approval of this stormwater manual until it better approaches stormwater management in southwest Portland. Thank you.
 thank you my name is marianne fitzgerald and i'm here as a citizen and al and i monitor stormwater issues together for many years and i know that in 2012 mayor adams had an ordinance associated with the out of the mud initiative which recognized some of the unique properties in southwest portland and allowed exemptions to the stormwater manual for these issues and in 2015
 The Tryon-Stevens Creek Headwater Neighborhood Street Plan recognized unique infiltration issues in southwest Portland. So I was surprised when I saw, you know, 2014, 2016, the manual comes around and no mention of southwest issues at all. And unlike you, Commissioner Fritz, I got a three-page bulleted summary that went out for public comment.
 and life happens, and I didn't comment during the comment period, but I knew Al had. So yesterday, again, the holiday, life gets in the way, I read number 13 that said no comments were received, and I thought, well, that's funny. I know Al submitted a comment, and one is more than zero. So it really struck me, you know, why are you allowing this to go ahead and not acknowledge the comments that you received? So, yeah.
 I'm really asking you to direct the staff to revise the stormwater manual. I'm not addressing the ordinance other than that one.
 incorrect statement. But I am asking to at least acknowledge that the staff should allow exemptions to the stormwater hierarchy in southwest Portland and where it cannot be infiltrated to allow it to convey off-site. You know, we have ditches all over the place, but we have such poor infrastructure. And because of the challenges of stormwater, we have no sidewalks. And, you know, it's this cost. It's just I get very frustrated looking at this...
 cycle continue, and the fact that, once again, the manual is being revised with no mention of any special conditions in the Southwest troubles me. Thank you. So I'm going to have staff come back because there's a distinction between the manual and code, and I want to give them a chance to  so if you guys can give us a sec, we'll address those issues. Mr. Iverson, have you sent your comments to the whole council? No.
 I have not. Could you please do that? Certainly. Thank you. Yes, thank you. Amber Clayton here again from BES. The comment that we made that we received no comments on the proposed changes to Portland City Code is true. We also received no comments on the proposed source control manual. We did receive comments on the stormwater management manual from a variety of folks and we have posted online a summary of city responses to those public comments.
 And I also did email Al back saying thank you for your comments and there is an exemption process if it is not technically feasible to infiltrate stormwater because southwest Portland is not the only area of town where infiltration may not be appropriate or safe. So there is an exemption process already built into the stormwater management manual to provide for stormwater management and treatment regardless of whether or not infiltration is technically feasible. Let me ask a question of Commissioner Novick.
 Steve, we have a project or two in Southwest where we're now actively looking at this intersection of the code and some high-priority projects. We've had some meetings actually with our distinguished guests today who have testified. And I'm hopeful that will bear fruit because they've got both of our bureaus working collaboratively. Colleagues, I would be happy to, as a  this is not  this is a first reading.
 What I would suggest is let's keep it on for next week. My Bureau will follow up with our two guests who testified, and we'll make sure that there's an understanding of where we are in the process and what can and can't happen under these proposals. And I'll report back to you before next week. Pass it on for second reading. Pass it on for second reading. We need a chance to do the discussion. The one thing is this is an intensely complicated question, and the question that I want to make sure is that
 In whatever is before us next week, there still is the flexibility that we need for Commissioner Novick and I working with Southwest Neighbors to come up with a creative solution on at least one of the projects that we're focused on. So I take the spirit of the comments seriously. Appreciate you being here. Jim Blackwood, who's my liaison, is out today, so I'm a little under the gun. We'll follow up with both of you and report to council. I'd like to keep it on for a second reading just so we have a control date. All right. Great. Thank you, Lee. Thank you.
 No one else wants to discuss this? Then that's what we'll do. We'll count on you, Commissioner Fish, to follow up with the folks in Southwest who obviously spent a lot of time trying to figure this out. Then I'll report to Council. Can I just comment? I appreciate that this is an exemption process. It pretty much is standard in Southwest that you can't infiltrate because the
 throughout its clay soils. I was actually involved in developing the first stormwater manual back in the late 90s, and I thought there was a section about the worst specifics on we know you can't infiltrate and here's what you have to do instead. So I'll look forward to your looking at that again. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. We'll be back next week. Okay. Let's move on. Oh, by the way, one thing, Mayor, before we do.
 um apparently there is some confusion about what's allowed or not allowed under the stormwater manual and i just want to make or put one on the record that i hope is uh avoids any further confusion uh this morning i walked to sandy boulevard stopped at cesar chavez waited for the number 12 bus and as you know there's a gigantic bioswell right there part of the sandy boulevard reconstruction it's a beautiful bio so it's like a it's like a
 forest and a jungle in one, and very lush. Unfortunately, there was a large discarded sofa in the middle of it. So in case it's not clear in our code, we do not allow people to dispose of surplus property or junk in our bioswales along Sandy Boulevard. It is really outrageous that someone thought that was appropriate. Good point. Thank you. All right, 809.
 809, authorize a contract with TRC Pipeline Services LLC not to exceed $400,000 for condition survey and assessment services on the Bull Run supply conduits.
 Okay, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I think this is our last one. We have a lot of old pipes. It turns out we have some old conduits. The conduits are the most important part of our system for obvious reasons in terms of the front end. Dave Peters is here to walk us through this ordinance. Dave, welcome. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Mayor Hales, commissioners.
 I'm David Peters, principal engineer with the Water Bureau, and I'm here to ask for authorization for a contract with TRC Pipeline Services. And this is part of the Water Bureau undertaking a comprehensive multi-year condition assessment of our large diameter conduits that bring water from the Bull Run watershed into town.
 The elements of the comprehensive assessment are outlined in the conduits rehabilitation plan and includes review. This plan includes this review of our cathodic protection system. It also includes an internal visual inspection of those pipes. It will include remote collection of some condition data and the analysis of all that collected data to give us an understanding of what condition those large conduits are in.
 So this contract, the cathodic protection system assessment, is the first element of that comprehensive evaluation. This $400,000 contract for professional services with TRC pipeline services will evaluate how well the existing cathodic protection system has been protecting those conduits against corrosion. The cathodic protection system consists of approximately 60 rectifiers that were installed in the 80s and are nearing the end of their useful life.
 This contract will specifically report on the condition of those systems and the improvements needed to continue to protect our conduits from corrosion in the future. A side benefit is that we'll also be able to identify areas of our conduits that are at high risk for active corrosion.
 And we'll use those outcomes then in our  to provide input and guidance on where we'll do our internal visual inspections on those pipes. And we plan on doing those later this fiscal year. So that's a brief overview of this contract and I'd like to open it up for questions. Questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on. Not sure if it's good morning or good afternoon yet, Commissioners, but 
 There's been, you know, as you've no doubt seen in the media, there's been some great concern over what many people would say are failures of Portland Public Schools to address water with lead contamination. And in those articles and discussions, there's talk about different factors that a water utility can take that sometimes lead to increased lead leaching issues.
 from old products. I understand that's probably completely different from the cathodic system, which is solely electric. But has there been any public pressure, public forum, to talk about the pros and cons about anything that the Water Bureau can do that would, until we know that there's been a big push in the school system, maybe have our water situated in a way that is a little bit less disturbing to latent lead consumers?
 Good question. I think that's a matter of pH mostly, right? Yeah. We're fully in compliance as a city with the lead and copper rule, and there is, with the exception of occasional traces of very small amounts of lead in our water, our water is blessedly lead-free, source water and our distribution system. The question that you're raising has to do with corrosion control.
 and to what extent can we help mitigate the impact of corrosion that occurs in certain plumbing in certain buildings. And we are in conversations currently with the Oregon Health Authority and the Environmental Protection Agency about what they refer to as maximizing corrosion control, and we'll be coming back to council probably in the early fall with some further discussion on that. The one thing I will tell you is that 
 A couple of years ago, a year and a half ago, the council authorized a study called a corrosion control study, which, among other things, allows us to test the impact of taking the reservoirs offline. Because it's a very complicated system and you do one thing here, it has unanticipated and anticipated effects here. We have to be very careful about any change to the water chemistry and any introduction of new chemicals.
 This being Portland, even the conversation about new chemicals has to be handled in a transparent, respectful way. So those conversations are ongoing. The water that you get from the Water Bureau is safe and clean and reliable. The problem occurs particularly in some high-risk buildings that have copper plumbing and lead solder. And I think in the fall we'll have more to say about some options the city may have.
 But to your point, our water is safe, and the kinds of routine things we do in maintaining the distribution system ensures it continues to be safe. So thank you, Charles. I'm Cedric Wilkins. I think we should  I've changed my mind. I think we should take the reservoirs offline. And I was personally affected by the May 2014 event. I had urinary pains. I thought maybe I was getting 
 prostate cancer two days before it happened and on friday it hit i think this was around mother's day 2014 uh we sold out a bottled water at target and actually portland got on national radio because george nury was a ufo guy went to mcminnville and passed through the portland airport and he said i just was in portland so we got on national news i was affected by it i haven't had urinary pains
 I even make coffee, and it went right through that. And something happened then that we need to address, and I think that having an exposed water system like the reservoirs is not correct. Thank you. Good news for you. You're no longer drinking water from an exposed reservoir. They are all discontinued. That's a good idea. And I remember four years ago, Scott Fernandez had 
 made these rational arguments during the mayor's race how we should keep them open. They get altered by a light, but I've changed my mind. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, this passes the second reading. And then let's take item 810. Item 810, declare surplus property at four Water Bureau locations and request authorization to dispose of the property. Roll call, please. Peltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Fish. A number of people to thank, Mayor, on this. Thank you.
 Obviously, the Bureau  and these are Category 1 properties, so they are the ones that get the least amount of public review and scrutiny and least process because they're bits and pieces, and they're, in many cases, accidental pieces of property. But I do want to acknowledge one thing. We have a completely different surplus property policy as a city right now, and it started 
 with a dispute in southwest Portland about the disposition of a piece of property that had a water tank on it. It led to the Water Bureau, under then David Schaaf's leadership, developing a comprehensive set of new guidelines that brought more public process, more sunshine,
 to the disposition of surplus property, which then beget a citywide review led by Betsy Ames that led to a new policy that covers all bureaus for surplus property. And here we are at the end of a long and winding road with, I guess, the second or third set of properties that the Water Bureau has offered up. So a lot of work went into this, and it started with citizens raising their voice and asking us to do things differently. So I appreciate that.
 our friends in southwest portland have made this a cause and our process that the city is better because of it aye hails good work aye and we're recessed till two o'clock we talk parking ready for roll saltzman novick here fritz here fish hails
 there we go we have a single item on the counter at number 811 would you please read that 8 11 amend title 33 planning and zoning to allow limited commercial use of accessory parking within the northwest plan district
 Okay, good afternoon, everyone, and welcome. I'll call up our team from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to walk us through this issue, and then I know we've got some invited testimony and other folks that want to speak on this item. So, Joe, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor. I'm Joe Zender, Chief Planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I'm here today with Joan Fredrickson, who is the 
 West District Planner and the lead on this particular legislative project. So what you're going to see today are some proposals related to parking in the Northwest Plan District, the main part of which actually started a decade or so ago when we were first working on the update of the Northwest Plan District and it adds flexibility in terms of how shared parking could be used.
 Initially, when this project went through the PSC, there were two sort of aspects to the program, both the shared parking and imposition of parking minimums for new development in the Planning and Sustainability Commission only forwarded the shared parking part of the program.
 So you're likely to hear testimony on both pieces of this today, but what is being forwarded by the Planning and Sustainability Commission is only one piece. And before I turn it over to Joan, I'd like to also thank  this project was done in close collaboration with the Bureau of Transportation and the Bureau of Transportation staff both within the parking program and the planning program. So I wanted to acknowledge that. Joan. Thank you. All right, Juan.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm Joan Fredrickson with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you for the opportunity to present the recommended draft of the Northwest Parking Update Project. As Joan mentioned, we've partnered with the Bureau of Transportation on this project, and here with me today I have staff from that bureau, Chris Arms from the Parking Operations Division, as well as Grant Moorhead from the Policy and Planning Division.
 So what we're talking about today is limited parking resources in Northwest. This is just a quick visual. So there's limited on-street and off-street parking resources, which makes it difficult for users in the district, commercial customers, employees, residents, to locate parking when they need it.
 The district also has an untapped resource in its existing private lots that go underutilized for some of the time, whether in the evenings or weekends or sometimes during the day. It also has existing zoning code language that is supposed to tap this resource, but that zoning code language has gone largely unused over the years since it was adopted in 2003.
 The code changes that I will go over for the shared parking propose to update those existing provisions and to allow better utilization of these types of existing and future parking resources, i.e., parking lots.
 For a little bit of context, we're all familiar with the Northwest area. Many of us know it's popular shopping and dining areas. It's a pedestrian-friendly cadence of streets. But I want to make sure that we understand the full range of the area. So I have a map here.
 This is the broader geography. You can see the actual planned district ranges from Burnside to the north, Vaughn and Thurman, and then east to west between Northwest 23rd and I-405.
 so this district is far and away one of the dentists in the city outside of the central city specifically today we have about 7 300 households and over 12 700 employees we are we know that this area is going to grow and it's projected to grow to uh significantly to about 9 400 households and over 14 000 employees in the 2035 time frame
 This growth, in conjunction with the historic development pattern of the area where many of the old apartment buildings didn't include parking, coupled with the popular shopping and employment areas, continued to create a constrained parking environment. The City has been working with stakeholders in the Northwest Plan District area for many years to try to find solutions in this arena.
 This slide shows the Northwest Parking Management Plan area, which PBOT worked on with stakeholders, and it was adopted in 2013.
 So management of parking resources has two main puzzle parts, so to speak, an on-street part and an off-street part. This is the on-street part. The Northwest Parking Management Plan begins to address on-street parking issues. They have implemented an updated parking permit area program and added metered parking
 parking, as well as creating a local advisory committee to help PBOT make informed decisions moving forward related to parking in this area. So some work is being done, some good work. Specifically about this proposal, it relates to the off-street part of the puzzle, the private property side of the equation.
 In an area with long-standing parking shortages like Northwest, it's beneficial to look at how to utilize all the parking resources, both on-street and off-street. The proposed code changes will help the district better utilize and make more efficient use of those parking resources, particularly by expanding the ability to have commercial parking across the whole district in accessory lots.
 A classic example of this is, as you can see here in the photos, is Legacy Good Sam. They have large parking lots to serve their patients, visitors, staff during the day, regular business hours, but they go underutilized basically largely in the evenings and weekends. So this is a perfect logical solution to create an arrangement where customers of the area, residents can park after hours in many cases.
 And just to highlight where the proposed code provisions would apply, the red commercial areas on the map reflect where commercial parking is allowed outright today. And the blue and the purple areas, which is the bulk of the district, the RH and the EX zones, they don't allow that today outright. And so the proposed provisions would allow accessory lots to be used commercially in those blue and purple areas.
 specifically to the code changes um we want to expand how and when accessory parking can be used as commercial parking the
 The proposed code will create flexibility by allowing both short-term and long-term parking and expanding the allowed users. Currently, there are limitations on all those. Specifically, the provisions to allow short-term parking are seen to be one of the key improvements that will really make it viable and attractive for property owners to access and use these provisions and provide those parking resources to the community.
 The changes also provide an advisory role for the Northwest Parking Management Stakeholder Advisory Committee in reviewing the application. Lastly, a set of administrative rules have been created to help implement these provisions, and PBOT and staff have worked closely to put these in place, and those are provided as an exhibit in the materials that you have.
 And finally, before I close, I want to mention engagement opportunities throughout this process. The Northwest Parking Management Stakeholder Advisory Committee has been having robust and long conversations about parking and about shared parking in this district, and staff has been attending those meetings regularly. The SAC is comprised of neighborhood and business representatives as well as at-large community members.
 and it's open to the public, regularly scheduled, so it's a good way for folks to tap into the issue if they're interested in it.
 a little bit unusual, we made sure that we sent notice of this proposal to all property owners before the PSC hearing, to make sure that people who might have projects in the pipeline or who had concerns about the proposal were aware of it. So we sent out public notice to all property owners prior to the PSC. We also held an open house and had information online. So today, we're here with
 the PSC's recommendation, and we ask Council to consider amending Title 33, the zoning code, as shown in the recommended draft report for the shared parking standards, and to adopt the recommended draft report as further findings in legislative intent. One last item, we also hope that Council will direct PBOT to adopt administrative rules for better implementation of these provisions. And that's it.
 Thank you. Staff is available to answer questions. Thank you very much for your time. So one question I have, that is, well, two questions. One, this is permissive, not mandatory, right? If a property owner doesn't want to make their commercial lot available for shared parking purposes, there's no requirement that they do so, right? And then the second is that so this goes into effect 
 Do we know the total resource of those spaces, how many spaces there are, potentially, that those property owners could say? We don't have a number. We have. We've done an  PBOT has helped us do an inventory of where the parking lots are. But that's, you know, constantly changing as properties get developed and uses change. It's at least 1,000.
 guesstimate yes right and then a third question I guess and that is we're not regulating the the market here that is not only is it permissive in terms of the property owner being able to make their parking available if they want to make a veil make it available free or at a fee we're not regulating that in the correct so that's up to the property owner as they see fit okay other other questions
 that Pearly Yates will be closed to a number of the Episcopalians on this panel if we don't make the administrative rules a little more flexible. And unlike other letters and e-mails we got dealing with the parking mandate, this seems to be a very specific technical issue about 
 having a sufficient time on the permit to justify the investment, what they're going to do with their surface parking. I don't purport to understand it completely, but you were copied on it. Do you have any feedback? So the issue that they raise is that as part of the administrative rules, we have set up a recurring permitting system where you would get a permit
 for one year the first time and then renewable every three years for these shared parking commercial permits. The idea with that is that we really want to make sure that we can monitor the program and that there aren't unintended consequences coming out and that it's a good way, a regular way to 
 to address any concerns that come up. So it's an opportunity to have a renewal permit. It gives staff the opportunity to address concerns or make additional conditions with any permit. So here's the language. What's their objection? I guess I'm not following. So they're going to make a big upfront investment, apparently. Maybe, yeah. Maybe.
 And because the current language says if the parking facility is found to be in violation of any kind, so it's very broad, PBOT has the authority to revoke the permit. And they're looking for just a little  I'm just  I haven't met with them. I'm not their lobbyist. I'm just trying to understand the argument. They want some certainty at the back end if they're going to make an investment at the front end. And I guess is that 
 Is that concern, because it is very broad, if it's found to be in violation of any kind. So is that any kind of violation, even sort of a technical one, or are we looking at? I think the intent was that the violation relate to parking issues. I think the intent is if they are, because the administrative rules ask for certain information in order to,
 approve the permit, and they also stipulate that you have to make sure that you're not displacing the users on your property. So that section addresses that.
 Peabot's ability to have the property owner address issues that come up without just having a recurring permit allowance. So I don't want to dwell too much on this. I would hope that in any system going forward, there's a reasonable chance to cure some kind of good faith standard because it's a pretty heavy penalty. If you are revoked, you can't even apply for six months. So I'm guessing they want to play by the rules, but they just want to make sure that if for
 They're in violation for some technical reason. They're not knocked out for a period of time. That's not your intent. Right. And I think that can be dealt with through something about good faith efforts and failure to cure any problem so that it doesn't come out of left field.
 Yes, and those administrative rules are still in draft form, so we are happy to take a look at that again and refine that language to find the right balance there between wanting to be able to enforce any issues or address any issues and also being flexible enough that property owners feel that they can benefit from these provisions. Yeah.
 Yeah, I guess I had a question. I assume we're going to hear a lot about parking minimums, so I guess I wanted to get a question out there about could shared parking be a way of meeting a parking minimum requirement, in your opinion, either one of you? Is that how we use them? I don't believe. I believe you have to provide the required. You shared parking. The parking minimum requirements are for a number of spaces to be provided with the new development. Right, and I'm saying what if 
 a new development was able to satisfy that requirement by demonstrating they have secured shared parking spaces within, I don't know, some radius of the new development? I believe that we allow that, Commissioner, in the current. Yeah, it's not right now. And what it does, though, in effect  Where we currently have parking minimums? Where we have parking minimums, we allow that. There's some radius. Yes. Okay. Yeah.
 I think for residential it does have to be on-site, but for other uses it can be within a certain distance. And actually we are considering changing those with future projects. But right now that is allowed to a degree. But you said residential is required to be on-site? I guess that's what I was probing about, is residential. We're not doing that now.
 Not under the current ordinance in the centers. We require the residential to be on site. And part of the thinking is this, is at what time of day are you going to  if you're going to lock up spaces that already exist for shared parking, there's a period where the commercial spaces are used, and when they're not on the residential spaces 
 especially given the research, I guess, that we did, you see that cars are stored a lot during the day because a lot of these are in transit-rich places. So we, at least in the first generation of this, did not allow that flexibility for the residential units. So, yeah, and I don't want to  I have no idea what it costs maybe to perhaps for a new development to lease shared parking spaces on a long-term basis to demonstrate compliance versus 
 building the parking as part of the development. But it seems to me it might be something we want to allow. In the spirit of why we're allowing parking flexibility, that would be really consistent. You already have a parking resource. Let's optimize how it's used, and let's not overbuild parking because of the cost and also of the transportation impacts. Yes.
 Okay, other questions at this point? I have a couple of comments, Mayor. I'm just reminded that it was in the last year of the Adams administration that we were doing northwest parking, and here we are again. It's a boo all over again. And I seem to remember back in 2003. We were working on it back in 2000 as well. Indeed so. So here we are again. Thank you.
 And each iteration, I think, becomes clearer that, yes, indeed, we collectively have a problem and that we haven't solved all our problems so far. A Bike Portland article yesterday said that there are 9,700 parking permits with only 4,100 spaces left.
 So if the order of magnitude is the shared parking is maybe one or at best 2,000, we still don't have enough parking in Northwest. So for the purposes of discussion, I really thank everybody. We've gotten a lot of testimony lobbying ahead of time, so I think all of us are pretty much aware of what the pros and cons are. I would like to move to put back in the planning staff's recommendation to the
 Planning Sustainability Commission to have the same minimums that we have elsewhere, which is up to 30 units, no parking is required, 31 to 40, one per five units, 40 to 50, one per four units, and 50 or more, one per three units, and then no required parking for other uses. So I'd just like to move that, and then I would suggest if we can put it on the table for consideration, we can then vote on it after we've heard testimony. All right. Is there a second to that amendment proposal?
 For purposes of discussion, because I think it's a discussion we should have, I will second it. Thank you, Commissioner, and that understanding. And also I'm going to put an alternative on the table, or at least mention it, which I believe was suggested by Commissioner Chris Smith at the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Another option would be to prohibit occupants of buildings over 30 units after a
 that are built after a particular date to not allow them to apply for parking permits, so that people would be moving into those buildings knowing that they don't have a secured space and they don't have a parking permit either. So that's another option, and I'm just interested to hear what folks who've been living and breathing this for many years, which option you prefer. There are some of those folks here, I think, so yes.
 All right. Okay, so that amendment's on the table. We'll take testimony on that as well. Anything else for our team? Thank you both. Thank you. And I know we're going to have a lot of people signed up to testify, but at first I want to call on members of our Planning and Sustainability Commission who are here. I know Chris Smith is. I'm not sure if anyone else is from PSC, but thank you for being here. Thank you for weighing this issue for us, before us. Thank you.
 so let me start with the well first of all chris smith vice chair of the plan sustainability commission um let me start with the uncontroversial piece which was that the shared parking component was broadly supported i think it's seen as a mechanism to make the most efficient use of the resources that already exist particularly where there's counter-cyclical demand where there may be one use during the day and another use off hours we did add one provision to that as it came through the psc and that is that the
 SAC is the primary administrator of, or at least recommending the administration of that program. But if in the event that the SAC were to go away or become inoperative for some reason, and parking politics in Northwest have been known to go south at times, that PBOT would then take over that administrative role. So the shared parking program would survive potentially political upheavals in the neighborhood, and that was a provision we added at the PSC.
 So let me get to the more controversial part, which I'm sure you're going to hear about extensively this afternoon, which is whether or not parking minimums are a good policy or an effective solution to the issues in Northwest.
 We voted 5-2 against recommending parking minimums, and there were really three threads to that discussion. First is a fear of creating any unintended consequences around housing affordability. That was, I think, paramount in everyone's mind given our current housing affordability crisis that building parking contributes to the cost of projects may 
 prevent projects from being built, or if there is parking in a building that is not utilized, then potentially the carrying costs for that infrastructure get passed on to the people who are paying rent in that building. The other two factors that came into play were obviously concern about
 Other citywide policies, the climate action plan, portions of our comprehensive plan that worry about overbuilding parking and the need to reduce the use and ownership of automobiles over time. The TSP, for example, calls for a single occupancy vehicle rate mode share well under 50% 20 years from now. And continuing to build parking is not something that will help us in that direction. Okay.
 The other interesting factor is there are, of course, folks on our commission who actually build things and are worried about having excessive regulation. And an interesting fact that I think is overlooked in this debate is that currently new construction in northwest Portland is producing parking at a rate of between 0.5 and 0.6 spaces per unit. So there was a 
 Several people in our commission felt like, well, if we're already producing parking at that rate, why would we need to add regulation that produces 0.3%?
 spaces per unit. The partial answer to that is that, well, there are still some buildings that aren't building any. So the effect of this would probably not impact most projects in Northwest, but it would take the option of building buildings without any parking off the table if there were more than 30 units. So I think there is a policy question here. Are you trying to address...
 the amount of parking built in any individual building, or you're trying to get to the market in aggregate, as Commissioner Saltzman referred to, you could have fluidity of meeting parking requirements between buildings rather than insisting that it all be on-site in a given building. And of course, the shared parking part of this proposal that is not controversial would facilitate that fluidity. So if you're...
 developer didn't build any parking, there's still the potential you could go rent a space at the building next door, which is not legal today, but would become legal under the shared parking component of this. And...
 My name has been mentioned in connection with the idea of not allowing new buildings to have parking. I would give credit where credit is due, which is that was a strategy described by Jeff Tumlin in the parking symposium that PBOT put on last year. So I'll give Jeff credit for that idea, and maybe he'll get the pitchforks as well. What I would say is that there are other policy tools that may get at the underlying problem even more efficiently. You know, the Planning and Sustainability Commission has also reviewed policies
 the centers and corridors toolkit that PBOT is developing. That hasn't come to you yet, but there are a number of policies in there that I think could be effective. I think the goal that I think everyone probably agrees on is that it is silly to have 8,000 permits competing for 4,000 spaces. Parking minimums are a very indirect way of addressing that because what it essentially says is, let's go create some more parking that will cost $150 or more a month,
 to rent in the hope that someone will choose to pay that $150 rather than get a $60 a year permit to go hunt on the street. So if you're cost conscious, the availability of that $150 parking space doesn't necessarily make you less likely to go ask for a permit to get the hunting license to go look for a space on the street. So the more direct policy that we'd get at that would be to cap the number of permits issued in the district, right?
 You know, the great fear in the neighborhood is we have, you know, several thousand more residents coming in the next few years. Is that going to be several thousand more people hunting for a parking space in that limited supply of 4,000? We could simply say, you know, we're not going to give out more than the 8,000 residential permits that already exist, and that would alleviate that fear. Now, that means you would wind up with a waiting list or some other mechanism to ration those, but 
 I think some of my colleagues might agree with me that that has fewer potential unintended consequences than requiring the creation of parking that maybe nobody will rent if they're not willing to pay $150 a month. So, you know, there are any number of policies in that toolkit that have been vetted
 through a stakeholder committee process and staff is, you know, in the process of preparing for your review that may be, you know, more efficient and more direct solutions to the real problem than mandating the creation of some very expensive parking. So I would leave you with that thought. If I may play off that for a minute. We haven't brought the parking toolkit to council yet. The toolkit we think will include giving neighborhoods the ability to limit the total number of permits
 to limit the number of permits that each individual person gets, because right now the way the permit system works, if you have a license plate, you can get a permit for that license plate, even if you have 10 cars. And also to use price as a tool to regulate parking. So, for example, you could charge more for the second car somebody owns than the first.
 We haven't brought that yet, partly because I want to do some, although we have stakeholder advisory committee, I want to do some additional public outreach on questions like if we have a limited number of permits, how are they allocated? Are they allocated evenly to everybody throughout the geographic area without regard to whether they're in the residential zone, the mixed use zone? Are they put up for auction so we just let the market determine? I think there's a number of issues that we're all going to want to hash out.
 But for right now, Northwest is in a position where they have a permit system, but they don't have a limit on the number of permits. And so what Chris suggested was sort of an ad hoc permit limit by saying that the new buildings without parking don't get permits. Actually, one thing I wanted to ask you, Chris, is that 
 I think it's a really intriguing idea. One thought I have about it is that given that the parking minimums only require a fraction of the units to have parking associated with them, then basically the parking minimums assume, in effect, that a bunch of people in those buildings would be getting permits and chasing spots. So if you wanted to create a permit limit that had the equivalent effect of parking minimums
 you would want to give a bunch of permits to the people in those buildings, just not to 100%. Does that make sense? That would be an in-between position, and I should be clear now that you're talking to Chris Smith, active transportation advocate, rather than the planning commissioner, because my commission has not considered the kind of questions we're verging into right now. But sure, I'm sure you could calibrate this in a variety of partial steps.
 Maybe political usefulness in doing that. Chris, let's bring equity into the conversation. I'll beat you to the punch. Okay. So next time Dan Saltzman proposes to put an affordable housing development in Northwest where there's a shortage of affordable units, we say to the folks who live there that they're not eligible for getting a parking permit because they came too late? I mean, if you're going to go down that route, shouldn't you ration them the way we ration Section 8 vouchers and have a lottery? Okay.
 So I think the key word there is ration. So there are only 4,000 on-street spaces in northwest Portland, so we are rationing them. Today we ration them on the basis of how long you're willing to circle your block or how far you're willing to park from your house. Are there more rational rationing mechanisms? Yes, I'm sure there are. So I mentioned a waiting list as well.
 as one, a lottery could be another. I think there's some policy choices there. I think we'd be reluctant to adopt a system that said that by virtue of the fact that you live there first, you have rights over someone that maybe is getting their first affordable apartment, for example, in that area. But let me go to the affordability piece because a lot of the materials we're getting are focusing on housing affordability. So that was the first point you raised.
 This is slightly out of date, but the last time I checked on it, in the last three years, we've added about 24,000 private rental units to the market. Eighty-seven percent are luxury, so they're at the very height of the market, and less than three percent qualify as affordable by any definition. So clearly we're in this unique time in the market where people are building the most expensive housing and they're filling it.
 So what's this? But this affordability thing is important because it's something that I think you and Jeff Bachrach agree on. Whenever you and Jeff Bachrach agree on something, it gets my attention. What is the best evidence we have that the mandate drives up the cost of market housing?
 So I think you're correct that the current rental rates are a function of scarcity rather than underlying costs. So the immediate impact would probably not be strongly felt. Over time, that's likely to change. And I think we worry about, or at least I worry about, two issues related to affordability. One is that I think there's experience industry-wide that the amount you can charge for a parking space itself
 doesn't always cover the cost of building that parking space. So you wind up getting a cross subsidy from the housing rents to cover the cost of building the parking. The other would be, again, there's this discontinuity between
 The 4,000 spaces in Northwest that are available for $60 a year, which are in huge demand, and the other supply of spaces in Northwest Portland are available for $150 a month or more, which I don't think we have any data that says that those are oversubscribed. If you create stuff up here, the folks competing down here may still prefer to circle the block and hunt rather than pay $1,800 a year, and if...
 we force construction, more of those in the developers see a business case to build, then if they remain empty, somebody's bearing the carrying costs of an unrented property, and presumably that's eventually going to find its way into the rents. So those are the two things I would be concerned about. Back to Steve's point, maybe the PSC is already involved in this, in the development of the toolkit you're looking at,
 potential changes to the permit system that include capping and pricing right and and some of the capping ideas are not just last in or first in congratulations last in sorry but also total number or per household all those
 Total number and some version of per household, which so we could say there's only going to be a total of 6,000 permits. And if you have a garage and if you have your own garage, then you aren't entitled to one at all. Or maybe you're entitled to one, but not to that kind of thing.
 Yeah, I also served on the Senators and Corridors Stakeholder Committee in that process. Commissioner Novick is correct. We could adjust for things about whether you have off-street parking available. We could escalate the price for the second and third cars so you pay more. So, you know, there are 20 or 25 items in that toolkit, and I would urge you to look at all 25 of those before going to parking minimums. I use minimums as a last resort. Yeah, okay. Get it. Thank you, Chris. Other questions? Yes.
 What was the timeline for this again? Well, I think that I want to bring it forward within the next few months. I think that we...
 are going to need to have some broader public discussions about some of the issues involved because I think that although stakeholder advisory committees have vetted these concepts, I think that they're going to attract a lot of public interest, and we're going to have a broader public discussion. So I'm going to actually  we're going to talk shortly about establishing a timetable for that and what that should look like, and I actually want to engage all of you in figuring out what sort of outreach we should do. From where we are in the comp plan process, it would be good to bring those in at about the same time. Okay, thanks.
 Thank you very much. So we're going to take public testimony, but I think we should actually call on NWDA first, and that is this is a one-neighborhood change to the code, so it seems to me the Neighborhood Association ought to get first dib. So if there's official testimony from NWDA, we'll call on you first and then everybody else. Maybe from the Northwest Parking Stakeholder Advisory Committee. Or from the Stakeholder Advisory Committee.
 May I make a suggestion? You may. We have the chair of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee here. Okay. I am the president of the NWDA. Okay. Be nice to her. Sure. And if I could ask that our former president, because he's been active in all of this. Yeah. We just want to hear from those of you who have been volunteering on this issue a lot, and then we'll hear from everyone. Thank you. I'm the one who has the little time. And are we two minutes or three minutes? Three. Three. Okay.
 Better get you queued up there. It's mine, so he can talk first. All right. Good afternoon. I'm Rick Michelson. I'm chair of the SAC and I'm pleased to be doing this for two years. And in case we decided that we need a sworn testimony today, I brought the parking bible with us so that- There it is. Yes. I've been working on parking issues for 40 years. In fact, when I was in architecture school, I developed a proposal for shared parking very much like a Zipcar.
 And I lobbied city council in 1980 to eliminate the parking, maximum any parking requirement in the commercial zones, and followed through with the assistance and co-work of Gene Harrison in the 90s to eliminate the parking requirement as it was. Parking is very complicated, very difficult to deal with. These two-minute sound bites are hard to focus on. So I'm going to focus on what the SAC asked for and some big picture stuff.
 First of all, the SAC, which was made up of transit advocates, people who were very opposed to parking garages and fought them bitterly, and people who were in favor of parking garages, unanimously endorsed this proposal to have both the shared parking and the parking minimums. The parking minimums were not established in our neighborhood at the time when they were established everywhere else. We had a lot of discussions about ways to improve the parking minimums, like eliminating the requirement for affordable housing,
 or giving credits for bus passes or doing a variety of things. But at this point, what we're asking for simply is parity with the rest of the city in terms of the parking minimum. We will work afterwards then to make them better as time goes on. You know, we're sort of still in parking wars. On one extreme, there are people who believe that we should need to provide a parking space, an easy, free parking space for every possible customer on the busiest day. On the other side, there are people who said, you know,
 Quote, I don't own a car and nobody else should, unquote. My role is to facilitate parking in Northwest, which I define as making it possible for people who need their cars to park, not easy necessarily, but possible. I view parking as a piece of infrastructure. Public parking on street, public parking in garages, private parking in developments all need to function together interchangeably. And we're moving towards that as we price parking on street closer to the off-street stuff.
 But as an infrastructure piece, we need to make sure that our infrastructure is sized appropriately. We need enough parking but not too much parking. If we have more demand than we have supply, we need to both look at encouraging the increase in supply where appropriate and reducing the demand. But some of the proposals that are going today are not like raising the rates $10 for a water bill. It's like deciding some people will have no parking or no water. We would never do that if it were.
 So we need a way to allow everybody who really needs a car, and there are a lot of them, the opportunity to park. I think allowing some buildings to dump their parking load on the public is unfair and inequitable. You have a letter in your files from Tom Giera, a developer, who speaks very much about that that I call your attention to. And with that, I'll answer any questions. Rick, is this your PowerPoint? It's Karen's. Are you going to address this?
 All right. So, Rick, Chris made this suggestion that 
 that we may just have, not just, we may have a sequencing question here as well as a policy call. Should we provide parity northwest to the other urban neighborhoods of the city where we do now have modest minimums? And that is, the sequencing point is try all this other stuff, or at least investigate all this other stuff, pricing and capping and other reforms to the,
 you know, the pretty good level of agreement we've built over the last few years about these issues in Northwest. Try that first, sort of a Hippocratic Oath philosophy.
 What do you say to that? Why do minimums now if we're about to prototype some of these other policies? Right. And I, too, served on that committee with Chris. I think the reason is we want to get in sequence. We want to get in sequence with the rest of the city. And the sequence with the rest of the city was to do these and then look at the tools based on having these in place. If we...
 use the toolkit, and then come back four years from now for parking minimums, we will have lost a lot of opportunity. I think it's timely. I think it is in sequence to get us coordinated with the rest of the city rather than many other tools. We need it all. Thank you. Rick, if I may put words in your mouth, but feel free to spit them out. I mean, what are they 
 I have seen a lot of problems with parking minimums. One of the reasons I thought that your proposal deserved a hearing is that, in a way, Northwest has sort of done what the planning people and the parking planning people want neighborhoods to do. You're a dense neighborhood. You have a permit system. You have meters, whereas there's other parts of the city where people are not paying for permits and there are no meters and there's not as much of a parking demand, but they have parking minimums.
 So it seems, I mean, it seems to me that you have a reasonable argument that, look, we're doing all the right things, but we still have a parking problem. It's unfair to not give us minimums when these other neighborhoods that aren't doing the same things have them. Let me answer that question a couple of ways. First of all, what's different in the other neighborhoods is if you walk two or three blocks from the commercial district, there's parking available. We're a 20-block by 20-block area. Okay.
 has the same capacity problems and the same need and no ability to walk three blocks for cheaper parking. Secondly, creating new parking is expensive, but creating new parking in standalone parking garages is probably the most expensive way because you have to pay for the land and amortize it. What I'm after here is creating a supply that potentially, in my utopian scheme, we could then 
 lease from the building owners and distribute more equitably throughout the neighborhood. But if we don't have those spaces available because we've allowed 40 buildings to be 10 buildings to be built without parking, it's a supply we could never get back. I also think we need to look very closely at those parking minimums because I think they need some tuning. And I think we can get the function to make them work better, but we need them
 If we were able to just give you the authority, to give the SEC the authority to limit the number of permits tomorrow, would that obviate your  would that mean that you wouldn't have to worry about asking for parking minimums? You would just initiate the limits tomorrow? I think that if we were to do that 
 The number of people you would hear coming down to City Hall to scream at the city because they just moved into Northwest into a new apartment building and can't get a parking space would be tremendous. I think we need to have more of a melding, sophisticated solution than just doing that. But it's clear that we need a cap on the number of spaces in Northwest as well. But how would you tweak the parking minimums? And is your primary concern that it's created a perverse incentive for smaller-scale buildings?
 uh yeah i think i think and i started to do some work on this but didn't finish it by adjusting the percentages of spaces that are required for a number of apartments differently you don't create these lumps and these bumps and you may end up with um a better parking ratio it needs some work it needs tweaking but i think there are better ways to do that than what we've got i mean one one thing is you could you could say that um
 There are 0.2 parking spaces required, or whatever it is, for all units except the first 25 are exempt. Or you get credits for giving bus passes to people instead of building parking, or a variety of tools. But they're all based on having a minimum to work against, and don't work unless there is that minimum. I take your point, Commissioner Fish, but...
 I think maybe I wouldn't call it a perverse incentive. It might be dumb luck, kind of like our requiring ground floor retail in the Pearl district that ended up creating the local restaurant scene, not knowing that we were going to do that. Having creating an incentive for smaller apartment buildings, as opposed to big monolithic ones might've been a beneficial result, even if we didn't see it coming. So I certainly didn't, but it looks like it might be working out that way. I guess the point I was just, the point I was flagging was the proposal for mandates was a,
 compromised position that we adopted as a placeholder, expecting that based on experience and further development, it would be refined. It was never meant to be the final product. It was a compromise. Right. And we want to join that refinement process from the inside rather than having to pick what happened after the refinement. You know, in our neighborhood, we're really talking about buildings that are 50 units or greater.
 So if, for instance, we exempted all units below 50 in Northwest, we'd be fine. But that's different, and we're trying to get it to sequence with the rest of the system. Great. Thank you, Rick, very much. Karen, you're on. I'm going to switch over here so I can actually move the 
 Okay, I've done a really quick  Put your name on the record, please. Oh, I'm sorry. Karen Carlson. I'm actually here with a few hats. As I said, I'm president of NWDA. I'm also on the parking sack, and I'm also kind of a number dweeb, so I'm here really to give you a bunch of numbers that you can use as you progress along. So let's see if I can do this. Okay.
 Okay. Back in 2013, I testified for parking minimums and when I did that, I brought in a little example so some of you might remember this little picture. I said here's a project that's just about to come online.
 It's got this many units, and I believe it's going to have this much of a parking impact on the street. And physically, this is what it looks like. It looks like it's taking up 18 of the 28 block faces that are around it. So parking takes up a lot of space that we don't really have on the street available. I was off by one, by the way. It's now up and running again.
 It's really a lot of ways the cumulative effect that these projects are having. The one I just talked about with 104 units is over on the right. There's another building that was built around the same time, 90 units. It has 63 parking passes. We have three more that are in construction right now that are probably going to open within the next couple of months that are 49, 126 and 58.
 I don't know how many passes they're each going to have, although I have to say the 126 is the one that has no parking. But it is going to impact, and there's just only so much space out there. And thank you, Commissioner. By passes, you mean...
 On-street parking? On-street parking passes. Yes, sorry. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for pointing this out. We have 4,100 on-street spaces for people to park with passes. We have some more that are just for visitors, like 21st and 23rd. Right now we have basically 4,100 residential permits. And on top of that, we have like 1,200 guest permits available
 4,300 employee permits and as I see each building come online even if we had minimum parking standards, even if we were down to .5 vehicles per household we would still be having
 more passes now on the street than we actually have parking spaces. So I see that parking minimums as a little bit of a tourniquet to stop the intense bleeding. We've heard a lot about
 that the parking causes rents to go up. What we're finding in Northwest is there really isn't a very good correlation of that. This lists a number of buildings. I just went in a few days ago to look for a studio apartment in Northwest Portland in a new building, and they ranged in rent from $1,560 to about $1,200. The $900, by the way, is footprint. That's that project that's, you know, $1,000.
 buildings with shared kitchens. Are these studios all comparable, I mean, in terms of square footage and things like that? They're pretty close to the same square footage. There will be a lot of differences that you're going to see. Some places might, you know, the cheaper might be the bad view and the more expensive might be a better view. Your point is whether it's a 300, 400, 500-square-foot studio, in these examples...
 Whether there's parking or not, the market is roughly the same, which is one of the things I  to go back to the data I cited earlier, I think we may be in a market where you can get the same amount with or without parking if you push the limit. And I do agree that the market is really 
 controlling a lot of this right now. When you've got more demand than you have supply, people are going to get as much as they possibly can out of it. Anyway, I just wanted to see some  So I need you to wrap up, Commissioner Fish. I dove into your time, so I'll give you some more. Okay. Very quickly, we've heard about capping and pricing. Okay.
 to increase availability. I do want to point out that even though people think Northwest is really wealthy, the 2013 median income of the core part of our neighborhood is $30,000 to $35,000. And they have 0.7 cars per household.
 What we're asking, of course, is for you to adopt minimum parking standards along with, of course, adopting the shared parking, which everybody loves. And we really need every tool out there to get our parking into control. There's too much demand, and we can't seem to get people to give up their cars very easily. Thank you. Some people, anyway. Thank you. Go ahead, Tava.
 Hi there. Rick and Karen did a great job, so there might be a little bit of overlap with my testimony, but I'll try to go quickly. Good afternoon. My name is Gustavo Cruz, and I'm speaking today on behalf of the Northwest District Association, the Northwest Parking Stakeholder Advisory Committee, and as a lifetime resident of Northwest Portland.
 First, I'd like to thank the council and city staff for devoting your time and energy to the parking situation in northwest Portland. As you know, parking has been a challenge in our neighborhood for many years, and the accelerating pace of residential development has made our problem even more acute. Second, I'm here today to advocate for the adoption of parking minimums in northwest Portland. As you weigh the alternatives, I would like to encourage you to consider the following key points. First,
 First, there appears to be minimal correlation, if any, between the ratio of parking spaces provided to new units and monthly rent. Affordable housing advocates are adamant that requiring parking increases the cost of housing. However, actual pricing reflects a number of factors, and the practical reality is, as Commissioner Fish just mentioned, that rents are about the same in northwest Portland with or without parking.
 So the net economic benefit of pushing the parking burden to the streets primarily accrues to developers and not to those who are seeking affordable housing. You'll also note that Commissioner Smith, just a few moments ago, said that scarcity is what's driving rents, not cost. To the sequencing question that Mayor Hales just asked,
 I would note that the recently established Northwest Parking Plan has generated modest gains in on-street availability, but they will soon be wiped out if hundreds of additional units are built with off-street parking. The parking plan was a hard-fought win for both neighbors and business owners in Northwest Portland, and it would be a shame to lose those modest results by having irresponsible developers who have no long-term interest in the neighborhood.
 Next, cars are a fact of life, and to some extent, they must be accommodated. Demand management strategies and market-based approaches are excellent tools, but it will take years of effort and increased investment in public transportation to modify behavior.
 Despite Portland's progressive transit culture, some percentage of new residents, most likely around 70%, will own and operate vehicles. If we don't plan ahead and provide some off-street parking resources for those individuals, our dysfunctional parking situation will further deteriorate.
 Next, all tools need to be applied, including parking minimums. There's no magic bullet for this problem, and we need all of the available tools to succeed. Demand management, shared parking, caps on permits to be issued, and parking minimums for new residential construction. Finally, fairness.
 Ironically, parking minimums were adopted in virtually every neighborhood in Portland except for Northwest Portland, which arguably needs additional parking resources more than any other neighborhood. It is simply not fair to existing residents and businesses to allow significant new development to occur with little or no additional parking.
 Please note that the NWDA, the NWDA's Planning Committee, the Northwest Portland's Parking Stakeholder Advisory Committee, the Knob Hill Business Association, and city staff are all in favor of parking minimums for our neighborhood. This is the rare neighborhood issue on which there is near unanimous agreement. Thank you for your time and consideration.
 So let me push back on you a little bit about one of the assumptions here, and that is I'm not sure that we got it right in our parking minimums that we've applied elsewhere. So I'm glad people are ready to revisit the particulars of that because it was a little bit of a shot of let's try this. As Commissioner Fish said, it was never intended to be wholly writ for all time. It was an attempt to 
 in a rapidly changing housing market, which has continued to rapidly change. But we did hear the argument that sort of, you know, one of these days we'll have transit nirvana here on Division or Belmont, but we don't yet. Well, if there's one place in the city where you could say we are kind of there, it's this neighborhood where we built a $200 million streetcar network. So...
 What part of transit don't you have yet is the playful way to ask the question. I mean, we do have excellent transit service. It is walkable to downtown. It is considered part of the central city. And you have the streetcar. Frankly, I don't think it's going to get much better than that in terms of transit in our lifetime, given that there's a lot of the city that doesn't have streetcar yet. So...
 What's nirvana look like, transit nirvana look like, if you're not living in it already? I think that's the point exactly. We've got the best transit system in the area, and we still have a 0.7 car ownership percentage throughout the densest part of the neighborhood. In the whole neighborhood, it's 1.04. Maybe this is the best we're going to get, is that three-quarters of people own cars instead of 100% of them.
 I would just note that as a practical matter, what people do, of course, is they do use transit, but they also have a car. So they ride the streetcar or they ride the bus to work. They leave a car parked on the street or a car parked somewhere else, but they don't want to give up their car to run errands on the weekend or go to the coast or do whatever it is they have to do to pick up their kids after school or do these other things. People still feel somewhat tethered to their vehicles, even though they might have transit-available vehicles.
 to some degree. Let me ask you something, Gustavo. If cost wasn't the driver, and I'm on the fence on that issue. I think you could make a case either way, but I'm not sure it's as conclusive as some people have suggested. In five, ten years from now, if all the vehicles on the road were electric, would we be having this debate? Sure. We still need a place to store them.
 oh i mean we wouldn't be necessarily talking about the carbon impact i mean under the under the climate action plan correct yes if all these cars were electric we would be talking simply about a parking problem a lack of spaces rather than any environmental actually if we're still using colds a big part of our electricity or even natural gas that still has a carbon impact there could be panels on the roof but at least i mean we talked about parking in apartment buildings because
 we have to make room for bikes. I mean, it is a slightly different art. I've never heard someone say there's too much bike parking in a vehicle.
 No, and there'll be, you know, I think the trend, long term, I think all of us are in agreement that the trend will be away from vehicles in the long term. But what we're talking about is over the next, you know, five to ten years, as we have hundreds and maybe thousands of new people moving to the neighborhood, how do we accommodate that? And right now, you know, the danger that I see and what really concerns me is that,
 We spent years and years and years trying to put together the Northwest parking plan. We've got some modest gains from it. And I think they're in danger of evaporating very, very soon. We have a 120-unit building going in on 19th and Overton with zero parking. I mean, that is outrageous to me.
 think about the impact on neighbors around that building who are unlucky enough not to have off-street parking. I mean, it's a nightmare. But if we build the parking spaces now, they'll be around for more than just the next five or ten years. I mean, what I wonder about is self-driving vehicles. I mean, it seems like the way we're going, ten years from now, everybody might have a park ownership and a self-driving vehicle that basically never has to park.
 It drops you off, and then it goes and takes somebody else somewhere and never parks at all. So there's no danger of overbuilding parking in light of an era where we might not need it. I think when we're talking about a population increase in the neighborhood of 4,000 to 6,000 people, and we're talking about under these ratios of creating maybe 1,000 parking spaces, there's no doubt that the population increase is going to outstrip the parking increase by a good factor, and it's just going to increase the parking supply this much, and the demand, even if the demand gets 
 lower, it's still going to exceed that number of spaces. Transit and self-driving cars assume that you're going to be wanting to go from the point that somebody is at to another given point. It's a nightmare to get from deep northwest to southwest after hours because the buses go downtown. So you
 there's always going to be a need for cars i believe you know mayor you know that i've been working in promoting transportation for years working in light rail
 street car. I've always assumed through all those years that as we increased the access to transit, people would get out of their cars. And they've been getting out of their cars. They just haven't been getting rid of their cars. And I don't know what the answer is. I don't know how to do that yet. But if we could do that, there's a lot of cars stored in northwest Portland on the street. Are getting used very much.
 Yeah, I mean. If we had minimums that we, with the shared parking rules, we allowed them to be used more flexibly and creatively, couldn't we revisit this in 10 to 15 years, and if there was surplus, come up with a different use for that space? One thing I will say as someone who's looked at some apartment buildings recently, there's a great shortage of storage units in apartment buildings.
 And a lot of people who are downsizing would like to have a place to store some stuff on site because it's expensive off site. Couldn't there be some scenario where we would build in an adaptation or a change in use in the future if market conditions change? Absolutely. But on the other hand, if we don't build the spaces now, we can never build them. So they won't be there to convert. So we need to get ahead of this and not behind it.
 You know, several of the places in Northwest that actually have built parking, they're not all underground. Some of them are like half of the first floor of a building, very easily converted. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, let's turn to the sign-up sheet, please.
 We have 27 who've signed up to testify. Would the first three come up, please? Margo Black, Charlie So, and, excuse me, Tori Jordan. They'll be followed by Ted Timmons, Rachel Shadown, and Evan Heitman. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you.
 Afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Margo Black, and I am here as a renter, a mother with three kids. I have two cars. My family has two cars anyway. And I am coming to speak out against the minimum parking requirements because we are in the midst of an unprecedented housing crisis, and I think that anything that increases the cost of housing and restricts the supply is something that should be avoided at all costs.
 I've heard some compelling arguments that perhaps the increase in the development cost is not saving the renter any money. And that may be the case right now, but it does create a floor on what those rents can be. I mean, it certainly does increase the building cost, which we can't disappear any other way besides passing that on to the renters at some point.
 I really see this parking quagmire as being part of our growing pains of going from small town to a big city. And really one piece of those growing pains is that we have to cut our addiction to cars. I mean, we hear over and over and over about cars.
 folks, the population growth coming into the city, and we're just not going to be able to accommodate all those cars. And just like when people move to New York City and San Francisco, they don't imagine having a car there. I think that that is what we need to envision in Portland. I personally think that the parking and traffic situation is awful. We can't get anywhere in town anymore in under 40 minutes unless it's, what, 2 in the morning. So I got a bike. Yeah.
 My daughter just moved to a building downtown by PSU that doesn't have any parking. She got her driver's license the day after she turned 16. I couldn't stop her from getting a car. She's selling her car. So we are making choices that are...
 informed by the fact that parking is expensive and hard to find and traffic is awful. But basically, if we build it, they'll come. I'm not going to move to a building right now that doesn't have parking, but that doesn't mean that there aren't buildings that have parking. So I think that for buildings that don't have parking, people are going to move into that knowledgeable about that.
 about those buildings not having parking it's not like there aren't any choices for them especially if they're willing to pay those premium rents for those studios in northwest
 So I don't think that people are being forced to have cars or being forced to move into buildings with no parking and get on street parking. I think that we need to, I think building the parking now and repurposing it later is exactly the way to slow our cutting our addiction from cars. And I just want to say, as a renter and a parent with cars, I absolutely am opposed to the minimum parking requirements.
 Marco, can I ask you something? What did you think about the idea of instead of parking minimums, limiting the number of permits that those new buildings get? I mean, on the one hand, obviously, it's discriminating against new people as opposed to old. But on the other hand, ultimately, I think we are going to have to limit the number of permits, and there's not going to be any perfect way.
 Would you think it would be acceptable or unacceptably discriminatory to say for new buildings above a certain size, we won't give every  we will distribute parking permits for that permit area to half the people rather than all of them or something like that? I think that's fine. I mean, anything we're doing to limit the amount  to 
 prioritize making room for people over cars is a good thing, and if limiting parking permits is a way to do that, that's fine. I do think that, and Commissioner Fish brought up the equity lens, I think there are going to be folks who move in, you know, possibly with disabilities or elderly or they, you know, suffer an injury or for whatever reason, you know, they need to have access to a car. And I hope that any...
 Limiting of permits like that will have a mechanism for folks to obtain those permits when they are truly deemed necessary. But again, I think that right now we have a lot of choices, and one usually does not need to move where there is no parking right now. Margo, I have an idea. I just ran it by Joe, and he didn't tell me to leave the building. I'm going to get your reactions.
 what if we just said the parking minimums do not apply to affordable housing and if you're building a unit that that serves someone at 0 to 60 of medium family income which is where the greatest need is we said that um and and you have you enter into a regulatory agreement to keep you know that doesn't run afoul of rent control which we're preempted from doing right now tell me overturn that ban i think within the current we have to do what the hand were dealt today what if we just said
 on affordable units, that parking minimum doesn't apply.
 So let me just make sure I understand what you're saying. So right now the minimum parking requirements don't kick in until after 30 units, right? So are you saying that, let's say, there are 30 market rate units and 10 affordable units, there would still be no  those extra 10 wouldn't trigger the required parking spaces? A, I don't have a fish plan on this. B, there's a lot of people who would disagree with that approach for a lot of good policy reasons. But since you led with housing affordability, I'm just asking you,
 One way we could clearly meet your concern is come up with a system that said for affordable units there is no parking minimum. And I don't know how you  we'd have to figure out how to structure it. I'm not pitching my amendment on this, but I'm trying to figure out whether there is a way to get at what you led with, which is anything that adds to the cost.
 And the truth is lots of things add to the cost of housing, even for affordable housing. Especially for affordable housing, right? There's a lot of social costs built in. And for good reason. We want a low-income family to be able to send their kids to a school in Southwest and Outer East and Northeast and not just have one choice. So we sometimes build on higher-cost dirt.
 But I'm trying to get philosophically what you would think about having a minimum but not applying it to affordable housing. I mean, certainly in principle, I don't oppose that at all. I think that's a great idea. I worry, though, about the cost of market rate housing because that is going to impact everybody who makes 61% and above housing.
 median family income, and I think that anything that is adding to the cost of market rate housing is a concern. It's an imperfect solution. It's imperfect, sure. Thank you. Welcome.
 hi uh good afternoon my name is charlie so uh before i begin my testimony i just want to point out that uh there is uh before we talked about there is 4 100 uh on street permit spaces in northwest actually the northwest parking study actually cites there are 6 184 parking space on street parking spaces so i just want to
 correct that number out there for anyone who's paying attention. So I'm here today to ask City Council to reject new parking minimum requirements for Northwest Portland. Parking minimum requirements is a policy that subsidizes car storage at the expense of housing affordability by increasing housing costs and restricting the supply of new housing units.
 Parking makes housing more expensive by increasing construction costs. And according to a study in 2012 by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, a parking space could cost between $20,000 to $55,000 to build, and that doesn't even include the land cost. The same study also shows that development with required on-site parking can increase monthly rent per unit between 6% to 60%.
 compared to the same development without required parking, depending on the type of parking facility that's provided on site. And parking requirements restrict new housing supply in Portland. City data actually shows that if parking requirements had existed in northwest Portland in 2008,
 They will have illegalized 23% or 305 new housing units that have been built in northwest Portland. Northwest Portland already has a lot of other parking management tools, such as residential parking permits, on-street parking meters, and now we have...
 the option of shared parking. So I think without studying and evaluating just how effective these tools are in terms of managing parking resources,
 City Council should not rush to impose new parking requirements. The most effective way to manage parking demand is charging the right market price to reflect the true cost of parking and not imposing arbitrary requirements that force tenants to pay for parking through more expensive rent, regardless if they own a car.
 Portland already has too many cars. I urge City Council to not create more space for cars, but more space for people. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hello. Mayor Hales, Commissioners, my name is Tony Jordan. I'm speaking on behalf of Portlanders for Parking Reform. I encourage you to pass the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendation to allow more shared parking, but to refrain from extending the minimum parking requirements into Northwest Plan Area. Minimum parking requirements have been bad for the housing situation in Portland, but
 How bad? No one really knows because we have not comprehensively studied the effect that they've had on the housing market. BPS data show that since 2013, we've seen an abnormally high rate of buildings built with exactly 30 apartments. Because of the 30-unit threshold for parking, the 31st unit brings the requirement for six parking stalls with it, which can cost, depending on where it's built, up to $300,000 in construction and even more in lost opportunity for that space of the apartment.
 of the parking spaces. And I think this is critical when we're talking about the effect on cost, because it's really the lost supply that is currently in our current market, where prices are going to eat up the savings from the parking in a no parking building. It's the additional units in that building which are going to help more than the lack of parking construction currently.
 This is a policy that should be reformed or repealed and not expanded, especially during a housing crisis. Unlike neighborhoods, in 2013, Northwest Portland has a toolbox full of parking management strategies at its disposal,
 expanded permit zones, new meters, and after the recommended shared parking that we're asking for. And pretty soon we should have better permit programs available as well. So I think there's much less risk right now in waiting to see how these more flexible and equitable policies play out and then adjust them to work better rather than applying a policy that might not really help very much and certainly will exacerbate the housing crisis.
 Um, so I think that's, that's really, um, I, there's some evidence that when you, when you talk about how we're going to get people out of their cars, um,
 When you look at transit-oriented developments that have access to cheap parking, people don't give up their cars. There was a study recently in New Jersey that showed that it was increasing the cost of parking or restricting the access to parking that led people to get rid of those cars they don't use very much. Portland has a very wide ecosystem of car-sharing opportunities, peer-to-peer and corporate. I went car-free seven years ago. I have a family with two small children.
 What made me do that was that I had the ability to move and use a zip car and use get-arounds and other things to go on weekend trips and use cars when I need them. Adding these parking requirements, I think, is a step in the wrong direction for our city, for our plans, and where we want to go. So I encourage you to not approve the amendment from random parking requirements. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 Next three, Ted Timmons, Rachel Shadown, Evan Heitman, and they'll be followed by Soren Impey, Chris Rall, and Alan Kessler. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. I'll go ahead and start. I'm Ted Timmons. I live in Northwest. I was born here. I've lived a few other places, and I keep coming back. I live in the Northwest District. I...
 I love that I can just walk around. By the way, you have this in your notes. I'm a terrible speaker. I love that I can walk to coffee and groceries and more coffee. There's space in the Northwest where we don't have to destroy buildings, to destroy old houses, to put in more apartments. And by the way, not just apartments, but also condos and purchased housing. We don't have that in other places in the city. Northwest is different in that way.
 We can put in these large units and absorb more people than we can in some of the other areas of town. The complex at 19th and Overton that has over 100 units, those are 300 square foot units. So that's why there's so many units in there. These are micro houses. That's not someone who says, I want to live in a tiny amount of space and have a large car.
 We have a lot of traffic in Northwest already. I hear a lot of my neighbors complaining about it. There aren't many streets. If you want to get from Southwest or the West over, you have Cornell and you have the freeway. Cornell backs up miles every night. Do we really need, if we're adding 4,000 units, do we really need to add 3,000 more cars? Either they're not being used or we're putting them on the roads that are already full. Yeah.
 I'm concerned that it's really kind of an incumbent attitude of, hey, there's space in front of my house or in front of my building, and I feel like I own that space. And that's a public resource. It doesn't... It's not something that you own. It's not on your title. There's a reason for that.
 And for that reason, among many other reasons, it's really inappropriate to say, well, I was here first, so you don't get a permit. That, I think, is a really terrible way to go. Given that a permit's $5 a month, we might be underpricing that resource a little bit. So that's where I've got. I'm concerned about that. I see no reason to enforce that. But isn't...
 any way of rationing permits unfair to somebody? I mean, if you raise the price, then that means that people without much money aren't going to be able to afford it, as opposed to rationing it based on who came there first. What we've seen is it's kind of a myth of, you know, well, if we, for instance, in the central city, if we increase the price of parking, then, you know, our lowest income people that come in can't afford to park here. There's a pretty strong correlation between car ownership and wealth.
 So that's kind of meant to say, well, we need to make sure they're still affordable. Cars aren't affordable to begin with. Thank you. You're welcome. Thanks.
 Hello, my name is Rachel Chodone and I run Akashic Labs. It's a small data science and user experience research consultancy. And I'm here to encourage you to reject parking minimum requirements for Northwest. What this proposal comes down to for me is do we want a city that's built for people or do we want a city that's built for cars?
 I grew up in Oklahoma, spent the majority of my life in Oklahoma City, which is a city built for cars. It's larger inland area than Los Angeles and about eight times less dense. Most of my memories of Oklahoma are of endless driving and miles and miles of parking lots. It's not a good look for a city. In 2012, I worked with Intel on a project studying how people use cars. And one of the biggest takeaways...
 was that cars are not in use 80 to 90 percent of the time. We have limited space here in Portland. That is just a reality of the city. And these parking requirements required using these valuable space resources that could be used to house people to accommodate privately held resources that aren't even in use most of the time. Cars are a public health nightmare.
 not just from an accident, injury, and death perspective, but also from a perspective of pollution and carbon footprint. We should not be putting in place regulations that encourage or make easier the ownership of cars. Car ownership disincentivizes investment in public infrastructure, in bike lanes, in public transit. All of these things that...
 we are having to build a city together. And because of the very low unit requirement, the 30, that takes limited space and encourages small developments. And this idea that small developments are better is sort of, it's lovely, but housing is expensive, and we need to make the most efficient use of the space that we have unless we want to become like San Francisco, which is something that I also don't want for Portland.
 So, in effect, Portland is growing. We've got limited time and limited space, and we're going to keep coming up against these choices. Do we want a city for people or a city for cars? And I want to live in a city for people. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Evan Heitman. I'm here to testify on the parking minimums. I hope that you'll reject the proposal. I've already submitted written testimony, so I'll keep this one brief. Okay.
 Commissioner Novick and others have emphasized that, sort of framed this as a short-term issue, that we have a problem in Northwest with parking and we need to solve it. But this proposed solution of parking minimums is not a temporary solution. This is a permanent solution. This is a change to the regulation that would have effects for several decades. And several decades from now, I don't know about you, but I want to live in a Portland that has fewer cars, not more.
 think that if you like me want to see fewer cars and not more cars in Portland then you'll support smarter parking management strategies and reject parking minimums thank you thank you all Soren Impey, Chris Rall, Alan Kessler they'll be followed by Doug Klotz, Philip Selinger and Jonathan Avery thank you good afternoon
 Alan Kessler, I'm here on behalf of Bike Walk Vote. I want to let everyone know that Bike Walk Vote is watching this vote very carefully. It is absolutely against anything that would increase reliance and ease of use of automobiles in the city core. We are particularly concerned, maybe this point hasn't been mentioned yet, that more cars...
 degrade transit if you have more cars on the street the street car moves slower gets easier to walk rather than ride it cars get boxed up into the box they block the max they make the buses slower the more cars that you try to fit into the geometry of a district the slower transit gets and it's a vicious circle because when transit gets slower people think oh i need to use a car to get around because i can't rely on transit anymore
 There is no doubt in my mind, being a person who comes downtown every day, that there are already too many cars in the area. Every day there's a huge backup. I have to weave in the gutter with my bicycle to get to the bridges because people are backed up, sitting, idling, sitting off smog to be in this space with their cars.
 From comments that I've seen from some of your offices, some of you know that this is bad policy, that parking minimums are a last solution and a big stack of good solutions.
 You also know that we're working on good solutions. You have already passed a great toolkit that Northwest has to try to improve the situation. And it would be a terrible irony if the council today approved parking minimums, the tools that are already in place worked, and then people credit the parking minimums with having improved the situation. Then we would be stuck in these dark ages forever.
 for a lot longer. I saw a couple of your offices say something like, well, we can pass this now, but roll it back across the city later. And I think that's the wrong move. That's not how, you will shift the momentum if you give in to this request for bad policy to placate some neighbors. I,
 One other point I want to touch on that's not really in the bike walk vote purview is this affordable housing issue. I think that there's a lot of focus placed on MFI, less than 60%, but there are really good reasons to want...
 market rate housing to be affordable for the middle class. And when you think about affordable housing, there are lots of different definitions, but I think you should absolutely be considering the people who will live in those 350 square foot apartments in the 120 unit building.
 I think those people should be given consideration, too, because we don't want just those people who are eligible and then the very wealthy to live in it. We want a spectrum of people. Finally, that building, that 120-unit building, is exactly what this proposal will destroy. The geometry of the situation is you need that space for small houses to make a project that big work. And if you require every single building to have...
 parking spots once they get over a max those buildings just won't work and there's a great article in bike portland that actually talked to the developer and explained exactly how that will make it so that we won't have these big buildings full of small units that might actually become affordable to the middle class
 Chris Rall, I live at 2332 Southeast 54th Avenue. You may wonder why does someone from Southeast care about what's going on in Northwest? Well, a couple of things. One is that our whole city is in a housing crisis. I think this proposal for minimum off-street parking requirements could have an impact on housing, particularly market rate. So we're very concerned about that. I have friends and colleagues who are moving out of town, moving to places like Troutdale, you know, who are moving to places like the New York City, the New York City, the New York City.
 colleague whose wife doesn't drive and they're out there now because they couldn't afford to live in Portland anymore. Where are my kids going to live when they're old enough to go out and get their apartment if we don't have enough housing supply in 10 years from now when they're flying away from my coop. Number two is I agree
 That the challenge to park in Northwest is, you know, it's a challenge there. My daughter goes to, is part of the Pacific Youth Choir. We've got to get to Northwest sometimes, and it can be a disaster zone. But the thing about these off-street parking minimums, it's a little bit like, you know, having a cut on your hand and you apply a tourniquet. I actually like that term.
 That tourniquet analogy. Rather than actually addressing the situation, you know, do some compression and elevation, solve the problem with the cut on your hand, or, you know, putting the tourniquet on the arm, you know, the problem is on the street. So address it with on-street policies that address the street and how you manage parking on the street. As long as parking on the street is cheaper than parking off-street, people are going to park on the street.
 And, you know, with the existing imbalance, if you think about adding these off-street spots and trying to kind of regulate that into new development, it's not going to  it's going to barely make a dent in the huge imbalance you already have in terms of the permit  that imbalance of how many permits have been sold and how many parking spaces there are. So I just fail to see how it's going to actually solve the problem. So what I'd like to see is not adding parking minimums in Northwest and then 
 I really agree with this idea of parity. I think we need to revisit the rest of the city and look at pulling back minimums from the rest of the city. And number three, just keep moving forward. We've got a lot of tools that the city is developing in terms of managing on-street parking. I think we're on the right track. We just need to continue to actually apply those market-based principles. We need to think about equity and figure out how to have ways for low-income folks to have a low-income environment.
 program for permits or whatever it is, other ways to try to make sure we're addressing those issues. And we can do this. So thank you. Hi. Soren Impey, and I have rented in Portland for almost 17 years. So I am very much opposed to mandating parking minimums. As you've heard, Portland is suffering from...
 You know, a rental crisis with vacancy rates that have been among the lowest in the nation for a very extended period. And thousands of Portland residents have been displaced due to rent increases and redevelopment of units. Right.
 And low-income people are affected. But in my neighborhood, I'm seeing my middle-income neighbors displaced or moving because of this housing crisis. So I wanted to just make that point because this policy will affect, in the short term, middle-income people more.
 but they are also being displaced and affected by this housing crisis. And I wanted to focus, too, on the types of units or buildings that are being built. And it's my understanding that most luxury housing tends to exceed parking minimums.
 So this policy is really targeting low and middle income buildings. So it represents, in essence, an indirect tax on the people who are most affected by the housing crisis.
 And in terms of equity, in terms of rationing, as has been discussed, I do want to also reiterate that if you look at census data in Portland, it is low-income people that tend to walk or use transit the most as their transportation mode. So I really want to strongly urge you to reject what I view as an unfair and unequal indirect tax on lower- and middle-income people.
 So, you know, and apart from housing equity, there's this issue of Portland's climate action plan and Portland's active transportation plans. This would be a big step backwards by sort of reinforcing the idea that we need to mandate parking. We are essentially making a statement here.
 that Portland will not or is unwilling to meet its goals of less than 50% car mode share, automobile mode share, 25% bike mode share. And I just want to finish because there's discussion about the people who own cars and are not getting rid of them. I happen to be one of them. I have an electric vehicle.
 I think I have not driven it as a single occupant for years. Okay? And why do I have this car? Because parking is so inexpensive and so underpriced in this city. If I had to pay $10 or $20 a month for parking, I'd get rid of the car instantly. So I urge you to not support parking minimums. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Next three, please. Doug Klotz, Philip Selinger, Jonathan Avery. They'll be followed by Corey Poole, Reza Farhuli, and Jozelle Johnson. Thank you.
 hi my name is doug klotz i live in southeast and i've hidden here to give you examples of how the parking minimums have played out in southeast um and i was one of those urging you not to put the minimums in place back in 2013. but since they're in place um what we've seen is up to 40 percent loss in units in buildings uh just giving two examples
 right across the street from each other at 30th 30th and Hawthorne 30 30 13 Southeast Hawthorne there's a 100 by 100 foot lot and they built a 50 unit building there before the minimums were required um and currently there's a building under construction right across the street uh at 15 15 Southeast 31st it's right on Hawthorne 100 by 100 foot lot it's going to have 30 units
 So the comparison right there is we were getting 50 before the requirement, and now we're getting 30. That's not exactly all that. That's kind of the general trend. You get a lot of 30-unit buildings. You've seen testimony. You probably had some charts mailed to you also that shows the 14 buildings that are built right at 30 in the last couple of years. Okay.
 And what do you get with instead of 50 units, you get 30 units and well, we can't go any we can't put in more units, but we can make those we have bigger so that we get.
 more expensive units, but we don't get more units. We have extra space we can put in a restaurant, so we have more restaurant space, but we don't have 20 units of housing, which would arguably be more useful, you know, in the inner southeast and certainly in northwest to have the housing rather than more commercial space, which we sometimes seem to have too much of already. And especially...
 These are in Southeast. These are spots right where they're on transit, where we want to put people. And in Northwest, we have the most transit-rich environment in the city. This is where it makes the most sense to have the most people living. We don't want to be artificially separated
 reducing the number of people who could live there um alan mentioned the 120 unit buildings uh and that's that's as you mentioned that's the sort of thing that you if you are no limits on how many units you can build but then you can build smaller ones if you want if there's a market for them and you want to build those uh with the 30 unit minimum
 With the parking requirements, you're not going to get that. So I would say that we don't want to have the parking minimums added at this point, work on the management of the on-street and off-street.
 Price it so that people will make the choice not to have a car. We'll look at ways to accommodate low-income, those with disabilities, and other ways to make the equity picture part of it work. But we need to have the market sending signals to folks that, well, maybe I don't need to have a car here. Thank you, Deb. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, members of council. My name is Phil Selinger. I'm a member of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee and a resident of Northwest Thurmond Street. I believe in a balanced set of transportation management strategies for the increasingly dense and active Northwest neighborhood. The modest citywide parking minimums framework should be one of those strategies. But I also support more aggressive promotion of active transportation modes and demand management programs,
 I would have preferred to fully exhaust the TDM strategies before implementing parking minimums, but new development is quickly upon us and integrated parking cannot be provided retroactively. Providing some baseline of off-street parking would seem prudent. The citywide parking minimums baseline is more modest than many in the NWDA and fellow SAC members would have liked, but appropriate, I believe, in a neighborhood with decent transportation options.
 I do acknowledge that some of the exceptions in the framework are flawed and that the provision of affordable housing should be one of those exceptions. It is encouraging that the bike town program will have a strong presence in Northwest. A proposed crosstown bus route using the Fremont Bridge should also be popular.
 Pedestrian and bike infrastructure improvements at 18th, 19th, and West Burnside, as well as I-405 over crossings at Northwest Cooch and Flanders, and new street connections related to the Conway Master Plan will all help. I concede that the lack of off-street parking is affecting the quality of life for anyone with a car and creating more traffic as folks hunt for that elusive parking space. I hope someday we can reduce car ownership,
 with car sharing and other services and programs. I think the conservative citywide minimums framework would continue to nudge my neighbors in that direction. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jonathan Avery. I'm the president of Legacy Good Samaritan Medical Center. And I may be the outlier in the room because I'm here just to talk about shared parking. Thank you.
 Good Samaritan is strongly in support of the proposed code change, which would make it possible for Good Sam to share our parking assets with residents, visitors, and businesses in northwest Portland. For a little bit of background, Good Sam has about 2,000 employees and another 600 physicians and their staff work on our campus right now in our medical office buildings. We care for about 60,000 patients annually. To provide parking for all of these folks, we operate around 2,000 stalls in our accessory lots today.
 We have a complex parking situation in that during peak weekday hours, we have shortages of parking today on occasions. That's become a bigger and bigger problem over time as both Northwest Portland and Legacy have grown. It's our number one goal to ensure that our patients and visitors have access to parking, and we've made a number of changes to achieve this goal, including greatly increasing our employees' incentives to use public transportation.
 Conversely, on non-peak hours, mostly evenings and weekends for us, we have excess parking capacity with hundreds of stalls open in multiple lots. Our goal is to make our underutilized parking assets available to those who need it in Portland.
 We see it as a big win, both for Northwest Portland and for Legacy. First of all, it would reduce all of the traffic congestion we see right now that's caused by the endless searching around our neighborhoods for scarce spaces. It would provide more spaces to residents, shoppers, and businesses. And finally, for Legacy, it would help us to defray our cost of running
 our parking systems, which are very expensive to operate annually. Unfortunately, there's no ability for us to do this under the current code because short-term pay-to-park options are not allowed for accessory lots. So we're strong supporters of the proposed code amendments and the administrative rules that will allow us to operate our accessory lots as commercial parking once our specific plans are approved by the SAC.
 This will make available hundreds of parking stalls after hours and weekends to shoppers and other visitors in Northwest Portland. Thanks. Thank you. Thanks very much. That's a big resource. Thank you. Next three, please. Corey Poole, Reza on Northwest 12th, and Jozelle Johnson. And they will be followed by Stephen Judkins, Ron Walters, Sarah. Diana. Diana. Diana. Welcome. Welcome.
 Hi, I'm Corey Poole. I live in southeast Portland, and I fondly remember looking for parking in Northwest, what, 20-some years ago, and having been very frustrated at that time finding parking in Northwest. So I appreciate we've had this problem for a while. I am speaking out against the parking minimums primarily from a safety standpoint. You know, I think of
 The work that this council and we've done with Vision Zero, I think of my friend Alistair, who about a year ago today lost his leg because of a careless driver accident.
 And we need to face that every additional car coming into a city where the streets are already at capacity, where there's already outrageous congestion, becomes an increasing risk to pedestrians, to bicyclists, to skateboarders, to kids on scooters, to adults on scooters.
 You know, I just can't see how in this time that we could be encouraging, even mandating, that people bring more cars. Please bring more cars to Portland is what we're seeing with this. I also think back a lot to the PBOT transportation hierarchy, you know, and that.
 On that hierarchy, for those who don't know, pedestrians, I believe, are at the top, followed by, I don't know, bicycles, transit, taxi cabs. Way at the bottom is single occupancy vehicles. So it kind of bewilders me that the single occupancy vehicle keeps coming to the top.
 on all these discussions as the most important thing that needs to be addressed immediately and needs to be accommodated. You know, parking is not a human right. You know, there's nowhere it says you are obligated to store your vehicle in the public right away. I don't know where that exists.
 So I guess I would just say that I would hope that maybe after we've addressed all the safety for pedestrians, maybe after the last sidewalk is built, maybe after Google self-driving cars are here and the last streetcar is running all over town, maybe then we could come back and revisit parking minimums. But until then, I just don't see why we're addressing it. Thank you very much. You guys are welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Ressifar Houdi. I'm with the Pearl District Neighborhood Association, but these words are my own.
 I want to start by saying I'm 100% against the parking minimums aspect of this proposal, chiefly for the reasons of housing affordability and safety, two things that our city desperately needs. But I think this issue of parking scarcity, it can be described more as a three-legged stool. You have the parking minimums for off-street parking. You have market-based permit pricing, parking minimums.
 parking for on-street parking, and you also have the presence of whether you have quality alternatives to driving. All three of these issues need to be addressed. When we talk about permit pricing, you've heard the cost of a permit per year is $60. It's $150 per month on average. Where is the incentive for people to park in the garage if parking is
 available so cheaply and so abundantly in the terms of the number of permits that are being subscribed to on street. And then in terms of the quality alternatives, you might remember last fall when the PPAC came to discuss the neighborhood greenway assessment report, looking at the conditions of neighborhood greenways throughout the city. And Northwest Portland scored pretty low, chiefly because many of the greenways in Northwest have too many automobile volumes, too high automobile volumes.
 And Mr. Mayor, I'm glad you brought up the point about transit nirvana. Contrary to popular opinion, much of Northwest Portland is not what you would consider a transit mecca, especially the further north you go in the district, such as where the Tess O'Brien apartments are located. They've gotten a lot of attention. I don't think any TriMet or Portland Streetcar staff are in this room, but they should be because they're a big part of the solution here. Northwest Portland is in desperate need of more service coverage.
 more service frequency and greater span of service the recently adopted service enhancement plan by tri-met uh last week actually would provide new service in the fast-growing section of conway and north pearl and would add more service along existing lines such as line 16 line 20 and line 77. so while i steadfastly oppose
 any sort of mandatory parking minimum, until these biking and transit enhancements are implemented and until permit pricing is made more fair and equitable at a level on or near the price of off-street parking, we will continue to see negative externalities resulting from people moving to these developments with their cars and thinking they could just park on the street for very little money. This situation must change. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hi. My name's Jozelle Johnson, and I'm actually a 25-year-old homeowner of a small multifamily housing in northwest Portland. I've seen in the last 25 years where we've gone from actually having one and a half cars per housing to gas, I'm down to 1.25.
 I still have over a one-to-one car ratio into my units. Seventy-five percent of my units do not work in Portland. They are not available for transit. I'm Nike. I'm Intel. I'm actually supporting Beaverton and pharmaceutical owners.
 For me, I actually had to purchase off-street parking to become affordable  well, not affordable, to become competitive with the new housing going in so that I could attract tenants. For me, I welcome, actually, the shared housing. Thank you. But I actually support the minimum requirement for the construction. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Next three, please. Stephen Judkins, Ron Walters.
 Sarah, Ayanna Ohn, and Arone. And they will be followed by Thomas Ranieri, Frank Stock, and Patrick Rafferty. Good afternoon. Welcome. Go ahead, please. Hi. My name is Stephen Judkins. I grew up in Portland, and recently I was lucky enough to purchase a house in
 I'm concerned about the fact that generally most people testifying here are people who are privileged homeowners like myself. I understand that it's very difficult for someone that's relied on on-street parking in northwest Portland to find it now. That's becoming difficult and new developments will make it even harder for them.
 I think it's very important that we keep in perspective the challenges people who are renters in this time of pretty dire housing affordability crisis. I bought my house four years ago. This last year, the appreciation on it exceeded my salary. So if I wasn't lucky enough, this dream of being able to stay in Portland would be rapidly receding from my sights. Yeah.
 Like I said, I understand it's hard, like it's pretty big inconvenience, but there are tools we can use to make it easier. And if the tradeoff we're talking about is to make it easy for people to find parking with increasing the minimums or to constrict supply further and make it more difficult for people to find housing, then we can do that.
 Think really the right thing to do for the council is to do anything to help people afford to live in Portland That said I really like Commissioner Novick's idea of some novel strategies to restrict the number of Permits available for on street parking and we already have the neighborhood parking Permit program that gives the neighborhood some tools to control this better I
 But like I said, this binary option here, if it's going to be less affordability or less easy parking. And I think looking at it from perspective of human welfare, affordability and ability to have a home should come out on top instead of easy parking for people that are generally wealthy and securely housed. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Ron Walters. I live at 2057 Northwest Overton Street. That was a fantastic introduction, by the way, and we didn't plan this. I was NWDA president when the Northwest Parking Plan was negotiated. I currently serve on the NWDA board and the Northwest Parking Stakeholder Advisory Committee. However, my testimony today is personal. I'm a supporter of affordable housing and sensible parking policy.
 I want both. I believe both goals are achievable and compatible with a simple policy change. It's essentially the one that's been raised here as an alternative a couple times already today. I believe it's oversimplified, if not inaccurate, to suggest that no parking equals lower rent. In fact, I think the absence of parking minimums simply opens the door to increased developer profits and does not assure more affordable housing in our tight housing market.
 we need to make sure that the savings accrued by not building off-street parking are passed along to renters and the public simply not captured by developers who choose not to provide parking i believe there's a fairly straightforward solution permits should not be readily available to residents of new market rate developments that don't offer off-street parking it's a win-win-win developers who argue that their renters don't have cars are not required to provide parking
 Renters who don't have cars aren't required to pay for it, and the public isn't burdened with the cost of increased demand for limited on-street parking. The market will pair renters who don't own cars with more affordable developments that don't offer parking. And I think, as Ben's raised, exceptions and incentives could be made for affordable housing units.
 So I encourage the city council to evaluate and implement some type of plan like this, which will assure more affordable housing and not worsen the already difficult parking situation in northwest Portland. In the meantime, regarding this timing issue, I do support parking minimums as a tourniquet.
 It's an imperfect but important tool that will help us balance parking supply and demand in the short term while we find a more comprehensive set of policies and programs that can be deployed in the longer term. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you very much for your time today. My name is Sarah Iannarone. Many of you know me because I was running for mayor recently, but what I do every day for a living is try to finish my Ph.D. in Portland State on sustainable urban development and share our policies and best practices and what we're working on here with visitors from around the world, many of whom, when we started our program eight years ago, came here.
 to ride the streetcar from the Pearl District to the Northwest District to see what would it look like if they made investments in transit in their own area, how could they grow places affordably, equitably, sustainably. We're seen as a model around the world, and frankly, the mandatory parking minimums, there's nothing innovative or model about that behavior. It's a blunt instrument, and it's not particularly effective.
 The pathway, as you've heard from the experts here, that we should be taking, there are many, many other things that we should be requiring and trying out first before construction, especially when we're in the midst of an affordable housing crisis. I know that you all realize the urgency and the importance of dealing with that housing crisis. I thank you very much for your recent efforts in that area with the excise tax, referring the affordable housing bond to voters in this November, and all the other actions you've taken in the last 18 months.
 But we need to think carefully about how can we see these times of crisis as opportunities for us to be in that position as a leader. What do we think about when we think about the transportation demand management tools that we were able to develop when we worked on the mixed-use zones and town centers previously?
 plan that Doug Klotz is with me on, that Grant Moorhead is here today. There are things coming right down the pike that we're going to be able to try very, very soon. So I would ask you, please hold off on instituting something as permanent as parking minimums with new construction there in Northwest Portland and consider using some more innovative, equitable, climate-based,
 transportation transit bicycle pedestrian oriented tools before we think about looking at parking minimums in that district thank you very much thank you thank you all next three please thomas ranieri frank stowell patrick rafferty he'll be followed by ian mckenzie wendy chung and tony schwartz good afternoon welcome my name is tom ranieri and i am a member of the sac
 and have been involved in the parking issues in northwest Portland for about 26 years now. I'm going to have to make my comments quick because I'm about to get a parking ticket. However, I was primarily coming down here today to support the passage or at least put my support for the parking minimums.
 And I was hoping to hear from developers who could speak to the issue of the affordability impact that this minimum, the parking minimums would put on
 the development of new spaces. And I was wondering if, you know, prior to voting on this, there can be more testimony from people that are actually involved in building that could speak to whether or not these increases are as big as some people are claiming.
 The other thing I would say is that the idea of kicking this down the road after we've tried some other things 
 I don't see how we have that much time left. I mean, I've been, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, it was Sam Adams' last hurrah with the parking. But I've witnessed now Vera Katz.
 and Tom Potter, and Sam Adams, and now Charlie Hales. And I'm wondering if after all this time, it'll be 30 years, if it's Ted Wheeler's turn. So, you know, I'm hoping that we can move on this because we've been promised a lot over the years in northwest Portland. And so far we haven't received that much.
 in terms of trying to tamp out this extremely difficult problem for everybody that lives and works and recreates in northwest Portland. Thanks. Thank you. What you're really saying is that you've tried everything else, and the committee has looked at everything else, and that you unanimously came to a recommendation of parking minimums. What I'm saying is that I think it's a reasonable approach 
 to to have uh parking minimums put in there especially for developers who claim that they're building for people who are not going to be um you know having any car ownership uh i mean that's a possibility right there of just saying you know if they're making that claim that they don't have car ownership
 then maybe they don't get the permits. I mean, we've looked at a lot of different things. I mean, we have a lot of different stuff to look at beyond the parking minimums.
 But I think that, you know, we're looking at this in a balanced sort of way. There's a lot of experience, a lot of institutional experience there. And what I think we really need to do in terms of, I mean, if the issue really is one of affordability, if that's what was driving the vote, five to two, I think it would be really important to get people
 some better data about that, or at least public data about how much it actually costs. Most of the housing stock in northwest Portland is old, so we're really talking about the new portion of it. And so let's look at whether or not
 You know, I mean, my personal belief is that the market is just whipping everything up here, and we're sort of embroidering around the edges with policy. I'm not saying it's unimportant, but, you know, the wind that this economy and the market is kicking up is enormous. It's creating its own weather. Welcome. Hi, I'm Frank Stock. Thank you, Mayor and City Council.
 Fortunately, I'm one of the speaking for one of the developers that is doing this that's a couple current projects in the Northwest line district and
 And it does matter. So it's simple math. I think most people understand. We're marketing to the influx of tenants that are coming here that there's not going to be parking. They realize they're coming here. They're looking at the units. They realize there's no magic to make parking that's not there. They're asking for secured bike storage. It's a whole different influx of tenants. If this is passed...
 What you're going to do is continue to see the 30 units or less. Math is math. So if we are required to put the parking for above the 30 units, then that's just what's going to happen. So we're in agreement of the shared parking, just with Legacy saying that they would have that, that would be great for us to offer to our tenants for the night times and weekends. The cost of the parking stalls, you know, they're around $50,000.00.
 and if you just do the simple math that's decades to recover that cost i got a little confused about the powerpoint that was up on the screen earlier that suggested the range was from 1560 to 1175 for the studio units and then some of them had parking and some of them didn't we actually owned one of the properties that was in there
 That's the range. So you see the $1,560, you see the $1,175, you see the difference in the cost because the parking wasn't provided. Some of the people can't actually afford the $1,560 for a studio. So many of our places are market rate, but recently in the Northwest Plan District, we're approved for the affordable housing component. So that's what we're going to continue to do. I can't say that's the driving factor for parking,
 because then what does that do as the previous gentleman said about the market rate units those are going to go up so if you don't get the cost will have to be recovered in some way we wrote a letter to uh city council and i'm just going to briefly go pat through this just to state um the parking requirements for the northwest district would have a serious negative impact on the future supply of the affordable housing if passed and housing as a whole the ability to create new affordable urban rental housings with escalating land costs
 the increased permit costs, increased labor wages, increased material costs, and we just passed increased taxes for our construction. It's already a serious constraint, and yet we're asking for us to reduce the rent costs. I mean, the costs are the cost. The majority of renters in the urban do not have the automobiles, at least the ones that are applying to us.
 The general public demand is a non-project related tenancy and will not support new parking either. Therefore, it becomes a secondary burden to the development and the ownership. One cost, number two, debt service. With that being said, I think you got my message. I don't need to continue on.
 very much. We want to reject it. Can I ask you a question? Absolutely. So you heard the idea discussed of rather than having minimum parking requirements, limiting the number of permits that new buildings get so not everybody in the new building would necessarily get a permit to park on the street.
 If you could only promise permits to park in the permit area to half of your prospective tenants, do you think that you would still have demand for your units and people would say, okay, I know I don't have a parking space on site. I might not even be able to park in the street, but I still want that unit. Or would there be no market for that?
 Absolutely. I think you're on the right path. I don't know what that number is, what the percentage is, but I was paying attention when you mentioned that earlier. If you saw the stats that were posted, the 120 had, what was it, 90 or 60? So the percentage is already working out. So we would be in agreement with that. Good to know. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Patrick Rafferty, just a concerned citizen. I urge you not to pass this. There have been...
 A handful of people who have been in favor of it and four or five handfuls of people today who have not been. I think everything's already been said. The one thing that I will say is that cars are not a fact of life. People have said that earlier today. And as long as we keep parking relatively inexpensive cars, it will remain a way of life. They don't have to be. That's all.
 The next three, Ian McKenzie, Wendy Chung, Tony Schwartz, and then our last two will be Ben Schoenberg and Bill Welch. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Go ahead, please. My name is Ian McKenzie, and I'm here to support the ordinance as introduced and oppose any amendments that would add parking minimums to new development. I'm a member of the Northwest District Association Transportation Committee, but I'm only speaking on my own behalf.
 I love Northwest. It's a true 20-minute neighborhood that achieves so many of the things that we set out to do in Portland. It's really walkable, and most of the daily necessities of life can be found in the neighborhood or in a short walk to the Pearl or downtown. It's why I choose to live there without a car. A lot of other people like the neighborhood too, which is probably why it's one of the fastest growing parts of the city. It's also an income diverse area.
 Some of the census tracts in the heart of the Alphabet District have median incomes of just $28,000 or $35,000, which is far below the citywide average. In the neighbourhood as a whole, 76.3% of the housing units are occupied by renters, myself included.
 I live in a 1927 apartment building, which is typical of the market rate, but relatively affordable housing that can be found throughout the neighbourhood. With 75 units and no parking, my building would be illegal today to build in most parts of the city, but luckily would still be allowed in North West absent any changes.
 The demand to live in Northwest is so strong that any parking minimums probably wouldn't result in less construction overall. Developers would find ways to make the huge cost of underground or mechanical parking work for their performers. What would probably change is what is built. Buildings like the 120,000,
 120 unit zero parking building the tess o'brien apartments which was approved by the city council at appeal last year would no longer be possible it wouldn't be physically possible to fit the 40 parking stalls required on the awkwardly shaped site
 In order to reduce the number of parking spaces required, the developer or another developer would probably have chosen to build fewer but larger units and to market them as luxury apartments. I've heard Commissioner Fish lament many times, including today, that almost all the new construction in Portland is aimed at the luxury market. Any changes to city code that start adding massive new costs for parking would only exacerbate that trend. The wonderful mix of housing types Northwest has now would be less possible in the future.
 So I'd urge you not to consider any requests to add new parking minimums. The SAFE Council added parking minimums in much of the rest of the city in 2013. We're now three years into that experiment, but according to BPS Director Anderson, when she was speaking to Planning and Sustainability Commission in March, no analysis has been done by the city to date on what effect that's had in affordability.
 Since last year, we've been in a declared housing crisis, and I don't think now is the right time to further experiment with adding parking minimums back into city code. I love my neighbourhood, and I love the way it's growing, so please don't change that. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Wendy. Good afternoon. I'm Wendy Chung, Mayor Hales, Commissioner. Thank you for allowing this testimony. I'm so glad that Ian went right before me because he helps to illustrate some of the points that I'd like to make today really strongly because he lives in a 1927 building with relatively affordable rents.
 which, by the way, could never add parking if it wanted to. So unlike other neighborhoods across the city which have the minimum parking requirements, Northwest is unique in that we have a large historic district, as you know, not just with historic single-family homes like Irvington or Laurelhurst or Eastmoreland or places like that, but we have multifamily, reasonably-priced apartments that...
 they can't add parking whether they want to or not because they're historic, right? And so when we talk about equity, and I think Commissioner Fish talked about this, one of the things I haven't heard is equity.
 a lot of discussion about equity in terms of  I've heard general statements. We need more housing. Of course we need more housing. We're in a housing crisis. We need less cars. Of course we need less cars because we've got carbon problems, right? Nobody is disputing any of that. I do think that we have a  we're not in parking nirvana in Northwest Mary Hills, respectfully speaking. I grew up on the east  Transit nirvana, not parking nirvana. Okay, transit nirvana. I know you're not in parking nirvana. Okay, well 
 I grew up on the East Coast, and I spent several years in New York City where families lived there with kids, and they got on the transit, and they got off the transit. That's just not possible in Northwest. So people with children, people with elderly relatives...
 whom they're taking care of, or disabled people, all three of which groups, three of those groups are represented on my street alone. Okay, they need cars. And while I might say, well, you know, from an equity standpoint, unless you want to push everybody, all of those people out and have single professionals who are able to live in 300 square foot units,
 that are by no stretch of the imagination are affordable with no kitchen so they can eat out because they can afford to eat out. They can afford to rent a car on the weekend and go to Mount Hood. This is an equity issue. And one of the things I think people are not understanding is that Northwest is not a rich neighborhood. If you look at the documents I gave you, you'll see this.
 spring survey on medium one-bedroom rents. You'll see Northwest District has an average rent of $1,360. These are for one-bedroom units. The highlighted section of the Pearl, Old Town, Chinatown, and downtown Portland, which is actually part of the central city, as you know, Northwest is not part of the central city area,
 for whatever reason, we are the only neighborhood outside the central city that wasn't included in the parking minimums. All we're asking for is not special attention. We're just asking not to be discriminated against because we happen to have fallen out of the ordinances that were passed for everybody else. Regarding affordability, a building like the one that Ian lives in, just
 just to give you an idea, currently at this very moment has a one-bedroom for rent, and there's a link to it in your letter, for $995. Compare that to $995 for a 250-square-foot micro unit on Thurman. I mean, which is actually more affordable? Right.
 Also, much has been made about Tess O'Brien and the 120 units that were built and whether or not they would have been built had they not had requirements for parking. I just want to point out that the Bike.org article that cites that project clarifies that those units are 300 square feet. They're $1,200 to $1,400 a month.
 Frankly, if something like that weren't built in our neighborhood, I'd be thrilled. I'd be happy if Commissioner Novick or Saltzman were able to build a whole bunch of affordable housing units with or without parking. And I agree with Commissioner Fish that those units should be exempted from the minimum parking requirements. But I think that what it does is unfairly not passing it in our neighborhood unfairly discriminates against people who live in historic buildings, whether they're single-family homes or, more importantly, those apartments, and then separately people with families, disabled relatives, and others alike.
 Thank you very much, Wendy. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Tony Schwartz. I live at 17th and Irving in Northwest. I was listening to the folks who are advocating for the status quo, and I was thinking we all share the same goals, which are less cars, less pollution, more truly affordable housing, and more income diversity in the neighborhood. I am a proponent of a 
 code revision to include the parking minimums in the Northwest District for all kinds of different reasons, but primarily so we are taken into the city. And so the city can revisit these macro issues on a citywide level. It seems to me that it's fanciful to believe that not keeping or not putting in parking minimums in our district would all of a sudden result in less cars.
 is simply untrue i haven't heard any experts really talk about that in depth i've heard about developers but i can tell you from my own personal experience on 17th and irving we had a developer from eco house come and redevelop it's called hoyt it's an old pals bookstore warehouse that was empty and we were thankful that it was developed into studio apartments
 Those studio apartments are now running for $1,100 to $1,500 a month. That is not truly affordable. We all know that. We know who they're marketing to. In discussions with that developer in a neighborhood meeting, that
 That developer told us he's marketing to those folks with bicycles, to those folks who walk. Great. But I can tell you, walking my dog, walking to and from work to my office downtown, walking to and from the theater, I see people getting in and out of their cars, to and from that Hoyt building every day. I don't think...
 This district should be used as a guinea pig for what I believe are probably unproven, fanciful public policy notions. We all want less cars. We all want to live in a city that is about people and not four doors and four wheels.
 Take us into the rest of the city, think about the macro issues, and then we can all work together. And I guess in thinking about it, the flip side is get rid of the parking minimum citywide and see how many folks will come into this building and into this room when you try to do that. We should work on this issue as a city and not allow our district to be used as a guinea pig. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. We have a couple more. Is that right? And then two more, Ben Schoenberg and Bill Welch.
 Thank you for waiting and welcome. Welcome. Commissioners, I'm Ben Schoenberger. I'm a board member for the housing advocacy group Housing Land Advocates, and we're focused on housing affordability issues. I'd just like to open by saying that parking makes housing more expensive. Thank you.
 Period. It's amazing that we're still having this discussion. Your own planning department did an analysis in 2012 in advance of the 2013 change that demonstrated this. There have been many academic studies on the issue. The Don Shoup Bible that was being waved around earlier has documentation of how that's the case. Developers have...
 just anecdotally, it's math. It requires both land area and on the alternative, it suppresses the amount of housing that gets created. On that issue of affordability, speaking to Commissioner Fish's point,
 Our group is interested in affordable housing both in the subsidized category and in the low end of market, market rate category. And parking requirements, obligations affect both of those things. They make it more difficult to keep rents down in both of those categories of housing. And that's a concern of ours.
 And it's also a statistical fact, both in Portland and elsewhere, that wealthier people drive more and own more cars than lower income people. So when we're thinking about the fairness and equity implications of this decision that you're considering, it's important to keep those two things in mind.
 The rallying cry of the people who are talking about making this change has been consistency and fairness. And I think it's important to recognize that different districts are treated differently. Different zones are treated differently, different elements of society.
 commercial versus residential versus things are treated differently. And that's okay. There's unique circumstances that Northwest Portland has that aren't available anywhere else in the city. And the toolkit that you're thinking about using is one of those unique circumstances. And I think it's a tremendous opportunity for the city to do some testing of those operations issues of how is the best way to distribute those permits, whether it's by price or availability or a lottery, and how might that affect...
 the availability of parking in the district? And could you then solve those problems on a management and operations issue and not make a commitment to a construction of an extremely expensive and, frankly, 100-year commitment to parking on-site? And that's really what that issue is about as well, is when you build parking instead of housing, you're making a 100-year commitment.
 commitment to the life of that building? And if we have robo cars in 10 years or in 20 years, have we made a huge mistake by doing that? If we have lost those units of housing that would otherwise have gotten built in a, what Doug's example of a 50 unit building versus a 30 unit building, do you, you never get those 20 units you might've had back or you don't for the next hundred years until the building comes down.
 It's a concern that there hasn't been analysis of this, and that's our final point, is what have the impacts been of those 2013 changes? Could these problems be solved in other ways? As a group, Housing Land Advocates really believes that this is a big step backward for affordability and for the city. Thank you very much. Thanks. Bill, you get the last word. Right. Bill Welch, 2705 Northwest Pettigrowth.
 Portland, Oregon. I've been on the planning committee for Northwest District Association and going to weekly meetings since 1976. And one of the problems we've had over those last 40 years or whatever it is, is that our neighborhood was attacked in two ways from two directions because we were a slum.
 I bought two houses at $10,000 apiece. My neighbors, I could have purchased, had a little bit more money, the entire block for virtually nothing. The problem here was we had such low land values that the northwest industrial area and the zoning that allowed it was moving towards the south because...
 The land was so cheap, they could make tilt-up warehouses, tear down houses and make tilt-up warehouses. The same problem occurred on the eastern edge of the neighborhood
 when the burlington northern railroad rails lines were there and warehousing was needed for that facilities so they were in they were in the process of buying property in the eastern edge and taking out houses for tilt-up warehouses now we not me certainly but members of the of the neighborhood association worked together to
 try and figure out what we could do about that to save the neighborhood. And what we came up with is to allow denser neighbor, denser zoning around the north and east sides of the neighborhood. The net result is that we have a lot more land than most of the neighborhoods in this town for high-density development.
 We faced the parking problems that the rest of the town came apart on a year and a half or three years ago.
 And we had faced it for 15 years, and we were not anywhere close to getting it done. These parking minimums are the only thing we can now use to keep the 30 pending units that are on these maps from overwhelming the existing parking out there.
 I don't want higher rents. I don't want to lose affordable housing. I don't want more cars, and none of my neighbors do. But they cannot live where this is. And you guys use us for the experiment to pacify all of the other neighborhoods in this town. Please put in...
 parking minimums at this time if only for us a small time to hold the dam thank you very much thank you both so I know there's some requests for more for more guidance from staff so yeah leave us copies before and staff
 um starts talking i just um in response to margot black's testimony was looking up on my phone new york city is the city in america which has the least car ownership but still one in three people own cars there san francisco has two and three families owning the car and both those cities require one-to-one parking
 One unit, one parking space. London still requires one unit, one parking space. Boston, yes. I didn't say the opposite yesterday. No, it doesn't. They do. So I just wonder, how are we thinking that behavior is... I mean, yes, we're different here. We don't carry umbrellas. We wear raincoats. But...
 I really was also struck, and I just have to get this off my chest, by Ms. Chung's testimony about equity. There's a lot of low-income people who live in Northwest who rely on the
 on the on-street parking to have their car because they work two jobs outside of Northwest and they can't get there at 3 o'clock in the morning or late in the evening. They can't get back to their home. We're not making... The one thing we can all agree on is we're not going to be making very many more street faces, maybe a few at Conway, where we might be creating a few streets, but on-street parking is the thing that is absolutely limited. So given that we're going to be having all these more people who we've zoned for in Northwest...
 there's got to be some consideration that at least some of them are going to have a car. And in response to those who are saying that there's the 30-unit checkoff, I think that we should actually go back and look at it throughout the city and say that it's just one per five units, and it's whether you've got five units or more that you have to have a parking spot so that people have choices. Thank you. Questions? I have a couple of questions. First of all, Mayor, I can't remember a more 
 Thoughtful hearing. Yeah, I'm saying the same impression. And frankly, the folks on both sides of this issue have distinguished themselves in making the best possible case, and I'm genuinely torn, so I want to ask Joe a couple questions. In terms of why we would apply the parking minimums to Division and not to the Northwest District, what would be a rational basis to distinguish between Division and Northwest District?
 Well, you know, there's several. Originally, when we adopted the interim regulations, we did not apply this to any plan district that had its own parking regulations or approaches. So Hollywood, Gateway, Northwest, and there's a few others that have. We didn't apply it to the ones that had parking minimums, that didn't have parking minimums. So Hollywood didn't speak to parking minimums, so they get the base zone.
 Oh, did I get it wrong? So there are a number of planned districts that have been treated in the same way, and Northwest had its own parking regulation. So I got part of that wrong. That's a distinction. When we adopted this,
 especially in a place like Division. Part of what we were saying is we do not have the full set of tools present. We don't have on-street parking regulations, and that's in part where PBOT stepped up to develop those programs to put in place. So we need this as a step along that way, and once we actually see what a parking permit program might look like,
 We'll see how this works in the suite of those. Northwest has got every parking tool, on-street parking regulatory tool that we had at that time and it's got many that are going to look like what this new system might look like.
 Really, the decision that we're  so it's  that's another distinction of the Northwest District versus Division Midway. It's in a totally different sort of state of development vis--vis these parking issues. Okay.
 And Northwest is transit-rich, as the mayor pointed out. So in many ways, although Northwest is technically not part of the central city functionally in terms of its location and its density and its transit, it is unique in the city in that regard and kind of like the central city. Division, these other neighborhoods that are emerging, haven't reached that point yet.
 But, Joe, isn't Northwest more parking challenged than Division is? It absolutely is, which is why in the first place we went down this path with considering minimums. When we first took this up at the staff level, we puzzled over this in the same way. When we did the parking minimum study for the rest of the city, we looked at, is there really on-street congestion?
 how many parking spaces are occupied at different peak periods. And we found, yeah, sort of they're congested. It's on the margin, honestly, for all these places where we applied the minimums, but it was close enough. The only place we found that was really congested was at 15th and Broadway around Irvington. In Northwest, almost every hour of the day,
 The on-street is fully occupied. So there's a distinction the other way. If the rule was we were applying parking minimums in places where we started to see this heavy use of on-street parking, Northwest, we absolutely are doing that. So that's in part why originally we proposed parking minimums for Northwest to be considered.
 What's the big change in circumstances here that I think we were willing to consider now that we were not when we first started this project? And that's the idea of capping the number of permits, of pricing them more aggressively, of allocating them differently.
 And if you think about really what's going to make a difference in whether a new tenant coming into the district perceives that there's parking opportunity there or not, it's access to that permit. And so moving in a direction where we're even more aggressive or bringing that kind of tool into our on-street parking permit regulations is probably the bigger game changer than any minimum we might have.
 Is that anywhere in this ordinance? No, well, that's part of the new program that PPOD's talking about bringing forward for the rest of the city, and I guess we would also be considering it. But would it be appropriate for it to be in this ordinance? I mean, to me, that's an important condition. I mean, I do, after listening to the testimony, I do think the 
 on-street permits are woefully underpriced. Well, so a little bit it's a matter of timing, Commissioner, because that's part of this program that Commissioner Novick was describing needs to be brought out and vetted.
 The toolkit. Yeah, the toolkit. And so Northwest has really most of the toolkit already, doesn't have these critical pieces. And our willingness to even talk about those critical pieces when we started this project wasn't so much on the table. It is now. It's part of actually Portland getting its head around this situation of how to be a dense, compact city that meets our objectives and manage a very limited parking supply.
 Let me just offer an observation. I have been on the Council long enough to see the parking wars flare up and become deeply polarizing and then in 2013 there was a moment of detente and there was broad support for an approach and it was different being in this room with people getting behind a plan.
 we now have a portion of this before us today which is the actual ordinance before us has broad support in the shared parking the amendment divides people pretty much down the middle and there are very compelling arguments on either side one of the things that we're trying to anticipate is the effectiveness of the toolkit and whether the mandatory minimums is necessary the timing makes it a little awkward because we don't have the benefit of the shared parking
 And as Dan suggests, we don't have a proposal in front of us as to how to fairly ration the parking. And I, for one, find it somewhat distasteful to say that the last person in the neighborhood gets the short end of the stick, because we're all part of the city. I don't think that's a rational basis, but there might be a different basis to do it. Doesn't that argue, at least for one of our options, to adopt the ordinance, but to, in essence, hold a decision or postpone a decision
 for a while on the parking minimums and wait until actually we come back and talk about these other tools in our kit before we decide whether we want to revisit that issue.
 Go ahead, but I have some thoughts about that. Yeah, well, just as the mayor was explaining earlier, too, remember we put those parking minimums in place as an interim measure. We needed a toolkit. The toolkit's starting to, you know, be ready to be vetted. And outside of Northwest, once we have the toolkit, will we want to reconsider parking minimums? I think that's an open question, but a little bit that was our thinking when we adopted them.
 So I was just reflecting. I mean, first I want to concur, Nick, with your assessment of this hearing. It's one of those, you know, you say fairly often that, boy, this is a great job because we get to listen to people that are smart and thoughtful. I go home and tell my family I can't believe I get paid to do this job. Yeah, it happened again. So that's one of the things that's amazing about Portland, and I'm not sure if it would be possible otherwise.
 in another city. So I appreciate everything we've heard. And I've really been on the fence about this, but this hearing has been very thoughtful and very thought-provoking. And actually, the fact that there's some folks that came in with some history on the issue, I don't have as much history on the issue as Bill or...
 some others in the room have, Rick, have had on this issue. But I've had a little bit. In fact, so has Commissioner Fritz, because I think as a city commissioner with a different hair color and a young mom on the planning commission, we were both working on these issues a while back too. And actually I was reflecting on that history, and in each case 
 there's been a fear of the turn. You know, what's the Yogi Berra line? If you come to a fork in the road, take it. You know, we keep getting to these forks in the road about parking issues, and we usually venture down the fork in the road that goes towards a more European, less auto-centric model. But it's not, you know, we have to adjust. We learn as we go along. And so there have been adjustments, right? So we had the parking lid adjusted
 because we had an air quality problem, right? And there were predictions that that would be an economic catastrophe. We had this wonderful woman, Elsa Coleman, who managed that parking lid, and she unfortunately passed away. And Earl Blumenauer, who's not given to great one-liners that often, had the best one-liner I ever heard at her memorial service when he said, never has one woman made more men rich over their objections. LAUGHTER
 Because she did. I mean, you know, the downtown real estate market blossomed because we didn't have so much of the downtown real estate to vote cars. But we didn't.
 quite see around that turn in the fork in the road. Then we got rid of the minimums. We got rid of the lid, and we went to the central city transportation management plan. We've kept tuning this approach. And then in 2013, we did get to a level of agreement about parking in Northwest that's salutary, and we also adopted these modest minimums in the rest of the city.
 More recently, again, with predictions of economic apocalypse, we tightened up on drive-thrus. I think that will once again turn out to have been a good and thoughtful progressive move, you know, turning towards the future that we want. So I think we would be ill-advised to adopt the minimum here today for just the reasons that you cited.
 it. One, I'm not persuaded that we got it completely right in 2013 on what we did do. The author of that compromise is not persuaded either. It was just a compromise. I'm not persuaded we got that right. Just like the parking lid needed tuning, just like our ratios have needed tuning over time, I think that
 piece of legislation that we approved in 2013 needs some tuning as well. I think the Northwest parking strategy needs tuning because I think we are under pricing the on-street spaces and we have to think about equity and and folks that can't afford to pay more than a modest amount per month but
 Five bucks a month is crazy low. And so we've got to address that and that won't be without controversy either. But I've been persuaded by this hearing because I've been on the fence about this particular amendment, but I've been persuaded by this hearing that although the rest of this is fine and we have got consensus about that, we should move more swiftly on the changes to the Northwest parking strategies and the toolkit.
 and not yet impose the minimums here. Because for one thing, sorry, I'm rambling a little bit, if Doug Cox got it right and there have been 14 buildings at 30 units, we have created a perverse incentive. And maybe there's part of that that's good, because modest-sized buildings might be better architecturally than great big ones. I don't know, but we ought to know this, and so we ought to do that evaluation of what has actually happened
 you know, on the streets and in the marketplace as a result of what we did with those modest minimums in 2013. Is it working? Does it need to be tuned? And then get to the question of do we expand it to Northwest? So I think it's not timely. That's my sense. Commissioner Novy?
 I really appreciated this discussion and I'm delighted to have the rest of the Council thinking about parking along with me. I spent hours and hours with Eric and Debo and Mauricio Leclerc and Melissa McGreevy and the rest of our team talking about parking.
 I  actually, first I want to say that I understand where the Northwest parking SAC is coming from because  I'm sorry, having lived in  with all due respect to the streetcar and TriMet, having lived in New York and D.C., Northwest is not transit nirvana. If I could promise Portlanders that we're going to have the New York City subway next weekend, then I'd be perfectly fine abolishing all parking minimums by the weekend. But we don't have that.
 If the federal government took climate seriously and was building the New York City subway system everywhere, then that would be a different thing. So I understand the parity argument the Northwest is making. And particularly, it is absolutely true that parking is more constrained in Northwest than it is in division. And we've adopted the parking minimums in 2013 largely in response to a human crime division. But parking minimums are extremely problematic.
 I don't care what current prices are in Northwest for units with or without parking, which might be based on some short-term weirdness. If you increase the cost of something, you increase the cost of something. There is no way that requiring parking to be built with new buildings does not drive up the cost. And if we're building more parking, one of the things we're doing is enabling and encouraging more driving.
 And until we have all electric cars and all renewable electricity, enabling more driving is destroying the planet. So those are two really strong arguments against parking minimums that are hard to get around.
 see when when would this next phase come back to council well that's i mean i think that um it is something that's me the toolkit is something that i think is going to require a lot of public discussion because for one thing um as to how you allocate permits in a constrained environment i think that no solution is going to seem fair to people so i think it's going to take a lot of thought and discussion before we come to the least unfair solution on that but
 but I'm hoping to, I want to get that process going, that broader public outreach process going really quickly and plan to bring something in the next few months. It may be, though, that before that, we might want to pilot a,
 a new approach in Northwest in response to the cry we're hearing from that district now. And one of my guiding principles in life is Chris Smith is smarter than I am. He demonstrated that in the year 2000. We were working against  He's really smart. When we were working against a  Chris, you went to Harvard when you were 11? Dear God, man.
 when we were working against a bill size more tax cut for the rich, and he identified a key fact that I had missed. It was my job to catch it. So when Chris threw out the other day, well, what about just carving new big buildings out of the parking permit area? And then I called Michelson and he said, hey, that sounds great. I was like, all right, maybe we've got an idea here. Now, that may very well not be illegal.
 But it may be that some version of that where you allocate only some permits to the new buildings might be legal. I want to talk to the lawyers about that. I want to talk to more developers about that. I thought it was interesting one developer we had here today said that he thought that there'd still be a market for such buildings.
 So what I want to do is bring the full package to council as quickly as I can, but I think it's possible that we might come up with a daring, innovative thing to just try in Northwest in the near future. So I plan to talk to all of you about those ideas and talk to some developers and talk to the lawyers over the next couple weeks. Okay. So any other thoughts? And then do you want us to?
 So what I'm hearing is that the commissioner in charge of transportation would like to have more time to look at both the citywide issues and the issues in Northwest.
 I am struck that the community, the neighborhood association and the advisory committee came with a unanimous recommendation to do the minimums, which I don't remember that much unanimity in our past discussions. And these are the folks that we've charged to look at what would work in Northwest and what wouldn't, and this is what they came to us. I would withdraw the amendment that I made with the promise that it is going to be looked at and brought back in a speedy manner.
 and including the Northwest District folks as experts. That's helpful. Thank you. Yeah, I would echo Commissioner Fritz's call for urgency. I mean, I do feel bad that, I mean, there is, the word's been overused today, but there is an equity perception here that Northwest is somehow not being treated fairly vis-a-vis Southeast Division Street in that area. And I believe there's merit to that.
 But I also feel that I've learned today that there's a lot of tools at the disposal of Northwest that maybe haven't been fully explored. It sounds like they will be, and I think that's, you know, before I'm more comfortable deciding one way or the other on parking minimums, I'd like to see that, and including the shared parking, which I think we're about to pass.
 i think there's great creative potential there too for some great minds to get together and figure out ways that we can use shared parking to satisfy uh the needs of those residents who are going to have cars and want to park overnight primarily so i don't want to see this disappear into the ether i think there's a sense of urgency in my mind anyway that we should we owe people in northwest a decision one way or the other very soon because uh there are enormous pressures in northwest
 And I certainly share the concerns about the impact on affordable housing, and that's something I want to try to understand better, too, in the next few months. Mayor, if I could just add a comment. The one thing that I'm clearer about at the end of this hearing is I don't think the affordable housing component is a top three factor in this discussion. And I, with all due respect, I think we're in a market now that is so bullish that it's almost 
 It's impossible to discern a marginal cost attributed to parking or no parking, in part because I think people are getting prices based on what they're advertising their units for because of the market dynamics and, as Chris said, scarcity. Now, the counterargument to that is the market is going to change at some point. So we shouldn't just plan for this feverish market. We should plan for the long term. We understand that. And that's, I think, a very fair point. Thank you.
 But that for me, even though housing is one of my core passions, that's not for me the principal driver. What I will say is that what Commissioner Fritz has in effect proposed right now is something that I deeply appreciate because she's essentially said she will table her amendment until we have some more information to bring the council along. And that is a sign of leadership because we can force issues and have votes that are divided and we can have winners and losers together.
 or we can absorb the information we've received which was in my again i've said it earlier mayor echoed it and all of my colleagues have said it this is this has been a superb hearing
 could there be a third way or a fourth way that comes out of this that we hadn't thought about? I'm reminded in the course of this hearing that when we struck the compromise on mandated parking and division, we called it an interim solution. We said we were going to revisit it during the comp plan, and we were going to test our assumptions. And I think we're long overdue, actually, taking a look at that. And we've had some compelling testimony that we may want to...
 refine our whole proposal because it does  it appears to be creating incentives to do smaller-scale development, which is quite contrary to our climate action plan. And if 30 becomes the dividing line where people are actually building smaller buildings because they're trying to save on the parking, that works against some of the other policies that we've adopted to get highest and best uses for our scarce land. But in effect, this is my takeaway from where we are right now.
 There is a proposal on shared parking which has broad support, and not even the testimony from Legacy has caused me to go against that recommendation. I was afraid he was going to snatch defeat for the jaws of victory, which is the risk of testifying on something that everyone seems to agree on, and there might be some argument you bring out that causes someone to reconsider. But that's done. But...
 This hearing has caused each of us to think about this problem in perhaps new and different ways. And I love the suggestion that there may be a kind of a hybrid new idea out there that's worth exploring to see whether it's legal. I love the idea of looking at a different way of rationing and pricing these
 He's saying interesting ideas have percolated, and the way I read Commissioner Fritz's action right now is essentially we're tabling her amendment and bringing this whole suite of issues back to council at an appropriate time and moving on the one matter before us that has broad support. And I deeply appreciate that approach to policymaking. Good. Well, thank you all. Thanks for an excellent hearing. The proposal as proposed will come back to council on second reading next week. Good work. Thank you very much. We're adjourned. Thank you.
 Well, you have it. You have a great trip. Thank you.