Dan has saved you all. Dan has saved you all. I just flew in from Vegas and boy are my arms tired. Alright, here we go. Let's go. Are we ready, Carla? Yes. Alright, good morning everybody. This is the July 11, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Hello.
 Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Fritz? Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here. I would like to recognize Commissioner Fish has brought it to my attention that we have a number of high school interns here today. They've been interning with the Bureau of Environmental Service. Could you please stand up and let's suspend the rules for a moment and recognize them.
 And could you just do us a favor and just quickly go down the line and mention your name and which high school you're from? Excellent. Thank you. Wonderful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Ada. Congrats. I just graduated from...
 Congratulations, Adam. Awesome. Thank you so much for being here. We appreciate it. So, colleagues, it is that time of the year where we need to select a new city council president. I'd like to make a motion that Dan Saltzman be the council president for the next six months.
 Mayor, I can't think of a better selection. I know you've spent a lot of time in thought and prayer being guided by this decision, and I'm pleased to support the decision and second it. Very good. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. I willingly accept. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The appointment's approved. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Did I get that? That's what you get in lieu of a bonus. There it is. All right. First up, we have communications. If you could call the first individual, please, Carla, for communications. Item 724, request of Brad Perkins to address counsel regarding Rose Quarter to Gorge Trail. And I'm sorry, while Brad's coming up, I'll turn to legal counsel. One second, Brad. Welcome to the Portland City Council.
 The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the City's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in City Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to speak briefly about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist, and if you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest or trespass.
 Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. Perkins. Good morning, Mayor. Councillors, thank you for the time to bring this up once again. First of all, for any big project such as the Sullivan's Gulch Bridge, there is a cause and effect here.
 When planning something of that size, of transportation, it does cause other corridors to be created. And safe corridors are the ultimate goal here for our committee, the Sullivan-Skoltz Trail Committee, that we are now calling the Rose Corridor to Gorge Trail Committee.
 And there needs to be a will within the city in order to do this. We thought we created that will through this document that was signed and approved by the council in 2012. So here we are again having to get these petitions going to ask the city council again to direct your staff to get on this.
 Right now they're planning a bridge across the I-84 that will not allow ADA approval of the Sullivan-Gilts core connection to the bridge. That's major. When you can't have that, then it has to be a bike-only proposition. And I'm okay with that, but I don't know if the community is. You only get a 6% gradation from the point at 7th.
 down to underneath the MLK and Grand Avenue highways. What's needed is a 5% grade. Okay? By locating the bridgehead on 7th prevents enough distance for that grade to be lessened. Okay? If it was on 8th or 9th, which we suggested, there wouldn't be a problem. Number two...
 So PBOT's going ahead with plans to ignore safe crossings at Grand Avenue and Martin Luther King Boulevard via Lloyd Boulevard.
 I stand here or sit here today so that I can be recorded as a representative of the SG Trail Committee to fully warn the City of Portland of the injury and death potential of these two intersections. Most bicyclists will be traveling west from the SG Bridge to downtown or North Williams and Vancouver or the Promenade.
 Rather than build the SG Bridge and wait for serious injury and lawsuits against the city to occur, the trail needs to go under these two highways as part of the SG Bridge development. And also, if we're talking about congestion pricing, we really need to plan a way in which this regressive tax that's going to be caused has another alternative for people to commute to work.
 With the North Willamette Greenway going from the Rose Quarter on north to Kelly Point, and also what we're trying to do, get all the way out to Multnomah Falls on this, it will be a clear alternative for bicyclists that come in to avoid the congestion on the freeway and the pricing regarding that. I have a question to the mayor, though. Are you still in control of all the departments? No. Okay. Okay.
 So who is in charge of PBOT today? The gentleman sitting to my left. Okay. The council president, no less. Well, I asked to have a meeting with you, Ted, because I have not been able to get through to Commissioner Saltzman on these two critical issues. So would you be willing to meet on this? Yes.
 Because clearly it's a Vision Zero concern. I'd be happy to meet. Sure. I'll be happy to sit down. Yeah. Good. And if you leave me, it looks like you have a document. If you leave that with me now, I'll have a chance to read that in advance as well. Did you get a copy? It's on the desk. Okay. Oh, it is. Okay. Thank you. If you look at that, there's a comparison between the green loop and what we have provided. Mainly what we have here is something that's been in –
 the planning stages for 75 years versus the green loop, which is only for three years. So we really think that this is something, we know this is something that the community really wants. This just took two hours to do at the intertwine. Thank you. So we would really appreciate for the council to take another look and take an action on this. Thank you. I really appreciate the time. Thank you. I'll look forward to our meeting. Next individual, please.
 Item 725, request of Russell McCulley to address council regarding a viable solution for housing. And, Brad, if you could just chat with Ms. Dafa. Ms. Dafa, could you just wave before you leave and we'll set something up. Thanks. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners, and members of the committee. My name is Russell McCulley, and I'm here to speak about some alternatives for the housing situation.
 And what I'm proposing is something along the lines of these affordable housing units that we have going up now, you know, 500 units or so in a chunk, possibly connected to a vertical garden where these people can raise all the food that they're going to need and more. Associated with a store, they can sell their produce. They're bringing in income.
 It's going to be a sustainable, repeatable solution. Instead of reinventing the wheel every time, soup kitchen here and little houses there, we can do several of these communities that eventually, hopefully, will pay for themselves. And so they're not a burden on the government. And that's never been a good solution anyway. So I think a sustainable, repeatable solution with the gardening and a store
 And they can ship. And there'd be plenty of other jobs associated with this, you know, maintenance. There could be some stores. There could be an office there so these people can get their social needs met, whatever they might be. Anyway, it's just a very simple solution. And I have a lot of details. I'm not going to bore you now with those. If you're interested, you have my contact information there.
 And it's something I'd be really interested in seeing. And the only other thing I'd like to bring up at this time is possibly if in the future on these protests, when we have competing protesters, we don't give them a permit across the street from each other. I hate to see our city on the news that way. Thank you very much. Thank you. And your vision is a really good one. Thank you. It's intriguing. Thank you.
 Next individual, please. Item 726, request of Sarah Hobbs to address council regarding out of the darkness walk.
 Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs, and I'm here today representing the Oregon State Chapter of the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. I have come to invite you all to our Out of the Darkness Walk, which is October 6th from 830 to 1030 at Veterans Memorial Coliseum. This is AFP's big yearly fundraiser.
 which goes to fund a number of issues. I've left you a lot of information. Suicide prevention research is one of them. Suicide is the 10th leading killer of all people in the United States, and out of...
 50 states, Oregon is at number 13 for its extreme rate of suicide. And while on face value we can be very depressed and overwhelmed, FSP is doing a lot of work to address the issue.
 Our three national priorities this year is a collaboration with the Department of Defense and Veteran Affairs to address issues of active duty and veteran suicide prevention, a collaboration within the LGBT community for suicide prevention, specifically with an emphasis on LGBTQ youth
 and working with the National Attitude and Sports Foundation to teach gun harm reduction at point of sale. So those are the three national priorities. There is a lot of work done to...
 Eighty-two percent of all gun deaths in the state of Oregon are suicides. So we're really working on the state level to work to get out the information about the harm reduction point of sale.
 So this is just a little bit of the work we're doing. They also have an amazing support program for survivors of suicide loss. And we are partnering with the Portland Stege Foundation to address the specific needs
 of children and youth who are survivors of suicide loss. Unfortunately, I was not able to get our event flyer in time for today, but I really...
 gave you all some good information. If you two could do like the Mayor's done and wear our pins, I'd appreciate it. Thank you, Mayor. I didn't notice that. So again, please plan on joining us October 6th at the front of Veterans Memorial Coliseum.
 And on that note, thank you. Great. And, Sarah, thank you for bringing this to everybody's attention. This is a very, very important initiative. So the flyers I gave you, it's general information about what the foundation is doing, and then stuff specific.
 to the harms reduction of point of sale and LGBTQ collaborators. Good. Great. And if you get the flyers, bring them by. I will. We'll post them. Thanks, Sarah. Appreciate it. Next individual, please. Item 727, request of Colette DeWitt to address council regarding relocation ordinance. Good morning. Good morning. Excuse me. I just want to record this. Hello. Hello.
 My name is Colette DeWitt, and I think you all received a little paper that I wrote you. I'm here on behalf of myself and anyone else in my position. And I have much to say about this paper.
 And I decided today I would take the time to inform you about the kind of citizen you decided to throw under the bus, that's the best way I can say it, by passing a relocation ordinance. Here's some family history.
 My father started the diesel mechanics program at Portland Community College on Albina with seven students. Dr. DeBernardus gave him one quarter of the Rock Creek campus to start a diesel mechanics program, and it's still going strong today. My ex-husband, Stan Amy, has been on the planning commission, and the two of us started Nature's. We grew from...
 a small store on Corbett to five stores and two restaurants and unfortunately we divorced. During that time my stepdaughter who I was very close to and lived with us was killed on Mount Hood in the OES climb. Previous disaster in my life here in the city was that my sister and a
 and I moved into an apartment building across from the art museum where the plaza next to the Historical Society is. It was cheaper than Portland Student Services at Portland State. While we were living there in an ice storm, an arsonist set the building on fire. We all escaped. Two people died on the fifth floor. So my life here has been full of...
 of wonderful things and tragic things. I have one property. It decreased in value in 2011 to 13, and I couldn't find a good job. I just turned 65. I'm that generation. People lost their jobs.
 I decided to go to South Korea to teach English. I was a teacher when I met Stan. I taught there for five years. I've come home. You want me to pay the people I've rented to $4,200 to move out of my only home. And I got $350 from the Red Cross when everything I owned burnt.
 So, Colette, thank you for coming in and obviously sharing your story with us. Who have you made contact with at the city about the amendments that we adopted to rent or relocation? Because there's specific provisions that deal with people that want to reclaim their own units. No, they're not.
 I went to housing first. They apologized to me and said, I'm sorry. We used to have an exception for someone like you, but it's gone. Then they said, if you were gone three years or less, I was gone five. Can I just – this is a chance for you to educate us about your concern. We have an ongoing process of refinement of that particular law. That is a good idea. And we have a committee.
 Would you mind submitting your particular case to the committee? Because we're on an ongoing basis. Can I meet with the committee? You can meet with them. I will come to meetings and discuss this. So it's a group that's convened by the Housing Bureau of landlords and tenants, and then we get feedback about tweaks to the law if there's something out of whack. And it sounds like you have a compelling story to share that they should hear, and then we should be able to –
 to consider whether there's any potential changes that impact you or a class of people like you. So I would very much encourage you to do that. All right. And thank you for the information. You are correct. The current time frame is three years. The exemption is three years. So under five years, you would not qualify. That is correct. The housing department told me they were very sorry to come here. Very good. Thank you. So what happens? Yes.
 I'll come back. No, I will have – Cupid has your phone number, is that correct? Yes, he called me on his day off when he got my email. Very good. So we'll make sure that he connects you with the committee, and I'm sure they'd like to hear your story. How often does it meet? On a monthly basis. Okay. Good. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 728, request of Stan Herman to address council regarding a request to meet with a council member. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'll try to be brief this time, but for the record now, I must switch from business communication to a political agenda. Again, 19 months now, no answers from Portland's mayor or the city council. Mr. Mayor, your director of communication, Michael, stated to me he would call me. After giving him three reminders to call me, still no calls. You ordered Michelle to meet with me.
 After three times communicating with her, no response. My question to you, on record, Commissioner, you daily, that's not present, Fritz, Saltzman, Fish, Mr. Mayor, on record, why do you not provide me time to discuss an issue I have with the city? I would be very happy to meet with you. In fact, this council session will not go. Why don't we set 1130 today, my office?
 Mayor, that could be a crowded meeting, but go ahead. You set up a meeting with one of your colleagues for 1130. Then we'll call at noon. Can you make it back here at noon? I have a conference call at noon. How about 1230? How about anything after 230? Or tomorrow would be fine as well. How about 430? 430, we can do that. See you at my office, 430. Thank you. Good job, Stan. Done. So that gets us to time certain, the first item, item 729. Please read it. Carla, thank you.
 declare the Human Access Project's River Hugger Swim Team, based at the Portland Fire and Rescue Station 21 Firehouse Dock, as the City of Portland's open water swimming safety ambassadors and the official open water swim team of the city. Commissioner Fish. Before we take this up, because we have high school students here who are watching Democracy in Action, we should point out that because there's only three of us today...
 We do not have a sufficient quorum to take up the consent agenda or emergency items. So that's why we are going to skip. There is no consent agenda, which is for relatively minor matters that can be dealt with as a collection of items. And we will not be taking up emergency items that would otherwise go into effect right away because we only have three members of council. So thank you.
 You're here on an unusual day. Normally we have at least four, but that's one of the consequences of only having three. Very good. First of all, I just want to acknowledge the river huggers are here. They're pretty easy to spot. They're wearing the bright aqua water-colored shirts.
 And we've even got, I think, the youngest river hugger here this morning, bouncing over there on the side. Since its inception in 2010, the Human Access Project has worked to realize the mission of transforming Portland's relationship with the Willamette River. They've organized many events that have encouraged Portlanders to experience their river in many different ways, such as the Big Float.
 the recreational protest swim, and the mayoral swim, which, by the way, is this afternoon. You should all come join myself and the River Huggers at 5.30 p.m. Stan, I'm going to try and get you to come, so be ready for that. We're jumping in at the Station 21 firehouse dock on the east side of the river. That's right across the Hawthorne Bridge.
 Because of their incredible efforts over the past eight years, Portlanders have a better understanding of the experience of the Willamette River. To date, the Human Access Project has helped direct over 10,000 people wanting to recreate in the Willamette.
 The River Hugger swim team is an important part of HAP's continued efforts. Since the fall of 2014, the team has worked very closely with Portland Fire and Safety to implement safety measures that encourage individuals to recreate and to swim in the river. The swim team is also a fantastic example of what it means to serve the community in an inclusive way.
 River huggers draw people from all neighborhoods in the city, and it's open to all swimmers able to swim a mile under 45 minutes.
 Today, I'm excited to recognize the River Huggers and Human Access Project in this resolution, which proposes the Station 21 firehouse dock as the permanent home of the River Huggers and designates them as the City of Portland's open water swimming safety ambassadors and the open water swim team of the City of Portland. And with that, I'd like to turn this over to my colleague, Commissioner Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mayor. We are fortunate to live in a city that has access to a wealth of natural and outdoor resources, ranging from our amazing parks and trails, beautiful gardens, and the Willamette River. Today we are here to acknowledge those who have worked tirelessly to raise awareness and to make the Great River accessible to all, specifically the Human Access Project's River Hugger Swim Team and their partnership with Portland Fire and Rescue,
 and Portland Parks and Recreation. We want to ensure that the Willamette, above all else, is a safe environment where people can have a good time. With this amazing weather we are experiencing, or as a relief from the heat, it's a great opportunity to get out and enjoy events such as the Big Float coming up on Saturday, or as the mayor reminded us, the mayor will swim today at 530. We are incredibly thankful for our partnerships with organizations such as River Huggers,
 and know that this can be another step forward in making the Willamettes a safer, more accessible place for all Portlanders. And I'd now like to turn it over to Willie Levinson from the Human Access Project. All right, Willie. Good morning. Good morning. Just really briefly, I'd like to express my...
 sincerest thanks to Commissioner Salzman's office. Appreciate the long term that you've given to the City of Portland, all the contributions you've made, all the different bureaus you've seen. I hope you'll continue to be involved with the City and being able to provide counsel to the future people who come because you have so much experience. And I know there's going to be a scrum for Matt Grum
 among the commissioners once he goes, this resolution is really great thanks to the leadership of Matt. So I want to give thanks to him. And also, Chief Myers, what an outstanding leader. I mean, just you talk to him, and he has this uncanny ability to listen and absorb what you're saying, and he's just such a...
 mellow person. What a great person to have in charge of such an important first response. So
 we're thankful for our relationship with the city and um you know it's great to be acknowledged at this point and really as an advocate the biggest thing i strive for is having the benefit of the doubt when i call people to be able to have them pick up the phone and say hey willie great how can i help you because i'd like to feel like we never ask for anything that's not
 unreasonable things and when when i call i'm trying to solve problems so um just really grateful for this day and thank you again thank you mayor i do have some amendments i don't know if you have copies but these amendments were provided to us by portland parks and recreation i guess we don't have copies i'll uh read i'll read the intent of the amendments one okay one is to uh
 Clarify that 4% of the Willamette River shoreline in the central city has a sandy, publicly accessible entry point. The resolution says 5%, so we will correct that with 4%. And then add a whereas the Willamette River is Portland's second largest public open space. And then to modify one of the whereases to state that...
 Swimming safety policy was vetted with Portland Fire, Multnomah County River Patrol, U.S. Coast Guard, and AMR River Rescue, and was adopted later and used for public information by Portland Parks and Recreation. Dan, I second the package of amendments. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendments are adopted. That's it? That's it. All right. Public testimony.
 Yes, we have 11 people signed up. Very good. Two minutes each, please.
 And when your name is called, just come up. The microphones slide around. We now have this novelty-sized giant sign that says keep the mic about six to eight inches away. And there's a yellow light that will go on 30 seconds before your time is up. When your time is up, you'll see a red light and hear a really annoying beep. So keep it to two minutes. Please call the first three. Are Leah Middlebrook?
 Andrea Milano and Joe Walsh. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for welcoming us. Thank you for this resolution. And thank you for your comments. I just wanted to share, as a relative newcomer to Portland, that when I moved to Portland, the River Huggers was one of the first ways in which I began to experience community here. And I just wanted to express my excitement at the way that the city has embraced the Human Access Project and the River Huggers.
 I also wanted to share with you what it's like. I live in Southeast, and so I go down to the Wood Dock fairly often. And when I'm there, I hear all kinds of languages being spoken, and I really enjoy talking with people who are visiting Portland.
 from other places who know that one of the cool things to do in Portland is plunge in the river, I am so excited that we are now ever more in a position to show Portlanders from all neighborhoods and just all areas.
 how much of a resource the river is, and to continue to make it accessible and inclusive. So the support of the mayor and the city council just helps us extend that. It makes it safer, makes it more popular, makes it more inclusive, and we have a gem. Thank you for supporting it. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. I'm Andrea Milano. For the record, I'm a public librarian. Saturday morning, this Saturday morning, fish were jumping. The skies were clearing, snow.
 The water was fine. I am so happy and thankful to be able to swim in the Willamette River with the salmon. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. And the river is polluted. So says the river keepers. If you go on their website, you will see they talk about lead. They talk about mercury. They talk about runoff from the city. What the hell are you doing?
 You know, there's two things that I think that the American people think we've gone nuts. This is one of them. The other one is Trump. We have completely gone off there. You are going to take children who have open sores all the time into a river that's contaminated. But you take samples from the top. And you say, let's go for a swim.
 Are you nuts? Are you going to knock the poops out of the way as you swim? There is raw sewage in the river, Mayor. Don't laugh. It's not funny. You talk about tens of thousands of people that have swum. Has anybody done a study of how many of those people got sick after they did a swim? No. The river keepers warn you. They're not here supporting this. The river huggers are here. They hug the river.
 They push the poops out of the way and then hug the river. Why are you doing this? What purpose can you say to me, Mr. Walsh, we are going to go for a swim in a polluted river, and this is the reason we're doing it? Go ahead, Mayor. Finish that sentence. I do it because it's fun.
 because it's an opportunity to share it with like-minded individuals, because the quality of the water is great, because I've done it many times and I've never gotten sick.
 And because it's there and because it's a fantastic resource for the people of our city and because more and more people are taking an interest in activating the waterfront and participating. So that's why I do it. You don't have to. It's purely voluntary. It's purely voluntary, Mr. Walsh. You don't have to show up. Next three piece. Thank you. Mr. Walsh, thank you for your time is up. Thank you.
 You got it on one turn. Matter of fact, they should be calling you. You're insane. Excuse me. Mr. Walsh, this is in violation of council rules. That's what Trump said. No problems. No problems. Let's see what happens. Why don't you use that term? Goodbye, Mr. Walsh. Thank you for playing. The next three are Hilary Avant, I believe is the last name, Stephanie Debner, and Margo McCurdy. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Hillary Evert, and I've been a river hugger swimmer since the get-go. And I consider myself a really healthy person, and I credit my morning swims in the river three days a week to that. And so...
 Not only do I feel like it's making me healthier, but I do feel safe. And I know there's a lot of people to speak about our swim team, but I think I'm the only one that brought one of our float bags, so I just thought I'd show you what it is. So it carries all my possessions in here. I blow it up, and if I ever had a cramp, it's a floatie. It makes me more visible, and I have a whistle on it if I ever needed help.
 And I think one thing that we didn't mention, too, is when we go on our swims, that we have a bunch of great volunteer and safety kayakers and stand-up paddlers that accompany us. And I just love swimming, and I'm as healthy as a horse. Thanks. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. Stephanie's next. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. Morning. My name is Stephanie Dubner, and I moved here from Minnesota about 12 or so years ago. Minneapolis-St. Paul is a city that has great relationship with its public waterways, and that's how a lot of its citizens really connect with the city. And I'm so pleased that Portland is developing that same relationship with the waterways available to it. When I joined River Huggers about four years ago and joined this great community of people embracing –
 the resources that we have here, that was the thing that made me feel like I was finally really home here in Portland. Um, and, uh, it's just, uh,
 It's just such a wonderful thing to see the sun come up over the city in the water with fish. We've seen herons flying nearby and roosting as we swim by. And also to share the river with the paddlers and kayakers and all of the crew teams and everybody out there enjoying the river and the city from that perspective. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Margo McCurdy. I am proud to be a Riverhugger. I've been swimming with Riverhuggers for about three years. And I also, in addition to the Riverhuggers, there are a lot of other groups that are swimming in the river. I swim off of the Fire Dock. I swim out of Selwood. I swim out of the Milwaukee Dock. All of the stretches of the river are equally beautiful. This last weekend, I participated in the Portland Bridge Swim, which, by the way, is put on by the Willamette River Keepers.
 and was the national championship and brought people from all over the country and even beyond our country to swim in our river. And a lot of people came up to me and commented on how clean and wonderful our river felt. And I felt very proud to be an ambassador of that river. So was this the first time you'd done that? I did it as a relay last year, but it was my first time swimming. How long did it take you? Six hours and 20 minutes. Congratulations. That's awesome. And...
 That is awesome. I feel healthy and strong today. You look it. Thank you.
 In addition, I also am an early childhood educator, and I feel safe and happy. I bring my kids down to the waterfront. Last year, with all the work they did cleaning up Poets Beach, we brought our kids down to the inaugural ceremony opening up Poets Beach. It gives the kids an opportunity to engage with their community, see the city from a different perspective, and also be active participants in our community.
 That's awesome. And I look forward to doing that some year when I can get the training in. I just really admire people who do that full swim. And I think it's great that you also mentioned that the river keepers are, in fact, a co-sponsor of that river swim. You're swimming in the water, not eating the dirt on the bottom. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you.
 The next three are Gretchen Jackson, Janie, I believe, Malloy, and Dan Burkett. Good morning. Welcome. Oh, my God.
 May I have you again? Yeah, please. My name is Gretchen Jackson, and I'm a river hugger of four years. And my relationship fundamentally changed with the city the moment I jumped in the water. I've lived here for a decade, and I, too, come from the Midwest, where water is celebrated and used regularly. We use it for vistas, but also for plunging in and refreshing ourselves. And the moment that Willie invited folks out to be in the river and cross the
 the Willamette, it really changed the way I see the city. So much, in fact, that I became a swim coach so that I can teach others to do the same effective swimming because the channel can be a little daunting for most.
 So really the priority here is getting cleaner and cleaner waters. The gentleman that spoke is not telling some untruths because at the bottom of the river there are dangerous pollutants. Where we swim, there's not. And that was a concern when I first started to swim. And I called the USGS and spoke with their scientists, and I spoke about the frequency up to five times a week. I was swimming for hours on end.
 and they verified that the water is safe when it's not churned. And so those are things that I do watch out for. I get USGS alerts that tell me the turbidity, the amount of particles in the top of the surface. And I don't swim when it's churned. And luckily those times are in the winter.
 So I do winter swim. We have swimmers in the Willamette every week of the year, amazingly enough. And it's just an amazing resource that I continue to work for access to, inclusive of all, even if you don't know how to swim currently. Can I add one comment to your excellent testimony? Sure.
 I have the honor of leading the Bureau of Environmental Services. And on our website, we have real-time data about the health and safety of the river. So anyone that has a question or a concern about whether it's a good time to swim or not. And obviously, we discourage people from doing it after big storms for obvious reasons. Sometimes that overwhelms our combined sewer overflow system.
 But by and large, the data that we publish says it's perfectly safe for people to go in, particularly at the locations that we're talking about. Absolutely. We're not talking about the middle of a harbor. We're talking about upstream, and I think that's important for people to know. And bravo for seeing the river here and in the mural above. It's represented in council every single day. Sure. Thank you. Well said. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Janie Malloy, and I am the instigator for the River Huggers. And I love this community, and I'm so pleased and happy to be here. And thank you so very much for what you have done to promote swimming in the river. I started swimming when I was three years old. I have swam in this river. I've swam in Clackamas Cove. I go over to Lake Vancouver. I swim throughout the area. I am an...
 U.S. Master Swimmer, All-American Swimmer, and National Open Water Swimmer title holder. So I do know a little bit about water, swimming in cold water and clean water. And I promote it and I teach children how to swim. And not this one yet. But if you want to be healthy and you want to experience the magic and the joy of swimming,
 being alive, doing it from the river is an amazing thing. It's sensory deprivation. You kind of get into your head, but then you are so grateful and you breathe deeply and you see the mountains and the clouds and the water and it's spectacular. Tomorrow I'm heading to Foster Lake to do a
 a competitive US MS swim. And thank you so much for supporting our sport and just overall health and well-being of people. Thank you. Ma'am, can I ask you a question? The mayor likes to tout all the mountains he's climbed and the Ironman things he's entered into. I'm just curious, if you and he were to have a measured race along the limit, how much of a head start would you have to give him in order to make it a fair race? Yeah.
 I don't know. Let's try today, Ted. We have a date. That's right. This afternoon. 5.30. Let's do it. Today at 5.30. But you have to bring the baby. Okay. All right.
 That does actually raise a funny story. I did the swim last year with my daughter, then 10 years old, and she's a pretty good swimmer. She'd never been in an open water scenario, though, but she loved jumping in. That was the highlight of it. And she loved swimming for about the first 50 yards. And then we went under the Hawthorne Bridge, and she started to freak out a little bit about the bridge. It was just something about the bridge. And so she promptly jumped on my back.
 And I swam the rest of the way across with my daughter on my back. Wow. And so I asked her if she wanted to come today, and unfortunately she's actually doing roller derby today. She's at roller derby campus. But I like to think that river swimming toughens you up a little bit as well. But your comments about sensory deprivation, that's one of the reasons I love it. When you are swimming, you are very much in the moment. You're very much in the moment.
 Yeah, it's liquid therapy. Yeah, it's an amazing experience. You stated it so well. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. I'll be brief. My name is Dan Berkery. It's the first time I've done anything like this, so I'm a little nervous. But I'm an 18-year resident of Portland. I come from San Francisco. And I love this city. And I've just fallen in love and been in love with it for the last 18 years. I grew up or was raised on a wild river, Forks of the Salmon, California, where I learned to swim in a wild river. I'm a surfer. I surf in the ocean. And...
 There's just something about swimming in a wild space that is unlike anything else. It's just wild. It connects you to nature. And when I view Portland, I view it as an outdoor city. There's hikers. There's fishers. There's bikers. There's climbers. All that sort of stuff. And...
 When I view this city I love in the sort of Michelle Delacroix picture painting that you put out to the world, I view all those things, and I also view swimmers safely swimming in our Portland River. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, all three of you, for being here. Thank you. The next three are Charles Bridgecrane, Mark Burton, and Ruth Williams. Charles Bridgecrane.
 Charles may have left. The last person is Mimi Gurman. Good morning. Morning. Good morning. Am I starting? Yeah, please. Go ahead. My name is Ruth Williams. I'm a safety kayaker for the River Huggers, and I'm also a certified arborist and a mother of twins. And when I was pregnant with them...
 I was really sick, and so I was kayaking instead of swimming. Just getting out there in the morning and kayaking across the river was just really healing for me and really just settling, and it really helped, I think, helped my pregnancy and helped them settle. This community has been so amazing to us and to our family to be able to participate in this kind of competitive sport, but not really competitive sport,
 But being able to participate throughout my pregnancy and then throughout them being really little, we've just been really welcomed. It's such an inclusive group. They welcome all ages and abilities.
 Safety kayaking is a wonderful alternative additional way to get involved as well. So we check the Bureau of Environmental Services levels for the pollutants and the algae, and we look at that website a lot. And we love that it's on Facebook as well, and it gives us updates there.
 And we're just really, really grateful for the resource that this is. And I just am here to say thank you. Well, thank you for coming in and reminding us all there's lots of different ways to engage with the river. Really appreciate it. And congratulations.
 Hello, my name is Mark Burton. Hey, Mark. Hi. I swam first with the River Huggers about three years ago. I came here from Chicago in 1992, and I greatly enjoyed swimming in Lake Michigan out in the open water, and so would do so here in the mountain lakes from time to time. But when there was first my understanding that there was an opportunity to swim in the river that was great, since it's close to home, you can swim more often. Okay.
 and enjoy the outdoors because I find it so much more enjoyable and refreshing than swimming in a swimming pool, which I still do, but it's not near as pleasant.
 So I think with one of the nice things about this developing more and more is that with more people coming to Portland and becoming more dense I think it will be more and more important for people to have ways of recreating in the outdoors and swimming in the river is a wonderful way to do that. There are plenty of people who may prefer swimming over, jogging around the river and so I'm just really appreciative of River Huggers for that opportunity and for what you've done to
 accept and endorse that. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Mimi Gurman, and I'm here to demand that we end the...
 occupation by ICE of the ICE building. And until that happens, I'm going to come up to this table and I'm going to request very strongly, I'm going to stand and tell you that it's time for extraordinary measures to occur to get rid of ICE from this city. It's time now. Mimi? Mimi. Mimi. Mimi. Excuse me. Excuse me.
 We'll take a five-minute recess. Five-minute recess. We'll be right back. It's time to get rid of ice. Fuck you all. Five minutes. Time to get rid of ice from Portland. Shut that shit the fuck down. Where you been at, Ted? I like hearing the truth, do you, Ted? Sorry, Zach. You just shot children. Are you bitches aware about fucking revenue?
 Oh my god, I have three old babies with 13 fucking fingers! Sorry, back to shotgun! I said I was gonna put that to Rhea! I sent you a message yesterday, Ted! Right back! Don't. Don't move that. Excuse me? Move. Very much. Move. What is it? Alright, I'm back. Did you miss me? Woo!
 The old one-two trick-a-roo. Are you going to talk about the river? Thank you. I appreciate that. Because that's what all these people came down to discuss. And it's not fair if they come here and take time away from their work and their families to be here, and then other people decide to rob them of their voice. It is not fair. So we'll wait until my colleagues come back in a minute. I'll give them five minutes. I'm going to see you at 4.30, right? Yeah. Okay. Just wanted to push you out.
 No, that'll be fine. That'll be fine. Yeah, 4.30 is good. Yeah, thanks. Oh, good. Yeah, of course. Yeah, we'll just wait until we get my colleagues back in here in a sec. I haven't seen her since she stood on the rostrum and flipped me off like a year ago. Where's she been? She was the one who said that security downstairs was going to go wrong. Mr. President? All right, are we ready, Carla?
 All right. I apologize. We're back in session. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog. I do have some concerns on this whole issue pertaining to the river, pertaining to the Superfund cleanup, the toxic waste in the river dispersed from ships going by, various things. To have a concern, especially if you have children swimming out in the river, you can't overlook that. You have to look at what's best for your children. Thank you.
 and understand we do live in an area that is toxic, it's polluted, it's been neglected over many, many years. And all the optimism in here, and I respect that, never put your children's safety in jeopardy. And understand the tests that have been done on that river. Understand what's been dumped in that river. Understand which can leach up through the sediment of the river. Be cautious with your children. As an adult...
 Over 18, I don't care what you do. I really don't. Stay within the law. I could care less. But when it comes to your children, make sure what you're doing is protecting their safety first over your beliefs that this river is clean. There are so many tests that would otherwise say it is not clean. There are so many tests that say this river has been neglected. Again, again,
 Think of your children. Think of the tests. Feel free to jump in that river anytime as an adult. But I would urge you, when I talk to the EPA, when I talk to these people, they said they want to get near this damn river. Protect your children. Do not sugarcoat this. As adults, do what the hell you want, but protect your kids. Thank you.
 Thank you. All right, that concludes our testimony. I understand, Willie, there's a video that you wanted to show. Come on up and let's take a look at it. You can hit the play button on that, Willie. So I'll just say this video was done by Rich Yuduskar. How do you say your last name, Rich? Yadzikar. Sorry, Rich, I should have that down by now. Rich does a lot of video work for us. He's super talented, and I hope you guys enjoy. Thank you. The Willamette River is so beautiful.
 So hold on a second. I'm going to go ahead and let's cue it up and make sure the... Got the volume up? Are we ready? Good to go. I have a news flash. The Willamette River is swimmable. The Human Access Project is a movement disguised as a party. We're a grassroots non-profit run by volunteers. We're a grassroots non-profit run by volunteers.
 We put on the big float, Portland's grand summer beach party. We have a swim team, the Riverhuggers, who combine activism and fitness.
 We have this huge open blue space. We're a city that literally surrounds this huge waterway, but there's very, very few public access points. Floating and swimming are just part of the HAP movement. Human access to our river is what we're all about. Our mission? To transform Portland's relationship with the Lammet River. How?
 action and advocacy, and making waves while sitting in an air tube or swimming across the river. Audrey McCall Beach, before, after. Poets Beach, before. Get into your river. Join the Riverlution, the human access project.
 Very good. So does that conclude the presentation? That is it. All right. We'll get to some lengthy speeches here. Carla, can you please call the roll on the resolution? Saltzman? Well, I'm really very impressed with...
 The river huggers who showed up today and their personal testaments to their relationship with the river, as I am impressed with our mayor who swims in the river. I think nothing like a mayor setting an example and drawing attention to an issue than swimming in the river.
 And I also want to really acknowledge Willie Levinson, too, for all the attention he has refocused on our river. You have done a remarkable job, Willie, and I really am respectful of all that you've done to get our public and our residents feeling good about their river again. Thank you.
 And I also just wanted to thank, I appreciate, Willie, your words of praise for Matt Grum in my office, but I also wanted to thank Gene Yamamoto of my office, too, who worked very hard on this, and our fire marshal, Nate Takara, who worked with you to get us to the point today where Portland Fire and Rescue feels comfortable with the River Huggers using Dock 21 as their permanent home. So very pleased to support this. Hi. Hi.
 Fish. Well, Dan gave my speech, so I'll just be very – I'll be even briefer. I want to associate myself with everything that he just said. And I appreciate that Matt Grum was called out, and I can assure you that every bureau in the city has offers in to Matt. One of his great qualities, and we share an office – we don't share an office, we share a door between offices, but Matt knows how to solve problems, right?
 And in city government, that's actually a very precious quality, a great talent that he's developed over the years. How long has Matt been on your team? As long as I've been here, 20 years. Wow, so that's a lot of experience. So thank you, Matt. I want to also acknowledge Mike Lindberg, who is one of your great champions and has been talking this up for a long time. Willie, congratulations to you. Everyone who joined us today, and to the mayor and Commissioner Salzman for bringing this forward. Thank you. Bye.
 Wheeler. Well, I want to thank everybody, all the same people. Maybe I'll just do it in a different order, and it'll sound original. Willie, thank you for your guidance, for your leadership, for your tenacity, for your vision, for continuing to encourage people to engage and live with the river.
 For too many years, this city really abused its river, as a number of people testified today. And the reality is the city spent heavily to change that legacy. Under Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fish's leadership, the city invested over $1 billion.
 in the big pipe project, which has significantly reduced the outflow. The monitoring is much more efficient than it used to be. There's more people with eyes on the river. The city has reengaged in keeping the river clean. We're working very, very heavily on the Superfund site downriver in the industrial area. And all of those things spell increased health, increased accessibility, and increased habitat.
 along the river. The river is becoming much healthier than it used to be. And it is a good place to swim and a good place to recreate. Not everybody has to be a swimmer. And I think the river huggers would be the first people to say that. You don't have to be a swimmer. But there's many ways that you can enjoy and engage with the river, whether it's just sitting on the beach or
 with a good book and with family members or having a picnic or whether it's being on a paddleboard, as somebody mentioned earlier this morning, or whether it's engaging in other ways, maybe going down and sitting on a dock. All of those things are worthy pastimes. We have too long been a city adjacent to the river, and now we are going to become a city of the river again.
 And I think it was interesting that this morning's testimony highlighted that it's not without controversy. Old views of this river are going to die very, very hard.
 And the only way that we're going to be able to change the perception is, number one, by making the investments to clean the river and keep it clean and maintain the habitat. And number two, for people to really engage the river and encourage other people, family members, friends, coworkers, to come down and participate and see that it really is sustainable.
 a new day on the Willamette River. I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman in particular. This resolution, though I'm certainly a fan of the Human Access Project and the River Huggers, this was really Dan's team. He and Matt Grum and others worked really, really hard on this resolution and making sure that it captured the spirit and the objectives of this effort. And so I want to applaud you, Dan, and I want to thank Matt for his hard work on this.
 And I want to thank all of the Riverhuggers who came in today, took time away from your work, from your families, from other commitments to come here and share this great asset with the people of this city. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you all very much for being here. And I will see you today at the dock, 530. The resolution is adopted. Thank you. You can clap. That's okay. That's okay. Thank you.
 Thank you all for coming, and sorry about the disruption. That happens from time to time. Next item, 730, please, Carla. Authorize a development agreement between the city and Portland State University, Oregon Health Sciences University, and Portland Community College for the development and creation of a new commercial multi-level condominium building known as the Jasmine Block at 401 Southwest Harrison Street.
 Colleagues, it's my pleasure to present for Council approval the authorization of a development agreement between the City, Portland State University, Oregon Health and Sciences University, and PCC, with the support, of course, of Prosper Portland for the collaborative development of the site at 4th and Montgomery. This agreement marks the achievement of an important project milestone and has been many years in the making.
 This partnership provides a means to leverage our resources and funding to achieve common goals that we share and provide a community asset that will serve a broad range of citizens and create long-term partnerships with the owners of the project. Here to present on behalf of the Office of Management and Finance, of course, is Chief Administrative Officer Tom Reinhart.
 Good morning, Mr. Reinhart. Good morning, Mayor. Thank you. For the record, Tom Reinhart, proud to be the city's chief administrative officer. We are happy to be here today to ask council to authorize this development agreement for a new seven-story commercial condominium building located, as the mayor said, on southwest Montgomery between 4th and 5th Avenues, now branded as the 4th and Montgomery Building.
 This partnership is an opportunity to offset our projected shortage of city-owned office space within the downtown core and reduce the amount of lease spaces needed to accommodate future Bureau needs as our city grows. Thank you. In May 2017, Council approved bond financing of the project not to exceed $20 million, plus additional amounts sufficient to pay costs related to the bonds. I want to emphasize that the development agreement before you today includes two main components –
 Number one, it outlines rules and responsibilities for all the partners, specifically the decision-making processes, the design process, the project budget, the schedule, and the property conveyance. Number two, it identifies each owner's square footage requirements and funding responsibilities.
 An oft-asked question is who will be in this building from the City of Portland, and we believe at this point it is most likely that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability will move employees into the space. We are grateful today to have representatives from many, if not all, of the partners. I believe all the partners are actually represented today, and I want to acknowledge them before I hand it off to Dan Zalco from Portland State.
 From Prosper, Portland, I think I saw Lisa Obloff. Do we have Lisa? If you could just raise your hand behind me when I call your name so council can see you. I think I saw Lisa here. From Portland Community College, Lisa Degman. From OHSU, Jennifer Taylor. I'm watching the council's faces. They're all here so far. Check, check, and check. This is an interesting exercise. From SRG Partnership, the lead architect, Sam Stadler and Lori Cunnett.
 And, of course, Dan is here from Portland State University, our anchor partner. Dan's going to take us through the rest of the presentation. Then, of course, we will answer any questions that council has. Very good. Thanks, Tom. Mayor Wheeler, members of city council, thank you for the opportunity to share information about this exciting project. As the associate vice president for planning and construction real estate at PSU, I've had the privilege of working on this project since its conception about five years ago.
 Per the development agreement, PSU is leading project management and has been delegated responsibility for contracting and accounting services. We take this responsibility very seriously and are extremely committed to being diligent stewards of our collective resources.
 The four-person steering committee, which includes one representative from each owner, selected SRG partnership last fall, and Anderson Construction as well to construct the building, and many consultants and trade partners have already been brought on board. We are on track to exceed our collective goal that at least 20 percent of firms hired by the design team and contractor are minority women, disabled, or emerging small business owned.
 We've already had two design advice request meetings, and we will be before the design commission on August 2nd for our land use hearing. And if all goes well, as anticipated, we plan to break ground in just a few months. And then two years later, around October 2020, the building will open. This has been an extremely positive collaborative relationship between these four partners. We've worked very well together over the last year.
 The building occupants will include at least five yet-to-be-determined retailers, PSU's Graduate School of Education, OHSU, PSU's Joint School of Public Education, Portland Community Colleges' dental programs and their community clinic, as well as the city bureau that Tom noted. So I can speak for all of the city's partners on this project in thanking you all, thanking Prosper Portland and the Office of Management and Finance for your continued support.
 We're very enthusiastic about the partnership. We're happy to take any questions you have. Please don't ask me to manipulate the slides. I did my best, but that wasn't a great job. Tom, don't touch it. I'll just make one minor correction. It's the PSU-OHSU Joint School of Public Health that will be located. Thank you for the correction, Mr. Mayor. No worries. My job is done here. So, go ahead. After you, Dan.
 Will this building be LEED Gold, at least? Yes. Minimum LEED Gold and aspiring to be LEED Platinum. So I just want to offer a two-minute history lesson, because I know we have to keep on track so the mayor can meet his 1130 appointment with one of his colleagues. But this project really started under Mayor Adams, and it was Mayor Adams who led a comprehensive effort to,
 that led to the creation of the so-called Education Urban Renewal District. One of the casualties of having serial one-term mayors is that a new mayor can come in and can change whatever he or she wants, and as a result we've seen some lack of continuity on some major projects. Mayor Hales came in, was a skeptic of the Education URA project,
 and actually pulled the plug on it. Now, interestingly, one of the council members that agreed with him in terms of the utility of an education URA was Commissioner Fritz.
 But Commissioner Fritz thought that a bargain, a deal, a commitment had been made to Portland State, and she was not going to pull the plug on an education urban renewal district without a commitment from the city that we would make up the commitment through some other mechanism.
 That led to a more robust vision for the South Waterfront Urban Renewal District, the North McAdam District. That, in turn, led to conversations about site-specific projects where the city and Portland State and other partners could do what they had done so successfully at the Urban Center, which is probably the model of where all these parties come together, use their different buckets, and then build something. So –
 Mayor, I want to say to you that I appreciate that you and the CAO have honored a commitment the council made. Dan is actually the official historian of the council because he goes back longer than I do. But we were both here when that commitment was made. And I had particular heartburn when a decision was made.
 to pull the plug on an education URA because I thought it was well conceived and I thought that there was no institution that was more important for us to work with than Portland State University downtown.
 But because of Commissioner Fritz's principal position, we ended up redrawing the lines on the North McAdam District, ended up putting additional resources in, picking projects. This comes out of that, and I think this has the potential to be a wonderful project with a great partner. So I say thank you.
 notwithstanding the pitfalls of serial one-term mayors, I appreciate that this administration is channeling a little bit of the Adams administration and keeping faith with the commitment that we made to Portland State University. And this building, I think, will be a great community resource and an important space for us as we relocate to planning sustainability there. So thank you. You're welcome. Mayor, before you call the roll, can I acknowledge a couple of other people? We also need to take testimony.
 Of course. And it's a first reading. Can I acknowledge a couple other people? Yeah, of course. Three people from facilities that played a key role in this. I want to acknowledge Sharon Raymore, David Olangi, and Laura Goble. I believe I saw Sharon here. Sharon, if you'd wave your hand. David was here earlier. And, of course, from the city attorney's office, countless hours by Linda Law. I don't think Linda's here, but I want to acknowledge all the work she put in. Thank you.
 Very good. All right, public testimony, Carla. Something went wrong with the sign-up sheet here. Is there anybody who wanted to speak to this item? I see one person. Come on up. Three minutes, please, Carla. Yes. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Edith Gillis, and I'm a very proud member of SEIU, Service Employee International Union. We are a sanctuary union. We welcome all. There's no room for hate in our workplaces, homes, or country. We're united in solidarity with immigrants, refugees, members of all races, religions, the LGBTQI community, and we respect women and value black lives. I'm here because this development area that is joint
 for public health. I want us to be aware that it's close to ice and that one-quarter of the people who are represented by our union are immigrants. And more than that in nursing homes and almost all the people in adult foster care are immigrants. I also want you to be aware that as we are terrorizing immigrants and refugees who through no fault of their own are denied the proper paperwork
 that they have offered or that's been stolen from them or denied, that reduces the quantity and the quality of care options. In 2000, the Oregon voters... Ma'am, in all fairness, the mayor has already ruled what was germane or not to a prior proceeding. Can you keep this specific? The specific item before us is whether we should enter into this development agreement.
 And it has specific terms. And so the testimony really needs to be to the development agreement. And so I want the terms to be...
 increasing more information about having protection for the care providers and that we have protection from ICE and DHS and other folks who would be violating that space for those of us who are going for CNAs or other degrees and that the study of it and the space around it is protected and that we're not having the violation as today when
 The fire department and the ambulance were called in falsely to ICE to clear a way for prisoners who were taken away. And then protesters and neighbors being brutalized. I want to have our public health to take into account the environmental harm.
 and I want them to be taking into account the systemized oppression and violence and how that chronic stress causes long-term physical and autoimmune diseases that we need to have addressed as a public health issue. So you represent SEIU? I am coming as an individual who is a proud SEIU member, but I am not speaking for SEIU. Okay. Very good. Thank you. And I appreciate...
 I hear what you're saying and I appreciate the way you did it as opposed to what we saw about 20 minutes ago in the chamber. I actually didn't know what the heck they were talking about because they were shouting so many invectives and swear words. They were shooting people, children. They were poisoning people who are chemically sensitive. They were terrorizing neighborhoods.
 because of ICE and DHS violating so many federal, state, and city laws. Thank you very much. I appreciate your testimony. All right. With that, is there anything else, colleagues, before we move this ordinance to second reading? Thank you.
 Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, Tom, wherever you disappeared to. And very good, David, and everybody else. Thanks a lot. We'll look forward to continuing this process. Next item, please, is item number 731.
 appoint Heidi Bullock, Colleen Johnson, Rob Martineau, Dory Robinson, and Alan Warman as voting members, and Anna Brophy, Van Lee, and Vera Zaharova as ex-officio members of the Portland Utility Board. Commissioner Fish. Is Melissa Merrill here? Melissa, why don't you come forward? I'll make some very brief comments. And Mayor and colleagues, as you know, coming out of the Blue Ribbon Commission meeting,
 a recommendation was made to establish a Portland Utility Board. That board provides citizen oversight of our two utilities, the Bureau of Environmental Services and the Portland Water Bureau. Per City of Portland Code, members of the Portland Utility Board, or PUB, are appointed by the mayor in consultation with the commissioner in charge and confirmed by the city council. Today we have before us five...
 three appointments for voting members, and three ex officio members of the board. I'd like to thank each and every one of the volunteers who have stepped up and have agreed to serve our community in this important role. And we've asked Melissa Merrill, Principal Financial Analyst from the City Budget Office, who has dedicated staff to the pub, to give us a brief introduction to the new board members. Melissa, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Melissa Merrill, City Budget Office and Portland Utility Board. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fish. Thank you for having us here today and considering these appointments.
 I'd be happy to go through the recruitment and review process if you'd like. Maybe just go right to the names. I certainly can. We have five voting members for your consideration today. Two are new members, Heidi Bullock and Dori Robinson. They are both here if you'd like to speak with them briefly. We have three reappointments, Colleen Johnson, Alan Worman, and Rob Martineau. Alan and Rob are also here if you'd like to talk to them. And three ex officio members. Yes.
 Van Lee and Anna Brophy are reappointments, and Vera Zaharova is a new appointee. So we have, I think, in the materials some information about all the folks. Mayor, what I would suggest is that we ask, to the extent people are able, all of the nominees to stand. But why don't we invite the new faces to come forward and just give us a minute or two of why they're interested in this position. Yeah, it's a great idea. Very good.
 So could everybody who's here today to be either nominated or re-nominated stand so we can acknowledge you? And, Melissa, I want to thank you for the biographies that you provided us in letter form. They're really good, very thorough. Melissa, who are the two new members? Dori Robinson and Heidi Bullock. Why don't you, ladies, if you could come forward, and why don't you each take a minute or so just to tell us about yourself and what is it about this position that interested you?
 And welcome. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Hi. My name is Dori Robinson, and I currently work for the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality as the Water Quality Permit Coordinator. And prior to that, I worked for a major medical manufacturing company in Shanghai, China. And in that world, I dealt primarily with compliance. Okay.
 I joined the pub because I am committed to advancing the needs of people of color and
 in the realm of environmental justice. And my goal is to create greater access towards equitable rates in the realm of water quality. And also, I want to promote the pub in other neighborhoods and communities in Portland, particularly communities that are not well recognized. And...
 I am just very honored to be here, and I'm so proud to be an example for young black girls who have an interest in civic participation and public involvement. So thank you. Thank you. We're really pleased that you're willing to do this. You have your skill sets deep. Your interest is obvious. And I personally, as a resident of the city, I'm really grateful that there's people of your caliber willing to step up. So thank you. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler.
 Good morning. Heidi Bullock. I currently work for the Port of Portland. I'm one of the environmental project managers. And prior to that, I've over 15, 20 years maybe of private consulting work in environmental engineering. Yeah.
 My background is in hydrogeology, and so obviously clean drinking water and rivers and watersheds are very important to me. And I have a deep commitment in wanting to be part of that and making sure that there's affordable clean water and provided to everyone in the Portland community.
 So I'm really honored and excited to hopefully be able to both be part of this, you know, as a part of a civic responsibility and also to garner some experience that I'm looking for in that arena and also an opportunity to apply my knowledge and skill set. Can I just say that we are very fortunate to have two people of your caliber, and each of you brings a unique skill set.
 And I think just generally it is the case that the better job we do bringing more people into our deliberative processes, the more the public knows that the pub is the place to go to have a say about our utilities, rate setting, and other things, the better. Now, we've come a long way in the last five years. We used to be able to fill this room with people at rate setting time.
 I think we've recovered some of the lost confidence in the utilities, but more broadly speaking, engaging the community in what we do is very important work. Each of you has a unique skill set that will help us do it. So thank you very much for your willingness to serve. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. We really appreciate it. Mayor, before I move the report, I just want to acknowledge that Colleen Johnson and Alan Worman have served as our co-chairs. Alan is here. Is Colleen here as well? No.
 I know election time is coming upon us, and the pub will be taking up the question of leadership going forward. But whatever the outcome of that, we owe Alan and Colleen a debt of gratitude for their service and their willingness to continue to serve on the pub. So with that, Mayor, I move the report. Second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Thank you.
 Well, I want to thank our current members, our existing members, for their service, and welcome, Heidi and Dory. You both have outstanding backgrounds, particularly strong in environmental areas, and your passion is evident as well for environmental quality, and that's really great to hear. So thank you. Hi. Fish? One of the things that the Blue Ribbon Commission recommended was that
 We be very clear in our, I think it's our bylaws or in the authorizing legislation, about the areas of expertise that we should be recruiting to serve on the pub. This particular oversight body is loaded with talent.
 And after all, we're spending a small fortune on our public utilities, so we ought to have really qualified people helping us get it right. Thank you to our newest members. Thank you to the folks who continue to serve our leadership team, Rob Martineau and others. I'm very pleased to support this report and vote aye.
 Wheeler. So this is, to me, one of the more important boards that we have an obligation to fill. And it heartens me to see that we're filling it with people who are really, truly, amazingly well-qualified and bringing different backgrounds and experiences and maybe even different perspectives about priorities to the board. Thank you.
 And this is an area I didn't know very much, little to nothing, frankly, by the time I took office. And I've really enjoyed hearing when members of the pub come here and testify before city council, particularly at budget time, and give us their perspectives. It's always well-received. And I'm just delighted that you're both willing to step forward, and I'm delighted that we have so many returning members who are willing to continue to engage. Thank you all very much.
 I vote aye. The report is accepted. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 732. Accept bid of Wildish Standard Paving Company for the Northeast Halsey-Weidler Streetscape Project for $4,296,641. Commissioner Saltzman. Commissioner poses me. Let's kick it to Larry Platt. Mr. Larry Platt. You're right, Larry Platt.
 Good morning. Good morning. Mayor, commissioners, thank you very much. Item 732, you have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Wildish Standard Paving Company for the Northeast Halsey-Weidler Streetscape Project. The amount is $4,296,640.52.
 The engineer's estimate was $3,931,178. Bureau's confidence level was moderate. March 7th, Council approved ordinance number 188847 for procurement services to solicit the project.
 The project was advertised on the electronic procurement system. Bids were opened May 24th. Four bids were received, and Wildish Standard Paving is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $4,296,642.52, which is unfortunately 9.3% over the engineer's estimate.
 July 15th, Prosper Portland, City of Portland, Bureau of Transportation entered into an intergovernmental agreement for the design of this project, a slightly larger project. The project scope includes pedestrian safety, crossing improvements, protected bike lanes, northeast 103rd Avenue improvements, and some east entry triangle improvements. The project is identified in the city's capital improvement program.
 I'm going to skip a couple things because I know you guys are tight for time. Wildish Standard Paving is acting as a prime contractor identified the following areas of opportunity. They had riffing, plumbing, HVAC, electrical, and masonry. There is a total of $668,860, 16% identified as DMWSB subcontractor participation. Okay.
 Wilde Standard Paving is located in Eugene. They are not a state-certified DMWSB contractor. They are compliant with all City of Portland contracting requirements. If you have questions about the procurement itself, I can answer those, or there is Elizabeth Mann from PBOT is in the chambers if you have project questions. Any questions on that?
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on this? I'm sorry, this is a report. May I move the report? We have a motion. Second. We have a second. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Next item, 733. This is Larry Elsa.
 733, accept guaranteed maximum price of $2,532,012 from Stacy and Whitbeck, Inc. of Oregon for construction related to the Portland Open Space Sequence Restoration Project. Okay. Good morning. Again, I am Larry Pellatt.
 The overall project, but I'm going to skip the first part. You already have the number. The overall project management or project budget, including the design services, insurance, bonding, and all the additional pieces was $3.85 million. The funding sources are a combination. There's $2.15 million of voluntary local improvement district, essentially voluntary property taxes, $200,000 carried from the 2014 fall bump, and $1.5 million carried from the 2016 fall bump.
 The Council adopted Ordinance 188068, November 2, 2016, that approved findings to authorize an exemption and get us to a CMGC, Construction Manager General Contractor, process and authorized payment for the construction related to the Portland Open Space Halpern Sequence Restoration Project.
 Projects was advertised in the city's electronic procurement system. Proposals were evaluated by a five-member evaluation team, including city personnel, outside representatives, and a member from the city's minority evaluator program. Stacey and Whitbeck was determined to be the most qualified responsive proposer. The pre-construction contract was executed August 1, 2017, indicating the beginning of the project. This report seeks approval of the guaranteed maximum price for the project.
 of $2,532,012.
 Portland Parks Bureau, along with procurement services and the prime contractor and subcontractors at all tiers, have negotiated a commitment of 20 percent of hard construction costs for utilization of DMW ESB firms, amounting to $437,867 of a base construction bid of $2,189,336. Stacey and Whitbeck, as a current City of Portland business license, they are not a serviceable,
 We're a DMW ESB certified firm. They're in compliance with all of the City of Portland contracting requirements. If you have questions, I can answer them. Do we have someone from Parks here? I honestly don't. Why don't you come forward if you don't mind. Okay. That's great. Thanks, Larry. They hadn't gotten back to me by the time I rushed over here. If you could just introduce yourself for the record. Okay.
 Good morning. Good morning. I'm Sandra Bertzos. I'm the Capital Project Manager from Portland Parks and Recreation. Sandra, I have two questions for you. Number one, where do we stand in terms of issuing permits? We are very close. I expect them to be possibly today, the final permits. Thank you very much. And two, I was over at a bookstore the other day that was near the Source Fountain, which is the smallest of the fountains, and that was running. Are the other fountains operational? No.
 We have Keller off right now doing some early work. That was part of the pre-construction services contract. And then the others are on right now. We will turn off Lovejoy on the 23rd after the 22nd Sunday Parkway is going through there. Very good. And I don't know whether it's fair to ask you this question or not. You'll tell me if it isn't. But I was up in Washington Park the other day, actually just a couple days ago, and
 And none of the fountains were on. Is there a lag in terms of when they come on, like the Lee Kelly and the Rose Garden or the fountain next to the statue of Sacagawea or some other places? I don't know about those particularly. I do know that our fountains crew, I'm going to think it was maybe around three or four weeks ago, told me they had all the fountains up and running. Okay.
 Could you ask someone in parks just to get back to my office? And I'm talking specifically about the Lee Kelly sculpture that has a fountain component that's in the heart of the Rose Garden. And also there's another couple of fountains on the way up there. And I remember that we worked out a deal about who's going to pay for what and who's going to run what. And I'd just be curious whether they are scheduled to go online. And thank you for your good work in expediting the permits. I know that's been a big lift. Thank you.
 Very good. Mayor, I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The report's adopted. Thank you both. Appreciate it all very much. Next item, 733. I'm sorry, 734.
 Authorize a contract with Brown and Caldwell, Inc. for professional engineering services for the Asset Management Program for Continuous Collection System Planning Project for a total not to exceed amount of $1,249,498.
 Commissioner Fish. So we're joined by Shannon Reynolds, Principal Engineer from the Bureau of Environmental Services, who's going to give us a brief presentation. But just to tee this up, colleagues, this contract will allow the Bureau of Environmental Services to improve its asset management program
 and identify combined and sanitary sewer infrastructure most in need of repair and maintenance. Ms. Reynolds, welcome. Thank you. Commissioner Fish, good morning. Mayor Wheeler. Good morning. Bring the mic a little closer if you would. Is that better? Yeah. Perfect.
 For the record, my name is Shannon Reynolds. I'm a principal engineer in the Bureau of Environmental Services. I'm here today to request authorization of a professional services contract with Brown and Caldwell for technical support services for our continuous collection system planning effort. This work will help us improve how we identify and find solutions for risks to our assets that collect wastewater from our homes and businesses and stormwater from our streets.
 Consistent with what you've heard from Director Jordan, who presented on the BES's 10-year strategic plan, we need to increase our investment for this particular asset class from $50 million a year on average to about $80 million a year on average.
 Reinvesting in these assets are essential to protecting the environment, human health and safety, and avoiding flooding. The consequences of not investing results in an increased risk to basement sewer backups, street flooding, and regulatory fines.
 We do a really good job at BES of maintaining and operating our assets in this particular class. And to achieve that $80 million reinvestment strategy, we need to continue to maintain our service goal, our investment in our processes and our characterization for those assets. So we need to refine and optimize our processes to provide more cost-effective use of city resources to do so.
 Through this work, BES will continue to invest in updating the characterization of our assets and the associated condition and risk. We will update and improve the tools used to perform the characterization, and we will develop a long-term sustainable strategy for continued updates of the combined sewer system assets to appropriately plan and scope capital projects to repair aging system components.
 The PTE support from Brown and Caldwell will cover a three-year period and will end in 2021. Ongoing implementation of the strategy developed through this effort will continue for system characterization and process improvements. To summarize, I am requesting authorization for a professional services contract with Brown and Caldwell to provide technical support for system improvements for the continuous collection system plan.
 The contract was competitively bid and has a 20% DWM ESB participation component. And I just want to say thank you for the opportunity to present to you today, and I'm happy to answer any questions that you might have at this time. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? I was curious. I probably knew this once and forgot. But what percentage of our sewer system is combined?
 There's about 30% of our service area is served by a combined sewer system, and the two-thirds is separated stormwater. Okay. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you for your great work on this. Thank you. Well done. Thank you. Next item, please. 735, second reading.
 authorize a contract with CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc. to provide design, permitting, and construction support engineering services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Secondary Treatment Expansion Program Project, number E07947, in the amount of $28,300,000.
 Colleagues, this is a second reading. There was previous testimony and a presentation on this item. I was not present, but I have reviewed the record. Are there any further comments or questions on this? Very good. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 736. Sorry. Also a second. 736. 736.
 Authorize a contract with Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. to provide program management, project controls, and construction management support services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Secondary Treatment Expansion and Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant Improvements Programs, project numbers E07947 and E10927.
 7-0 in the amount of $21,800,000. Very good. And again, I've reviewed the record. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item and our last item today, item 737. Okay.
 Where's Kathy? Authorize a competitive solicitation for utility bill presentment at an estimated cost of $7,500,000. Commissioner Fish. I'm going to introduce Gabe Salmer to introduce our panel and take it away from here.
 Thank you so much. Gabe Salmer, Deputy Director at the Portland Water Bureau. And with me is Kathy Cook, who's our Customer Service Director. And we wanted to tell you very briefly about this five-year RFP for our bill printing and our digital bill presentment. And, of course, that's for the utility bill, which includes water, sewer, and stormwater. So I'll let Kathy take it from there. All right. Good morning. Good morning.
 The Water Bureau currently creates and prints our water, sewer, and stormwater bill, both paper and electronic, in-house. We print approximately 830,000 bills, 260,000 notices, and 90,000 letters in a year. In fiscal year 16-17, we billed charges for over $487 million to our rate payers.
 Billing our customers is a critical function for both the Water Bureau and BES. It's one of the main ways in which we communicate with our 192,000 customers.
 Last year, we had a consulting firm review our current process for bill print. This study documented our current workflow and identified potential vulnerabilities. While they found our process to be efficient, they identified potential areas of improvement. The system we have now does not support a disaster recovery plan. We are looking for a bill print and presentment vendor who has multiple sites across the U.S. for backup printing facilities.
 We have had instances in the past of not being able to print for a day or two while waiting for a technician to fly into Portland to work on our printer.
 Our current data processing group that prints our bills consists of two people, both of whom have more than 30 years of service with the city. And while their dedication and attendance is phenomenal, I just feel like it's a big risk to have such a critical bureau function on the backs of just two people. We also believe a change would improve our customer satisfaction. Our current bill print is limited to basic information and bill format.
 Billprint and design is not a core function of a utility bureau, and we're not keeping up with technology and customer demands. For example, vendors today have the ability to place targeted messages on the bills by whatever criteria we want to show. It can go as far as down to a type of customer or a location, a neighborhood, that kind of thing.
 I just have an example in this where we got an unsolicited sample of what we could do. But in this corner, you'll see that for the electronic bills, you can actually have a video embedded. And so the example they used was our clean water festival that we do. It features and highlights our blog, which is a way that we can –
 allow customers to know that the Bureau is more than just this bill and, you know, just the charges itself. So it really can connect the community to the things that we're doing. The printer that we use for printing bills takes up a great deal of space and we're coming upon replacement. It's around a $250,000 machine. So we're at a point where we need to decide if we should continue to print in-house or contract that work out.
 We've estimated the potential cost of this contract based off our existing budget line items, like rental of space, equipment, supplies, postage, hardware, all of that kind of thing. We estimated the cost to be $1.5 million a year. So the $7.5 is really for a five-year contract. The estimation is taken right out of our current budget. It does not assume a cost increase or savings because we simply won't know until we get the bids back.
 The successful bidder will have expertise in bill design, be able to present our data in new ways that provide greater clarity to our customers, and will be able to quickly support or produce changes we request. We are seeking industry expertise on the specific function of bill print and presentment, which will allow us to keep pace with the technological advances and our customer expectations.
 Kathy, excellent presentation. If we were to go this path and use an outside vendor, which you've identified has multiple potential benefits, including being able to have continuity of operations in the event there's a seismic event or something like that, and to offer a range of other services and features. Yes.
 What would happen to the two employees, the long-time employees who are currently working in bills? It's interesting because they would remain. The job itself of printing our bills is a significant task. It's a pretty important function. But really, they just put the ink in and push press.
 print while they go do their other things. So it's not a big time amount of their day. Probably between pushing the button and getting the job done is maybe 30 minutes. So it's not going to be a significant piece of work taken away as far as the employees themselves. And, again, they have both been over here 30 years, so I imagine through attrition we will continue to do something else, but right now there is plenty of things for them to do. Thank you.
 So this contract is to do outsourcing of our billing, ultimately? Is that what this is about, or is it just backup?
 printing in case of an emergency? We would send our daily, nightly file to a different vendor. So it would be outsourcing the actual printing of the piece of paper and the electronic presentment. And in the electronic presentment, which we don't have the technology now to do, but we always put a bar graph for usage so people understand what they're using when they're using it. It has things where you can just, when you get in an electronic bill, you can hover over that and dig down to
 you know, more information than what we provide now. So, you know, if people still want to get it in print, they can, but there are some pretty amazing electronic features that would come along with this kind of thing. So what protections do we have for our customers whose data will now be in the hands of a third-party vendor who will probably want to market that database to another vendor?
 We have protections within our contract, just like we do with our computer information system, our billing system. That's a third-party vendor, and so the city's been in this business of needing to share that kind of data. So it would be in the contract about what they can and can't do with our information. I think what you're hearing from Commissioner Saltzman is that if we end up going down this road and there's a vendor that puts in a competitive price –
 he'd want to see as a follow-up issue the kinds of legal protections that we'd be placing in a contract which would ensure both that the privacy rights that people have to their data is protected and that their data not be marketed to third parties without their consent. Yeah, and we will certainly cover that. It will absolutely remain 100% our data at all times. They wouldn't be able to use it for anything else.
 To that point, and I'd add a third thing to Commissioner Fish's list, which is in the event that they have a data breach, they have to notify us on a timely basis about the data breach and the nature of the data breach. And I assume that – is that becoming standard? Definitely. I assume it is. Yes. With PCI and PII, it's a –
 It's actually kind of nice to try to get out of that business ourselves and give it to somebody else. But, yeah. Very good. And I support your idea here. I think it's a very good idea. Will you be able to go back and look at how frequently people are actually looking at the other features? Since now the billing will include potentially your blog. It will potentially include a video, which I think is pretty neat. Okay.
 Are you going to get any kind of data or analytics back giving you some indication of who's reading it, how often they're reading it, whether that tool is actually effective? Yeah.
 Yeah. Not only will we get that for our electronic, they also have the ability, which we don't today, where it was delivered to the post office at this time. It was delivered to your house at this time. A lot of times customers will call and say, never got the bill, and we would actually have a way of tracking when it leaves our office to when it gets to the customer. Very good. And that's disappointing because that's often one of my challenges. I have to come up.
 with a new one. What's the percentage of customers that have specifically asked for e-bills? We are at 40-some thousand customers on electronic billing. I would assume that we will have a much greater adoption because of the functions that this would offer. Yeah, you know, just so my colleagues understand, you know, we've been trying to
 offer as many inducements as possible to get people to sign up for monthly e-bills. Some people prefer to get a quarterly bill, and they prefer to get it in paper form. But this gives us potentially the opportunity to make the electronic billing even more attractive. And I do know that a lot of e-bill companies now have it down to a science where you get a text message –
 and you just text back Y or N, and they actually debit your account. I'm not sure that's in our future, but it just tells you, it reminds us that technology is going ahead in leaps and bounds. And we can come up with some features that make it very easy for people, including I like the idea of reminders, reminding people when they're getting close to due dates and giving people a gentle reminder if they're at risk of losing a date.
 And here's a general sales pitch. We do offer pay-by-text right now. All right, there you go. Sign. Good pitch. All right, thank you. Excellent presentation. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Nobody signed up. Oh, thank you. I did jump the gun on that, but it turns out nobody signed up. And with that, we are adjourned. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Go to that bookstore. You're welcome. You're over at the bookstore? Yeah, I like it.