Ready? I'm ready. Good morning. It's time to come to order for Portland City Council meeting of June 28th, 2017. Carla, can you please call the roll? Saltzman? Here. Fritz? Fish? Here. Wheeler? Udaly? Here. All right, before we begin, I'm going to read the conduct rules.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I'm going to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also ensure that decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications, to briefly speak about any subjects they wish to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. And if you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light will come on up at the desk here. And when your time is done, the red light will come on and you will hear a series of beeps.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations, will not be allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I will issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass.
 If you'd like to show your support for something, please hold your applause and give us a thumbs up or twinkle fingers. And if you want to express that you do not support something, you can give us a thumbs down. Thank you, and let's get started with council communications. Carla, can you please call the first item? Item 817, request of Star Stauffer to address council regarding police accountability. Okay.
 Oh, and P.S., it's July 19th, not June, whatever I just said it was. I'm on autopilot this morning. Good morning, Star Stauffer. Wheeler is noticeably absent on the day that I'm to speak during communications, and I'd like him to know that that's definitely noticed and appreciated.
 super shameful and cowardly, but coming from Wheeler, that's not a big surprise. Since January, I've been trying to figure out why it is that this council allows the Portland Police to run such a muck and remain so out of control, shooting people, killing people, attacking protesters, illegally declaring things a riot when they're not.
 escalating pretty much every situation, not understanding the art of de-escalation or communication, certainly not participating in any public services or community outreach, and definitely not interested in bridging the gap between the community and themselves. They are distrusted, they are feared, and they are terrorists. And since January, I've wondered what is it going to take? How many
 of our constitutional rights need to be violated? How many of us need to be continually put in a situation where our lives are in jeopardy just because we stand in a street or in many cases these days on the sidewalk? It doesn't seem to matter where we are, even in a designated space such as the fourth when we were all in Chapman and the police decided to just advance and
 turn what was actually a separate, two separate protests into an absolute war zone, while also allowing for disgusting fascist Nazis and hateful bigots to safely escape. It turns out that you have no control over the Portland Police. You have shown that time and again. And I believe that it's because you are scared of the Portland Police.
 I believe that the Portland police control you and not the other way around. I believe that Wheeler put himself in charge because the Portland police have urged him to do so, so that they can run him. Your ineffectiveness, your...
 feelings party that you insist on constantly having while you collect the salaries that you do and sit in the positions that you do, dictating to us how we're supposed to react to the brutalization by the police in this city, and then doing nothing about it and making excuse after excuse is disgusting.
 Because of your lack of regard for how out of control this police department is, every single person in this city that's not a white, disgusting bigot is in danger. Every single day, all the time. They constantly harass houseless, people of color, women, protesters, or anybody who doesn't fall in line with Ted's authoritarian rule.
 So we're going to continue to resist. We're not going to stop. I don't care what lengths the police go to. We're going to continue to protest, and we're going to continue to show up, because unlike you, we are not willing to settle under coercive law and authoritarian rule and be told where we can and cannot be, especially when it's people of color. Those days are over.
 Ted's absence is disgusting today. He knew I was going to be speaking about police accountability. And where is he now? Thank you, Star. The time is up. I don't care that my time is up. Black lives matter! $4 million to go to houses, not to politics. Okay. Mimi, you're being disruptive and you need to leave. I need my exclusion cards. And dollars. Ted is going to do that. He's going to get $4 million on the track.
 Mimi, you're excluded and you need to leave. Ammunition! But they can practice shooting at people of color. That's what they do! While knocking out Kentucky workers against regular citizens, and you all just sit here with nothing to do with it. Nothing about it. It doesn't matter! It doesn't matter to you! $4 million goes to housing, not to live ammunition! That's what the mayor's doing! That's why he's not here today!
 No, I'm not sure about this. He's not here today because of the fucking power. All right. Okay. Please call the next item. Item 818, request of Charles Johnson to address council regarding police. Mr. Johnson is not here. Could you call the next item? 819, request of Shedrick Wilkins to address council regarding Montgomery Park Solar Energy Station and restaurant. Good morning. Good morning.
 Well, I kind of failed about building Montgomery Park and all the solar panels on the parking garage. I'm Shedrick Wilkins. I tried to do something with the library on Sundays where I could get some people, but it backfired. I'm not an associated group with the library, so they didn't promote some Sunday meeting at 10 o'clock. I kind of got mad at the library. I'll redo that one. I...
 I said last week too that even like solar cells were used on a small scale, like people can charge up and use their cell phones and cell phone towers, I have a little solar panel in the window that runs a scientific calculator.
 In 1972, that stuff would cost several thousand dollars to do something like that. Now it just costs $15. So there's a lot of stuff there. And then, of course, I do believe that Montgomery Park is kind of like a temple to me. It's got the most, an aerial view. It is not open on the weekends. So one of my plans is I could march up there on a Sunday. I am kind of religious about this.
 I don't believe in going to church and worshiping moral teachings if people want to do that, but I like worshiping science and nature. I should be a Taoist or Zen Buddhist. I was born a Christian. But anyway, I like one of my leaders right now is Governor Jerry Brown has become anti-Trump, and he swears he's going to go buy a bunch of solar cells with the government.
 with the California economy from China and put them all over your roof you can get his hands on. Looks like to me he's going to finish his fourth term like a lot of governors don't. And Jerry Brown's become the leader of the anti-Trump, anti-Paris global warming treaty. So I'm trying to do my part locally to promote solar cell technology, which generates electricity, applied to electronics.
 And I'll keep going with it. And I'll try to get an affiliated group and talk at the library on a Sunday. And then maybe we could at least march up and look at the solar panels on the parking garages. Thank you. Thank you. Carla, next item, please. Item 820, a request of Teresa Vencato-Chalopithi to address council regarding Freedom Cities. Yes.
 Welcome. Is this your first time here? It is. Well, welcome to Democracy in Action. Thank you. We are delighted to have you. And I notice there's a lot of other people wearing similar things. Could they stand just so we can acknowledge them? Let's give them a round of applause, Madam President. Thank you for joining us.
 Oh, guys, thanks so much for allowing me to speak today. I'm coming on behalf of myself and a lot of other Portland residents to advocate for Portland's adoption of ACLU's nine model policies for law enforcement. We're all fundamentally grateful that we live in a state and a city that welcome immigrants and refugees. And we're really impressed with Resolution 37277
 that has declared Portland a welcoming city and a sanctuary city and an inclusive city for all. We also find that a lot of the city's current practices align well with the ACLU's suggested policies. So what we'd really like to do is capture those practices in official city code so that they're more explicit and more permanent. We feel resolution 37277 is written in pretty general terms which leaves some room for interpretation.
 So, for example, we'd like City Code to explicitly require a judicial warrant before arresting or detaining or transporting an individual at the request of ICE or CBP. Thank you. Currently, the State Code only covers arrests. We'd also like City Code that prohibits ICE and CBP agents from...
 Entry into Portland facilities unless they're acting pursuant to a court order or unless they have a legitimate law enforcement duty that is unrelated to civil immigration law. If they are granted access, which sometimes of course they must be, we want them to be required to wear their duty jackets and required to have their badges visible at all times so that people always know who they're talking to.
 We'd also like city code that explicitly limits information gathering and sharing by city officials. We should not be collecting data on immigration status and citizenship status unless there's a legitimate law enforcement need for it. And we shouldn't be sharing information with ICE or CBP unless it has been federally mandated.
 Federal code can require us to share information on citizenship status and immigration status, but we can prohibit sharing of information beyond that, like custody status or release dates or work schedules or things like that. We'd like city code that explicitly prohibits surveillance on the basis of race, ethnicity, perceived religion, immigration status, and discriminatory law enforcement based on those attributes as well.
 We know about Police Directive 810.10, but it actually does not specify discrimination based on ethnicity, religion, or immigration status. It also doesn't prohibit discriminatory surveillance, and it doesn't pertain to people outside the police bureau. Once the other policies have been codified, then the Independent Review Board can oversee that.
 compliance within the police bureau and the ombudsman's office can oversee compliance for other city officials. Basically it's a lot harder to rectify violations of current practice than it would be to rectify violations of an explicit city policy.
 So we hope you'll continue to engage with us about the ACLU's nine model policies. Teresa, can I – is it Teresa? Yeah. Can I ask you a couple questions? Yeah. I didn't state my name. I'm Teresa Venkatachalapathy. Thank you. I'm glad you said that. If you don't mind, just so that I don't do violence to your name, I'll just call you Teresa. Great. And I'm Nick. So we have the document, so thank you.
 It strikes me that a number of these model law enforcement policies are probably directed at the county and not the city, since the county does the detentions, the county has the interface with ICE, and we have different roles. But the county, as you know, runs the sheriff's office and the prisons. And so...
 Are you planning to bring the same proposal to the county board of commissioners? Yeah, many of us have, I believe, brought to Multnomah County the same information. So one of the things that I'm going to want to find out, or I think my colleagues will be interested, is which of these is directed to us and which is really within the wheelhouse of the county because we're bifurcated. And that's one question. The second is...
 Can you let – in any follow-up that you give us, can you let us know what other cities have taken action on any of these kinds of model reforms so we can see where it's working and get some comparables? Sample policy code. Yeah. So that would be helpful. And the third thing is –
 I just want to reassure you because there's a constant refrain in these model policies that goes to this fundamental question of whether we're going to comply with state law that prohibits us from using public resources to enforce federal immigration laws. And as you know, when we adopted our Sanctuary City Ordinance Resolution, which is reaffirming our position, we once again said we will follow state law. And we are...
 Currently, the council has also taken action to authorize the city attorney to intervene in a lawsuit challenging the Trump administration on some proposed penalties that they're going to bring to cities and localities that do have a penalty.
 sanctuary city designation. So just so you know, but we have reaffirmed our commitment not to use public resources. Some of these I think probably apply more to the county than the city and some probably do apply to us. So we'll obviously look into them and we look forward to hearing about other sister jurisdictions where they've already put this into code. Thank you. So thank you very much.
 Item 821, request of injured and pissed off to address counsel regarding google.com, injured and pissed off. Mr. Chair. There you go. Mr. Chair, right here. You don't want to. Absolutely. My name's injured and pissed off. And, of course, you've seen these papers, my ID and the McNelmy County Court judgment that's rendered.
 and CenturyLink, my internet and telephone provider wrote a nice message at the top of their statement they've got wrote high injured and pissed off and they spelt the off with a space in between it. I guess they made a typographical error. I've spoke here April 26th of this year, June 7th of this year, today's date July 19th and my next
 talk will be on September 13th here. Up on YouTube I did a search of injured and pissed off and it came up first on the page and at the top of it there's a video. Then of course online
 the city post the agenda, but I was wondering, too bad that the mayor isn't here, why they would post two public notices, the city for the city council agenda meetings, where the taxpayers are paying for this. I guess actually the taxpayers that pay the city for the tax for Comcast actually pays for these meetings.
 But I'm sure that the publications aren't doing it for free. The city's paying two, at least two publications, one of which is the DJC, and that's this one. And then the other publication was from the Portland Tribune. I don't know how long this has been going on in their business section.
 But usually a full page ads costs quite a bit of money. And, of course, there's two publications, I guess, that dual printing. Each of them were printed on a different day. So I guess if you forgot one notice that they'd print another, I'll submit that. And then, of course, in September when I'm talking about this snow job that occurred in 2006, August 9th,
 as uninvited guest. Clearly that was a misprint of some sort. And then on the web, I searched injured and pissed off on Google itself, and it came up with only two searches. The second search on this
 It says, the five meanest things said to the Portland City Council last week. And that's dated March 22nd of 2017. One of the frequent flyers is named, and I'm not joking, injured and pissed off. And I'll provide that. And, of course, that was written because of this photograph that was where I spoke at City Hall across the street March 7th.
 And they didn't print my name in the article. Sir, your time is up. Thank you. Carla, can you call the next item? Item 822, accept the regional over-dimensional truck route study as the strategy for improving the movement of over-dimensional freight in the city of Portland. Commissioner Seltzman? Thank you, Madam President. I'm pleased today that the Portland Bureau of Transportation is here to present the over-dimensional truck study
 that will provide a local, provides local jurisdictions with a comprehensive assessment of over-dimensional truck movements to more effectively plan for their safe and efficient routing within and through the metro region. Here to present it is PBOTS Bob Hillier and Pia Welch, who I believe is, you chair of our freight? Chair. Freight Advisory Committee. Welcome, both of you.
 Thank you and good morning, Councillor. I'll get my name in the spot. Hello, for the record, I am the Freight Planning Coordinator for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. With me today is P. Welch, Chair of the Portland Freight Committee.
 So what I want to do today is just give you a brief overview of the packet that was handed out about the over-dimensional truck study. It was recently completed. So I just want to touch on the key highlights of the study, the main elements that were included in there, and some of the key recommendations that affects Portland. Thank you.
 What is that a picture of? It looks like something from NASA. It very well could be a very large cylinder-type item. So I've got a couple of other neat pictures here. I grabbed this off the web, so I don't know if this was local or not. But it actually looks like it's some type of large conduit. Anyway, I've got some good pictures here. Anyway.
 So before we get into the main presentation, the first thing I want to describe is what exactly are over-dimensional loads. Trucks obviously carry all different types of commodities and goods and deliveries all throughout the region, all different sizes and shapes. But there is a certain class of –
 commodity that is being moved that is larger than most other commodities being moved. And they require a permit from the Oregon Department of Transportation. And these are loads that meet a certain dimension requirement. So basically loads that are eight and a half feet wide have a
 have a height of 14 feet or greater, length of 40 feet or exceeding 5 feet beyond the end of a trailer, or a load that is a gross vehicle weight that exceeds 80,000 pounds. And there's all different ways to weigh these loads, and we also look at loads of different axles and things like that. So basically, the real large items that are not a typical part of your goods movement. And just –
 A common example of this is construction equipment. This is the most common. Through our analysis, this is the most common type of over-dimensional load, which has moved throughout the region. Roughly 30% of the classified over-dimensional loads are construction equipment. This is a crane. I'm sorry, this is an excavator. So excavators, cranes, log loaders are real common, particularly in Clackamas County area. So, again, this is what we're talking about where we mean over-dimensional vehicles. Okay.
 or all-dimensional loads. Now, as part of the study, there was also... Yes, here's a nice picture. There's also another load classified as superloads. So these are kind of out of the ordinary, and I don't know if you can guess what this is, but this is a wind turbine blade.
 So if you ever go out to eastern Oregon or Washington, you'll see the wind turbines out there. And those individual blades, there's three per windmill. They're about 125 feet long themselves. So this is classified as more of a super load. This is not really common, but these loads do move around the region. Obviously, in the northwest, we have quite a few of these loads coming in, these particular loads.
 They come in, they're manufactured in Asia. They come into the port of Vancouver, Washington, and then they head out to eastern Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. But again, these are not all that common.
 So a little background and purpose for this study. Why did we decide to do an over-dimensional truck study? Well, in 2006, Council adopted the Portland Freight Master Plan. In that plan, there was about 30 actions and activities that we wanted to advance and learn more about. One of those specific actions and activities was to identify routing for over-dimensional trucks through the city of Portland.
 and also an action to identify a way, a strategy to transfer the US-30 bypass Lombard to Columbia Boulevard. Columbia Boulevard is a designated freight route, but US-30 bypass through the St. John's area, that's a state road. There's a temporary designation for that to be the high route until we can make the necessary improvements on Columbia Boulevard. This study helps us advance moving in that direction with the analysis that we've completed here.
 We pulled together actually the partner agencies for this study. I want to emphasize this is not a City of Portland study. This is a regional study. This is really a study for Metro. And the partner agencies included ODOT, Metro, City of Portland. We served as the project manager for the study, Clackamas, and Multnomah County. And, again, the main purpose is to provide local jurisdictions with a comprehensive assessment and a better understanding how these loads move throughout the region, right?
 And mainly what it does provide, it provides a technical basis for planners and engineers when we're doing our local transportation system plans to get better understanding how these loads need to be accommodated and their impacts on our roadway system. So this really forms a technical basis for making future decisions.
 So key elements of the project. We initiated this project in the fall of 2015. Most of the work was completed at the end of last year. Our consultant, DKS, we hired, they completed the final report in March of this year. So it's relatively new. We pretty much wrapped everything up.
 Stakeholder involvement, what we did here, we pulled together representatives from the heavy hauling industry and also staff, state and local staff that issue over-dimensional permits, and also members of the Portland Freight Committee. And basically we just all got together in a room and we really looked at the critical routes for over-dimensional that are being used throughout the region for over-dimensional movements. So they were a really key resource.
 We completed the first system inventory of 34 identified routes through the three-county metro region. So we have a really good document, which really helps our planners and engineers when we're making improvements on our roadways. We identify the function of the roads, the policy designation. We inventoried all the facilities on the road, bridges, bridge structures of that nature, and we inventoried all the current projects that are being done.
 And more importantly, what we looked at, we wanted to identify what some of those system constraints are, and I'll get into that in a moment here. What are the physical barriers to over-dimensional movements based on the state standards for height and weight restrictions? And our consultant also came out with recommendations of solutions and recommendations along these corridors. So I will go into that in a second here. Thank you.
 One of our first tasks was to map the over-dimensional system. This really hasn't been really done before. So, again, we tapped our stakeholder group, the hauling industry, our permitting staff, members of the Portland Freight Committee, and we just looked at what are the key primary strategic routes for moving everyday over-dimensional vehicles. And here's a map here. We identified roughly 34 corridors.
 Some of these corridors cross over different jurisdictional boundaries. To the left, Cornelius Pass Road is parts in Multnomah County and other parts in Washington County. Same thing with 82nd Ave, which is identified as a pretty key over-dimensional route that's in the city of Portland and also Clackamas County.
 and we color coded it by jurisdictions in the city of portland there's 10 over dimensional routes and if you notice on a map most of the routes are identified in our industrial areas most of them are in the rivergate industrial area northwest industrial and swan island so these are these are common routes that are used for general freight movement anyway so a key part of our analysis organ department transportation we were able to utilize their single trip permit data
 And Chris and their staff, they pulled together over 20,000 records for a three-year period. And that gave us a really good snapshot of the type of goods that are being moved throughout the region and dimensioned those loads. And that database really provided us some valuable information to identify what some of the key constraints are and also to identify solutions. Can I ask a very basic question here? Sure.
 If I'm a trucker on one of these, quote, over-dimensional loads, I have to get an ODOT permit in order to complete the delivery? That's correct. So if you're a certain dimension, like I said, loads that are over 14 feet long, 80,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, they issue single-trip permits. Now, certain companies, they get a continuous operating variance permit. Let's just stick with the single-permit permit.
 single trip permit. And does that permit specify the route that I have to take? Yes. So it's a time and a route, and it's for one trip? That's correct. Generally how it's set up, a company, if they want to move an excavator, so we're, say, from Clackamas County to the Pearl District,
 They would get a permit from ODOT, and they would issue the permit for the route. The hauler has to provide that information to the state. Now, if there's a part of that route, which is a part of a lot of routes are on state roads and local roads. If it's on a local road, they also need a permit from the city or the local jurisdiction. What if it's on an interstate?
 They usually go through ODOT. For example, I'm thinking of the example we sometimes see on I-5 of big trucks moving homes. And there's a very elaborate operation. They usually operate during off-peak times. There's a smaller truck up front heralding what's to come, oversized loads. And it seems like it's a very prescribed process. Yes, it is. Obviously, they've got to know what route they're going to take, what are the vertical clearances, some of the bridges. Yes.
 If you have a very high load, obviously they don't want to hit a bridge or any other structure or go over a bridge which is weight limited if that load is overweight. Sir, let me just ask one more very basic question because it's an excellent presentation. I just want to make sure I understand it. So ODOT issues the single trip permit.
 What about if the truck is going to go on a city arterial? Does the city issue its own permit, or has that been delegated to ODOT? Certain cities will delegate it to ODOT for issue of permits. How about in Portland? In Portland, we issue our own permits. So if you're planning a trip and you're going to be on a state road, a federal road, and a local city arterial, you potentially have to have three permits? Well, not federal. I mean –
 The interstate highway system is managed by ODOT, so they would go to the state. So the state would issue a permit for the state portion of the road, whether it's an interstate highway, US-30 bypass, which is the state road, 82nd. And PBOT would issue a permit for our portion? That's correct. So if they have to travel on a local road, then they would get a permit from us. And then our engineering staff will look at that.
 They'll look at the route and then they'll look at the dimensions of the load and see if they're going to be going under any bridges that have low vertical clearance or over any bridges that have a weight limitation. And do you have the discretion in your piece of this to prescribe the time that the trip occurs? Yes.
 It's not clear to me how that is done in terms of the time of day when that is. Because it seems to me some of these monster trucks, the city might have an interest in saying, sure, you can do this, but we prefer you do it during non-rush hour times. I know generally, actually, I've been on a couple of these loads. The haulers, they prefer to do it at night if it's really large because they don't want to have to deal with traffic and also a lot of the people and vehicles on a road. So they would prefer to do that.
 Certain loads, like construction equipment, is time sensitive. They might have to get at a certain site at a certain prescribed time. But it's not clear whether we prescribe a specific time for that or whether there's a limitation. Thank you for that. Oh, sure. So just quick wrapping up the single trip permit. This provided us a great database, and it really gave us a really good snapshot of the type of loads. Again, one of the takeaways from this, most of over-dimensional loads is construction equipment.
 90% of all the high loads, the over-height loads, are 15 feet or less. Now, this is an important piece of information because we're looking at our vertical clearance of our bridges and which bridges can accommodate most of these loads. And basically 99.9% of the high loads that are moved throughout the whole three-county metro region, I mean, could be accommodated in our bridge system. So there's a very small percent that cannot be accommodated of the high loads.
 Length and the width of the loads we found is not so much of an issue for the drivers. They're able to accommodate them, but they have special trucks and steering equipment so they can get around a lot of tight turns. But height is an issue for some of the drivers, and also heavy loads. A number of our bridges, particularly in Portland, are older, older infrastructure, and some of them have weight limitations on them. So that's also an issue.
 So what I want to do now is just briefly touch on three Portland projects that came out of the study. There was 24 recommendations as part of this study. So there's three in Portland that I think are really key. One is North Columbia. They're all in the Rivergate Industrial District. Two are in Columbia Boulevard, and one's on North Portland Road.
 This is the I-5 bridge which goes over Columbia Boulevard and Union Pacific Railroad. This is a known choke point. This is one of our target areas that we wanted to look at as part of the study. Nobody has really taken a look at this to see, you know, what could be done with this choke point. It's a 16-and-a-half-foot vertical clearance. The state standard for vertical clearance is roughly 17-foot-4 inches.
 So we had our engineering staff, our DKS consultant team, they looked at this, and one of the questions was, you know, can we raise this bridge? Well, one of the problems you get in the Pacific Railroad, you raise a bridge that's very expensive, you've got to go from a long distance to get the adequate clearance. And if you notice that there's two double-stack trains there. They barely make it under, that's the Columbia Boulevard I-5 off-ramp.
 So you really have to barely have clearance here. You probably have to raise the off-ramp. If you raise the off-ramp, you're probably affecting the main line. So it became pretty clear early on. That's not really feasible. So our consultant team recommended to lower the roadbed. There's a complication in this particular area. Kinder Morgan has a jet fuel line, which serves PDX, which goes underneath the road here.
 So we got some data for that, and Kinder Morgans, they didn't want to provide specific information for security reasons. But we feel we could actually lower the roadbed to get that necessary clearance, get an additional foot or so. So this is information that we didn't have before, and this helped answer the question of what constraints are identified in Columbia Boulevard that need to be – that can be fixed to help transfer to US 30 bypass. Can I just add?
 I'll ask you another just basic question. Oh, sure. Are we legally obligated to tailor our system to accommodate whatever truckers come up with? Because, I mean, at some point they could stack them three or four. And you're talking about now raising bridges, lowering bridges, doing all this work. This is a very costly exercise. Are we legally obligated to do that, or are the truckers required to adapt to our system? Sure.
 There's no legal obligation. This is a direction from council, from our freight master plans, to identify a strategy to transfer the US-30 bypass to Columbia Boulevard. In order for that to happen, all the over-height vehicles that are now accommodated on the US-30 bypass, Lombard, would need to be accommodated on Columbia Boulevard. Look, ultimately, it's Commissioner Saltzman's decision.
 recommendation at some future time where this fits into the CIP and what we do. And I'm all for freight mobility. I mean, I supported the master plan. But when I see a slide like this and a monster truck like that, and I'm told we're going to spend money lowering a bridge in order to accommodate something like this. This is actually the railroad. These are double-stack trains here. Or double-stack trains. If we're going to do that for the railroads –
 We have a few other things we'll want to negotiate with the railroad. So I'll make a mental note of that because we don't always get very far on our wish list. And if we're going to make these kinds of changes, I think we may have some leverage to do things like the greenways.
 All these are extremely complex projects. This is the first time we actually had a look at this because everybody over the years scratched their head. What do we do with this choke point here? You've got the jet fuel line. You've got the Indian Pacific Railroad. Can we raise the bridge? We didn't even know that. We didn't know what we didn't know before we did this study. So at least now we have some information. We have some very general basic cost information to see what it might be to lower the road bid, which seems like if the council did want to pursue this project,
 At this point, that would seem to be the most feasible option. Actually, there's another thing that came up through our Portland Freight Committee, through Bill Bergel, who's a long-term member. Union Pacific Railroad, they would like to double-track a lot of their system. And if they did double-track this section of the railroad, there might be a way they could use a different depth girder, which if they did that, that might give us the clearance. So there's all different options with this. But this is one of the main choke points that the study was targeted to look at.
 And safety, I will. The other choke point on Columbia Boulevard, this is the George Middle School Pedestrian Bridge. It's 16 feet high. It was constructed in 1969. It was refurbished, I believe, in 1990 or the 90s to put on ADA ramps. This is another choke point on Columbia Boulevard for high loads. The recommendation here was to look at either raising the bridge an extra foot
 or possibly to take the bridge down and put a net grade crossing here. I just found out last week through a House Bill 2017, a transportation package, a million and a half dollars has been allocated for improvements at this section here. So we've got money to actually look at this in a little more detail here.
 Columbia Boulevard is a wide road, it's 60 foot of pavement, 5 foot lanes, and it's posted at 40 miles an hour. It's a major freight route. So there are some issues that would have to be addressed for having an accurate crossing here.
 And the other choke point on the system in North Portland is on North Portland Road between – this is the Columbia Slough Bridge. This is the old Swift Highway between Marine Drive and Columbia Boulevard. It used to be our road – or it used to be the state road. We took the road over, but the state still owns the bridge.
 This is weight limited to about 105,000, 5,000 pounds. And through our data that we got through our single-trip permits, the weight limit on this bridge limits 90% of all the heavy loads on our system. So, again, this is a state bridge here. We'd like to have an opportunity to work with ODA to refurbish this bridge here.
 So one of the key points I forgot to mention with this study, the map that I showed you before is, let me go back real briefly, not only is this a key freight route for over-dimensional loads, but these are just key safety routes. In the event of an emergency, an earthquake, these are the routes that are going to be providing the key equipment and goods that are going to serve our region in an event like that. So they really serve a multiple purpose as well.
 So next steps. What I'd like to request is for Council to accept the study as our strategy for accommodating over-dimensional loads in the region and to include the three project recommendations that I just described in our transportation system plan. And I do want to point out that those three projects have already been identified on some of our draft lists for our transportation system plan update list.
 They've also been included on the regional transportation plan draft list as part of their update, and we also included it on our transportation system development charge update or draft list. So they've been recognized through this study that these are projects that we wanted to put in our plans. We're not sure when they may or may not get done, but we just want to recognize these are important features and these are important elements in our transportation system. So I went a little bit over, but I can answer any other questions you might have.
 Ms. Wells, did you want to add anything? No, just thank you for your time. Okay. Thank you very much. Carla, is there any public testimony? No one signed up. I move to accept the report. Second. It's a resolution. Oh. It's a resolution. It's a resolution. Oh, yes, it is. So we are resolving to...
 adopt the recommendations, but they're non-binding city policies. So, Commissioner Fish, if you... Yeah. Did you have further concerns? I'm going to make a comment, but my view is we're accepting the report, and there's three projects that they are recommending the commissioner in charge take a good hard look at. Ultimately, it's my understanding it's Dan's call as to whether to do them and in what sequence. Okay. Carla, can you please call the roll? Saltzman.
 Well, thank you both for being here this morning, and I appreciate Metro leading this effort to take a look at these key bottlenecks or choke points for moving freight through our region. It's very important that we do that. Thank you. Bye. Fish? Yes, thank you for an excellent report, and thanks for the answers, the very clear answers you gave to our questions.
 This discussion brought back a very bad memory for me that goes back 20 years, over 20 years, when I hired a moving company to move our family stuff from the East Coast to the West Coast. And we hired a reputable firm. They had a big load. And the first overpass they hit in the Bronx was too low.
 and it sheared the top of the truck off like a sardine can. And we obviously weren't consulted about this because the truck continued on its way. Went through the Midwest, ran into some stormy weather, some snow and sleet and rain. And literally when it arrived in Portland, almost everything in the truck was destroyed. The one good thing we got out of it was two weeks at the old Mallory Hotel. Right.
 That's where I stayed when I moved to Portland. But it was my first encounter with one of the issues you're raising here, which is thinking about freight mobility in terms of the barriers that big trucks have. And all I would say is thank God for insurance. Commissioner Saltzman, the one thing that did get my attention, though, is one of the recommendations to you is the Northeast Columbia Boulevard UPRR bridge underpass. And it's...
 Whenever I hear any reference to railroads, and particularly Union Pacific, I hear opportunity. I'm not picking on the Union Pacific, but historically they've been some of the hardest parties to negotiate some of the issues that we're trying to move on that Dan is now responsible for, like greenways.
 And that's partly because railroads don't generally think that greenways and railroad tracks should coexist. Now, we know in parts of the city we've been able to work that out. But we're not going to have...
 a greenway along Sullivan's Gulch. We're not going to finish the North Portland Greenway. We're not going to connect the system unless we have a willing party with one or more of our railroads. And, Dan, I was intrigued here because this seems to be an area where the railroads have a strong interest in us doing something, and it may give you the leverage to say, yeah, we're interested in that, and we'd also like your help to complete our greenway project.
 circuit. And so that may give us leverage to have that conversation. I'll make a quick plug for our Portland Freight Committee. Union Pacific Railroad and Burlington Northern, they've been members since the committee started 14 years ago. So I know Union Pacific went through some staffing changes, but they've always been at the table. So again, to help with these negotiations.
 Yeah, and just want to also close by saying that when we talk about freight mobility, we're talking about getting things through our community. We're talking about jobs. We're talking about things that are very key to our economic future. And there's a lot of good family waste jobs that depend on freight getting through our community. Emphasis on safely getting through our community. So this is a thoughtful report, and I thank you for your presentation. You're welcome. Hugh Daly.
 Thanks for the presentation. Aye. The resolution is passed. Carla, can you please call the next item? Thank you. Thank you. Item 823, accept bid of groundwater electrical supply improvements project for $621,819. Do we have staff here to present? I think Teresa Elliott's going to come forward. All right. Okay. I have a little cheat sheet, but it says I have no talking points. He's talking about that.
 That's a blessing. I'll turn it over to you, Teresa. It's fine. Teresa Elliott is the chief engineer of the Portland Water Bureau. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Larry Pallatt with Procurement Services. I know it's a busy day for everybody, and there's lots of people in here. I'll make this the short version. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract to EC Company for the Groundwater Electrical Supply Improvements Project in the amount of $621,819.00.
 The engineer's estimate on this project was $820,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was high. The agreed contract is 24 percent under the engineer's estimate, and that's not something we get to say very often these days. Would you say it again?
 24.13% under the engineer's estimate. There is a total of $313,985, or 50.5%, of the DMW-ESB subcontractor participation for this project. EC Company is located in Portland, Oregon. They are not a state-certified firm, but there is still over 50% participation. They are in full compliance with the city's contracting requirements. If you have any procurement questions, I can answer them, or Teresa Elliott is here.
 Good. Any questions? No questions. Carla, is there any public testimony on this? No one signed up. Great. I move the report. Second. Great. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. The report is accepted.
 Carla, please call the next item. Item 824, accept report from Madden Fabrications about the Portland Louvre. All right. I'm going to turn this over to Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Madam President. And we're going to welcome Greg Madden, President of Madden Fabrication and members of his team. And Greg will let you introduce the folks that are here proudly wearing the Madden shirt. And I want to just do a brief introduction to this item. Thank you.
 As my colleagues know, the Portland loo debuted to the public in December of 2008, and it was the brainchild of former city commissioner Randy Leonard. The loo was a solution designed by the city of Portland to address our needs for better public restroom options. It was actually copyrighted and I believe has won some awards for its design. In 2014...
 or maybe around 2014, we made a judgment that it made more sense to have a third-party manufacture and sell and market the loo and for the city to get out of the loo business but to get into the business of receiving royalty checks. And the idea was to sort of stay in our lane and let the private sector do what they do best and
 And so since July of 2014, Madden Fabrication, located right here in our community, has been fabricating glues and marketing them across the globe. And as I said, it made more sense, I think, for us to get out of this business and turn it over to the experts. Well, it turns out they've been quite successful in manufacturing and marketing glues, and that's good for our rate payers because the city earns a royalty for every glue that is sold.
 And with us today is Greg Madden, and he'll introduce other folks that are with him to update us on how the arrangement's working, and I think he has something for us. So, Greg, welcome and thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for your time. And I'm not a public speaker, so I appreciate you introducing me so well so that I can actually shorten my speech a little bit here for you. Thank you.
 Once again, thank you very much. I'm really excited to be here from the standpoint of it is really good, positive news. It's a public-private relationship, I think, that, as you mentioned, is very successful. I know when the City of Portland first started the project, it was intending to market and sell directly to other cities and cities.
 So we really, switching it around in 2014 and negotiating our licensing agreement really was the best way to go. It's really taken off since then. I'm here with Evan Madden, who heads up our sales and marketing, and he'll talk a little bit more about some of those successes and the –
 the awards you mentioned as well that the city of Portland, Portland, Loo has been awarded in the past. Greg, what is Evan's relationship to you? Evan is my nephew.
 We have a family-owned business, Madden Industrial Craftsman. Madden Fabrication is our metal fabrication facility in northwest Portland, which manufactures the Portland Lou right here in town. My two brothers, Paul and Ken, manage the staffing service. My brother Ken is Evan's father, and I also have another nephew that works with me at the shop, Chris Madden. That's great. Yeah, it's quite a family business, and it's a great opportunity for all of them.
 So just getting to it quickly, like I say, it's been a really rewarding partnership between us and the city of Portland. We work closely with Amanda Fritz's Portland Parks and Rec Division. They're the ones that we pay our royalty commission to every quarter. And then they've also helped us...
 develop and improve the loo by giving us access to that, letting Evan present visitors to look at the loo. We opened up the backside of the doors and let them view those as well. And just to mention a quick history of it, Randy Leonard, it was his brainchild to create the loo. He could not find anything that was off the shelf that matched the requirements of the loo.
 There were several failures up in the Seattle area where they tried some pre-manufactured semi-automatic toilet designs that really were major failures. So what Randy did was he pulled together all the city's resources, a lot of the public and social resources around the city, and put together a team to –
 and actually build their own Portland public bathroom, which ended up being the Portland Loo. And the list is long. I don't want to take up too much of your time, but it's important that I mention some of the bureaus and resources that Randy mentioned
 joined together to make this happen, just to demonstrate how thorough a job he did. The Portland Water Bureau was involved with the utilities maintenance and also the contract requirements that made the loop possible. The police and fire were involved through then-Commissioner Mike Reese.
 Portland Parks, Brian Aptekar, Karen Trappen, and Don Athey were very involved with siting and maintenance issues. The Portland Building Department was involved with meeting ADA and construction code requirements of the LOO in its design. Portland Bureau of Transportation was involved with engineering and foundation work for the LOO. The Bureau of Environmental Services was also involved with maintenance and sewer right-of-ways.
 uh downtown clean and safe we were involved with um maintenance and safety design of the loo
 Randy Leonard's office, Ty Kovac, Anne Hill, and Anne DiBenedetto all managed and helped coordinate these associations between the bureaus and the designers. From the social service side, FLUSH group, which is Public Hygiene Let's Us Stay Human, run by Carol McCurry, were instrumental in crime prevention design concepts and public outreach to both businesses and social services.
 Portland Development Commission, now known as Prosper Portland, Kevin Johnson, Pam Neal, helped to introduce Madden Fabrication to this Randy Leonard's design team. Madden Fabrication, of course, was involved with the practical and affordable designs of making the Portland Loo happen. And along with that, Curtis Banger was an outside designer.
 who coordinated all these design concepts into what we feel is a very beautiful design, aesthetically pleasing, and very functional.
 So the results of all this effort and design effort that Randy Leonard did resulted in what we have today, which is the Portland Loop. And to explain exactly how successful it's been, I'm going to pass this on to Evan Madden. Before you do, Greg, I just want to make an observation, because I'm really pleased that you focused on Randy's role and the team that he assembled.
 And it reminds me of the age-old argument in Portland about it goes something like this. Is Portland the city that it's become because of or in spite of its former government? And as you know, people have strong views about our former government. And the interesting thing that I've observed in my nine years is that one of the advantages of our former government is that it allows for champions on the council to actually drive big policy questions.
 And I'll give you some examples. We would not have a children's levy and the millions of dollars that have gone to children if Dan Saltzman was not on the council. Just, it would not happen. We would not have made the progress we've made on streetcars if Charlie Hales hadn't been the streetcar guy. I don't think we would have made the progress as quickly as we have on renter protections if Chloe Udaly wasn't on the council. And while Randy was always a little...
 about being the toilet guy. He wasn't quite sure how that happened. But the truth is, we knew Randy as a bulldog when he was on the council. So when he had an idea, he was going to see it through. And it takes that kind of sustained commitment to do hard things. And I'm just making a little plug for the one side of our former government that I think doesn't get enough credit, which is you've got five commissioners, all of whom are passionate about something, and they have this freedom to drive things
 And if Randy had not taken this on, I just don't think it would have happened. Yeah, I totally agree with you on that. You know, his...
 He did push it through. He took some serious risks that I think paid off specifically in this case. And I agree with you as far as the longevity of the city council. It is a benefit. Just like in my business, it's good to have longevity and skills that you can pull on and comfort level communicating with each other. Excellent point. Well, Evan, welcome to council. Is this your first time? It is. Well, actually, I've been here for a meeting before, first time speaking and presenting. Okay.
 In the process of pushing out your uncles and all the other folks so that you can take over this business? Exactly. Okay, good. So what I do is I work for Madden Fabrication. I do the sales and marketing for the Portland Lou Restroom. And what I have seen is a consistent growth in sales and interest in the Portland Lou as the success of the restroom spreads to cities across the U.S., Canada, and most recently New Zealand. We now have 12 states, 3 countries, 21 cities, and a total of 48 installations. Wow.
 The Portland Lou won Canada's Best Public Restroom Award in 2012, the Portland Business Journal's Manufacturer of the Year Award, and the Oregon Consular Corp's New Exporter Award, and has written about in Fast Company, the Los Angeles Times, and countless local news articles.
 With each installation, we have seen a positive impact it's had in each city and seen the word spread that the Portland Loo is a quality product to serve communities. As I travel and meet with cities and city councils, I'm often complimented that Portland has it figured out and is a model for public restroom success. Having a product that began with the City of Portland shows the proof of concept that cities considering the Portland Loo will be able to be successful when sited correctly.
 Born and raised in Portland, I'm very proud to bring the Portland solution and landmark to other cities that will last for many generations. For each restroom we do sell, the city gets a royalty payment of 8% for each sale. In total, we have paid the city $148,957, averaging about $13,000 per quarterly payment. This quarter's payment is a total of $14,515.89. And we continue to see it grow and be a successful product.
 And you brought the check with you, is that right? We did, yes. We brought the check with us. Carla, get that check for God's sake. That's why you invited us, right? And along with that, we also brought you some swag, so we have some water bottles. Carla, can they come forward? Yeah, that's okay. I promised not to attack. The check goes to the President of the Council. I will take that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Well, with that, we're going to go to water bottle. Oh, yeah. I'll leave this for Amanda. So I thought Commissioner Fish had arranged this report because I had some questions about the Portland loo. And I still have some questions about the Portland loo. I have to confess I have never been inside of one. Yeah.
 So while it sounds wonderful, I'm still in the dark about what are the unique functions or features of the loo. If you could just quickly.
 Yeah, I'll take over for this. What's special about the Portland loo and sets it apart from other restrooms is that it focuses on how it's going to be used and maintained. And that's really critical in making sure it stays clean, easy to use, and then doesn't prevent crime. And what the loo does is really prevent crime with the angled louvers on the top and bottom of the restroom. And that's really what the Portland police wanted to see in the restroom, too, where it could be easily monitored by them and then also self-monitored by the people that walk by and naturally are in the area.
 So it's not a comfortable place to be doing things you shouldn't be doing or even using the restroom. And it's not meant to be a comfortable place in general. So that is just used for what it's intended for. It has anti-graffiti coatings on it to keep it looking clean. And then maintenance features like a water closet that has a hose bib that makes it easy to clean whenever it needs to be or regularly. Okay.
 So it's not self-cleaning. It is not. And that's what didn't work out in Seattle, where they spent $5 million on just five restrooms, and that ultimately just didn't work for them. We found that design. We thought we might compete with that as a product for the Portland Lube, but in reality, it's more mechanical things to break. It uses much more water.
 and it's also way too private for the environment on the street today. Yeah, and now Seattle is looking to get more restrooms from us in just the coming months too. So meeting with them, they were kind of bashful to know that their restrooms didn't work out and that they were very interested in our restroom as well. One of the personal things that I like to do with the loo is to buy local, and that's one of the –
 I guess, collateral successes of a lieu is that each lieu that we sell basically increases sales in the local community by about $40,000. So each lieu commits about $40,000 in goods and services to outside services besides med and fabrication.
 And also, we've added basically five FTEs over the last six years to our program and to our business. And I'd like to introduce some of our team today, if you don't mind. Of course, Evan Madden is sales and marketing. Leo Gonzalez is our production manager. Welcome. We also have Jason Parker and Randy Guillory, our production. We also have Danielle Young is involved with development.
 Charlie Martin with Manufacturing Matters has been very instrumental in our lean practices and improvements in our manufacturing facility. And also Oliver Lowry is our CAD drafter that we've included as well, does marketing and sales through CAD development. And even though she doesn't want me to say it, my wife, Beth Madden, is...
 In the back. The most important person that's here. Yeah. Sales and life partner. So anyway, thanks.
 And then along with that, I just wanted to just kind of briefly go over some of those local manufacturers that we use to produce the lute, just to give you an idea of the quantity and the people that, and some of them are here today, too, that I want to mention. But, of course, manufacturing matters would be Charlie Martin, as I mentioned, Braley Gray, Electropack, West Coast Metals, Bridge City Steel, Marx Brothers, Windustrial Plumbing Supply, Portland Fasteners,
 M Group Engineering Services, Pacific Lock, who I think is represented in the back. Thank you for coming. Flair Plastics, CED, EC Company, Science by Tomorrow, A Better Glass Shop, Industrial Craters and Packers, PSP Powder Coating, Portland Development Commission, U.S. Commercial Services for Exporting Assistance, Business Oregon for Exporting Assistance,
 flesh and personally I would also like to thank Parks and Rec for all their additional services in helping us develop the loo. How long does it take to manufacture one loo?
 It's a little over two months, but as we are so busy right now, we have so many orders coming in, we can't meet our normal deadline. So typically it's about 90 days, but we can do it much sooner. But now we have to push it out several months beyond that just because of the volume that we have seen in sales. So each year we've been getting busier and busier and breaking our records, and that's the fun and exciting part. But it's more of a headache to meet deadlines and make things happen when cities often want them in a hurry. Dude.
 Do you do the installation as well on site? Locally we will, and likely we will for Olympia as well, but not like in California or on the East Coast, so only in this region really. Okay.
 How many Portland loos do we have in Portland? We have about 12 with a few more installations happening soon. Great. Yeah, so we have 12 in Portland, and the rest of the 48 are outside of the area, with one in New Zealand through a licensing agreement that we negotiated with a manufacturer there, and five in Canada. Greg, imitation is the highest form of flattery. Are you seeing competitors that are essentially coming out with knockoffs of Arlo? No.
 We have no competition. I like to hear that. Yeah. Actually, yeah, several years ago there was one manufacturer that duplicated the idea and concept out of Roseburg, Oregon. We have not seen them sell anything. And because of the advantage of the relationship we have with the city of Portland and the long-term development and improvements that we've continued, I think we're way over 30, 40.
 improvements in hardening that we've done with the lube in order to make it a better product, then I think we've given us a major leg up on the competition. If I could just make a comment, Madam President, Dan and I –
 have, you know, nine or ten years of history on the Loo that feels like just yesterday some of the more controversial debates we had in this building. And you mentioned that Commissioner Leonard took a big risk in moving this forward. And I remember when there was a lot of controversy about whether it was appropriate for the utilities to be, you know, to be in the Loo business and who should pay for it.
 One of the things that I think we learned is that government is sometimes in the position of launching a good idea, but it makes a lot of sense to turn to the private sector to then put that idea into practice. And it's sort of like figuring out what's your lane and what are you good at. And Randy had a good idea. He put people together, and he came up with a loo, and he patented it.
 But I think that when we were able to enter into a licensing agreement with Madden, that's where this thing really took off. And I just want to say, Greg, that in your customary, very humble and modest way, you've managed to deflect all the credit to everyone else in the room. And I think it's worth noting that
 that we at the city think that the secret weapon here is that Madden Fabrication is making the lose. And we're so proud that you're here in Portland, and we're so proud that you're having this kind of success. And we wanted to have a chance to celebrate that success today at council, not just get the check in the mail.
 But have an opportunity to thank you and your team for doing such great public service. Thank you. That means a lot. I appreciate that. And, you know, as far as, you know, the plan goes with us marketing and selling, I agree. And one of the things I think about is sustainability.
 We try to sustainability, try to keep the work here local, keep our shop here local. But also just from the standpoint of money is sustainable too. It's like we're very motivated to succeed, watch our margins, make more profits, but also continue this IEP that was really developed by the city that we are taking advantage of. So thank you for that. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you.
 Carla, is there any public testimony? We have one person sign up. Lightning. Good morning. First of all, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Randy Leonard's last day as commissioner, I said to him, his legacy will be the loo. When you pull that switch or push the button, we'll think of Randy Leonard because that's what you are. You basically, in my opinion, to be called a brainchild...
 It's an actual insult to the think tanks out there and truly the brainchilds. Mr. Salzman, Commissioner Salzman, I give him the respect for the children's levy, the affordable housing bond, because he's earned it. Correct me if I'm wrong, Randy Leonard was one of the people that used incorrect funds to fund some of the loos and didn't follow the charter. And Mr. DiLorenzo went into court.
 and stated that that could not be done and the judge agreed. Correct me if I'm wrong that Randy Leonard is basically an individual that I would not look up to or give any respect to because that's my opinion and I have that right to my opinion. And that far chair, the commissioner chair in the far left, people seem to go one term and they leave. It's kind of what I call the karma chair, that far left chair. I don't know what it is but...
 They make it one term, and then they're gone. They just leave. And I would like to see, number one, the city of Portland not hold this patent anymore. Give it back to these people over here. Give it back to the Madden Company. I don't think the city needs to be making any royalties off the name or the patent. To me, that's almost a conflict of interest for what government really is. I mean, we're attacking...
 the new president for that reason. It's called a conflict of interest. And so maybe I'd like to have this looked a little bit closer, but to Randy Leonard, in my opinion, you should have your picture put inside the loo. This is your legacy. This is what you are. And when I flush that, push that button, I'm going to think of you.
 And I am so glad that you no longer sit up here as a commissioner. And to me, you were the biggest disgrace as a commissioner in the history of Portland. And when you stepped on a bunch of developers, toes out there and did selective enforcement, stepped on them using nuisance liens, you are the nuisance. You are a pathetic disgrace. And anything that you probably did on this is corrupt.
 Enjoy your legacy, Randy Leonard. Enjoy your legacy. Push that button. That's Randy Lou. Okay. Madam President, we don't actually have a report. We don't actually have a report to accept, and we've now lost the Madden family.
 I want to thank Jamie Dunphy on my team, my Jamie, for helping to organize this and give us a chance to thank a local manufacturer who's making something and in return providing some real value to cities across the world and a return on the investment that the city made in designing and manufacturing this. So grateful to the Madden family and Madden Fabrication, and thank you for the opportunity to present.
 Well, I just wish one of you had told me that this chair was cursed. And I have a few ideas why people need to stick around for one term. How many terms did Randy search? Multiple terms, I believe. Multiple, I think. I think you're okay. It skips a generation. It skips every two. Okay. Carla, could you call the next item, please?
 Item 825, authorize a contract with Water Systems Consulting, Inc. for the development of an asset management-based pump station system plan for a not-to-exceed amount of $379,120. All right. Commissioner Fish, take it away. Madam President, we welcome Shannon Reynolds and Jennifer Belknap Williamson, not to be confused with Jennifer Williamson, who is a state legislator.
 The purpose of this legislation is to authorize a PTE contract with Water Systems Consulting, Inc., for the development of an asset management-based pump station system plan. Now, as part of the BES efforts to proactively manage its infrastructure, the Bureau seeks approval to create a pump station system plan. It will allow us to assess the condition and risks of failure of the city's pump stations and,
 the majority of which are over 60 years old. To complete this work, BES requires the services of a specialized engineering consultant. This ordinance would authorize BES to contract for those services, and this contract was selected through a competitive process. I should note that in the briefing that I got, I learned that there are about 100 pump stations in the city, of which I think you told me we own and operate about 80 stations.
 and we operate the rest for the benefit of other parties. I've had a chance to tour a number of the pump stations, including the ones that are critical to the big pipe. And colleagues, I know Dan has already done, spent probably more time than he wants, subterranean looking at pump stations.
 Commissioner Udaly, we would be delighted at some point to give you a tour because it's the invisible part of our system that actually is critical to how we move wastewater throughout the city. And the engineering marvels of some of these pump stations is really something to behold. Anyway, the matter before us today is to seek approval to move forward with a –
 with a contract that allows us to assess the condition of our pumps and then begin to plan for the future. I'll turn it over to our presenters. Thank you very much. I'm Jennifer Belknap-Williamson. I'm a principal engineer with the Asset Systems Management Division in Bureau of Environmental Services. And with me today is Shannon Reynolds, a senior engineer.
 And we appreciate the opportunity to present Madam President and commissioners. As Commissioner Fish mentioned, this is a critical part of our system.
 Director Jordan for Bureau of Environmental Services has been here talking to you in the past about our capital program budget and our asset management investments we're going to be making as we look at aging infrastructure and areas of the system that are really critical to invest in to make sure that they continue to function for the long term for the sustainability of our city.
 So when you look over at the next 10 years of our capital program, the pump stations and force mains, which collectively have a value of over a billion dollars to repair and replace them, our current investment level ranges from $7 to $10 million a year in that asset class.
 What we're looking at is continuing to stay in that current investment level for the next five years. That's the area shown in orange in this budget projection. But looking out in years five to ten in our budget, we are looking at starting to ramp up to an investment level for this asset class of around $25 million a year.
 And that's really based on the age, the condition, and the criticality of these assets to make sure that they don't fail over time. So this is a part of BES's gathering information to inform the next phases of our capital program.
 As Commissioner Fish mentioned, there are 99 pump stations around the city that are really critical to moving wastewater and stormwater up to our treatment plants to provide appropriate treatment before they're discharged.
 And if those pump stations fail, we can have really significant flooding and environmental damage that results. They pump many hundreds of thousands of gallons per minute, and when there's failures, we have to come in in an emergency setting and set up pumps adjacent to it and try to figure out ways to get that water and wastewater moved around. So they're a really critical part of the system for us to invest in and make sure we don't have emergency failures. Thank you.
 So the goals of this project are to develop and implement a comprehensive asset management approach for this asset class. That will include identifying and addressing risks and developing a condition assessment methodology that allows us to track the condition of all of these assets.
 It will develop a series of recommended capital projects and actions, as well as an overall implementation plan for staff training to continue the program on in the future after the consultant work is done, and then how to inform the future of the capital program budget.
 So there's a number of stages in the scope, including creating an asset registry, which is essentially a database, a list of all the information we know about these assets, all the parts that are in them. Pump stations have pumps and electrical controls and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems and structural components, so there's a lot of
 pieces to keep track of within the systems. Then we will define risk criteria to understand how can we better predict when those parts and pieces are going to start to move towards failure so that we can repair and replace them before that happens. And then develop this condition assessment methodology that will allow consultants and staff to go in and investigate and understand where we're at with the condition of all of these parts and pieces of the pump stations.
 We'll conduct the assessments, we'll prioritize actions based on risk, and then we'll have a strategy for the ongoing implementation and bringing it into the capital program.
 So the schedule for this project is about a year and a half to do this pump station system planning work, and then there will be an initial five- to ten-year period where we ramp up in the capital program and start implementing more of these larger-scale rehabilitation projects, and then we'll have ongoing implementation of this over time as a part of our sustainable asset management approach to these assets.
 So that is our short and sweet presentation. Could you remind me? Oh, yeah. You said in your excellent presentation that the value of our pumps is about a billion dollars. What's the current –
 When we look at all of our assets at BES, what's the current value of our infrastructure? The current replacement value of all of our infrastructure that Bureau of Environmental Services owns and manages is just under $14 billion. It's about $13.8 billion.
 So this is a sizable part of the system, both in its value and in its very critical role that it serves. And I'm glad that in your presentation you began by referencing what Director Jordan presented to the Council during the budget, in which he said that his long-term vision is for us to get to sustainability with all of our capital assets, meaning that at some point in the future they are going
 Almost all of our assets are in good condition, and what we're doing is maintaining them as we go forward and not just waiting for catastrophic failure.
 It is an audacious goal. There aren't many utilities around the country that can say they've achieved it, but it's the vision that he laid out in support of his budget, and that's the strategic direction of the Bureau over the next decade. Absolutely. We really feel it's in the best interest of the ratepayers that we make these investments in these assets over time to avoid having these big catastrophic failures if we delay or don't make those investments. So this photograph here, the last one, is of our Swan Island pump station. Okay.
 which is our largest pump station that's a part of the combined sewer system that prevents sewer overflows. It sends a tremendous amount of combined wastewater and stormwater up to our Columbia Boulevard treatment plant. So this is one of our newer pump stations. It's in very good condition today, and we want to keep it in good condition. Thank you for your excellent presentation. Absolutely. Any other questions or comments? Thanks.
 So are the pump stations always operating, or are they activated from the treatment plant when they're on? There's a number of them that are continuously operating, and then there are some that are more what we would call storm surge type pumps that they come on only when there's storm events, and we have more flow coming from the stormwater joining the system.
 So how about the Swan Island one? Swan Island is not always running, although the majority of it has some functionality. There's a series of pumps, so there are usually several pumps that are in continual function, and then there are others that kick on if we need additional service. Great. Thank you. Thank you very much. Carla, is there any public testimony? No one signed up. All right. Do we have a motion to move this item? No.
 This is a non-emergency. We'll pass to a second reading. Okay. So it passes to a second. Thank you, ladies, very much. Well done. Thank you. Please call the last item. Item 826, authorize a contract with CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc., in the amount of $795,358 for the supply system master plan project.
 Madam President, we're joined today by Teresa Elliott, the Chief Engineer of the Water Bureau, and Jody Inman, who is the Project Manager. The purpose of this ordinance is to authorize a contract to update the Portland Water Bureau's Supply System Master Plan. The update will identify the long-term needs and direction for the Water Bureau's supply system and ensure the Bureau stays compliant with state community water system requirements. Thank you.
 The most recent version of the Infrastructure Master Plan was completed in 2001. And now I'll turn it over to Teresa.
 Good morning, Commissioners. I'm Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer, Portland Water Bureau. And with me today is Jody Inman, Senior Engineer and Project Manager of the project. You guys have made this council session way too easy for this time. So I was expecting it to be a very lengthy council session and us to have two minutes. But I'm going to take a moment to thank you all for your time.
 But it's also a very safe environment today, too. I have a number of retirees at my management level, and so this gives me an opportunity to introduce a new person to speaking at council, and this is a good setting for that. So thank you. So with that, what we're seeking is approval for a PTE contract.
 for providing within with CH Tim to provide engineering services associated with a master plan that we're required to do every 20 years. And with that, Jody is going to tell you a little more about it. All right. Good morning, everyone. For the record, I'm Jody Inman with the Portland Water Bureau. As Commissioner Fish laid out, this project is a planning effort to lay out the Bureau's next 20-year master plan for possible supply system projects and improvements, including,
 This project, this master plan is required by the Oregon Health Authority for agencies serving populations greater than 100,000. We do have a separate master plan, which is not due yet, which covers our distribution system master plan. That will be following after this in several years.
 The supply system includes the Bull Run watershed and the Columbia South Shore Wellfield to Pal Butte. The purpose of the supply system master plan is to develop a planning roadmap, which we can use for the next 20 years to help identify potential future supply, transmission, and storage improvements, and to identify major capital improvements that may also be needed over that next 20 years.
 The solicitation for this study was a city procurement process for PTE contracts. We received four proposals. CH2M was the more qualified proposer, or more responsive proposer. The contract is $795,358 with three subconsultants, two of which are state-certified DBEs, and they are expected to perform 28% of the work. With that, we're available for questions.
 Thank you for your excellent presentation. I have one question. How much of this assessment we're doing is driven by the current and future standards around resilience? That's actually a part of this plan. So this plan is going to be taking into account many of the current standards
 Current things that we're looking at, we've had a lot of asset management work, which has looked at maintenance and aging infrastructure. We're also going to be bringing into that recommendations that come out of the water system seismic study, as well as any other newer goals that we may be wanting to achieve. So the hope of this is to be able to incorporate those together and kind of identify that 20-year plan on how we're going to approach those. Very good. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Carla, any public testimony? No one signed up. Do we hear a motion to move this resolution? This is not an emergency. First reading. Oh, okay, another first reading. Sorry. My script is wrong. Somebody's in trouble. This meeting is adjourned. See you at 2 o'clock. Record meeting. Yes. Quite a success story from that. Yeah. It's really good.
 You know, the one thing that we've been lightning-guided by is that it's part of all diversity. Didn't we win? We won on most of the issues, but it was still a, quote, split verdict. Under the incomprehensible standard adopted by the judge, he said that this part of the connection is okay, this part isn't. When does that end?
 We're all set. Council is back in session. We have one item before us, and I'm going to turn it over to Commissioner. Oh, wait. We don't have to do roll again, right? We do. Oh, Carla, will you please take the roll? Saltzman? Here. Fritz? Fish? Here. Wheeler? Udaly? Here. Commissioner Saltzman. I mean, Commissioner Fish. Here.
 That's the final straw. So could you read the item? I need a nap. 827, directly Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Bureau of Environmental Services, and Prosper Portland to evaluate development of a brownfield redevelopment tax incentive that benefits the City of Portland.
 Well, thank you, Madam President and colleagues. Today I'm pleased to introduce a resolution directing the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, the Bureau of Environmental Services, and Prosper Portland to develop a new tool to help clean up brownfields and put them back to work. In 2016, the legislature authorized local governments to establish property tax incentives for brownfield cleanups.
 We are honored to have one of the state senate's champions with us here today, Senator Lou Frederick. Lou, welcome. Portland has approximately 910 acres of brownfields, contributing little or nothing in terms of property taxes, jobs, or productive use.
 As my colleagues know, the city's new comprehensive plan specifically calls for reinvesting in brownfields as a guiding principle for economic prosperity, which includes 600 acres of contaminated brownfields in industrial areas. The resolution today builds on years of hard work by the Metro-led Oregon Brownfields Coalition.
 with broad support from diverse stakeholders, including Thousand Friends of Oregon, the League of Oregon Cities, Northwest Environmental Business Council, Verde, and the Portland Business Alliance, among many others. Now, similar tax incentives have been successful in other states. Portland is poised to be the first jurisdiction in Oregon to take advantage of this new opportunity. Thank you.
 Here are some additional brownfield facts. And I would note that one of our guests today was tweeting quite a bit and put out these facts ahead of the hearing, and I was pleased that she did so, our friend from the county. Brownfields are three times as likely to be located in underserved communities, and approximately 50% of reported brownfields are within 1,000 feet of environmentally sensitive areas, such as wetlands and streams.
 Now, we know that cleaning up brownfields creates jobs, generates tax revenue, protects our environment, and helps address disparities in our community. As you will hear in today's presentation, parties who cause the contamination or who are responsible for Superfund cleanup are not eligible for these tax incentives. Furthermore, the incentives are designed to reward community benefits, such as affordable housing, redevelopment in high-poverty areas, and equitable contracting.
 We know that no one tool is going to clean up Portland's brownfields, but a property tax incentive properly used will help us move one step closer. I want to introduce our all-star panels today. We have two, and the first up, we're joined by Kimberly Branham, Executive Director of Prosper Portland, formerly known as the Portland Development Commission. Thank you.
 Andy Reed, Project Manager of Prosper Portland, and Jen Buildercy of the Bureau of Environmental Services. Welcome, Jen. Thank you. Kimberly's going to start us off. So I'm just going to kick it off and...
 And mention that with the passage of this House bill, we really do have a new important opportunity to build a program with economic, environmental, and social equity impact. It's an important tool, and it feels like partnership is central to this. Not only did the bill have bipartisan support at the state level,
 We've been working with fantastic partners to think about the next steps and how we implement that. So I wanted to mention and thank those partners before handing it over to Andy and Jen. But first I wanted to just draw two examples of where we know this can work. These are both central city examples and we hope that this tool will help us have exemplary projects in East Portland and industrial areas.
 The South Waterfront Central District and North District both...
 There were 90 acres, it's hard to imagine, but there were 90 acres of highly contaminated brownfields. And as a result of the cleanup work through public-private partnership, we've seen more than a billion and a half of private investment, thousands of permanent jobs, housing, vibrant neighborhoods, infrastructure. And so this is the kind of partnership that we would like to see moving forward, as Commissioner Fish mentioned.
 And so really what I wanted to do was to say thank you, both for your leadership, Commissioner Fish, and to the working group that's developed the concept, so both Jen and Andy, but also Tom Armstrong from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Nancy Klinger, Matt Hoffman from Multnomah County, Emerald Bogue, and Lise Glancy from the Port of Portland. We also had additional support with research from the coalition, so Steve Kuntz and Tyler Bump, Ashley Carter for the City of Portland. Thank you.
 And we also had great support from our colleagues in the Office of Government Relations. So Dan Eisenbeiss and Elizabeth Edwards are to be commended. So thank you. And with that, I'll turn it over to Andy.
 Thank you, Kimberly. Thank you, commissioners, for your time. Today, Jen and I are going to go through a couple of things. One, really just kind of set up what the action is today. Two, share how we got to this point and describe what the case is for taking action now. And three, to discuss what a local brownfield incentive program could look like.
 So as previously shared, this is the action we're asking you to take. Just to be clear, this is not in creating the incentive program, but instead it's giving us a year to continue to analyze the program further and refine the concept. And this creates the space for us to write the code and have the time to do that well, but also put the parameters around a program and what that might look like.
 So we've heard some of the statistics come out already. And as you can see here, there are a lot of areas that this kind of goes into in terms of how it impacts our city. And just as a side note, Tyler Bump and Nancy Klinger are here today if there are technical questions about how this all works with our various plans.
 So the case for action from our standpoint is pretty clear. There are 900 acres ready to be redeveloped but for having a tool to do it. And when the total cleanup does occur, we'll see an estimated $240 million in cost.
 So we have sites that are upside down, that are ready to go, but for the cost of doing the cleanup, they're not occurring. So doing this will allow us to continue our economic development within the urban growth boundary on land that, in spite of our booming economy, is not converting to development at this point. And moreover, this effort is a key strategy to meet our social, environmental, and economic goals.
 Good afternoon. I'm Jen Buildersee. I coordinate the Brownfield program at the Bureau of Environmental Services. And I'm going to pick up the story where Andy left off to give you a little bit of context about how we got there, because it's really shaped the proposal that we brought today.
 So in response to the brownfield problem that Kimberly and Andy have outlined, in 2014, Metro really took a leadership role in convening a coalition of partners, the Oregon Brownfield Coalition, to start to discuss statewide solutions to addressing brownfields. It's an extremely broad opt-in coalition. It's had over 50 partners, and we've been meeting very actively for the past three years.
 And the main role has been to identify, to shape, and to advocate for new tools to address brownfields in the state of Oregon. The city of Portland has been an active participant in this coalition since the very first meeting. Early on in our coalition meetings, we identified our top priorities for the tools we thought would be the most useful to pursue.
 and a brownfield property tax incentive rose to the top of the list pretty quickly, mostly because it's been a very successful tool in several other states. Independent of the coalition's work, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability conducted some research in 2012 on the brownfield situation and landscape in Portland and also identified the same tool as one that would be useful here and a very good match for Portland's brownfields. So with the coalition's support,
 This concept for a brownfield property tax incentive became House Bill 4084, authorizing local governments to provide property tax incentive programs. So again, the state legislation did not create the tax incentive program. What it did was it created the opportunity for local jurisdictions to shape their own programs.
 And certain aspects of the programs were dictated by the state legislation. For example, the fact that the polluter pays. So a responsible party who contaminated a property would not be eligible for this incentive. That's within the state legislation. But the legislation also allows local jurisdictions to really tailor the program to fit the particular needs and priorities of the local context. Okay.
 After this opportunity became available last year,
 The City of Portland and a number of partners, Port of Portland, Multnomah County, began meeting regularly to take a look at what a successful program here in Portland would look like. And so what we've brought today is really an outline that was built on the years of work at the coalition and the proposals that the coalition put forward, and also this additional year of work that the working group here at the city has done to look at how could it be further shaped to Portland's unique circumstances. Okay.
 So on this slide, you can see that the general concept is that a property where brownfield contamination is cleaned up, 50% of the cost of eligible cleanup activities could be deducted from future property taxes over a set period of time. Additionally, if a property and a project fit certain priority categories for the city of Portland, for example, affordable housing, equitable contracting,
 then additional incentives to the amount of 25% of the cleanup for each of those categories could be added to the incentive, and that would cap out at 100%. So Andy's actually going to walk through a specific example. Before we do that, I do want to recognize that just so many partners who are part of the coalition are here in the room today, and Kimberly named many of them.
 Um, additionally, Senator Frederick has been an early champion, uh, of statewide legislation and brownfield efforts. And we're all very thankful for that. It's, it's really what's allowed us to get to this point. Great. Thank you, Jen. So here's a sample incentive structure. Again, we're, we're still conceptualizing what this could look like. Um, but this is, uh, received, garnered some, um, strong support from those that have been working on this as a concept. Um, so as commissioner fish already mentioned, uh,
 Not eligible would be site owners that are causing contamination, so you do not get to use the program if you are the contributor of the contamination. Second, costs connected to Superfund responses also are not eligible under the law.
 But, again, as we've conceptualized here, we're looking at a 50% tax exemption on a market rate development, and then additional percentages, 25% to 50%, can get applied for priorities such as affordable housing, MWESB contracting, and location in or near low-income areas, things like that.
 So, again, we've discussed these throughout the presentation. We have economic, social, and environmental impacts by implementing a program like this. And it really does have potential to do all three of those at the same time. We could see redevelopment. If all the brownfields redevelop, we could look at 31,000 new jobs in our area just on the brownfields alone with another $40 million in additional revenue to our jurisdictions. Okay.
 These sites are located in our most underserved communities, and cleanup can help protect surface water by reducing nonpoint source pollution. So there are a lot of areas where this can be a strong benefit to us. We have a panel that's going to come up and speak, a number of real champions for brownfields in our communities. The panel will be Metro Councilor Sam Chase, Multnomah County Commissioner Jessica Vega-Peterson, and State Senator Lou Frederick. But we're happy to answer any questions you have about the proposal at this time.
 Colleagues? I want to compliment you on that infographic a screen or two back. Karen Martnek at the Bureau of Environmental Services is a real magic maker with us. I'm going to try to steal her. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. And we're very pleased to welcome Lou Frederick, Jessica Vega-Peterson, and Sam Chase.
 I believe Senator Frederick is the most senior member of this all-star panel. And, Lou, you started this a long time ago. Amira might even have been working with you when you started on this. But on behalf of the city, thank you for being a champion on this issue. Thank you.
 We understand there's a lot of brownfields in your district, and so this is an issue you care about both as a matter of principle and as a representative of the interest of your district. But you have been our champion, and so thank you for that. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. I'm Senator Lou Frederick. I'm supposed to introduce every time at the legislature, so I do that. District 22, that's north and northeast Portland. Sorry, north and northeast Portland. Thank you.
 It is also a neighbor situation for me. One of the main reasons that I started this was because there was a gas station grocery store that sat empty for 30 years, a block and a half away from my house. And I knew why it was empty because the fellow who was the mechanic there, I used to take my VW bus there,
 And he, I went to pick up the bus one day and I was in the backyard and the guy came out of the shop with a bucket of liquid and he proceeded to pour it onto the ground. And I said, what are you doing? He said, just pouring this solvent. It cleaned up the carburetors. And I said, you can't do that. He said, I've been doing it for years. What are you talking about? And that's when I stopped going to that particular spot. Okay.
 because of that. But a few months later, they completely closed down the shop itself. I'm sure it wasn't just because I wasn't going anymore. But I realized that that was one of the reasons that that sat empty for 30 years, was because it had been a brownfield, identified as one. And in fact, when I went to the legislature, one of my first bills,
 in 2011 was dealing with brownfields. And so we asked the DEQ to take a look at the brownfields in my district and then in the other districts around the state. I had 147.
 And they were very simply easily identified in some ways. They were the old gas stations. Used to be on every third corner or so. They were the dry cleaners shops. They were the photo shops. They were battery companies. And then they looked around the state and they found out that they were the farm implement and the farm supply places that were also contaminated sites.
 And everyone, every legislator that I talked with knew exactly where they were. They had seen them. They just didn't know what to do about them. So we began a process to try to get those cleaned up. First we needed to get the DEQ to be able to identify them and identify what the problems were. We did that. And say that once they found that out, that they were no longer liable for anything new that might happen. And then we began this process. And the city...
 Somebody has already mentioned Dan Eisenbeiss and Elizabeth Edwards, but you had a governmental affairs group that was very helpful. The Port of Portland got involved. The Association of Oregon Counties. The list that you saw there of people who were saying, look, we know we have untapped resources, important untapped resources. Now, when I'm usually talking about important untapped resources, I'm talking about people.
 In this situation, we really are going down to earth. This is untapped resources that we could be using, that people could be using. And I hope at some point to include...
 Additional incentives. I'd like to see when there are jobs created on those brownfields that we actually have some kind of a tax incentive there for them as well. That's a little difficult when our budget is the way it is. You mentioned a tax cut of some form and that does not hit well with my fellow members of the Ways and Means Committee. But I think that that may be another way to do it.
 31,000 new jobs is great. More housing is great. And this particular proposal is outstanding because we really are going to see some things take place. This does not come about...
 because everyone just decided, one group decided to do it. It was the Senate, it was the state, it was the city, it was the county, all of these folks working together. And it was bipartisan because everyone knew about those empty sites, sitting there empty, and we needed to do something about that. What I am very pleased about this is, in particular, is that it's predictable. It's predictable.
 Everyone has a sense of what is needed and how it's done. And I congratulate you for this particular proposal, all of you. This is the kind of thing that we need to see happening because many people do not understand the kind of connections and the procedures and the process that's involved. But when you have something like this that is very clear and predictable, we actually get something done for the people of Portland and the state of Oregon. So thank you again. Thank you.
 Lou, can I also extend our thanks for the work that you did in the legislature that resulted in $8 million in the governor's budget for Superfund.
 And $5 million of that is available in the short term, $8 million over the two years. And that's critically important as we partner with DEQ, the port, some of the PRPs, and want to move this process forward. The state having some skin in the game was very important. And I know you had very tough choices to make, but we appreciate that money making its way into the final budget. Thank you. Well, I'm glad that we were able to get something.
 something accomplished. And I also have to say as well that one of the reasons this managed to come through is because of my former chief of staff. Sue Hagmeier was very heavily involved in making sure that this started, that this worked. She would be very pleased. Thank you. Next up is our newest county commissioner, Jessica Vega-Peterson. And it turns out that in this context, she may be the most important person
 in the decision-making tree going forward because not only is the county our key partner, but as a practical matter, the county has to concur in any tax abatement, and the county assessor has to agree to actually take the property off the roll. So you could say Jessica has all the cards on this one. Welcome to City Council, and thank you for joining us. Thank you so much. Well, it was very smart of you to invite me then.
 So good afternoon, commissioners. Thank you so much for having me here today and especially Commissioner Fish for your leadership on this such an important issue. I also have the habit of announcing, of like stating my name for the record. So I'm Jessica Vega-Peterson. I'm the Multnomah County Commissioner for District 3, which includes much of the southeast and east portions of the city of Portland.
 So to state the obvious, place matters. Our natural and built environments have an enormous impact on the health of our communities. Fresh air, clean water, walkable environments are all to our benefit. Yet air pollutants, contaminated water and soil, or poorly planned communities are to our detriment. And brownfields are a combination of these threats and often reinforce the negative stereotypes of blight and disinvestment in many of our communities.
 These properties typically housed a former industrial or commercial use, and now future use is affected by real or perceived environmental contamination. You cited some statistics earlier, Commissioner, for the city of Portland. For the county of Multnomah, brownfield sites are scattered throughout Multnomah County and cover an estimated 6,300 acres of land. So that's almost 10 square miles of land within our county borders.
 These brownfield sites are both an environmental and an environmental justice issue. Brownfields are three times as likely to be located in underserved communities, and approximately 50% of the total and reported brownfields are in or within 1,000 feet of environmentally sensitive areas, such as wetlands and streams.
 That's why the action you're taking today is so important to the health of our communities. Thoughtful design, cleanup, and redevelopment of brownfield sites can be beneficial to the community's health in a number of ways.
 Such infill development can help reduce the need for sprawl. And I look at the three of you who have championed the housing issue so strongly. You know that the population of the Portland area is rapidly increasing and that with our community valuing rural land, forest, and open space, brownfield sites are becoming increasingly valuable as opportunities for infill development. Cleanup and redevelopment can also reduce or eliminate groundwater and soil contamination and provide an opportunity to knit
 together communities that have been divided or blighted by such sites. And I'm here today to advocate that equity should be a strong component of any proposed programs. As you may know, the Multnomah County Commission also wears the hat of the local public health board. And because of this, I would ask that health and equity are considered when selecting and redeveloping brownfield sites. We should focus on site redevelopments that support the health of the community and ensure that the benefits of growth are shared equitably.
 Maps created by the Multnomah County Environmental Health Division found that parts of north and northeast Portland, the Cully neighborhood and Columbia River corridor, and a large area of east Portland exhibit high health inequity and therefore high need. Compounded by gentrification, we know that these same areas exhibit increasingly concentrated poverty.
 These findings support brownfield cleanup and redevelopment efforts that emphasize community benefits and prioritize areas of health and equity from both a racial justice and health equity perspective.
 The legislation that my former colleague, Senator Frederick, championed, and which I was proud to vote for as the state legislature, that the city will make use of, is structured to incentivize cleanup and meaningful development in areas that experience high poverty rates, affordable housing shortages, and disproportionate environmental impacts.
 This local authority will allow you to use this property tax incentive tool to benefit our most vulnerable communities and highest risk areas. I support the city's plan to study this issue and the policy options granted by the legislature to incentivize the cleanup of these areas. And it should be noted that local jurisdictions do have control over the program's specifics.
 So you can choose to require public health and community-based benefits such as affordable housing requirements, MWESB contracting, and clean fuels contracting for cleanup activities, and I would encourage you to do so. Remediation and meaningful development will help bring brownfield sites back into productive use and back on the tax roll. The cleanup of these sites will also remove environmental threats and help improve our built environment, particularly for our most at-risk communities.
 I strongly support your efforts to further study and craft effective and equitable policies and look forward to working with you on this issue. Thank you again for the opportunity to testify here today and for your focus on such an important issue for our community. Commissioner, thank you very much for your outstanding testimony. Next up is Metro Councilor Sam Chase. Sam is too modest to mention this, so I will.
 In a prior life, Sam was the architect of what later became known as the 30% set-aside, which mandates that 30% now more, thanks to some changes we adopted in the last two years, but a minimum of 30% of urban renewal funds go to affordable housing. Also a little-known fact is that there was actually some pushback in City Hall when he came and lobbied for that.
 But he persevered, and we're still in a housing crisis, but I can't imagine where we would be today if we didn't have that tool all these many years to invest in affordable housing. So thank you, Sam, and welcome to City Hall.
 Thank you. And I thought you might say I was too modest to mention that I'm a former chief of staff for our city commissioner here. I wasn't going to mention that because you've taken it off your resume because you've now reached greater heights. It's such a big accomplishment. It wouldn't be, you know. So, well, I thank you. Again, Sam Chase, Metro Council. My district is roughly downtown. Portland, northwest, northeast, north Portland.
 and a little bit of Washington County. And, you know, there's an old adage that it's all been said, but not everybody's said it. So I will simply echo the really articulate comments that have already been made around the Roundfields program. And I will say this. As a Metro Councilor, I'm really focused on how our region is growing and developing, and we are growing.
 doing very well and we have a lot to worry about, but we're doing very well. We have a resilient economy, a strong economy. We have a quality of life that people around the world want to be a part of. And we also have a lot of people who don't have access to that quality of life and don't have access to that job, to those jobs. And I think that is our biggest challenge, is to make sure that everybody has the opportunity to succeed in our region. And, you know,
 You know, you often hear me really focused on affordable housing and equitable jobs and jobs for underserved communities. Well, brownfields are a part of that equation because that is –
 something that we have left in the hands of lower income communities and we have not taken care of. We have not done our job on cleaning up those brownfields and making those really fabulous places to serve our community. So I thank you so much for taking this on and tackling this issue. I think it's another show of your commitment to us growing as a responsible region that is growing.
 still far from successful and serving all of our residents, but striving to find those ways to help everyone succeed. And I will add, you know, one other small piece that I've really observed about brownfields and around the industrial land component is I look at a lot of the assessments around industrial land needs, regional, and we have a
 some land available in the outer areas of our region. And we have some modest amounts of land here in the inner areas of our region. Far and away, when businesses are looking to locate here, when they are looking to grow here, far and away, they want to live...
 they want to be located close in. The quality of life that we can offer in our inner urban areas is a huge driver. And so when we clean up brownfields, when we create those industrial areas that are available along our Willamette River and in our inner communities, that really helps drive our job growth as well. Sam, I have a question for you or any of the panelists, and that is...
 When I met with Jen to go over this presentation and we looked at the composition of the Oregon Brownfields Coalition that Metro led, it's a remarkably diverse group of stakeholders, and there have been some real serious fault lines among some of those stakeholders. I mean, there's been big battles statewide among some of the participants. And yet somehow this coalition came together around this idea, and then ultimately came.
 it got unanimous support in the legislature, which doesn't happen all the time. What was the dynamic that was different here that you think led to that kind of consensus? Well, I'm going to hand that one over to the folks that were down in the legislature really engaging with that. But I will say, you know, and I can't speak to others' interests. I think people have different interests.
 But, you know, I think that the folks who have the kinds of interests that are here at the table are sometimes the folks that are kind of skeptical about looking at, you know, tax incentives and really do a lot of due diligence. And I think once you really look at the numbers on this, once you really do the evaluation, you realize this is the kind of strategy we have to have in place to really once and for all get this done. So that's what I would add. But then I would turn it over to our panelists.
 legislators and former legislators. Well, thank you. I guess I go a little philosophical on this. There's no power dynamic here. This is something that all Oregonians can understand. Yeah.
 and they are affected by it. As I mentioned, some of the legislators that were involved, once we showed them that they had 150 brownfields in their district and they could identify several of them right away, they wanted to get something done there too. And whether that was a farm implement supply dealer in Burns or someone who was somewhere down in Coos Bay, they understood that they could see that right away. So there was no...
 There was no power dynamic here. This was just simply let's see what we can do to get something going for Oregon. And every district has a concern about jobs.
 about the use of untapped resources, as I said before. And so that was pretty straightforward. There wasn't a lot to do except there were people who were suspicious of other people, which is what always happens. But we even broke through that because everyone understood this was something everyone could be part of.
 And I have to, again, commend my former colleague because the reason that people knew that they may have had 155 brownfield sites is that every single legislator in the building got a map of the district that they represented with all of the different brownfield locations. So you could see in black and white right in front of you what –
 what the impact was for your community and the people you were representing. And that was something that we received from his office, and that was a very powerful tool in making that connection, bringing it down to a personal level, and making people realize that this is something that it's not just, it's not a Portland problem, it's an Oregon problem that we need to impact.
 Well, that's great, and it's very inspiring. I'd like to acknowledge while you're here that we did get a letter from the port, from Curtis Robinhold. Never heard of him. And it's a letter in strong support of what we're doing. Emerald Bogue is here. Emerald, thank you for arranging this letter, and that letter will be made part of the record. Questions, colleagues? Yes.
 Well, thanks to the panelists and for the presentation. I'm really excited about this. I'd heard tale of these 900 acres, and I'm excited to see the map of Portland for sure. My biggest question is, do we yet have a sense of what percentage of these brownfields may be appropriate for housing development? Because, of course, that's my priority.
 I don't have those numbers because I've been dealing with it in a different way, but I wouldn't be surprised if someone has at least mapped out a few things there. You know, to some extent, be careful what you wish for. The brownfield that I mentioned that prompted my thing ended up being housing development, high-end housing development, and it was also supposed to be taller than it is now. So it created its own...
 uh set of problems but um there are um there are a lot of places like that scattered throughout the neighborhood and throughout the community and i think i don't know if somebody in the room can answer that question but one of the things that i like about you know the ideas that they're talking about is that there's incentive for doing affordable housing development with these properties and that's you know again we want to we want to incent the good behavior on that so i'm like you you know hopeful that we'll see a lot of good development coming out of this and i did see
 The incentives for affordable housing development don't differ between using NWESB and not using because the cap is at 100% of the cost. In that infographic, that's what it looked like. Yeah.
 You know, there are some interesting things, and I think that's part of the whole study thing. I think that we need to look at that and see just what sort of impact that does have. I hope that's the plan. I see someone back there that has something to say about that. You'd have to come to the – Thank you. Thank you to our panel. So what the infographic showed is that for each category of the five –
 you would receive an additional 25%. So if, for example, it was an affordable housing development that also used equitable contracting, that would receive both additional 25%. It's just if you hit more than two categories. So if you use equitable contracting and affordable housing and you're in the high-poverty area, as we end up defining that, you would still cap out at the 100% because the...
 The recommendation was that, and the state legislation carried forward, was that no one should receive more than 100% of what they actually spend on the brownfield cleanup. And we'll have a chance as a council to further discuss that when the recommendations come back, correct? Yes. And then Tyler Bump from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is here and can speak to your earlier question about the acreage for housing. Sure.
 So of the 910-acre brownfield inventory that we have in the city, about 35% of that is in areas that is zoned for multifamily or mixed-use development, so a significant amount of land that could be developed for housing. Of course, that depends on the location, whether or not it's appropriate for that level of housing or density of housing.
 What we've done with the map itself is we have a map that's very accessible that we've developed at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability that's on Portland Maps. So if you go to portlandmaps.com slash bps slash brownfields, there's an interactive map where you can see where all the sites are and click and see the DEQ site information that links to the property tax assessment website as well. That's great. Great. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right. Carla, do we have any public testimony? No one else signed up. Great. So this is a first reading? I think it's a resolution. Right. But last time, I mean, we move it, right? No, no, we get to vote on it. Okay. Well, I'm glad you're finding this so amusing, Nick. All right. So, Carla, will you please take the roll? Saltzman?
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish, for bringing this forward to Senator Frederick, Metro Councilor Sam Chase, Commissioner Vega-Peterson, and all the other parties, Port of Portland and everybody else that helped bring this to reality. It looks like a great tool to deal with a very thorny issue that has so far not been subject to very elegant solutions. And I hope this is one of them that will really put a lot of this property into productive use, particularly in our communities.
 more distressed areas of our city. So I'm very hopeful this will work. The art of the deal still needs to be crafted here in terms of what we will do locally. But thanks to the state for giving us this tool to do something locally. Hi. Fish? I just want to make one comment about President Udailey and her stewardship of our meetings.
 She is a no-nonsense council presiding officer. We got done today before 11 o'clock this morning. This hearing has gone off flawlessly. When the mayor comes back, there may be a council coup to keep the gavel in, you know, whose hands. So thank you for your excellent stewardship of our meetings. This is a very proud day. And, you know, I don't want to repeat all the thank yous, but I will.
 I want to thank all the bureaus that have been involved, Prosper Portland, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and, of course, the bureau that I have the great honor of leading, the Bureau of Environmental Services, and Gen Buildercy. Thank you for your great work, and thank you for your ongoing leadership on this. Kimberly Branham, Andy Reid, thank you very much. To the port, Emerald Bogue, and our partners, thank you for joining us. To the three elected officials who came today, Senator Frederick,
 We can't thank you enough, and I'm glad that you invoked Sue's name. It's appropriate in this setting because she was your key partner in getting this done, and we're thankful to her for her service.
 To Sam Chase, I'm glad to see that your experience in City Hall did not hold you back and that you've gone on to a – Sam was once at a public gathering and was explaining to people how local government works because it's very confusing. He said – just here's the shorthand. He said, if you just think about it hierarchically, there's metro, there's the county, and there's the city. So that's – apparently that's the view for metro. I don't know whether –
 I don't know whether that's true or not, but I appreciate it. It was really for your benefit. I appreciate the moxie.
 And Commissioner Jessica Vega-Peterson, it is our great good fortune that you have migrated from the state legislature to the county commission. And we thank you for your partnership, and we look forward to implementing this with your full partnership. And I think we should do a shout-out, Sam, to all the different organizations that participated in the Metro-led Oregon Brownfields Coalition. It is not the case that if you put all these kinds of –
 diverse groups together, you always get to an outcome. In fact, I fear increasingly we're getting good at getting to know in some of our big public policy debates. This is a conspicuous success, and so we thank all the folks who took time to get it right. Within the next year, we'll have a new tool. It's been made clear to us that this tool alone will not leverage all that we need to do, so we'll be looking for other tools.
 One thing I like about this tool is that there's always been some skepticism about tax abatements and tax incentives because people have always wondered, does it really meet the test of but for this expenditure, this foregone revenue, something that otherwise wouldn't happen happens? And in some of our programs, frankly, it's getting harder and harder to make the case that but for. It's an incentive, but it may not be the critical reason why something happens. What we know here is that but for –
 this kind of incentive, people are not going to develop the land. And so we have a choice. It can sit unproductive, generating very little in the way of tax revenue and jobs, or we can make this investment out of the increased value of the land and give a little bit back in order to create an incentive. So to me, that's very smart public policy. Thank you to everyone who has brought us to this moment, and I'm very proud to vote aye. You daily?
 Thank you, everyone, for being here and for bearing with me. So excited about this as an advocate for affordable housing because what we hear over and over again from developers is that land is too expensive and there's nowhere to build. And when I mentioned this 900 acres to a certain renowned developer in town, his eyes lit up like it was Christmas.
 So I'm going to be especially interested in how we can most strongly incentivize affordable housing. And it seems clear to me that the benefit of doing this versus the cost of doing nothing is going to be a huge win.
 for the city and for the region. So thanks for all your hard work. Madam President, before you gavel us at the end of the meeting, can I just say I committed a faux pas. I did not acknowledge Amira Streeter, who is in charge of community development in my office, and Todd Lofgren, who is the liaison to the BES. And thanks to both of them for their great work. Thank you. Are you done salting my game today, Commissioner Fish? Yeah. Yeah. I, the resolution is passed. Okay.
 And the meeting is adjourned. Thank you.