it's good to see you are you just about ready very good
 All right. Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, July 12th morning session of the Portland City Council. Welcome, everybody. Sue, could you please read the, or could you please call the roll? Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Wheeler. Here. Here.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear everyone and give everybody consideration of their matters before the Portland City Council, we must all endeavor to preserve order and decorum at these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everybody, I just want to review a couple of the basic things.
 rules and guidelines, which I hope will help everybody feel comfortable, heard, and respected, and to also maintain decorum in the council chamber. There's two opportunities for public participation, if you so choose. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up in advance and speak briefly on any subject for which they'd like to do, to like to speak on.
 Second of all, people are allowed to sign up for public testimony on first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, just to be clear, your testimony has to actually be relevant to the issue being discussed. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, we do require that you disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, it would be helpful to know that as well.
 Typically, people have up to three minutes to testify. Sometimes we have to change that due to time constraints. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up on that little box in front of you. When your time is up, you're going to hear lots of annoying beeps. You'll know when your time is up.
 People who conduct a disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimony or interrupting council deliberations is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting.
 If there is a disruption, I will issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, you could be asked to leave. If you are asked to leave and you choose not to do so, you're subject to arrest for trespassing. If people would like to show their support for what's being said, feel free to do a thumbs up. Sarah's got it right. What do you call that? Fingers. Fingers.
 Twinkle fingers. Jazz hands. Jazz hands. That works well. If you want to show your displeasure with me or anybody else, thumbs down is fine. Sarah is demonstrating again. Thank you. So with that, we will get to the first issue at hand, and that is communication. Susan, if you could call the first item up, please. Item 782, request Abu Rigni to address council regarding issues with transients along Hawthorne Boulevard.
 Good morning. Good morning. 783 and 784 are with her. I'll read those also. That's fine. Thank you. 783, request of John Light to address council regarding problem behaviors in southeast Hawthorne area. Thank you.
 784, request of Sarah Balzer to address council regarding transients along Hawthorne Boulevard. Thank you and good morning. Good morning. I'm Boo Rigney and I own a business on Hawthorne Boulevard. We're here today because we feel that we are under siege due to bad behaviors of individuals hanging out on our private properties and public sidewalks.
 We need more help from the Portland City Government and police. I'd like to ask for a quick show of hands for those in the audience that are here today from our neighborhood. And also is the slideshow, Sue, running on the screen? Thank you. I'm going to start with a brief video that will give you a good feel of what we deal with. Your page. Your page. Your page.
 I might add this video is being taken by my friend here, Sarah Balzer, who's pregnant at the time. Bitch in the house! Oh, no. Take a picture of her, then I'll take a picture of you.
 So what we're here to really describe to you, what we're coping with mainly, are the bad behaviors. People are openly drinking alcohol, taking drugs, smoking marijuana, blocking sidewalks for pedestrians, lying on our businesses' doorways and residents and behaving aggressively when asked to move along, defecating and leaving trash behind on our properties.
 We as a group have come together quite a bit already to work together. We've paid for private security. We're spending over $20,000 in 2017. Many individual businesses are also contributing and paying their own cleanup and security. We are constantly trying to get with central precinct and commissioners and the mayor's office as well to have smaller meetings. As an example, I would like to state that
 I just represent Ben and Jerry's. I own the Ben and Jerry's. I could be any business in many neighborhoods across the city. We were down $32,000 in 2016 over 2015 from this kind of behavior. And this year we expect to be down $60,000. Now, this means that it affects our employees, most of our employees being very young kids.
 And the residents here, too, believe that they're losing the walkability and the livability of their properties, and the values are clearly going down. Our main message is that our community and others around the city are becoming too dangerous and unpredictable to safely live in and run our businesses. We don't feel safe.
 City leaders and bureaus need to step up staffing and coordination in order to respond to the increase of bad behaviors of people in these public spaces.
 What we're asking for specifically is to get back the police walking patrols immediately. We're suffering right now this year, tomorrow. And we're also looking forward to a bigger plan to fast-track recruitment of new police officers and other communities' outreach personnel who can have a daily presence with those folks out there. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Good morning. Good morning. Hello, City Council Board members. Thank you for letting us be here today. My name is Sarah Balzer. I own a business at 35th and Hawthorne. I'm a board member of the Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association and am a homeowner in the Richmond neighborhood. Imagine walking down Hawthorne and you hear something from behind you. You see what looks like a gang of people ages 16 through 30 on the side of the street, and now you can make out what they're saying. Hey, yeah, you, cunt bitch.
 Give me your money. Hey, you bitch, I know you have money. I take a photo and then they yell, I'm going to follow you home and beat you up. Better watch out, bitch. This was just two months ago when I was seven months pregnant. Local businesses and employees have been threatened they're going to be raped by these individuals. They've witnessed them shooting up in the bushes, getting in knife fights, defecating on the sidewalk, yelling at senior citizens walking by, and yelling at children. Our safety is at risk.
 And no one seems to be taking it seriously except for us.
 Back in 2013, a group of home and business owners got together and formed the Hawthorne Neighborhood Coalition. We brought these exact same issues to city council and they answered our pleas. They gave us a police walking patrol that split their days between downtown Portland and Hawthorne in the beginning of 2014. And guess what? It worked. And it worked really, really well. You didn't find one complaint on the boulevard. Everyone loved it. The walking police themselves, the business owners, the homeowners, tourists, and the individuals behaving badly.
 Police only wrote 24 citations that year, and everyone behaved themselves. It lasted through 2015 with a few cuts here and there, but kept working all the way until the leading officer of the patrol was honored by Vice President Joe Biden at the White House for how well it had worked. Then four months after he was honored, the program was cut.
 2016 came and saw the bad behavior starting to trickle back in. 2017 hit, and we had break-in after break-in up and down Hawthorne, window smashing after window smashing, and sure enough, the bad behavior was back.
 Hawthorne businesses banded together, took money out of their own pockets, and hired a security patrol. But here's the thing. They're not police. They can't write tickets. So although they may make a dent, they're nowhere near as effective as an actual police officer. And until the police actually start writing tickets for these crimes, because as of right now they are not, the individuals breaking the law will have complete reign over Hawthorne. And we're officially out of options.
 We've removed bike overhangs, removed bushes, watered down sidewalks, hired day and night security, met with local police and organizers, and yet still these individuals take advantage of our neighborhood. We're here to beg you to do something. Act. Save Hawthorne. Save your small businesses that support the Portland community. Save the neighborhoods that support your local schools. Because it's only going to get worse if we've seen in the past. Here's a folder. I believe they've already passed them out to you.
 of letters written by local residents and businesses and employees describing how they've witnessed threats. You need to read all of these. They are extremely shocking, more shocking than what I just read to you. Also in that folder is a letter of support from the Hawthorne Business Bureau Association for an actual police walking patrol.
 We came here asking for help and are providing real solutions that history has proven recently have worked. Please don't pass up this opportunity to help our community. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning, sir. Hello. My name is John Light, and I live in the Hawthorne neighborhood near Southeast Hawthorne's 36th Street. This vibrant commercial and residential area has both a recent and longer history of public health and safety issues, as I think my neighbors here have demonstrated. Thank you.
 From a resident's perspective, our neighborhood, like others around the city, is becoming too dangerous and unpredictable to safely live or run a business. People dread coming to work, residents don't feel safe, and their children are at risk. Businesses are losing money and property values are being affected. Hawthorne residents and business people have come here today to say, it's time for a new approach to address these problems realistically and resolutely.
 For starters, this approach would not blame the victims. We've been tutored on using 911 and police non-emergency, and there's now even a website for reporting anti-neighborhood activity. Yet our experience is we're usually on our own. Calls to non-emergency go unanswered. 911 calls draw inconsistent response and seldom lead to effective action, and other reporting methods are widely understood to be useless. Further, we are advised not to intervene ourselves for fear of reprisals.
 We cannot blame our police either. There are simply too few of them to do the job properly. This new approach we imagine might instead accept from the outset that our community problems are both difficult and real, requiring systematic, concerted, planned effort. Portland prides itself as a city that can do what other cities cannot, and we have the transportation system, bike friendliness, and so much more to prove it. We can do this. While we're certainly not going to propose a full plan in a three-minute talk,
 This plan will have several obvious features. One, it's going to cost money. But think of it as an investment in our city's future. One that, moreover, can generate a model for other cities to follow. Two, fast-track recruitment of new police officers and other community outreach personnel who can have an immediate impact in our neighborhood and others.
 3. Move quickly to create at least temporary shelter and facilities available to anyone, and make clear that they are to be used, and that camping in city neighborhoods and parks is not acceptable. 4. Improve city contact methods once we have an adequate number of responders in place. 5. Establish a committee to coordinate neighborhood problems and their solutions across city departments.
 In conclusion, there is no more fundamental goal of city government than supporting its communities and neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you. And since you have all three come to speak on this subject and you brought a lot of people, I will take the liberty of making a couple of comments. I don't typically do that because this is your time, but out of respect for your questions. Number one, I understand you are meeting with my staff. Soon, is that correct? Good.
 Good. So I'll look forward to your full set of proposals, and I appreciate not just complaining about the issue, but also coming forth with some concrete suggestions in terms of how we can address it. Number two, I completely understand and empathize with the concerns that you have raised.
 And the budget that we just passed reflects that concern. We are being compassionate with regard to our response to homelessness. We significantly increased resources for intervention, for housing support, mental health, and drug and alcohol addiction issues.
 But we also significantly increased the resources going towards what I would describe as livability issues, trash, litter, needle collection. As mayor and police commissioner, I have directed that we enforce local codes with regard to the sidewalks and with regard to the parks. We increased the number of park rangers available in the parks. We increased the number of park rangers available in the parks.
 And the way I see it is a balancing act. On one hand, we should be compassionate towards those who truly do need our help on the mental health side, on the addiction side, employment, rent support, whatever it takes to help get people off the street and keep them off the street. On the other hand, we have to enforce community expectations standards in the law. And I've made it very clear as the police commissioner that we will do that under my watch.
 Now, that being said, I also... Mr. Mayor, may I just quickly say, we agree with everything you've said. Great. And all of our discussions, basically, you're rephrasing what we've...
 what we advocate and what we think. Here's what I'm asking for. Number one, we will work with you on these issues. But number two, please understand this, as you said, sir, it is a very complex issue. It is a multifaceted issue. And there is no quick, easy solution. These are very serious societal problems. And I own and we collectively own the issues in our own community.
 but understand there are broader forces at work here, economic, addiction, mental health services, et cetera. A walk-in patrol would be an immediate. And I support that. And to be clear, not only does this budget that we just passed support that, I've made it very, very clear that we will return to a full community policing model in this community, both to reduce crime and rebuild and repair that trust that,
 between our police bureau and the community that we serve. So I thank you for being here. Thank you for your forbearance and your understanding as we work together to address this issue. Looking forward to it, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, sir. Next item, please, Sue. Item 785, request of Catherine Smith to address counsel regarding have the Portland Police investigate the Tigard Police. Catherine, are you here? I don't think I saw her this morning. Next item, please.
 786, request of Sarah Hobbs to address council regarding suicide issues in the city. Good morning, sir. Could I have an extra minute or two if I need it? Between coming from home to here, my notebook was stolen, which means all the information I had planned on giving you all is now gone. I will bring that back to your offices.
 sometime either tomorrow or Friday. Sorry to hear that. Thank you, sir. Yeah, I'm pretty upset at the moment. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs, and I am here today officially as an advocate for the Oregon State Chapter of the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. As we look at the issues of suicide, both in the state of Oregon and the city of Portland, the statistics are very sobering.
 Statewide suicide is the second leading cause of death, ages 15 to 34. Third leading cause of death, ages 10 to 14, 35 to 44.
 Fifth leading cause of death, ages 45 to 54. Seventh leading cause of death, ages 55 to 64. Fourteenth leading cause of death, 65 and older. Five times as many people died due to suicide statewide than the homicide. And the state is 13 out of all 50 states in the nation for its extreme rate of suicide.
 Portland, as a city of all the cities in the nation, has historically been within the top 20. Contrary to popular belief, it is not due to our weather. Suicide goes up within the city late spring, early summer, with the biggest spike seen in the month of June.
 In 2015, the Portland Police Bureau's Enhanced Crisis Intervention Team responded to 1,200 suicide crisis calls just in 2015 alone.
 Six of those calls, they deemed such extreme risk that they deferred them to the crisis negotiation team. One of those calls involved a suicidal man with a firearm. It was a call against Samaritan Hospital. I am very painfully aware of this call because it happened directly across the street from where I live.
 The past 30 years, the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention has been the leading non-governmental organization addressing the issue of suicide, suicide prevention, suicide research.
 Our big fundraising event is our Out of the Darkness Walk, which is held this year, October 7th. I know you all said that you needed a formal invitation. Well, unfortunately, those invitations were missing. My notebook got stolen, but I can bring them to you.
 In 2016, the foundation awarded $1.4 million for suicide prevention research.
 We were very excited that we had 17 funded grants. One of those went to OHSD to fund a research study that was done in conjunction with the VA to better identify Iraq and Afghanistan combat veterans who are at risk for suicide. So some of those funds are even coming local.
 I will bring the invitations and the information. I left one little basic information card that I still had on me. I will bring those to your office. I look forward to having you all join us on our walk, October 7th, which will be from 10 to noon, starting and finishing at the Veterans Memorial. That'll see you.
 And I'm just stressed. I'm really not happy. I really was hoping to have that information to present to you. No worries. We'll look forward to getting that at a later time. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. So we're not yet at 10 o'clock. Do we have any items pulled from the consent agenda other than item 797? No.
 No other items. Please call the roll on the consent agenda. What about 787? I'm sorry, hang on one sec. Yeah. Yeah, that's a time certain. No, wait a minute. Well, no, 797 is the one. Yes. Yeah, okay. Sorry. Please call the roll. Salzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Commissioner Fritz had requested pulling 797. Could you please read that? Aye.
 797, accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $20,000 from the Oregon Department of Education for expansion of the summer free-for-all lunch program. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, this is just a simple transcriptionist error that it references the financial year 16-17 budget and should reference the 17-18 budget, so I move that amendment. We'll second that. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Please call the roll.
 Aye. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. That's amendment. I apologize. Thank you very much. Please, any further discussion on the main motion, please call the roll. Aye. Aye. Thank you, colleagues. Aye. Fish. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. We have about five minutes, so why don't we go to the second readings, please, and get done with those. Item 803, please. Aye.
 We're digging here. 803, authorize intergovernmental agreement with Sound Transit for cooperative procurement of modern streetcars. Any further discussion on item 803? Please call the roll. Salzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The agreement's approved. Please call item 804.
 804, amend contract with TriMet related to development and funding of the Portland streetcar system and shared regional transit goals. Any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll. Zossman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Contract's amended. Please call item 805. Thank you.
 805, amend the boundary of Southwest Dolph Court, Spring Garden Street, local improvement district to construct additional street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements.
 111 feet west on Southwest Spring Garden Street, and create a new pending lien record for 3352 Southwest Spring Garden Street. Any further discussion on this item, please call the roll. Sossman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call item 806. Aye.
 806, create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Northeast 27th Avenue and Holland Street local improvement district. Colleagues, any further discussion on this issue, please call the roll. Southsmith? Aye. Udality? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The LID is adopted. Please call item 807. Thank you.
 8.07, authorize a purchase order with Skeeter Brush Trucks, LLC, for the purchase of three wildland brush trucks for a total not to exceed amount of $700,000. Colleagues, any further discussions? Seeing none, please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The purchase order is accepted. Please call item 8.08. And 8.08...
 Have a request to continue that to July 20th. I'll read it, though. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Energy Northwest in the amount of $8 million for the operations and maintenance of Portland Hydroelectric Project. So we've had a request to continue this to July 8th. Is that a morning session? It'll be July 20th next week because of our –
 We need four members present. Very good. So this will be moved to July 20th, and the time will be posted in the appropriate way? Right. It'll be 2 o'clock. Okay. At 2 p.m.? Yeah. Very good. Please call Item 809, then we'll go back to the agenda. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Thank you.
 Any further discussion on this? Seeing none, please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udallie. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We'll now go, looks like we're 10 o'clock on the button. We'll go back to the first time certain item, please, which is...
 787. 787. Create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the North Subtle Road Local Improvement District. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. If Council will recall, we began this process a couple of months ago and had a lively hearing on the idea of creating a local improvement district around the industrial area and heavily used unimproved road, North Subtle Road. Yes.
 In the intervening time, LID Administrator Andrew Abbey has been in close contact with many property owners and has continued to do what he does, which is bring private property owners and public agencies together to solve challenging transportation infrastructure issues. In that work, Andrew has learned quite a bit, and he is here to, first of all, we are going to ask that this be a
 Set over until August 25th, but we thought we would have Andrew and we have Bill Ryan and Steve Townsend can give us an update on where we stand right now. Thank you, Commissioner Salzman, Andrew, Abbey Local Improvement District Administrator. Joining me today to my immediate left is Steve Townsend, the City Engineer and the Chief Engineer of PBOT.
 and Bill Ryan, the Chief Engineer of the Bureau of Environmental Services. We do not have a presentation today. As Commissioner Saltzman mentioned, we wanted to continue this item. Just a slight date correction, August 23rd instead of August 25th. So we wanted to go ahead and do that. I just wanted to give you a brief update that we do have a remunerations level of 45.5% as reflected in Exhibit G of the ordinance. We have some additional written testimony that's also in Exhibit G. Okay.
 On June 30th, I had a very good conversation with Jim Brown, who represents several of the property owners, and we had a good discussion, and we felt that a good next step would be for me to attend a property owner meeting with the property owners on August 7th, and then for us to come back on August 23rd and then report out to council what the options are for proceeding from here. I think those, again, were very productive discussions.
 One of the things that we'll be discussing on August 7th is a pavement study that's been privately commissioned by the property owners and also the possibility of local infiltration for stormwater. And so I just wanted to give Steve and Bill just a minute or so to just talk about what a pavement study is and the possibilities for infiltration just on a very conceptual level so that you know what's coming back in August.
 So my name is Steve Townsend. I'm the chief engineer for transportation, and I'll be joining Andrew at that meeting on August 7th with the property owners. And to give you a quick idea what the pavement design is we'd be doing, one of the things they proposed was six inches of asphalt out there. And one of the things that happens is, if you think about it, and I'm going to use this paper clip, I'm going high tech on you guys today.
 is that when the buses or a heavy load drives across the road, the bottom of the pavement wants to flex just a little bit if it's not thick enough. If it's thick enough, you could have your hand at the bottom of the asphalt or the concrete. The bus or truck could go over it. Your hand wouldn't feel anything.
 If it's too thin, when that bus or truck goes over it, that asphalt or concrete wants to flex at the bottom. And if it flexes at the bottom, it starts a crack. And that crack, if it goes from the bottom up, means the pavement wasn't thick enough and it's a rebuild. There's nothing we can do. So what we do in our pavement studies is to make sure that when we build the pavement, it's thick enough so that any stresses it feels are only on the surface, so that any repairs we have to do are on the surface, and it keeps the short-term and long-term maintenance costs to a minimum.
 And so that's part of what would be going on on this project is to make sure that there would be a pavement study and a pavement design to make sure that what is built out there will last. But it's also they want folks to take a peek at what is out there to see if anything can be reused. Thank you. And I am Bill Ryan, Chief Engineer for the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 Andrew has included in the estimate for the LID what we looked at as being the most probable, most expensive approach to handling stormwater within the area. And that's appropriate until we get out there and we actually have the opportunity to
 review test results, to look at the presence of contamination in the soil and groundwater, to look at the – maybe do additional testing and do some preliminary design work to
 We won't know whether an infiltration system is affordable or even doable. But we will do that work. We will do the necessary work to find the most cost-effective means of managing stormwater within the LID.
 And the same thing goes for the pavement. We've made the same thing, conservative assumptions, based upon what we have for information in the area, but we do site-specific testing, and that would improve our estimates, so we feel comfortable going forward. So I think that's all we wanted to share with you today. So we look forward to coming back on August 23rd at 10 a.m. time, certainly happy to answer any additional questions the council might have. Thank you all. Very good. Any further questions, colleagues? Any public testimony on this item?
 That will be taken on August 23rd. I'm sorry, on the 23rd. Thank you. Very good. Then without further ado, this is a non-emergency first reading. Move to second reading. No. Oh, it's a continuation actually, isn't it? Yeah. Correctly. Okay, this is a continuation. Thank you. Sorry for that confusion. We cannot quite yet move to 788. Okay.
 Let's move to 801, please. Do we have somebody here to talk on item 801? Yes, good. Please read 801. Item 801. Apply for and accept a grant in the amount of $445,680 from the Oregon Department of Transportation and appropriate $225,000 for reimbursement for the 2017-19 Work Zone Enforcement Program grant. Okay.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. My name is Aaron Smith. I'm with the Traffic Division. Good morning, City Council. So basically this grant is going to allow the Portland Police Bureau to put out extra enforcement in the area of the ODOT work zones to try and basically keep the workers safe and increase the awareness of the work zones, get people to slow down, and make everybody more safe. Very good.
 Any questions, colleagues, comments? Is there any public testimony on item 801? Sorry, 801. One moment, please. Thank you.
 So, Sergeant, haven't we already had several serious injuries? Unfortunately, yes. There's been some fatalities, not within the city, but just a couple weeks ago, the construction down on McLaughlin, there was a drunk driver that ran into a large piece of equipment, and it's just a miracle there wasn't fatality out of that. And we do not have any sign-up. Very good. Please call the roll. Salt Smiths.
 Well, this added enforcement can't come soon enough. It is the construction season. We are thankful the legislature just passed a $5 billion-plus transportation improvement package that will have a lot more work going on on our roads and streets and our sidewalks, and we need to make sure that our workers are safe. And having our police there to help enforce the laws is very important to all of us. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Prince. Thank you, Fuwook. Aye. Thank you. Wheeler.
 All right. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Please call I-802. 802. Authorize a contract with Motorola Solutions, Inc. in the amount of $14 million to provide public safety communications equipment and related services. Thank you.
 Very good. And colleagues, as you'll recall, there was some council discussion about this. There was a write-up that has been done. Staff has gone around to council offices. But I wanted to go ahead and give you the opportunity to make a presentation. Do you have any other further comments or questions based off the information we've provided since last week? Could you put your name in the record, please? I'm sorry? Name for the record. Oh, I'm sorry. My name is Beth Fox. I'm the Communications Division Manager for BGS. Yes.
 Thank you. And the only question that I have is, you know, obviously there was a major renovation several years ago, and when you've just invested in a whole new system, you're not going to change the providers. How do we know that the cost per unit is competitive? Yes.
 We get these, I brought one for show and tell today. This is a fire apparatus. We get these from the pricing from Motorola Direct. And although there are other resellers that sell this type of equipment, they can't sell it to us at the same pricing that we can get it from Motorola on the current contract. And so if Motorola was selling it to the general public, it would cost more?
 Built into this, just to clarify that piece, there's what's commonly called a most favored nation status. Basically, we get the best price from everybody, and their best pricing for their large national cooperatives and those are all the same. So it's a standardized best price. So, no, it cannot be bought cheaper from anybody else anywhere in the marketplace. That's without news. Now, thank you very much. Very good. Any further comments or questions on this particular item? No.
 Is there any public testimony on this item? We have two individuals signed up. Very good. Do you want to just take a seat? Nancy Newell and Joanne Hardesty, please come up. Good morning. Good morning. As you well know, I am an advocate for no nuclear operations in our area or near our area. And I oversee whatever equipment needs to be used.
 municipalities, et cetera, require in order to detect unusual radiation levels, which we experienced in December, December 13th. And it was not reported until April of this year the amount of radiation that was released from that 44-year-old nuclear plant operating at the Hanford Reservation. And it was finally discovered and reported by the Union of Concerned Scientists.
 So we have a 44-year-old plant that shouldn't be operating. I recommend the council not only go into an aggressive alternative program to get off that electricity, but also to require its immediate closure. Thank you.
 This plant is just waiting, and it was just luck in December that it didn't melt down, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists, Dave Lockbaum, who has lectured all over the Northwest. This plant has got to be shut down. It's designed just like Fukushima. It has all the failures in the equipment in Fukushima. There's no place to put the waste. We are experiencing radiation levels.
 In this city, especially in December, they went way up, and we finally figured out why. So I highly recommend this council put in a resolution not only for moving rapidly to alternatives, but the money we would save closing that plant is in the millions, and that's what I recommend. Very good. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, City Commissioners. I am Joanne Hottesty, and it's really close. I just wanted to comment on this purchase of emergency equipment and wanted to make sure that if we purchase any equipment, especially if we're spending $14 million, that we can communicate through all our emergency systems.
 I've been around long enough to know that police systems don't always connect with other emergency systems and we have data systems that don't talk to each other. And so here's an opportunity to really make sure that what we purchase, we purchase equipment that will communicate through all our needs.
 I just don't want to be back here again and find out that we have equipment that only handles one segment of our emergencies and not the other. We've been there before, and we've spent a lot of money. And so I hope the details of this will ensure that continuity across all our emergency systems. Thank you. Yeah, I couldn't agree with you more on that, Joanne. Thank you. Very good.
 Any further questions or comments, colleagues? Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. In regard to that, I believe this is the system that we switched to, and it was a major switchover. It cost $50 million or something. And so we are satisfied that it is working and communicating with all the other systems that it needs to.
 Yes, we are. My name is Beth Fox, Communications Division Manager for BTS. We have over 70 agencies with other sub-agencies within them, over 80 that utilize this radio system. So all of the public safety for Portland does, including 911 dispatchers use this. And it is actually a Multnomah County public safety radio system. So we are able to talk to any police department within our group as well as fire, medical, and, again, all.
 911 dispatch is done with this. Thank you. And just a small piece. This $14 million is a maximum piece on this contract. The contract itself is to buy ancillary equipment for the system that we have already spent, as you indicated, $50 million to replace. This just picks up the small pieces on the edge, the add-on pieces, that kind of stuff. This is not saying we're just going to go out tomorrow and buy $14 million worth of radios. Okay.
 Very good. Any further comments, questions, colleagues? Thank you for your testimony. Please call the roll. Southman. Aye. E. Daly. Aye. Prince. Well Mayor and staff, I really appreciate you spending the extra time to give us more information than we had last time and answer all of our questions and I do appreciate that it took a very large cooperative effort to make sure that this system does work well. So I'm very pleased to support this. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The contract is authorized.
 So we've used all the filler we can use, and we cannot start the next item legally until 1020, so we'll take a six-minute recess and reconvene at 1020. Nicely done. All the filler we can use. Question? Please call item 788. Time's certain. Thank you.
 788, appeal of John Hollister against the Portland Historic Landmark Commission's historic resource review decision of approval with conditions in the River District Subdistrict of Central City Plan District for construction of a six-story office building with a penthouse and three-story underground garage at Northwest Gleason and Northwest 13th Avenue.
 Very good. And for the record, this is an item where we've already held a hearing. We've already taken testimony. We took a tentative vote. And legal counsel, if I'm correct at this point, I can make the motion and take the vote. So, colleagues, I move that the counsel deny the appeal upholding the decision of the Historic Landmarks Commission and approve to approve the application with conditions and adopt the findings. Second.
 So we have a motion and a second. Please call the roll. Sossaman. Aye. Udeli. Aye. Fritz. So just disclosing that my staff have talked with both the appellant as well as the attorney representing the developer. Didn't learn anything that changed my opinion. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The appeal is denied. Next item is item 816.
 Item 816, amend relocation assistance regulations in affordable housing preservation and Portland renter protections. Colleagues, first I'd like to present an amendment to swap out what was filed in the 710 amendments. That, as you will recall, was a minor fix. It switches that out for a who. Is there any further discussion on that? No.
 And can I get a second? Second, absolutely. So we have a motion and a second. Please call the roll on the amendment. Saltzman. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Fritz. I'm actually delighted with this. I thought it should have been who. Aye. Wheeler. Excuse me. Let the record show that there is no matter too small.
 For my attention. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Colleagues, I'm happy to bring forward these technical fixes to you today. As I've said many times before, we're in a housing emergency, and we need to continue to do everything we possibly can to improve the experience of renters and families who are experiencing housing stability in our community.
 Despite our strongest efforts at lobbying and coalition work, unfortunately, the legislature was not able to provide our city or the state with a just cause eviction standard or rent control tools that we believe would have significantly helped us to address this emergency right now.
 Therefore, it's up to us to continue to take bold action to address this housing crisis using the tools that we currently have at our disposal, like mandatory relocation assistance. In February of this year, the Council mandated that landlords in the City of Portland pay relocation assistance to tenants experiencing rent increases of 10% or more and tenants being evicted for no cause.
 There was an abundance of public testimony from housing justice advocates, community groups, and landlords and tenants alike, and it became clear that the community at large had a handful of outstanding questions about the mandatory relocation assistance legislation.
 So in response, we passed mandatory relocation assistance with an amendment that mandated that the Housing Bureau assemble an advisory group of landlords, tenants, and other interested parties to identify technical issues within the legislation and propose solutions to the issues that were identified.
 As I'm sure you all remember, the Technical Advisory Committee met several times throughout March and April, and they compiled their proposed amendments for the Bureau's consideration.
 At the end of May, the Housing Bureau staff presented changes to the mandatory relocation assistance ordinance on behalf of the Technical Advisory Committee. The Council did not come to a consensus on the presented changes and asked that the Technical Advisory Committee revisit the recommendations with some clarifications. Thank you.
 Housing Bureau staff facilitated additional meetings with the Technical Advisory Committee, and they've returned with additional recommendations today. I'm going to turn it over to Director Krieger, who actually, he's not here today. Is that correct? I'm not sure. Sure.
 He may not be here today, but certainly Matthew Chabold is here from the Housing Bureau. And so in just a few minutes, we're going to go over the details of the recommendations. But first, I wanted to share just a couple more things. First.
 Affordable, accessible, and quality housing for all Portlanders is one of my top priorities, and I know it is a top priority of this city council. And I believe that tools like mandatory relocation assistance give us a real shot at providing basic needs.
 That's why I'm directing the Housing Bureau to continue to have the mandatory relocation technical assistance advisory group meet to determine what a potential long-term policy could look like.
 As you all know, this current policy is set to expire on October 6th. And two, affordable, accessible, and quality housing for all Portlanders is not just one of my top priorities or this council's top priorities. We've heard loudly and clearly that it's also a top priority for Portlanders.
 I take meaningful and equitable community engagement very seriously, and I know that this policy must include the voices of some of those who are the most directly impacted. That's why I'm directing the Housing Bureau to open two new recruitments, the Portland Housing Advisory Commission, the Bureau's community advisory body, and also the Renter-Owner Services Advisory Commission, otherwise known as ROSEC.
 I'm drafting legislation to get this up and running, and this new advisory commission will advise on issues of rental housing law and regulations, landlord-tenant programs and services, and provide a forum for public input on rental housing.
 So with that, I will now turn this over to Matthew from the Housing Bureau and others on the technical advisory group. For example, Margo Black has been involved in this process, and she has been asked to testify as well. So with that, I will turn this over to you.
 Thank you, Mayor, members of council. So I will quickly walk through the recommendations, and then we'll turn it over to some of our technical group members who wanted to provide some testimony. We have three folks here. So as the mayor mentioned, I guess first I'll just stop for a moment on this slide, because I know some of our discussion today will be about the group, the technical advisor group in reaching a consensus or –
 Close to a consensus, close to unanimous consensus. And so I just wanted to flag the organizations that were represented on the technical advisory group. As the mayor had mentioned, on the 25th, council directed the housing bureau specifically to
 to revisit subsection C and subsection D and the proposed changes therewithin from the first set of amendments that were brought forward by the Housing Bureau to Council to share the feedback from Council with the Technical Advisory Group and then see if the Technical Advisory Group could come to a set of consensus recommendations to bring back to Council based on City Council's feedback. So...
 With that, the first clarification was that the request for relocation assistance is not the notice to terminate the rental agreement, which did require some changes to code. There was some confusion and candidly differing opinions from different attorneys about whether or not the code as written meant that a request for relocation assistance was in fact a notice to terminate, and so...
 And the request to clarify this on behalf of the technical advisory group was something that was shared by both renter representatives as well as landlord representatives.
 And actually, if I could, let me take just a quick step back. As I'm walking through these, I just want to emphasize that these are a package of amendments and that the consensus that was reached by the group was consensus on the overall package. So any significant changes or removals or additions, I couldn't necessarily say there would still be consensus for that package without going back to the group. Okay.
 So the second item is a change to the time frame. And there would be two changes. One would be to allow 45 days for the renter to request relocation assistance. And then 31 days to allow the landlord to pay that relocation assistance.
 Subsequent to the payment of the relocation assistance, the renter would have six months from the effective date of the rent increase. So not of the notice of the rent increase, but actually the effective date of the rent increase to do essentially one of two things. One would be to repay the relocation assistance, and the second would be to provide the landlord with a notice to terminate the rental agreement. And the conversation around this was that
 generally folks seem to acknowledge that 90 days was a pretty tight time frame for someone to try and assess whether or not they could, what housing was available to them to move into once they got the relocation assistance. So some of the renter representatives in the discussion wanted to provide more time for renters to try and identify and secure new housing that was affordable to them.
 And the landlord representatives wanted more certainty in terms of, well, what is the end date at which we'll know that either we're getting the relocation assistance back because the renter will be staying or that they are providing us a notice to terminate and so they're moving out and we can plan for the next renter to come in. And so this language was that compromise to reach that point.
 Given the longer time frame, there was some concern from representatives from the landlord side of the discussion that a renter could experience perhaps two qualifying events for relocation assistance because in theory they could still be in the rental unit for a year or longer after the initial rent increase. And so there was some clarification to make sure that
 In code, it said that a renter could only receive and retain relocation assistance once per tenancy. And actually, the code amendments you swapped out were due to some concerns that Commissioner Fritz had brought up on Friday when we had checked in with her about language in the code.
 to make sure it was clear that it wasn't just receiving it once, but receiving and retaining in the event that perhaps they paid it back and stayed, but two years later, in the event of a permanent policy, there was a subsequent qualifying event. And then finally, to Commissioner Fritz's concern from the last city council hearing on the 25th, we worked with the city attorney's office to draft some language around –
 the utilization of LLCs and that should an individual who owns multiple rental units across the city have them each within their own LLC and that LLC only owns one rental unit, that that doesn't create an exemption from the relocation assistance. That was a concern that had come up, and so we incorporated that in with the code changes as well.
 I want to note one thing about the meeting in which we were able to come to this consensus on the package deal. Affinity Property Management was present. They participated in the discussion. They raised concerns, and they helped work through some of the tradeoffs, but in the end they chose simply to not take a position. I want to honor that on the record.
 PEMAR, the Portland Metropolitan Association of Realtors, was not able to be present. Neither of their representatives were available on that date, but they did express...
 in some email exchanges with staff before the meeting that they were not comfortable with a six-month time frame for their members. And then Meyer Memorial Trust representative did not take a position due to their legal and tax-exempt status. So while they participated from kind of a technical expertise standpoint, they weren't forwarding any policy recommendations to a legislative body. So with that, I'm happy to take any questions. Colleagues, any questions? Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item?
 I'm sorry, we have invited testimony. We do. So we've got Margo and then Jessica and Katrina from the technical group will also join. Very good. I apologize, Margo. Sorry if I snuck up too early. I thought I'd heard my name wrong. No, you're good. You're good. Thank you. I'll wait for them. Thank you. Morning, Commissioners. My name is Margo Black. As required by city code, I will disclose that I am speaking on behalf of the lobby entity, Portland Tenants United.
 I'm also a member of the Relocation Technical Advisory Committee. And I want to give testimony today regarding my concerns for a couple of the proposed technical amendments to the relocation ordinance. As mentioned, the committee has met several times, each for a period of three hours. And through that process, we arrived at consensus on most of the amendments that you'll consider today, particularly the important package of amendments that Matthew just described.
 However, there's one technical clarification in today's proposed amendments that was not discussed by the committee, and this regards the exemption for landlords with a single rental unit.
 As defined by Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 90.123, landlord includes their authorized representatives, so property managers. Practically speaking, this means that a landlord with only one unit who employs a property manager would not currently be exempt under the ordinance. Today's amendment seeks to clarify that such landlords should, in fact, be exempt, whether or not they use property managers or not.
 There's also a proposal in which this seeks to rightly clarify that landlords who have, say, five properties under five LLCs should not be exempt. Though if one were to determine that their LLC landlord only had a financial interest in one unit, they would still be exempt. If this sounds complicated, it's because it is.
 Commissioners, ultimately I'd like you to strongly consider limiting the exemption to only humans, not LLCs, and only those humans who personally manage their properties rather than those who use a property management company. And I ask you to consider this in light of my belief that this was in fact the original intent of the exemption.
 Absent of this limitation to humans only and only those who personally manage their properties, these types of tenants would be denied relocation assistance from the following owners. Owners who bought their single-family rental property online from a company like Roofstock by putting their single-family rental property in their online shopping cart, all from the comfort of their out-of-state living room. These are not obviously your small, financially constrained mom-and-pop landlords, considering that Roofstock boasts...
 Owning rental property doesn't mean that you have to be a hands-on landlord. For buyers who want to be less involved while earning passive income, choosing the best rental property management company makes it easy to focus more on the investing aspect and less on day-to-day operational tasks. So these will be your single-unit owning landlords in the city of Portland who will be exempt from paying relocation assistance when that property management company no-causes that tenant or increases the rent by more than 10%.
 And that's the crux of this. If this amendment is intended to exempt single unit owners because of the financial burden on small landlords,
 You know, the property management companies are literally incentivized to increase rent and to a certain extent, you know, no cause evict because of finder's fees for replacing tenants. And they are responsible for making those decisions. So I don't believe it was the intention of council to exempt landlords who can afford to use such property management companies and whose decisions then cause the exact circumstances that we want to protect tenants from.
 It also denies tenants relocation when their landlord is an LLC and the burden is on the tenant to research who has a financial interest in that LLC. I very much appreciate the direction from the council to do as much as we can to limit that LLC loophole, but it still requires a tenant to go to the Secretary of State website and try to trace locations.
 who has what financial interest. And it's really not easy. I consider myself highly technically literate, and I have run into many dead ends trying to figure out who has financial interests in what LLCs. So this really becomes an equity issue when tenants don't get this protection without having the knowledge, time, literacy, and resources to track down who owns their property. And this is fixed by requiring that the only landlords who are exempt are those who personally own and manage their properties.
 Council, though you know that as an advocate for tenants, I do not love that any tenants are exempt from relocation assistance when they're displaced from their homes through no fault of their own. But for the sake of diplomacy, I can accept it for the time being.
 However, I ask you to deeply consider what your intentions were when you did exempt single-unit owning landlords and whether or not that exemption should extend to those who can afford to employ property managers, managers who are entirely responsible for the decision-making process that leads to rent increases and no-cause evictions, or have the business acumen to funnel their ownership issues or their ownership interests through an LLC.
 I provided Council with proposed language that would limit this exemption to humans only and only those who personally manage their properties, as I believe this aligns with the original intent of the exemption and does not inadvertently make a loophole that is already being abused bigger. I'm grateful for your ongoing support of this policy and feel that the Relocation Technical Advisory Committee has been effective and professional. I'm fully in support of all the amendments that were discussed by the committee but want to reiterate that this particular issue was not discussed.
 and that is because it was assumed that Council's intent was to exempt certain landlords, regardless of who manages their property. If that was your intent, then I will concede this point. But I would ask for your clarity on this. If it was not, I would like you to consider the revised amendment that I submitted to Council by email this morning and I have in front of me if you have any questions. So yes, that was my intent in proposing that amendment, which did pass by the Council. And I appreciated you sending your,
 testimony in early and that you said that by and large you would prefer property managers, that they often are more professional than out-of-state owners who just leave things alone. I would submit to you that if I was an out-of-state owner, what I would do is on 90 days plus one, fire the property manager and then give the notice. And then the tenants really stuck with trying to deal with some out-of-state owner rather than...
 I just don't think that that really solves the problem. So perhaps it could be something that the ongoing committee could discuss for when you come back with an ongoing package. Well, as the lone person who voted against that amendment, I voted against it because no one could tell us how many units that would exempt and therefore how many tenants would be left without this vital protection.
 That's not because I don't think there should never be any exemptions. I do think an exemption for, instance, landlords who live on the same property as their tenants, like in a duplex or an ADU,
 Could be a reasonable exemption. And those were the people we were mostly hearing from, someone that built an ADU in their backyard, anticipating an elderly parent moving in at some point, someone who lives side by side with a tenant in a duplex. That's almost like having a roommate. Personally owned and managed. Yeah, yeah.
 So I'm very open to this amendment. My concern was that it wasn't discussed in the group and that these amendments today have all been agreed upon by this body and that we didn't have time to kind of talk about it between offices. So I'm open, and it's certainly something I think we should be discussing in October. Thank you.
 So I'll chime in on this in the same vein. I appreciate your bringing this to our attention. I think it is an important issue that does deserve further discussion. I think I'm of a mind of Commissioner Fritz. I would like to see this discussed in the committee. It's obviously going to be looking at a longer-term solution now, and this should definitely be in the mix as part of those conversations. So I do appreciate your bringing it to our attention. Thank you.
 Very good. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Thanks so much for having us here. My name is Katrina Holland, for the record, Executive Director of Community Alliance of Tenants. And I just had a few comments to highlight about...
 specifically the requirement for tenants to return the relocation assistance if they decide to swallow the rent increase, and then having to give it back if they haven't been able to find a place. I'm sure it's no secret that this ordinance is one of the only almost ready-to-go tools we have available for us to address this housing crisis in Portland.
 As an organization that's been representing most impacted renters for 21 years, we're ecstatic to know that this is a long-term policy in consideration by the council. We look forward to shepherding policies like this in other jurisdictions around the state and look forward to participating in conversations about what a long-term strategy would look like. A couple of items to highlight.
 We still believe that families need more than six months in order to find and secure a place. Ideally, we would love to see a year, but we agreed to support six months in the vein of being reasonable. However, we do feel like it does put most impacted renters up on the chopping block when it comes to being able to find a place to live and then potentially the added burden of having to give that money back.
 I also want to highlight that we also have a significant issue concerning notification from landlords to tenants. This was something that was brought up in the committee in the last meeting. I can't remember what day it was. It was early July. But in a nutshell, many tenants would be required to hand over this money if they have not found a place in six months.
 According to the ordinance, there is no mandate for the landlord to let the tenant know that that is the case. So for people who have heard about the relocation ordinance from their friends or family or maybe have not had an opportunity to be educated through an institution like City Council or like Community Alliance of Tenants, they would be obligated to pay this back if they haven't found a place and they don't know that that's the case, subjecting them to significant harm. And so...
 We'd love to see some action taken by the council to make sure that there is a notification, even if it's not at the time of the notice being given. Perhaps it's just included with the check as a separate notice so that tenants will have an idea that that is happening.
 As an organization dedicated to providing support and empowering most impacted renters, specifically seniors, people with disabilities, black and brown families, immigrants and refugees, single-parent households, these two issues could pose significant challenges for them. It's no secret that the socioeconomic status of many of those families are significantly lesser than their white counterparts and middle-class counterparts. So I would strongly encourage the council to consider these amendments and pass them today.
 And we want to make sure that this policy minimizes harm, and this would create more harm for these families. So you're interested in having the landlord notify the tenant at the time, or at some point, either the notice of the increase or the issuing of the check, that there is a six-month duration? Right. Okay. I think that's reasonable, and I would move that amendment. Well, it seems like that could just be an administrative rule or a standard practice that they're given and are frequently asked questions. Yes.
 Well, like I said, I don't have the exact wording in front of me, but I think it makes sense to say that a landlord will provide notice at either the notice of the rent increase or the issuance of the relocation check that it has a six-month duration attached to it. So I would move that amendment. Because many families, it may take them eight months to a year to find a place. And so –
 Without knowing that they are obligated to pay this back within six months, they'll end up swallowing the rent increase, thus taking away their money, and then having to pay it back. It would cause significant harm. So I share your concerns about notice and clarity. I was surprised at the solution that the committee came back with. I think it's great to have the extended solution.
 period to move out and it serves the interests of landlords and tenants, which is an ideal situation. I'm concerned that a lot of landlords and tenants don't even know about our relocation policy and think that that language needs to be incorporated into the standard notice forms. As far as the time period, it is my understanding...
 So a tenant gets 90 days notice of a no-cause eviction or rent increase. Correct. They have 45 days to say whether or not they're going to accept, well, on the rent increase, if they're going to accept it or they're going to move out. Right. Doesn't that six months begin at the end of that 90-day period? It would, yes. And then at the very end, they can give their...
 So it gets them to 10 months effectively. Effectively. Potentially more if the notice is longer than 30 days. Yeah, I'm just trying to track it through memory. So, yeah, and it's difficult because we don't have an office yet to kind of manage these new rules to make sure that everyone's aware. Right.
 Yeah, I definitely share those concerns. It seems like the notice coming with the check would make the most sense to me. Maybe both. Or both, yeah. I'm just looking at the code here. And it says termination notice in quotation marks. So presumably staff can have a template which would have the rules and the
 the options as far as paying it back, staying, et cetera. And the actual date that they have to give notice or they have to return those funds? Right. It would just encourage families to be more prudent with the money as they're looking for places to live, whether to give deposit to holds or for application fees, et cetera. So perhaps when staff come back up, we can find out whether that can be done administratively or whether we need to amend the code again. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Very good. Let me do this just to keep this tidy. If it's administrative, I'd prefer to keep the administrative option open. But Commissioner Saltzman has made a motion. Can we get a second? Yeah, I'd prefer it be in the ordinance itself as a new subsection F. But do you know where? Yeah, well, I would just put it at the end of the additional protections. Add a new subsection F that says the landlord shall provide notice.
 At the time of the 10% rent increase and at the time of the issuance of the relocation check, that the duration of that is for six months.
 I'll second that for discussion, Commissioner. I think actually it would go better as a new D and move everything else further down. So why don't we have a motion and a second. Why don't we keep that open, and I would certainly welcome public testimony on this item and further staff input. Thanks, Katrina. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Hi, my name is Jessica Greenlee with Affinity Property Management. I'm their operations manager.
 and part of the Technical Advisory Committee. I am, in listening to the discussion, I just am wondering if we can more thoroughly vet that language that you would want to add for notification, just because it is important that it's accurate and will comply legally, and we won't, especially if we have to incorporate that into paperwork and disseminate that out to staff, that does take time. And so if that is a requirement that we're going to put in there, if there's...
 opportunity to allow that not to happen under an emergency status that would be very beneficial I think for being able to roll that out into notices just a thought to
 consider as you're looking at that. I would also like to bring to Council's attention another item that was not discussed in committee that is causing some legal challenges. It has to do with the language in Section B at the very end of the paragraph. It says, for the purposes of this subsection, that
 A landlord that declines to renew or replace an expiring rental agreement on substantially the same terms, except for the amount of the rent or associated housing costs, terminates the rental agreement and is subject to the provisions of the subsection. That is included in the no-cause section. And what we are experiencing is situations where a tenant will obtain legal counsel. Okay.
 If we change possibly a smoking policy on a property or an employee's employment has ended and they've lost their employee discount are two examples that we're working through now. However, because it's part of the no-cause section, we automatically incur damages in this situation because there's no obligation for the tenant to notify us of the substantially same terms. So not only are we then paying the relocation assistance payment, but we're also subject to Section D.
 where we're also paying damages on top of the reload, without ever knowing we've violated it, because substantially the same terms is not defined. So I would like for the council to consider possibly moving that section to Section C, where there is a notification requirement in place, so that if a violation does occur...
 and their, or an attorney brings that to our attention, that they consider that to be substantially the same terms, that we have the opportunity to work through that because we have notification before we incur damages. I realize that this may be an item that is,
 better addressed in the long-term policy than the short-term policy, but it is certainly something that we're starting to encounter more frequently. Yeah, and I appreciate that. And, again, I want to thank all three of you for your service on this committee. It was very, very helpful to get all these perspectives. I'll just state my preference. My preference is that we not make technical amendments on the fly here today. That's my preference. Mm-hmm.
 my preference would be that it is already mid-July, and we know that this ordinance expires on October 6th. And so I'd prefer that we have these technical discussions at the committee level and continue to weigh them and vet them and the consequences of making technical changes and then bring that back as part of the longer-term package. But I do appreciate your bringing it forward.
 Jessica, would it make sense to iterate what would constitute a substantial change? Could the change in a smoking policy? I think that would be very beneficial. I think there's a couple of ways to address this. You know, rather it be defining what substantially the same terms are or moving that into the subsection where it does require some kind of notification. Okay. So that would be very beneficial. Very good. Thank you. Any further questions for this panel?
 Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you. We appreciate it. Is there any public testimony on this item? We've had three people sign up. Okay. Very good. Please come up when I call your name, Shedrick Wilkins, Anthony Bencivigo, if I have that pronounced correctly, and Alan Kessler. Very good. And is there anybody else here who would like to testify on this issue? Very good. We'll close the list. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I was a – about –
 I was a brief tenant at Dignity Village in which the rent was $20 a month. It was very communal. I didn't last there, and then I'm a veteran. Now I'm under HUD and I'm on food stamps. But I do think that if – I think the economy of the future will get worse and we will have more homeless people. And I do believe in kind of a – what is called a shack house existence that they're building.
 Some of these little shacks have solar panels on it. And in the last five years, I could have spent $5,000 on solar panels on my Dignity Village shack. Instead of paying $100, I do a month to the HUD. And I would have liked it there. I liked it out there. It was kind of nice. Dignity Village has one bus, so I can commute to a job. I want to go back out to Dignity Village because...
 I think people are going to wander out into the corridors again unless, of course, they stay in these shack-leased things in somebody's backyard, kind of. I know for a fact, too, that a lot of people on the East Coast, when wintertime comes, they call up their relatives and,
 They don't, you know, they sell their blood, take a bus out here, spend six months during the wintertime and go back to their relatives, their other relatives in New York someplace. So, and Portland has very moderate climate, low population, and a lot of churches that will give you some canned food. But I'm going to do one experiment. Okay.
 Every year I have to solicit for food stamps. And I have to call a state office. So what I've done is I'm going to take some little solar panels and prop them in my window and power up my cell phone. And you cannot email anybody for food stamps. You have to give verbal testimony in February that I stay here.
 and call somebody. I usually do it from the Hollywood. I will get a phone and I will see if I can conduct and get a lot of information from just a couple solar panels propped in the window. And if I certainly went back to Dignity Village, I could use those. And my son says I can put a keyboard in my phone and get a low-cost ISP and get on the internet. So I'm going to do some of these little experiments
 And it's one advantage, you know, in the 1920s when people were homeless, we do have a lot of this what I call crystal magic, people's ability to get electricity from the sun, telecommute. I know some people actually write programs that have made $50,000 on an Apple phone. So it's amazing how you can do that and be another Zuckerberg or somebody like that. And you don't have to have an office. You can just do it with a phone. Thank you.
 Commissioner's Mayor, Alan Kessler. I'm an attorney. I don't practice landlord-tenant law normally, but since this relocation ordinance, I've been accepting pro bono clients, tenants who are facing a no-cause eviction. Thank you.
 So I've had several clients who are sort of trying to deal with the nuances of this law, and it's a challenge. I would submit to you that I believe it should be the policy of the council that –
 No-cause evictions should be rare, should not be a normal tool, but should be in unusual circumstances. And to the extent that somebody is in the business of managing property, they can predict about the rate at which they're going to have to no-cause evict people, and they can build that into their fees and into the rent. They can amortize it over the whole population of tenants so that they can basically ensure those rare instances where a no-cause eviction is necessary.
 I understand that with mom-and-pop landlords where perhaps they're not as sophisticated, perhaps they just have one rental and that's their retirement income, and it's...
 Perhaps the exemption is appropriately applied to them, but I think that Margo is right. Where a property manager is making money on managing properties, then they shouldn't be using this tool, and we need to punish them if they do use this tool. Commissioner Fritz had a comment that if we were to adopt –
 Ms. Black's language that an owner would work with a property management company that would sell at the last minute. I note that Ms. Black's language actually includes the phrase, a landlord who at all times during the term of the rental agreement is a human being, blah, blah, blah. And I think that's a good option. I think that if we limit the cases to where there's a human being who manages a property, that person's self –
 throughout the tenancy and doesn't involve a property manager, then they should be exempt. But as soon as you start to involve shell companies and more sophisticated arrangements, then the person is more sophisticated, and they should be able to understand that if, in a rare instance, they need to know cause, they'll have to pay this fee. It's just part of the cost of doing business. Okay.
 It seems much more fair to put that on the side of people for whom this is passive income than the people for whom this is their home. Said differently, it seems that city council is taking the position of people who own two houses and weighing that above the positions of people who have no houses.
 From the point of view of a tenant, it's impossible to know what the various ownership interests are. I'm an attorney. I can't claim to figure it out. I've had tenants come to me. I've had to turn them away because their property manager claims that – I'm sorry, because an LLC owner claims that they're the only – that's their only home in the city. I don't know whether that's true, but I can't afford – may I have just 30 more seconds, please? I don't know whether that's true, but I –
 I can't afford to sue and find out later. Those cases just won't be prosecuted.
 Yeah, one tenant in particular I wanted to tell you about was somebody who was on a lease with a property management company in a home for quite some time. And then January, I believe, of this year, the property management company sold to a local developer. The developer stashed an LLC. About a month later, it issued a no-cause eviction. That LLC, as far as I can tell, only has one property.
 property that is a rental. It has other properties, but there are building permits on those. So I don't think that those are rentals. I can't take that case.
 That's a person who did everything right, was a victim of development, a victim of exactly what we're trying to protect, and that's a human being who I can't help who can't have relocation. I don't think that's the right policy. Thank you. Good morning. Hi. My name is Anthony Benchavingo, and I'm an organizer with Portland Tenants United.
 And I do direct work with tenants on doorsteps when they contact PTU via Facebook messages, via emails, via phone calls.
 And I really want to second a lot of the comments that Alan Kessler just said about the fact that for a lot of tenants, it's very difficult to navigate the complex requirements around this law and whether or not they're eligible for reload, especially in cases where large landlords are trying to use this loophole where they can establish a bunch of different LLCs, which each only own one building, but would be under the same property manager or would be under potentially different names who are all directly related to them.
 or just under different names of LLCs, even though they're all tied in various ways to the same person. The thing about RELO is that it's working extremely well overall. I've talked to a lot of tenants who it's helped, but I've also talked to a lot of tenants who are not aware even of the details of this law and are certainly not aware, if their landlord doesn't tell them, that they're going to be eligible for it, even if they are. In the past two weeks,
 I've had two tenants contact me and say that they have landlords who they believe own multiple properties, but they aren't sure and they aren't sure whether they're eligible for RELO. And their property management company has either been non-responsive or when they've asked, does my landlord own multiple properties, have refused to tell them, which they are perfectly in their rights to refuse to do. And I generally for these tenants to look their landlords up on Portland maps and
 But usually they're not able to find their landlord's name. It's difficult to navigate that. It's difficult to navigate the Secretary of State's website. One very recent tenant who I just talked to yesterday actually, who wanted to be here today.
 but I don't think was able to make it, is under in a building which is owned by Macaulay Enterprises, which is an LLC which owns 11 buildings across Portland, and all of them are under the same name, Macaulay Enterprises, but a slightly different number. So Macaulay Enterprises 5, Macaulay Enterprises 3, Macaulay Enterprises 2, etc. And when he contacted me, not realizing he was eligible for RELO because they didn't tell him, I was able to
 with the help of another PTU organizer, look this stuff up and figure it out and help him to find out that he was eligible. But this took a solid hour with the help of another organizer. And it's because this is something that I've been doing for a while and I know the tricks.
 Most tenants, especially ones who don't have experience doing public records requests, who don't have college educations, for whom English is a second language, for who are working people, this is extremely difficult. And this is a loophole which a lot of landlords who should be paying RELO and are very much able to are using to get out of it. So I very much want to support amendments that would make it so that we limit the small landlord exemption to those whose personal names are on Portland maps and manage their single unit.
 rentals personally, not through a property management company. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry, I'd just like to comment on that. Obviously this is a thing that the ongoing committee will discuss more. And you had me right until the very last piece, which was I agree that it should not be, it shouldn't count for LLCs. This is what the attorneys here came up with us to exclude that. So I think you'd agree that is a positive exception, I mean clarification. And
 probably there's another way to say it. I don't think, if an elderly couple for example is using the rental property for their retirement income and they are physically not capable of managing it themselves, presumably if you engage a property manager, you're paying part of the rent. You're not charging more rent because you've got a property manager because that would, the person who's
 wanting to buy the unit just wants to know what is the rent. And so I think that market forces would get there. So that's just something to think about as you continue on these discussions. Thank you for your testimony. Colleagues, we have one amendment on the table from Commissioner Saltzman.
 And I view it as more of a clarification amendment as opposed to a tremendously substantive or technical amendment. I'd like to, therefore, ask if there is interest on the part of the council of changing this back to an emergency ordinance. I'd like to make that motion. Second. We have a second for discussion. Yes. So, Mayor, if...
 If I may interrupt, the change that was discussed is a change to proposed code language, and that's not the type of amendment we can do on the fly. Luckily, in the example of the city that works very quickly, there's a city attorney right now printing out copies of proposed text for that amendment. So for your consideration, we'll be looking for that door to open shortly. So let me potentially...
 amend the amendment that Commissioner Saltzman has put on the table. It's my understanding, based on some quick and dirty research I did during testimony, that you, in fact, do not have the rulemaking authority for this particular portion of the code. So Commissioner Saltzman is correct that in order for it to be enacted, it does have to be a formal amendment.
 but rather than doing the amendment on the fly, could we give them the authority to carefully draft the language that supports the intention of your amendment? Right. Well, I thought I understood from our attorney they're drafting that as we speak. Is that correct?
 They are, so it's at council's option as to how you would prefer to handle it. If you have language that works to affect it, that's one option. Another would be to give the Bureau the authority to do so. Well, here's my question. We have 100 people in the room, some of whom are waiting for the next item, and this is the only thing left on the table. So unless that language is available right now, more people are waiting.
 My preference would be to give you the authority to continue to work on that language and we move on. Otherwise, if it's ready, I'm certainly interested in hearing it. The last email I have is that it's being printed and brought into chambers. Okay. So it's on its way. This is the city that works. Commissioner Daly? I'm sorry. Do you want to respond to any of the testimony that was given in the meantime? No.
 Kurt Krieger, Housing Bureau Director. This is a very delicate balance, and I'd say that it's not proportional, that owners of property have ceded in recognition that this is a life decision for a tenant, not just an economic decision. So they did so after lots of gut-wrenching debate and deliberation. And as you can see, once you start pulling at tenants,
 side issues, the whole agreement runs the risk of falling apart. I think it's to be commended that this group worked through some really tough issues during a legislative session when the legislature wasn't able to balance similar kinds of concerns. Hopefully it's a model for moving forward.
 And indeed, all of the policy issues were put into a parking lot. We were only dealing with technical corrections because both sides had things that they wanted to bring to the table. And Matthew needed to be a very tough enforcer about that traffic and narrowly construct the technical amendments. And that, I think, struck the right and correct balance. I don't disagree with...
 Ms. Black's contention that when an individual property owner pierces the corporate veil by contracting with a property management company, that they have made a decision to put their business in the hands of another party, and they're willing to pay for that. That changes the business relationship. But that said, it was not discussed.
 Very good. And it's my understanding, Director Krieger, that with the amendments that are currently on the table, that is not under discussion. That we're putting in the parking lot for the committee to continue to discuss as part of a longer-term solution. That's correct. So we now have some language from the city attorney, and I guess to be precise, I'll move that language as a substitute to my verbally awarded amendment. So the new language would read under subsection D, C, excuse me,
 The foregoing terms and conditions regarding the tenant's rights and obligations regarding the relocation assistance shall be included with the landlord's payment of relocation assistance to the tenant. And I continue to second that. All right. So we have a substitute amendment on the table. Any further discussion on the substitute amendment? Please call the roll. Swansmith. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Pritz. I'll continue in kudos, at least the Gramp and the city attorney's office, for getting this done so quickly. Idle.
 Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. To the amendment of reestablishing the emergency clause, please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Colleagues, any further questions or clarifications before we get to the main motion? Staff, anything else you'd like to add? No, but thank you very much for taking up this issue. Great. Well, thank you.
 Very good. Please call the roll. Sounds good. Well, I want to thank the committee. I want to thank the judge who upheld the constitutionality of this ordinance recently, Breitkopf, I believe his name is. Thank him for his wise decision. And I want to thank Matthew Schavold for carefully orchestrating the work of the committee to produce the products in front of us today. And so I'm pleased to support this, and I realize that we are really going to have to revisit this later. Thank you.
 and the changes we're making are now, but I do feel the amendment we just passed is something that's a real here and now issue, that people, as Commissioner Daly said, not a lot of people know about this relocation assistance ordinance, so it's important at this point more than ever that we make sure that landlords notify tenants of this program. And so who's to support this package? E. Daly.
 Well, I also want to thank the Technical Advisory Committee for hanging in there with what I know were some really tough conversations, for considering the issues that we raised during the last hearing on this item, and coming back with solutions that weren't what I had in mind but I think are actually better. This is absolutely how this process should work. I want to thank...
 the Mayor and Commissioner Fritz for her clarifying amendments as well as PHB staff of course. Commissioner Saltzman beat me to the punch. I just wanted to hope I hope that we would have a moment to revel in the ruling on our ordinance. We've
 We now, we won the last legal challenge, we believe, and our relocation ordinance will stay in place, which is especially comforting considering we didn't get any tenant protections out of Salem this session. And I'm looking forward to the conversation moving forward. Aye. Wheeler. I'd like to add my... Oh, sorry. We forgot somebody very important. I'm the president.
 Thank you. Well, we adopted the initial ordinance as an emergency in February, as was right and proper, because we are continuing to have a housing emergency. And I commend Commissioner Ewe Daly for her leadership in bringing it forward then and doing it as quickly as possible. Since then, there's been this wonderful new committee, which Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Fish...
 directed to have happen. And so there's been much more conversation about the pros and cons and what I'm hearing now from all sides is more of an understanding of that there are pros and cons and that sometimes you need to compromise. And that's kind of what the art of politics and certainly on the City Council, that's what we try to do so that everybody gets most of what they want hopefully. Most of the time, not a few people get exactly what they want on every single detail. So again, thank you to Commissioner Eudaly.
 and Mayor Wheeler for partnering on this great effort and Denis in the City Attorney's Office for arguing that case before the judge. Thanks to Golda and Salazar in my office and Jamie Duell in Commissioner Udaily's. This is really great staff work as well as good work and good collaboration from everybody on the council. Thank you.
 Wheeler. I'd like to thank Director Krieger and your team, Matt, in particular. I want to thank you. And I definitely want to add my name to the list of people thanking the Technical Advisory Committee for their incredibly hard work on this. And I know that there is much...
 that the committee members do not agree on. And I appreciate the tone and the tenor of the conversations that have taken place in those committee meetings. I think we did a good job of putting the right people on that committee who could have...
 some fairly direct conversations and everybody still stayed around the table. And I think that's the best way to make policy. I agree with Commissioner Udaly. It's disappointing to be here effectively six months after where we started and realizing that we are going to have to continue to go on our own. We're going to have to continue to lead here from the city council chamber in the
 the absence of further statewide leadership. And we're perfectly content to do that. It means we've got a lot of work ahead of us, and I know we're up to the job. So I look forward to continuing to work with everybody on this important issue. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you. So that brings us to items 798 through 800. I would ask that we please read all three of those items together. Thank you.
 798, adopt the Community Equity and Inclusion Plan for all City of Portland public improvement contracts that utilize alternative contracting methods and have estimated contract values of $10 million to $25 million and require consideration of modified community benefits agreements for public improvement contracts with estimated contract values in excess of $25 million.
 Item 799, direct the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services, Procurement Services Division, to develop and implement a contract delivery method selection process for public improvement projects with construction contracts estimated at $10 million and over. Item 800, direct the Office of Management and Finance and the Office of Equity and Human Rights to develop a community opportunities enhancement program and funding plan.
 I'd like to start with some brief introductory remarks. First of all, I want to thank all of you who are here who've worked on this issue over a period of months, if not years, to take into account the varying views of different stakeholders. These resolutions that are coming before the City Council today, I want to be very clear, this is a first reading. So there will be no vote today.
 on this item today. This is going to come back to the Council in August. We haven't settled on a date yet, but we will certainly publicize the date in August when we bring it back for final consideration of amendments, some of which I'm sure will be put on the table today. We wanted to give the stakeholders who've worked so hard on this an opportunity for public testimony, and so that's our primary objective today.
 Given the time allotted today, and how many people do we have signed up right now?
 Here, there may be another sheet outside. Okay, so why don't we do this? Assuming that there are 23, let's start with two minutes of public testimony each. That's the same amount that you get at the legislature. It's a little less than we like to do here, but we obviously want to get through this today. So if people could please limit their testimony to two minutes. If it turns out we have another sheet, we might have to further reduce that, but let's assume we have 23 minutes.
 When I took office, I wanted to make sure that the CEIP would meet the city's goals for contracting while also meeting the critical timelines for bureau construction projects.
 This project both increases capacity in the minority contracting community while also protecting the rights of workers. I and my fellow city councillors want to ensure that this project will meet our expectations and balance these needs. The CEIP is an inclusive plan that provides equal opportunities for both union and open shop participation. That's something that I believe is very important.
 The CEIP goals related to the utilization of women and minority contractors, workforce and apprentices are much clearer and more consistent and align with our city's stated goals. The CEIP plan is going to continue to be an important part of the city's fairer contracting forum to ensure collaboration and conversations regarding important contracting issues happen in the same place.
 The CEIP sets clear expectation for contractors and cities' engagement with the Oversight Committee, and that's the Community Equity Inclusion Committee in particular. It sets forth specific timelines and content to be reported to the CEIC for their review and for their feedback.
 The CEIP will create a 1% set-aside which will apply to all public improvement construction contracts, not strictly to alternative contracts, to ensure that the city's goals are met. The CEIP pulled many components from the modified CBA
 and the Community Benefits Agreement. And although many provisions are substantially similar, the format was changed to provide greater clarity with regard to the obligations of each of the parties. Thank you.
 So with that, I will turn it over to Dante and to Tom. We have some invited testimony as well today. So we'll start with the Chief Administrative Officer, Tom Reinhart, and the Director of Office and Human Rights, Dante James. And I don't know which of you gentlemen would like to go first. Director James. Thank you. I'll do the short straw.
 Thank you Mr. Mayor, Commissioners it's my pleasure to be here just to offer some opening introductory remarks and I think you've done a great job of kind of defining and describing why we're here this morning essentially to address the issues of the underutilization of minorities and women in contracting and in the workforce and I don't think there's any question about the fact that
 There is a need for this type of process, these types of plans. I, in some sense, came late to the game as the process was begun. I was truly lucky to work with an excellent team from OMF, and I truly just want to thank them personally and publicly. Christine Moody, who's now moved on to the port, has been working, has worked extensively in trying to bring this process
 to conclusions, so it's a shame that she's not here to witness this. Molly Washington, who is sitting here, has been instrumental in putting her legal skills to use in crafting and creating the document that you see before you. Teresa Elliott, her engineering skills and her work within BES, her intimate knowledge of how this would actually play out was very beneficial in putting this all together. Kathleen Messier, the same. Jamie Waltz.
 and her skills at keeping us on track as a project manager were unparalleled. Betsy Ames, phenomenally engaged in crafting this document, and then Tiffany Pinson.
 my road buddies, we drove all around the city meeting with lots of different people explaining this process. So many thanks to them and many others who were involved in this process and certainly Tom coming in and shepherding this to get us where we are. As you said, it's the CEIP, the Community Equity and Inclusion Plan, which also includes the partnership agreement, the exhibit A that you have, as well as the
 creation and staffing of a community equity and inclusion committee, the CEIC. The 1% proposal resolution is also before you, as well as the need to craft the process by which we will determine the best projects to put these plans on. So that's the what. The why is really simple. As I said, these processes are necessary because of the continued underutilization of minority women-owned businesses,
 minority women in the workforce on city funded construction projects. We cannot, however, fail to call out the reason for the unutilization. And that is that I would suggest to you that racism is still explicit and implicit in the construction industry that impacts contracting and hiring in this city. And the outcomes without plans such as these bear this out. As do the narratives by the people who work in this industry in contracting and
 own companies and are trying to get employed in the workforce. And these resolutions, this plan is an effort to try to put the city in the best position to address and not be a participant in the continuing racism or implicit bias that infects the industry currently. And so that's why we're here. And so I don't want to lose that reasoning, that rationale, and the purpose for why we're here.
 And I think that this plan and these resolutions go a long way to try to address that. You'll hear lots of testimony. I'll be back probably explaining a little bit more. The short answer for me is I think this is a more robust document. And if you look at the original document that had aggregate goals,
 For MWE and ESB, theoretically, you could have met every goal with all white male-owned businesses, and that was never the intent. This document changes that because it disaggregates the goals and requires specific utilization of MBEs as well as WBEs, 12% and 5%. And so for that reason alone, the document needed to be changed and adjusted.
 And this document does many other things besides that, but it absolutely addresses that. So with that introduction, I will stop and let Tom take us a little further. Thank you. Thank you, Director James. For the record, Tom Reinhart, Chief Administrative Officer. I became more deeply engaged in this process in April on the Mayor's request, and I just want to provide a couple of what I consider contextual remarks to why this set of companion resolutions is so important.
 Both staff and leaders in the contracting community have recognized for years that a piecemeal approach to our efforts at providing more opportunities to both MWESB contractors while also expanding minority and female participation in the workforce is problematic on many levels. For example, in my conversations with directors over the past few months, I've learned that we have several different efforts currently going on that all have different programmatic approaches to achieve our goals. The Washington Park Reservoir Project...
 the Portland Building Reconstruction Project, which I am deeply involved in, Pioneer Square Reconstruction, and the 10th and Yamhill Project. All have different approaches. That means a different set of Molly's team from the city attorney's office, equity staff, bureau staff. This is an effort to really give the city one approach to this that can provide certainty both to the contracting community and to bureaus.
 In April, after Dante and Tiffany finished their excellent outreach work, the mayor directed me to try to figure out how to take all that feedback. And I want to again thank my team because they went through dozens and dozens of comments, phone calls, meetings with community partners to put together the product that you have in front of you. And we come before you today with the confidence that these resolutions provide the city with the structure required to not only meet our goals, but to also meet our goals.
 but goals in terms of equity and attacking these problems that have persisted for so many years, but also to fulfill what the council directed your various bureaus to do in the budget process, which is accomplish ambitious construction goals as the city continues to grow. So I want to make sure that point is clear that we've tried to meet that delicate balance. And now I'll turn it back over to Dante to walk through the first resolution. Any pieces of that that you want to do an overview of? Thank you.
 Thank you. As you said, Mr. Mayor, the foundation of this document was the CBA, the modified CBA, as well as other plans that were being used by other bureaus on other projects. Specific differences from that modified CBA that was used was that, as I said, the goals are desegregated for MWBEs and ESBs.
 There's no specific union signatory requirement. There's no specific additional requirements for union utilization of apprentice programs in preference in that regard. There are prescriptive requirements for reporting to the Oversight Committee, the CEIC.
 The 1% fund, which is brought separately, was removed from the initial CEIP document and is being brought separately. So should there be a need to modify or adjust the actual CEIP, the 1% will always be able to stand by itself and continue. And then there were formatting changes.
 So those were probably the most significant changes from the modified to the current. There are significant similarities. I'm not going to go through all of them, but I would suggest the outreach is one of them. How we perform the outreach and who we heard from. I have a document that gives you a little more detail, which I'm not going to go into. But just to give you a brief oversight, there was an email that went out.
 to 42 organizations or individuals that detailed the new CEIP and offered the opportunity for feedback and review over a period of a couple of months. Of those organizations that received the information,
 We met, we as in Tiffany and I, met with 21 organizations or individuals to explain, to answer any questions, and to get their feedback in person at those meetings, and then offer them additional time to review the document and give us feedback, us being the working group in writing after a much more in-depth review by them.
 So we received written feedback from 22 of the organizations who we met with out of the 42. Significant organizations that we met with were, or at least that we offered the opportunity for meeting with, was NAMCO, MCIP, Oregon Tradeswomen, Constructing Hope, I mean I'm not going to read them all to you, several of the union trades, the Urban League. So we received feedback from, as you can see,
 most of those and many folks from within the Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity as well. We specifically met with three construction organizations, NUCCA, Northwest Utility Contractor Association, OAMI, and Portland Business Development Group, PBDG, as well as apprentice programs, Associated Builders and Subcontractors, Construction Industry Training Trust, and Northwest College of Construction.
 So as well as others that you can see who provided feedback. A significant amount of that feedback was incorporated into the CEIP. And Ms. Washington can give you some more details about that specifically. But I will submit to you that a significant amount of that feedback was incorporated. Some organizations that we reached out to didn't give us feedback. Some we reached out to do a personal meeting with didn't respond.
 we followed up. I think Tiffany's emails were flying back and forth and she was, I can tell you, very, very intent on getting as much opportunity for feedback as possible. The feedback then came in to a, not to me or to an individual, although some sent it to me, but it went to a city email box. It was then utilized to compile all that feedback and then Molly did her
 legal work and put a lot of that into the document. After consultation with a lot of the bureaus, with some of the council staffs and other things, we incorporated absolutely as much as I think that we could, and from a legal perspective, as legally was allowed to be done.
 If you look at, again, some of the similarities as well, on page 7 plus, it talks about the CEIC, which is, I'm sorry, page 7 of the actual CEIP document. It talks about the CEIC, which in some sense is similar to the original LMCOC, the Labor Management Community Oversight Committee.
 I try not to throw too many acronyms at you. Here it's designed to review performance and advise on means of better achieving the goals. They will receive quarterly reports from contractors as well as be able to forecast. They're forecasting reports, so they should be able to know what's expected. They'll get the reports and be able to review whether those goals were actually met.
 And so those come on a quarterly basis, and they can request to meet with the contractor more often if everyone would agree to that. The CEIC also can be used to assist the city in enforcing the document. The enforcement is simple. If you are not in compliance with the document as a signatory, it's considered a material breach.
 You are then subject to liquidated damages. Progress payments can be withheld up to and including termination of the contract. So there is enforcement built into this document. 1% community capacity support is a more focused and has greater depth of all across the city viewer involvement. And as I think you mentioned, it's not just alternative bidding, but for the entire project.
 the entire dollar amount for the expected construction low bid or not will be part of this in hard construction costs.
 And so it's not just one project's 1%, but it's the totality of the projects that are being paid and done in the city, so that there's a consistent and constant amount that will be known and be able to be utilized by those service providers who are doing workforce provision, et cetera, so that we are building capacity in the city ongoing. So it's not just necessarily this project, but the expectation we are looking in the long term to build a pipeline, et cetera,
 excuse me, for workforce as construction ramps up in this city. Those, I think, are at least highlights of some of the similarities in this document. As I've said, I think it's more robust. The document speaks to making sure it's a harassment-free workplace and what that means and the training that's expected to be provided by the contractors to the subcontractors.
 you can see that on page 15 in Section B of the actual CEIP, there's requirements for the numbers of restrooms for women on the job site, as well as lactation facilities should those be necessary. So, I mean, it becomes a much more detailed document of expectation of how you are treating your workforce and what you are providing for them to make this truly a harassment-free workplace.
 Is there a way to make that perfect? Absolutely not. We tried to be as detailed as possible without putting every possible reason there would be harassment on the work site. But this document, as an example of those kinds of things that are in this document that were not in the previous document, give this more teeth and I think greater depth and breadth when we're addressing what we need to address here for the issue. So...
 Thank you. Very good. So, Mr. Mayor, just to check with you here, we have two other pieces, the two other pieces of the three companion resolutions. Do you want us to walk through those quickly? Yes, because we're going to vote on them individually, but we want the presentation and any public testimony to be reflecting on all three of those resolutions. Okay. Okay.
 So item 799, I just wanted to do a brief overview, and then Ms. Washington is going to go through the details of it. It really alludes back to my opening comments around, you know, developing a contract delivery method selection process that's,
 Tom, I'm sorry to interrupt. I want to correct myself. We're not taking any votes today, but when we do vote, we will vote individually on the three resolutions. And so today, when we take public testimony, we'll be taking testimony on all three of the resolutions. Excellent. Sorry to interrupt. That's okay. I'll try to get my rhythm back.
 We want to make sure that the contract delivery method selection process in terms of how this goes through procurement is effective. It vets the projects correctly and decides how they're going to be approached in the most effective manner. And going back to my opening comments, historically the city has done approximately 75 million projects.
 public improvement projects each year at actually around $75 million. I mean, 75 projects at $75 million, so strange how those numbers work down. But in the past three or four years, we've seen that number significantly creep up. So if you smoothed out the previous 20 years, we'd be at that 75-75 figure, but we're seeing that go way up, and we anticipate that to continue to climb.
 So we really want – this section was worked on extensively to make sure that we have a robust process to vet these projects and to make sure we're approaching them correctly in terms of the CEIP. So, Molly, you want to take it away from me? Sure. So the second resolution directs the Bureau of Revenue and Financial – Molly, I'm sorry. Could you identify yourself for the record? Sure. Molly Washington, Deputy City Attorney with the City Attorney's Office.
 directs the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services Procurement Services Division to develop and implement a contract delivery method selection process for public improvement projects with construction contracts estimated at $10 million or over.
 What that basically means is that when you have a construction public improvement contract, that typically gets defaulted to low bid per statute. So if you're a low bidder, you win the project. However, the statute and code provide for an exemption from the low bid process if you meet a certain amount of findings.
 Why this is a companion resolution and important for purposes of the CEIP is that the CEIP and the equity plans that Tom discussed on the various other projects are things that really only apply when you have an alternative contracting method utilized.
 So what we've done here is to try to provide, or what we're requesting is to try to provide the bureaus with a little bit of process in how they're going to determine what type of contract delivery method is really appropriate for the project that they have in front of them. Alternative contract delivery methods can provide substantial benefits, public benefits as well as cost savings to the city. Okay.
 And they're typically used on projects that have a bit of technical complexity to them, some operational and scheduling constraints, public safety and risk impacts, and projects that require specialized expertise. But oftentimes this method can really only be utilized if it's considered early in the construction project process.
 So the benefits, again, to this type of contract delivery method, which we generally call alternative contracting, is that it allows the city to consider factors other than cost when selecting the contractor. So instead of just awarding the contract to whoever has the lowest bid, the city can consider other things such as the
 qualifications of the contractor, the experience and expertise of the contractor for that specific scope of work. They can also consider the qualifications to perform the work, the project team involved, sub-consultants, key trades, as well as corporate responsibility, which is generally also included, and their commitment to equity. Okay.
 the city has done several of these types of projects, not a lot, but several. And as we've looked at some of the results from those post-project reports, as well as what we expect to see in terms of benefits, these projects that are alternative projects,
 Contracting methods have had enhanced partnerships with the contractors. They're able to bring the contractors in early so they realize a lot of benefits in terms of risk mitigation. Risks such as material procurement, safety, constructability, access, community relations. Also value engineering which can result in substantial cost savings.
 Again, as I mentioned earlier, these projects also lend themselves to applying an equity plan, whether it's the CEIP or some other type of equity plan. Those are available tools that can be used when a contractor is involved early in the process.
 So the purpose of this resolution is just to allow the city and the bureaus to be very intentional in how they decide what type of method they're going to use for their construction projects, whether it be low bid or an alternative procurement, and to have a consistent approach for the bureaus to use citywide, so that when they are thinking at the inception stage of what this project has in terms of risks and what it needs,
 they can be thinking along the lines of, is an alternative procurement an option here? And that's hopefully going to enable us to use these types of contracting methods a little bit more for projects that have some of the unique factors that I mentioned earlier and get better value for the city but also be able to utilize some of these equity plans that we've brought today. Okay.
 So basically the resolution directs the Bureau to develop and then implement across bureaus a contract delivery method selection process that they will use to determine whether each project will be low bid or alternative.
 And that will be at the $10 million level where those projects have to go through this process. At the $1 million level, we'd just like to encourage that bureaus utilize this as they see fit. Do you have any questions? Excellent work. Thank you. Dante James again.
 The resolution directing the Office of Management and Finance and the Office of Equity and Human Rights to develop a community opportunities and enhancement program and a funding plan is just that. It will allow us to put the best process together in order to be able to determine where the best use of those funds go.
 It's separate in a sense from the CEIC, the Equity Inclusion Committee, different than the CBA, which was the LMCOC, did a little bit of both. There was concern, question, and answer.
 about the possibility of an appearance of impropriety or conflict of interest. And so this separately, done separately, is to address that. There may, in fact, be people who are working on the CEIC who are also doing workforce service provision. And so they should be able to avail themselves of this fund should they wish to and apply for the grants that are available. So that's why it's done separately
 In this instance, the process by which that will be determined yet is to be fleshed out between OMF and my office. But it will be done in the form of grants similar to the CBA. The modified CBA, a significant portion will go for workforce, and then a smaller percentage of that would go for contracting support and assistance. But that's the kind of broad process for this funding.
 That concludes what we plan to present. We're available for questions and any other assistance we can provide. Very good. Thank you. And we have some invited testimony today. The first three, and I don't know if they're all here. Nate McCoy is here, and Jeff Moreland is here. And is Willie Myers here? There's Willie, way in the back. Come on up, gentlemen. You want me to go first? Yeah, sure. Why not?
 So first off, Mayor, Commissioners, thank you for having me today. For the record, my name is Nate McCoy. I'm the Executive Director of the Oregon Chapter of the National Association of Minority Contractors.
 First, just for the record, I want to put out there that NAMAAC's stance is we're a body of membership that is not anti-union, that is not pro-union, but pro-business choice. We think we have to have capacity in our community to have an option and flexibility to make decisions on our own and certainly make relationships with those that are both on the non-union and union sides.
 So just wanted to make sure I put that out there. As it relates to our CEIP and CBA discussions today, I want to give you guys a lot of positive credit for the leadership and the road trips that I've seen Tiffany and Dante take. I've had to turn my phone off a couple times because –
 they're really trying to warrant the kind of conversation that gets us to the point of where we are today. And I appreciate the leadership that's in front of us for staying steadfast, really trying to, as Dante alluded to, create these outcomes that we don't see every day. We've been talking about this discussion for far longer than I've been alive, and we're still having it today. So I'm glad that we're now taking a proactive choice of really looking at this and taking it head on.
 A couple things that struck out to me in the documents, and I want to air more on the pros side, is I'm ecstatic about the alternative contracting pathway that we're looking at, pointing direction towards some of the community benefit plans that Parks is doing. And I know Amanda's heard me time and time again commend them as I've been on the committee.
 both of those two parks projects have minority GCs operating on them. We just had a meeting two weeks ago where both projects are meeting and far exceeding the expectations of minority contracting, minority equity on the workforce, and including women. So both sides, and there's non-union and union representation across the board. So I just can't say enough about
 multiple processes, even including maybe some of the CBA projects, that there's not one fix that solves these problems. It's multiple ways of taking businesses where they're at.
 The other thing I want to say is I'm also looking forward to the resource conversation because it's hard work to be out here working feverishly without building capacity for those who carry the voice of minority contractors. You know, I'm in a lot of these meetings. Certainly I'm outnumbered half the time and it's okay, but I just want to see a little bit more robustness of resources to almost put money where our mouth is if we want to see these outcomes come to fruition. So I can't wait for that next chapter of this evolution.
 And then what's most important, more than even these plans and these agreements, is we've got to get back on track with monitoring and tracking. We've done a horrible job, and our city auditor last year came out with a report really striking hard at the procurement processes and the lack of data. And I don't think anybody behind me could argue that. We have a heavy lift to get our tracking systems and our disaggregated information back on track.
 It's hard to do good work across both sides if we don't have real-time information in which to really embark and come up with solutions. And then what I also want to mention is a little bit more clarity on, you know, what we're going to track. I think time and time again we track people getting into the workforce and getting them on these jobs through the workforce training and hiring programs.
 What I tend to not see a lot of proactiveness on is after those jobs are done, are these people sustaining the job or are they going back to working at McDonald's or Safeway? It's terrible for me to come across people in my community who went through an apprentice program and found themselves not looking or not finding a job to sustain themselves. I mean a lot of these social issues we're talking about in housing and healthcare, I mean have a living wage job.
 really eliminates a lot of those issues. And I would ask that as we move forward and we track, we ask our non-union and union counterparts to give us that information. Because it's more than just the hiring of the folks for these city projects. It's more intentional to show if they actually sustain the job long term.
 And then lastly, before I let others speak, is I just want to also talk about, real quickly, mentorship. What I don't see in this document that speaks to it, and it's a glaring issue, that talks about the racism and the discrimination for young minorities that would love to know more about construction is, where are mentorship programs? And I'm talking more specifically in the schools and highlighting contractors of color and really making sure that they also work with our apprentice programs to
 you know, forge opportunities for these kids. It's a hard challenge to, you know, maybe have our white counterparts to come and educate or, you know, really mentor a kid who's got a whole completely lived experience that's very different. We're looking for folks, and you'll hear from one here in a minute, who does this day in, day out. Doesn't get paid a dollar to do it, but does it all day long.
 So I just want to encourage us to also look at that and be very intentional about what the mentorship of these two programs really need to offer and how you guys need to be enforcing that we do it the right way.
 So with that said, thank you. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Jeff Moreland. I am president of Raymoor Construction. I am also a board member of the National Association of Minority Contractors. I'm going to speak to you today more on behalf of my construction company versus NAMAC. And, again, I want to give credit to Dante and Christine and Tiffany and all the staff for all the work that they put into this, and I think this is a great step in the right direction here.
 in terms of being able to look at alternative methods of contracting, to be able to provide the support necessary for minority contractors, and contractors do equity inclusion. And that's really what it's about. It's about equity and inclusion. The only concerns that I still have, at times I still see almost looking at a CBA as synonymous with equity and inclusion,
 And I just want to state it's not. I'm a union contractor in some areas, and I'm a non-union contractor in other trades. And that is specifically based on the unions and what I see in the unions and their commitment for equity and inclusion. And let's just face it. There's some unions that's going to be better than others. You know, a lot of them have struggled, and we know this because at this stage of the game, if it was really about inclusion –
 You know, the union's been around a long time. I think that our workforce would be a little bit more diverse than it is right now. And that has nothing to do with the owners and their direction. It has everything to do with the fact is that this has been an issue, an ongoing issue, for a very, very long time.
 So, Raymoor as a company, we employ a lot of people. We just finished up a $7 million project for TriMet, who's a great owner, and they really stressed this issue. We came out with 84% DBE MWESB inclusion and a 64% diversity workforce. We represent exactly what you guys are trying to do. Some of you guys have seen our crews downtown working, and our crews reflect diversity. It reflects inclusion, diversity.
 That's who we are. So I speak to you because I just want you guys to understand that making sure that we don't allow any special interest to hijack what we're trying to do. And what we're trying to do is get equity and inclusion in contracting and in the workforce. And I think that you guys are moving in that direction, and I give you guys all kudos for moving in that direction strong in your team. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Willie Myers. I'm the Executive Secretary-Treasurer of the Columbia Pacific Building and Construction Trades Council. I have a quick question. I was under the understanding that there might be some amendments coming forward that we would be also having an opportunity to testify to. Is that—
 There is always the opportunity for amendments to come forward. None have been proffered to this point. All right. Then first off, I'd like to thank the city for supplying staff and facilitating the meetings where we were able to work for creating both the CEIP and the CVA concept back into the city's procurement considerations.
 At this point in time, we would not be in support of the resolutions as written. We believe that there needs to be a trigger. So the threshold actually needs to be the trigger that says that we will be doing a community benefits agreement once it hits $25 million. There's...
 a couple other things in it that are also of consideration that we would like to be able to work with you to change before august before the vote
 We're also not in complete favor of the CEIP or the CBP, Community Benefits Plan. It was Contracting Equity Inclusionary Plan is the way it was written to begin with. And its sole focus was on contracting equity at the expense of workforce. There was no mechanics for delivery of workforce. And I have to applaud staff, once again, for contributing.
 taking us back in the direction and adding those mechanics back to it with both the oversight with the committee, but that has yet to be determined who's actually on the committee, whether it's meaningful and transparent oversight with accurate data. So, I mean, it's a good step in the right direction, but at this point in time, we're still not in favor of the CBP or the CEIP. Okay.
 The penalties are added back to it for noncompliance, which we liked. And the partnering agreement, which makes people responsible for the delivery. It allows people to take ownership of the delivery of what the city is asking for. The partnership agreement is a well-written document. At that point, without...
 any amendments to it, we would not be in support. Very good. And just to be clear, these are resolutions, but we're treating this as an ordinance because it's important. So what we're doing today, which is a little unusual, is we're taking testimony today, and then we're effectively giving people a month to consider what's been said today and what testimony has been provided. And then it's still possible for people to provide amendments up until the time when we take the vote.
 next month. So just to be clear, we're trying to be supportive and inclusive of different perspectives on this, and it may be the case that we get some amendments, or we may not. But we're leaving that opportunity open. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Just float two amendments that I am contemplating with you gentlemen, and I want to see what the testimony is on these amendments as well before I would formally offer them. But one would be to require for projects over $25 million to go straight to a CBA, Community Benefits Agreement, rather than having sort of the internal valuation process, to simply make it more clear to our bureau directors...
 uh that this is the direction we want to see city move to and uh so that's one amendment and the second amendment would be to raise the requirement the threshold for workforce uh participation requirements from one hundred thousand dollars uh to five hundred thousand dollars uh one hundred thousand dollars seems like a pretty low threshold and uh you know one hundred thousand dollar contracts don't
 do a lot in the city public works realm. So it seems like $500,000 would be a more appropriate threshold. So I'd be curious if your thoughts are there. Sorry if I start. Yeah, go ahead. So the one caution I would have on raising the threshold for the – I mean, yes, I would be in favor of the first amendment that you brought up, the second amendment raising the threshold for the workforce hiring language, which also includes apprenticeship benefits.
 is that the state just passed a resolution, or passed a law that, so anything over $5 million total construction cost, you're talking about subcontract,
 So if it's $5 million total construction costs, there are apprenticeship requirements that you want to make sure that you don't fall below the state standards that were just passed. So it's something that we would need to really maybe look at and work on some language that protects that.
 I mean, we should be raising the bar, number one. So, yes, we should have a low threshold. We're Portland. We should be raising the bar. We shouldn't be trying to meet the state minimums. So, I mean, it's just something that I think we need to look at. And I think we could have a workshop and figure out a solution for that.
 Mr. Moreland, Mr. McCoy, got any thoughts? So what I'd like to say is we're still in favor of the threshold being raised. I think the challenge that we brought up at the Fair Contracting Forum was pretty spot on. The city typically has contracts of $300,000 and higher that more or less are where you see a lot of the benefits of the workforce training opportunities.
 So it seems like a program that hasn't changed since 1997 should be adjusted since we're in 2017 to kind of catch up with the times. I guess the other point on that subject is we also want to make sure that we encourage, again, minority contractors. There's a huge swath of contractors who avoid City of Portland work based solely on the workforce training and hiring program.
 So I agree with Willie on one front that we all care about a robust workforce. We just all want the system to work for those who don't see it beneficial today. So I think that's the comment that I want to stay steadfast to is that, you know, look at the numbers. The numbers are glaringly horrible with the city of Portland when it comes to minority contracting. And this is not synonymously different than what we're talking about with California.
 contract development and workforce development. The second on the amendment of $25 million, the only clarifying question I would ask is, are we talking about four to six projects a year, or are we talking about the 75 that would just automatically trigger the $25 million threshold for a CBA? Because I'm under the understanding that it would be on a more or less four to six, I mean, roughly those amount of projects a year. Yeah, I was thinking four to six projects. I was –
 Okay, just making sure. 175 projects. Yeah, we're just making sure because that wasn't, to my knowledge, what we were talking about. But we would more or less not have a huge opposition of, you know, as Willie said, getting that trigger online. Okay. I believe we currently have four projects over $25 million in the pipeline, and that 75 number was –
 The ground total. Oh, gotcha. So just to be clear, so far on the amendments, we don't lose you, Nate, and we get you, Willie. Is that a fair interpretation? Just to be fair, this amendment just came to my attention this morning, so I haven't even shared it with our group. But I checked in with a couple quick people, and they didn't have any real heartburn. But as we continue this conversation until August, we'll weigh in if we need to. Great. Jeff, any thoughts? Yeah, I will table my comment on the –
 threshold with the CBA. I'll table that in because I want to have some offline discussions with some people before we make that. As far as moving the threshold up, it is a benefit, especially for smaller minority companies and the way they operate and whether it's necessary for them to operate. I think that threshold is moving that up is significant.
 for those to be able to have consistency of workforce as well, because we don't necessarily have the longevity of workforce that we need in terms of in our pipeline that other contractors have. So that threshold at times is difficult for us to achieve, although overall we easily achieve that. But just on specific projects specific, due to the nature of the work, at times meeting that threshold can be cumbersome. Okay. Very good. Thank you for your feedback. Thanks, gentlemen. Just one quick added point, Mr.
 We're setting aside 1%, and I believe that for all projects, I believe that part of that money is supposed to go to technical assistance that would help contractors meet that threshold. I mean, that's the whole purpose of this is to build the capacity. So to use that as an excuse as to why the threshold needs to be lowered I think is flawed. I mean, just that's my personal opinion, especially when we're setting the money aside for that.
 Thank you. Very good. Thank you. The next three invited testimony, John Jensen, Nicole Rapoport, and James Posey. Good morning. And as always, just a name for the record would be really helpful. Thank you. John Jensen. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I represent IBEW Local 48. That's the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. We are the regional electricians union here. We represent about 4,500 members here.
 Some of them whom are lucky enough to work right here at the City of Portland. So, and I would say that while not all of our members live here, almost all of them at some point in their career do work here and even on some of these great city projects we're able to work on. First of all, to the spirit of the resolutions and the reason we're here today, I'd just like to, for our organization, fully support the concept and what we're trying to do here and the importance of this work.
 I'd also like to thank the city staff and everyone who has put in so much time and effort into this, and also all the other stakeholders who are here and in the room who care about this issue and who want to see more diversity in contracting and in our workforce. As to the specifics, I would support...
 these resolutions with the amendment that Commissioner Saltzman mentioned. I think particularly the First Amendment, which is a trigger to enact the CBA, and I think...
 If we consider the recent success of two CBA projects here and the high achievement levels it attained, I think it's totally appropriate to have that trigger and continue to use that excellent CBA pattern that we've already established here at the city. As for the other amendment...
 I don't know. Similarly, I just found that out today, and so I'd like to look at it a little more. But I think the interesting thing that that brings up is it's my hope that this will be sort of a living document and conversation. I wouldn't be surprised at all to find other areas that we needed to fix and change to make this policy work like we want to for everyone. So having said that, I'm really grateful to be here, and thank you for all your work. Great. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and to the commissioners. My name is Nicole Rappaport. I am general counsel for the Operating Engineers Local 701. I went a lot back and forth with my prepared testimony and how I was going to present today, and at the end of the day I decided that I'm here not just as general counsel for Local 701, but also as a community member. The work that we've done on the CBA has been very important to me
 I moved to the city of Portland six years ago. Many of us, I know, are transplants as well here. So I often get the feedback that, well, I'm just a transplant and I'm not invested. I moved here from the city of Detroit, which I understand gets a lot of bad press, we'll say. But...
 One thing that my city, my home city, made me very proud of this past election year, when so many of us were recovering from this election year, was that the residents of the community voted on the ballot and passed a CBA ordinance. I was incredibly proud of Detroit, and having moved to Portland six years ago, I was looking forward to a very progressive city that I could settle down and create roots in.
 I bought my home four years ago. I've become very active in my neighborhood association, which is the Kenton Neighborhood Association. I think some of you were there at the vote a couple months ago, may have seen me there. So I really have made this my home, and I really am here today as a community member to support and advocate for the resolutions. But...
 Again, as Mr. Myers testified, as Mr. Jensen testified, without that trigger point that Commissioner Salzman proposed in an amendment, I don't believe that it gets the city to the progressive values that it claims to have. I'm very excited about the steps that we've moved towards. I think that...
 And I recognize that there have been tremendous moves from where we started several years ago. But I think there's still a few things lacking that we need to consider when looking at these resolutions. Mr. Reinhart and Mr. James mentioned, and I fully agree, that there is an underutilization of minority and female businesses on large-scale projects in this city.
 I don't think any of us are disagreeing with that assertion. Where I think there is also an underutilization is with minority and female workforce. I think having a trigger point to a CBA
 helps to accomplish increasing minority and female workforce. Of concern for me is that I don't believe, I think it's the CEIC, as Mr. Myers pointed out, it's not yet dictated who's going to be on that. The CBA is very clear about which parties will participate in oversight, and
 Not just which parties, but the fact that those parties encompass everybody involved. So you've got both the pre-apprenticeship programs, the owner, the unions, the contractors, all involved in working together with oversight together. I think that's the only way where you can truly accomplish transparent, neutral, and unbiased oversight to ensure that goals are being met. I don't think...
 written that the CEIP meets that. However, we're willing to concede and agree to the CEIP for projects under $25 million. We would like the CBA to be applied for projects over $25 million. And again, the only way that I can personally support
 the resolutions would be with Commissioner Saltzman's proposed amendment. Now, getting to the second amendment with regards to the shift from $100,000 to $500,000, again, like Mr. Jensen mentioned, this is the first time I've heard of this, so I would need some more time to look into it, and it sounds like we will have some more time. But just from what I know this morning, my understanding, and to clarify what Mr. Meyer said earlier,
 My understanding is that the new state law is that for projects that are as a whole at $5 million and above, subs who are at $200 and above would be at the threshold requirement. So if the subs are at the $200,000 and the city is putting a $500,000 threshold on it, then that really means that the state, in my opinion, is surpassing the...
 the requirements than over the city. So I think, as Mr. Meyer said earlier, I think as the city of Portland, we have an opportunity to surpass what the state is doing or at least meet what the state is doing. I also think if we change it to $500,000, we might run into issues with that conflicting with the state's law. And again, I'd have to look more into it because this is all brand new to me. So...
 Where I am right now is as a community member and as general counsel for Local 701, I do appreciate the work that's been put into these resolutions. The only way I would be able to support it would be with Mr. Saltzman's first proposed amendment, and I'd have to look into the second one.
 Very good. And just for the record, we'll keep the written record open, so as people have their conversations and do their analysis, we'd certainly welcome written testimony between now and when we actually take the vote on the resolutions. Commissioner Fritz? Wouldn't we also accept amendments at the second? Absolutely. And so then people could testify on the amendments? Yeah, absolutely. Commissioner Udaili, do you have a comment as well? Okay. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Commissioner, Mayor Wheeler. My name is James Posey. I'm a community member first, and I kind of chuckled because when you guys talked about
 community input. I wasn't even aware of this meeting and was not contacted. I think I've been a consistent presenter to this body in regards to this issue for over years. I go back as far as Bud Clark in terms of these proposals, etc.,
 But given an opportunity just to really recently review these amendments, I must say there is some progress. I mean, I know you all expect me to say something negative about it, but at the end of the day, there is some progress. The whole idea of having...
 an alternative bidding process in and of itself is quite remarkable and really a good thing. The whole concept with Jeff Morland being a primary person working on projects that will allow someone to epitomize the success of having a community member willing to hire people of color and really demonstrate that,
 that this can be done and there is a process in which we can have success is really, really important. That in and of itself is a real piece that I think is worthy.
 But what troubles me about this process is the UR's unwillingness to have complete transparency and a system that will keep us on track with where we really are standing with people, not only in the contracting area, but also in terms of the workforce.
 And it's shameful for us not to be able to look in real time and see, for example, who are the operating engineers, not just on the apprenticeship level, but across the board. So we can actually project out how long it would take to get equity in that whole process.
 operating engineers, but they're willing to challenge you all about what we have in the system. But I'm not sure I've ever seen in any of these unions what their census is, who's there, where, how long their mentoring program and who's associated with what. This is a challenge.
 intellectually untenable for us to be going down this road without having enough information. So when I was looking at these resolutions, the first thing I wanted to look at and the first whereas is where is the numbers? What's the baseline? How do we get there? And it's not there in any of these resolutions. So that's one of the things. I took the resolutions
 Whereas, and this is my version of a resolution, whereas in the past there has been virtually no consequence for failure. Dante James got up here and talked about, well, we've got teeth.
 Well, it's subliminal, and it's – New Delhi is laughing because, you know, if there's no consequence for failure, then guess what? We ultimately are going to get the same results. And we've been doing this for about 40 or 30 years. And when you have a body of people responding to these issues who keep going down the same road –
 year after year, century after century, and there's no consequence, then believe me, they're going to be doing the same thing over and again. So I was looking for something in these resolutions that really not only makes consequences, but really incentivizes the history of failure that we've had over the last several years. For example, if a contractor is doing well,
 Why not give them that preference? Don't make it subliminal. Make it a highlight. Make it a privilege to have a contractor who really is hiring people from out our community. So at the end of the day, this is not about the contractors or about the workers. It's about making communities whole.
 When you look back and see who's getting this work, is it people living in our community? Or is it people living in Vancouver or Hillsboro? Or what? We have no fabric. When I get on my maps, I can tell what house is here or what house is there, who lives in it, everything. But we can't tell whether the economic programs we're designing is impacting the community that have high rates of unemployment, high
 housing issues or etc. Are we making a difference by virtue of how we're structuring these programs? And I don't think we are. We don't have an economist's lens, we don't have anybody looking at this to see whether or not we have a, like we do an environmental impact statement, do we have an economic impact statement about how these policies are affecting our community, building capacity and making it grow?
 So I said all that to say this, Mayor Willer, you know, you and I have had this discussion. I was proud when the city of Portland divested from South Africa. I was proud. We divested and we made a difference. If we do not divest from what we have here now, which is basically we have economic apartheid in this community.
 We need to take it on with that kind of seriousness in order to get this done. The other point that I've made to you all on several occasions is the patterns and pathway by which minority contractors enter this industry has not been fully vetted.
 We have trucking guys. I got a trucking guy back here now who is clamoring to get people into the trucking industry. And for years, we haven't had a process in which you could get apprentices in. This is the easiest way to get in. I started that way. I started with trucking. I went to paving. I went to excavating. I started because I didn't have anything. I started dirt poor.
 And so you have to build these pathways. And let me just tell you guys, don't expect the private sector out here to do what you're not doing in terms of your workforce.
 Your heavy equipment operators, your laborers, if you, you know, we looked at the transportation. I know you are familiar with this. In your shop, Commissioner Salzman, there's an opportunity to do mentoring and promulgate that to the private sector. You're not doing it. We've been arguing about that and trying to convince you all to utilize your own workforce to help feed
 The private sector out here to help minority contractors be a part of this system is not happening. So those are a couple of the things that I want to mention. I want to say this. Whereas these issues are deemed to be so critical to the economic survival of our community, people of color is required. The impact statement, a CBO...
 Score these projects to see if they meet the CBO, whether or not they critically are having an impact on our community. As much as I like Jeff Moreland and I see Colas' sign up there, it's not about them. It's not about them. Those guys, if they don't have any workers on that project, if they're not trying to improve the business climate in our community, forget them.
 I'm not out here trying to advocate for them as individuals. I'm out here trying to advocate as a community, and we'll all be better off. If we pay attention to where this money is going, follow the money. Finally, I want to just say the assumption that individuals, like I said with Moreland and those guys, we've framed this all around individuals and companies, but it is our community we're talking about.
 Let's pay attention. When we have these meetings and we go into all these things, let's see if that money is filtering down. We're all on this so-called whatever.
 What is it? A trickle-down kind of a thing. No one has no metrics on what we're doing to make our community better. You guys are the stewards of this stuff. That's why it's been all these years we've been doing this stuff, and we haven't made the progress we should because no one's holding us accountable. And I just plead.
 It's time. We're long since the time to take this seriously like we did in South Africa, the South Africa decision. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate your input on this. Let's see. I didn't see Andrew Colas walk in. Is he here? And Kelly Haynes, I wanted to give Kelly an opportunity to come up. If Kelly is here, there's Kelly. And then we'll get to open public testimony. In a minute, I'll ask you, Sue, how many people we have signed up.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. So thank you, Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler, for the opportunity to speak on this very important issue. My name is Kelly Haynes, and I represent the Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity, or MAUI. MAUI is a historic partnership between the carpenters, operating engineers, laborers, the building trades, other unions, and the
 construction contractors, pre-apprenticeship programs, and community-based organizations. Maui works to promote economic opportunity and equity in workforce and contracting, and develop practical strategies to address historic inequities in the region. And as you're aware, these partners
 develop Portland's first community benefits agreement, to create a framework for shared community oversight and accountability, fair labor standards, and goals and resources to increase contracting and workforce opportunities for historically underserved community members.
 So as you may hear in other testimony, these policies have real impact for working people. Women and communities of color who through achieving goals on public capital projects have the opportunity to have real careers in construction, grow their wealth, and lift themselves into high skilled trades, or to grow small businesses into larger outfits here locally. These are critical policy decisions to consider as elected in the city.
 I'm going to outline the concerns and recommendations for Maui and hope that they will help inform next steps and your direction as council. So the Community Equity and Inclusion Plan, as was presented earlier, was authored by a city work group and the city attorney.
 And it was, I think, a good effort to systematize equity efforts across city projects. And we do appreciate and support that concept. And I do think there was a lot of work put into it. And what was just articulated earlier, that this is completely overdue within the city. And the amount of funding that you guys have control over that can really help to positively impact and create opportunities for underserved communities in the region.
 However, we do see significant concerns regarding the CEIP and how it has come to be in its current form, including mostly issues of accountability, transparency, and enforcement.
 So I won't spend a lot of time on that, but I think just a couple of highlights. There's language around some loopholes in the workforce goals and standards that create exemptions based on a project by project assessment of the market availability of both contractors and workforce. And I just think that can be a huge issue in the implementation and how to ensure that those goals are upheld.
 regardless. There's an advisory committee in the CEIC but it's not and it doesn't have any enforcement power and it meets quarterly I think as default which we've learned from the parks projects and others that that's not often enough in order to really address any issues that come up on the projects.
 The document also specifies that contracting diversity goals will not include specialty work based on a project by project assessment of the market availability of diverse firms to achieve the work. For the enforcement mechanisms, the liquidated damages are capped at $2,000 total for each contractor. And I think what we've seen in construction, unfortunately, is that some people will just write a check so that they don't have to deal with these kind of efforts.
 And I want to ensure that there's some sort of accountability and enforcement and penalties that are high enough that can help move the construction culture in the right direction. So for these reasons, although we do applaud the efforts of the city staff, we think there is still a lot of work to do for this CEIP to be successful. And so I'm going to switch over to the community benefits agreements. And I think even in the original resolution, which wasn't covered by city staff...
 There is language in there about applying a CBA to anything over $25 million in the original resolutions. I think the amendment is strengthening that language to really say rather than considering a CBA, the Bureau Directors will be given more direction to actually apply a CBA.
 And we support that amendment for many reasons. The examples that were given by Mr. James around some of the highlights of the CEIP were great because they were taken from the CBA. So the bathroom facilities were in the CBA. The disaggregated goals around minority and women-owned utilization for contracting was also in the CBA. So I think carrying those things on is very important. What was...
 What is different is that the CBA is a proven tool that worked on two city projects. So we actually saw those to their end. And 26% of the project revenue was earned by minority and women-owned companies. The goal was 18, and we hit 26%.
 Of the 68 contractors that were minority and women owned on the CBA projects, 60% of them were non-union. So there was accessibility on the CBA for non-union minority contractors to work on it. And we always have valued that and seen it as a very important component to all of this, that it's not just a union-only program or model. Thank you.
 For Kelly Butte, 50% of the apprentice hours were worked by minorities, 28% by women, 29% of the journey workers were worked by minorities. But I think you have all that data. So basically, the CBA pilots not only hit the goals but double and tripled them many times. And I think that's why many people that I work with see the CBA as noteworthy and something to continue to pay attention to and to uphold. And if...
 If we're in the place now where it's at $25 million and above, we'll take it. But let's just keep continuing to work on that model as the proven model that's gotten really good results. This is critical and where community and labor want to work hand-in-hand with the city to ensure that historical and current disparities in construction and on large public projects can be addressed.
 So I think also that the proposed amendment would help give clearer direction to the city on applying the CBA on all projects 25 million and above, which could result in those efficiencies that were talked about earlier for large public projects by eliminating project-by-project assessments about whether to apply a CBA.
 And there's increased opportunity to apply a proven tool in the CBA to large capital projects resulting in more earned wages and contracting revenue for women and people of color in the community. So I think if you can't adopt the proposed amendment, we oppose the CEIP resolutions and urge you to vote no unless we can work on that amendment. So thank you. Very good. Thank you.
 How many people do we have signed up? Our count is 21 now. 21. So let's, I think that's all right. Colleagues, do you mind if we go until about 1.15? 1.15? Yeah. Okay, let's do two minutes, and I'm going to be a little bit draconian today. I'm going to cut you off at two minutes, so everybody really, really try to get under two minutes so I don't have to catch you off. Thanks. Thanks.
 First three, please come up. Ramfi Villaturo, if I have your name reading that correctly. Nate Stokes. Ray Espana. They'll be followed by Bill Koalasik. Connie Ashbrook. Vanessa Enos.
 Good afternoon. And if you could just state your name for the record. Hello. My name is Nate Stokes. I'm with the Operating Engineers, Local 701. I want to thank you for this opportunity to testify here or talk to you guys. I'm also wanting to talk to you about as I was actually an employee on the interstate renovation project before I became a representative of 701.
 So I was a project manager for a women-owned business that participated on that project and was very successful on the project. And I witnessed firsthand the process that had to go through tracking the minority women apprentices in to meet all the goals.
 It was a very successful project, and I urge that you take and adopt that amendment for the trigger point of the $25 million to address the CBAs on those projects. We would support the CEIP, even though we feel that there's some flaws, because there has been two pilot programs that have proven effective, but we will prove that CEIP...
 as long as the amendments are addressed for the trigger point of $25 million. I do have, and it was brought up about the state requirement of the $200,000, the law that just was passed. I know the University of Oregon is in the process right now of negotiating project labor agreements in regards to that law. So I'd urge you guys to take a really close look at that new law that came into effect.
 That's all I have. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. I was just voted. Ray Espana. It's Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner's...
 I've always appreciated the relationships I've had with the city members that I'm well aware of. Commissioner Udeli, I've not had the opportunity to meet, but I've heard some very nice things about your work and effort. Today I will be constricted to two minutes, and I think my message today is to really look toward what I would call progressive, enlightened leadership.
 that is clear on its expectations and its direction to city staff and to what it wants the community to understand. I think it's been said that we have been accepting a poor performance by city contracting, city hires, whatever. We could do better. I think you need to set that standard and an expectation that you expect it.
 The idea of moving toward equity is progressive. It's closing gaps. It's removing, eliminating disparate treatments. Anything short of that is regressive in my estimation. So you need to be very clear of what you expect to happen. Thank you.
 You spoke on other items of the issues of concern for tenant protections. This topic today is the other side of the coin, where one of the confronting issues in this community is affordability. So the ability to earn a living wage with benefit is the answer to increasing rents and the availability issue. So it has to be taken seriously. I would urge you to...
 Eliminate language that provides loophole. For example, if the opportunity is presented for a city bureau to accept or low bid versus alternative contracting, the selection of a low bid to me is regressive and should not be a possibility.
 With that, I'll just simply say that in my estimation, a publicly sponsored project that's owned by the city should have a very clear community benefit. And so I think the threshold conversation that you – the $25 million is acceptable. I support the alternative contracting methodology. So with that, I'm very respectful of time. And again, it's a blessing to see all of you again. Likewise. Thanks, Ray.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Ranfis Guantino-Villatoro, and I'm a Portland resident. I'm not a developer, I'm not a contractor, and I'm not a union organizer, but I am a concerned citizen who's worked most of his career in working with the most vulnerable community, our immigrant community, for organizations such as CALSA and Voices for Workers' Rights Education Project.
 And I'm here today to support the CBA resolution, as well as, I think, some of the proposed amendments, as well as propose an amendment to the CEIP to better serve workers. And this is a language that I've proposed to the Housing Bureau for the housing bond. I've sent a letter to your office as well, Mayor, and...
 I believe it's a good tenet of good stewardship around public funds, ensuring good business practices that are verified and protecting a valid workforce if we implement a good wage theft enforcement program. Wage theft can come in many forms, whether it's wages being withheld, deducted, not being paid the prevailing wage, etc.
 or minimum wage. It could be misclassifying a worker, employer cheating on the number of hours worked, employers failing to pay overtime or requiring workers to work off the clock, and so on. This is an issue within the city and the state. In a recent report from BOLI, reported on the street routes, it's the second top complaint of wage claims in the state. I believe that there is...
 a model that can best address wage theft. So one of the minutes, which I'm not going to go too deeply into this, I'll propose that language in another date. But I feel like it should strongly be required in the CEIP. Essentially, it's deputizing community-based organizations to verify the certified payroll. Let's verify the payroll. It's an easy step.
 In the process, the city already receives certified payroll from the contractors. We should verify that. Very good. Thank you very much. Thank you. So, folks, you've seen two minutes is not an easy threshold. Think bullet points. And we will absolutely accept written testimony. So if you have more details that you'd like to provide to the city council, we will absolutely accept those via e-mail. Next three, please. Next three. Bill Kowalczyk.
 Connie Ashbrook, Vanessa Eames. They will be followed by Hannah Holloway, Matt Malmsheimer, and Pat Daniels. Good afternoon. It is afternoon, isn't it? It is. Good afternoon, commissioners and mayor. My name is Bill Kowalczyk. I work for Portland Youth Builders, where I ran the construction program for 15 years, and currently I'm a construction specialist on special projects.
 PYB is a BOLI-certified pre-apprenticeship program. We're an alternative high school that serves very low-income youth ages 17 to 24. Fifty percent of our students are people of color. Twenty percent are women. I'm going to just blast through this really quick and submit my more detailed report.
 I want to start by focusing my comments on the partnership agreement and the community equity inclusion plan. I'll leave to comments by other colleagues. I think the partnership agreement is overall a good document.
 It codifies the key elements of our construction equity work, including construction apprenticeship requirements, community workforce recruitment and retention goals, subcontracting goals, and establishes the Standing Community Equity Inclusion Committee, the CEIP, to support city staff and contractor. I want to talk about that because this is important innovation.
 The structure of the committee delivers a model that can scale up for multiple contracts running concurrently. Before I go on, I want to mention I served on the LMCOC and I currently serve on the CBP. So I have about five years of doing this work actually on the ground. So there are still bugs that need to be worked out. I feel like this is coming in and out. Can you hear me properly? Okay, excuse me.
 There are still bugs that need to be worked out, and that's been a concern of mine, bugs in the process of the scale-up. But I think it's really still a good model. One thing that has been inconsistent in the testimony is whether there are monthly meetings...
 are quarterly meetings. I read it very thoroughly. It appears there's monthly meetings. I believe that's critical to be doing this work in real time, so please check on that. The other thing, it appears, that there are quarter reports to council, as I understand the reading in the plan. That's really critical because it was...
 a huge absence of a back and forth rapport between the LMCOC and the city council during the CBA I'm sorry I'm going to have to ask you to wrap it up okay one last comment here um
 I want to mention that the process has not felt inclusive to me. The process from last year when we provided testimony as a result of the CBP evaluation. So I have to...
 presented a different opinion to what the city staff presented. It has felt really haphazard. There's been no clear committee that has supervised a process of interaction between this equity work and development of these policies and community input that I can see. I'm hoping the CEIC will be that mechanism. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Connie Ashbrook. I'm the recently retired Executive Director of Oregon Tradeswomen, and I'm excited to introduce our new Executive Director, Kelly Kupchak. Kelly, raise your hand and say hi to everybody. Mayor and Commissioners, I know from my meetings with you
 from your leadership of the city that you are completely committed to equity for all of Portland's residents, and for that I thank you. Oregon Tradeswoman urges the Portland City Council to adopt the Maui amendments to the proposed resolutions, to consider extensive edits to the CEIP to make it more effective, and to take council action to strengthen the city's workforce training and hiring program.
 While the city workforce training and hiring program staff are working hard and doing their best, they need stronger tools and leadership support in order to administer an effective program.
 For instance, in the most complete snapshot report on the city's website, and that's this document right here, this is all the projects that were awarded in fiscal year 12-13. It had hours as late as 2016, so it's a little bit misleading some of the way the data is reported.
 But of those projects, 42 projects, only six of them met all of the city's workforce goals. And 14 of the projects did not meet any of the goals. And only 11 met apprenticeship goals. So clearly we need some stronger scrutiny, enforcement, and tools to make the program effective.
 Equally concerning is that 16 of the 42 projects had zero female utilization, and 15 projects had zero African American utilization. If African Americans had worked in proportion to their percentage of the workforce, African American households would have made at least $288,000 more on these projects.
 In the interest of time, I won't read the rest of my testimony, but I do want to make sure you know, because of the apprenticeship data I'm submitting, that there is enough utilization of women and minority apprentices to fill all the city's goals. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. And I just want to thank you for a lifetime of commitment to and achievement of work in this arena. So thank you, Connie. Thank you. Yes. APPLAUSE
 Hello, my name is Vanessa Enos. I am a Union Journeyman laborer for the local 737. I am also a Northern Cheyenne member of the tribe and of Walla Walla Yakma and Pima descent.
 Three years ago, I had my first dispatch and it was for the Water Bureau. And before that, I attended the seven-week program of the Oregon Tradeswoman Pre-Apprentice Program. What gave me the tools to have the mentoring, the leadership, and the confidence to go out onto a work site knowing that I had my OSHA 10 and I was ready for work.
 By going out there into that field, I was able to realize that I had a weekly income that was over minimum wage. I was able to move out of my transitional housing, which was Oxford for addicts. So I was able to leave that bed open for another addict who was suffering.
 So by having this development and this living wage now, I also was able to have my healthcare kick in. The first 300 hours as a laborer, your health coverage kicks in and it's full coverage. And right then the government had changed the laws of where if you weren't covered, you'd be fined $300. So I was able to cover that and not have to be fined.
 So with all the benefits of working for the Water Bureau, it did change my life dramatically. In the rule of law, I am more than a woman of color. I am a human being who deserves the opportunities and equal pay as a man.
 Projects like the water barrel had helped pave a new career, a new way of life, and a new independence. And that's how important this is to have women and minorities out there. Because coming from a reservation, we are suppressed. And I was able to break that border down. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Next, please, Hannah Holloway, Matt Malsheimer, Pat Daniels. They'll be followed by Chris Montgomery, Joanne Hardesty, and Rob Martineau.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Hannah Holloway, and I'm the policy specialist with the Urban League of Portland. I'm here on behalf of the organization to oppose the adoption of the CEIP resolutions before you, unless they include the CBA amendment that we had discussed earlier, which would be a trigger for the CBA for projects over $25 million. Okay.
 The CBA template that we advocate for builds on the proven results of the city's own CBA from 2012. And as Kelly Haynes testified to earlier, it had proven results. It came in ahead of time, under budget, and exceeded diversity goals, sometimes as much as threefold. So I won't go over that aspect of it.
 But part of why it succeeded was because of the meaningful partnership, the shared accountability measures, and the transparency in the outcomes, which we feel are lacking from the CEIP resolutions before you. Why would you want to vote for a lesser policy? Thank you.
 On the other hand, Portland has much to gain from a truly equitable workforce policy. The construction industry offers the type of long-term living wages that could remediate some of the racial disparities that we see in income and employment. Data from the Urban League's State of Black Oregon report shows that black apprentices are terminated at a rate of 78% in comparison to their white peers at 45%.
 And as a city, we can do better on these statistics. It is incumbent upon the city to guarantee that public dollars are not used to promulgate inequities and discrimination.
 I will just conclude by expressing the frustration from our organization by what we see as a continuation of the city's call to community-based organizations, such as ourselves, to help wade through complex city issues to arrive at best practices solutions, only to have what is ultimately a status quo policy enacted.
 I'll just end there and say please do the right thing and enact the CBA amendment with the CEIP. If you do not, we cannot support this resolution and urge you to vote no. Thank you. Very good. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Pat Daniels, and I'm the executive director for Constructing Hope Pre-Apprenticeship Training Program. Constructing Hope is a program in northeast Portland, and we target people coming from incarceration, minorities, and women. With that being said, when I look at your first initiative to support the CBA's over $25 million, we support that because, as everyone before me said,
 brought to your attention how this supports people in our community. On the second initiative where you're looking at lowering the cost on the projects from $100,000 to $500,000, I'm not sure about that because as you're looking to build diversity in the city, how would that work in building projects?
 diverse pre-apprenticeships going forward to your larger projects? So that's a question that I have. But I want to just say that we're all here for the right reason, which is building diversity and inclusion. I want to say I support a lot of the tracking and, what do I want to say, transparency that Mr. Posey presented. I've been working on these projects with the Maui,
 team since 2010. And I have to say we have not seen a big change in the numbers when we break down and disaggregate the numbers. In your disparity study, it showed African American men being one of the lowest and that was a need.
 And I can't see how we're going to change those numbers if we don't have accountability with the contractors for being transparent and inclusive and having mentoring programs to make sure that once these people do enter the trades, programs like Oregon Trade Women and Constructing Hope provides mentoring to our groups. So we're the main supporters of bringing minorities to apprenticeships. Very good. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. I'm Matt Malmsteimer. I'm here on behalf of the Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters. I've met with many of you over the years on this topic. And first, I want to keep my comments brief. Initial comment is, as written and as currently embodied, we cannot support the CEIP policy.
 With that said, we believe that there is a possibility to get to a point with, at the very least, the amendment that Commissioner Saltzman has proposed that we could support something. We have our own concerns about thresholds, certainly. The CEIP only kicks in at $10 million. I don't know how that number was arrived at if we're talking 75 projects and 75 million in a year. It seems like there's an awful lot of construction dollars that aren't covered by a policy that should be in play.
 This is one of the concerns that we have. The other, I'll echo some of the issues that were raised by some of the earlier speakers, which is oversight is critical. The details on this are critical. Our biggest concern is that if we don't get this right, we're gonna be looking at the same kind of results that the ECPC brought to light a little over a year ago, which is declining numbers
 particularly of African Americans. Situations where people show up, are sent home, get two hours of show up pay and that winds up being counted as utilization. Those kinds of things that if you do not have the right kind of oversight in place are just going to happen. So those are some of our great concerns. I look forward to working with all of you together going into the future with city staff and with our
 partners in Maui and other organizations to get to the point that we can support something. I'll remain cautiously optimistic that we can do that, but it is going to require a lot from U.S. leaders and similar sorts of commitments that have been made. Good. And thank you for the offer. We will definitely accept it. To be clear, this is not a perfect document, and we knew when we brought it it was not a perfect document.
 But calling the question has served an important purpose, which is to end the prolonged conversation, which has been going on for years, in light of the fact that we know the results haven't been good. And so we need to stop.
 jaw-boning about it and get to the punch on how we're going to improve the accountability, improve the data collection, improve the standards, and hold people accountable for doing better. And so this process, I think, has been excellent insofar that now we're actually getting down to the brass tacks. One request I would have of you is we all agree we need more oversight and accountability.
 You have 30 days to help us define what that actually looks like. So I look forward to reading your suggestions and ideas on how specifically that could look, because I'd be very interested in that. We'll be happy to do that. We met the request that you made of us of a... Yes, sir, you did, and I appreciate that. We'll do it again. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for your testimony. Thank you. The next three, please. Chris Montgomery, Joanne Hardesty, Rob Martineau.
 They'll be followed by Matthew Jensen, Matt Morris, Laurie Bauman. Good afternoon. Thanks for your patience. Good afternoon. I'm going to talk really fast because I'm going to try not to get a ticket. You might realize I've been here since 9.30, and as a member of the public, waiting for two minutes is a bit frustrating. For the record, my name is Joanne Hardesty, and today the hat I'm wearing is with the East Portland Action Plan.
 You are getting documentation that points out why the East Portland Action Plan is in opposition to the CEIP. I will just point out a couple of reasons of why that is so without actually reading the document since I have very limited time. There are several reasons why this is wrong, actually.
 Many people have mentioned that there's no accountability. We continue to contract with contractors who have figured out how to evade accountability over the years. Yet we have, there's nothing that happens to them. We continue to contract with them. There is no penalty. If people don't make
 what they said they were going to do, we should have a period of time where the city of Portland will refuse to contract with that entity because they have not lived up to their responsibility. I also think the leadership of the CEIP is in the wrong place. It needs a commissioner having oversight of this and having it in the Office of Equity and Human Rights and having other director-level people dealing with it is a totally...
 inadequate accountability process. I believe in community benefit agreements because they work well. I do not think that the CEIP thing has too much benefit. I think if we have not been really clear about recruitment, mentorship, accountability, making sure,
 Commissioner Fritz, I still in my mind have this quote from you the last time we talked about contracting. And your quote was, we have contracted $4 million and people of color have got $1,290-some dollars.
 That happens over and over and over again. And I would like to see when reports come in front of the city council that they say, how many black contractors were hired? How many Asian Pacific Islanders were hired? How many Hispanic contractors? Because when we clump people of color together into a minority category, we get to hide very effectively the fact that we don't hire African-Americans, that we aren't hiring enough women.
 and that we've done this for 20 years. I've been through a couple of disparity studies here at the City of Portland. I've been here longer than the people that put this document together. James Posley and I have been fighting this battle for 20 years here at City Hall, and I can tell you that the CEIP has not had enough community engagement. And if you put a committee together that has equal numbers of contractors and people that want to be hired, where's the...
 there needs to be somebody else. Do you have people who are responsible for civil rights? Do you have other people who actually may have an opinion about how this process should work? And if not, what you end up with is people who are going to do they're going to trade so that they can get the contracts that they need.
 I also want to just put on the record that I think $25 million is too high a threshold. We have asked the city over and over again, help small contractors get insurance. That would be a good use of city resources. Help minority contractors get mentoring help.
 Make those contracts smaller so that minority firms can actually be the major contractor. We've had this conversation over the last 20 years, and what you've come up with is a very inadequate solution to that problem. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for your patience. Good afternoon. Either or. Oh, please. Hello. My name is Chris Montgomery, Local 701. I came to Local 701 Operating Engineers about three years ago.
 As an organizer, I came on board and I'm a product of what change has happened in our local. Working with apprenticeship groups and helping them, helping our group be more diverse in our apprenticeship programs and working with groups like Constructing Hope and a few other community groups, we go out to schools and reach out to communities in order to build
 the more diverse workforce. I am in favor of the trigger of the $25 million, and I am also in favor for projects that use the CBA. I also believe in that we need the project for project labor for the CBA, and for us to follow the state laws with limits.
 Though I may be in favor of the CIP, I do believe it needs more transparency and enforcement. I also am in favor for the First Amendment, although we need to take a closer look at the Second Amendment, as Commissioner Salzman said.
 I just want to, in closing, I hear a lot of emotion and I hear a lot of things being said. And I know that you guys understand what everyone is saying and how can I follow behind her. That's a tough job. But I'm going to ask you to please leave the politics and the backroom conversations and all that other stuff that do not benefit our community as a whole.
 It takes a village to create and bring this community together. And it's up to you guys to do so, and I really believe that you can do that in just honest transparency. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you. I'm Rob Martineau. I'm president of AFSCME Local 189 and a city employee. I'm also a member of the DCT bargaining team.
 I understand and share some of the skepticism expressed by those that participated in the pilot and have seen the process redirect into one that, in the words of Mr. Posey, leaves no consequence of failure. What I'd show you here are support cards for individual bargaining team. And why I do this is it relates to community benefits agreement. It relates to how we treat...
 the communities, all of the neighborhoods, all of the stakeholders in our city, including those that work in your house. One of the reasons AFSCME supports the CBA model is the need for equity inclusion in all city contracts, and the DCTU is one of them. And my brother with Operating Engineers 701, my friends from IBW 48, AFSCME 189, and currently the laborers, 483, are all a part of that.
 Beyond the obvious subject of wages and contracts and things like this, we're focused on equity and how our proposals try to bring equity into the city and how it does not just the hiring but also the contracting process. If I take off my union hat for a minute, I would stand for all workers. And that's union, it's represented and non. And no one should work full time in this city and face housing insecurity or basically poverty anymore.
 CBAs provide good jobs for the community. They provide jobs. I know the value of a good job and how it's changed my life to be your employee. This is something that CBAs help at the very base level, at the people that need to pay their bills to keep the lights on, to keep a roof over their head. That is where the value is for me in representing workers in the CBA.
 We support and encourage this in workforce equity, workforce development, and would love to be a partner in how we can improve the mentoring in the city to help everywhere, in CBAs and throughout our community. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. We have nine more names. Matthew Jensen, Matt Marris, Lori Bauman, please come up. They'll be followed by Rob Akeley, Doc DeBoer, Scott Schaefer.
 Back to you, Lori. Okay. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. We didn't – we match today. Okay, so I'm here from my union, obviously. I am – my name is Lori Bauman. I'm a LiUNA member. I'm a tradeswoman. I'm a resident. And I'm very passionate about workforce and construction. Okay.
 I have some points to hit from my union, but honestly, I want to tell you I'm a direct product of Oregon Tradeswomen, a strong pre-apprenticeship organization. I'm a direct product of apprenticeship. I'm a direct product of training on the job, and opportunity is given to me mostly from ODOT. I worked on Heavy Highway when I was out in the field.
 Now a representative for the union. And I wouldn't have those opportunities if ODOT at some point didn't look around and say, where are the women, right? And to save you background, just real quick, I was never meant to succeed in anything in my life. I wasn't given the tools that a lot of people are given growing up. So the fact that I found Oregon Tradeswomen and the fact that I found a living wage and an opportunity through –
 through finding my way to middle class has been transformative. And at every chance, I would like to see more women, more people of color, more people from our community have these opportunities.
 Now that I'm a member of our leadership, I see a lot of people now that are working from out of town, a lot of companies from out of town. I'm seeing a lot of people get run off of job sites, and just like it's been pointed out, you know,
 There was a CBA that has been used in the past that was very successful. I know a lot of those people that got careers from those jobs. It was very good. I'm in support of the CBA and the $25 million. Very good. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for hearing my testimony. And first off, I know organization would support Commissioner Saltzman's First Amendment completely. The second one, I personally feel it should be more aligned with the state law for that to move forward. I've been a member of the Labor's for the last 20 years and work as an organizer for the last 16 months.
 And for me personally, I was able to buy a house after six years in Portland, after six years of being a laborer. I was able to provide healthcare for my wife and children when my children were born and when they get sick. And I know that I will have a pension for me when I retire. It won't be a 401 subject to, you know, Wall Street greed, but it will be there. As an organizer,
 I have met many workers out there that have given wage theft on a daily basis, and this is something that needs to be taken into consideration. And I think a community oversight committee would be the best way to do that.
 I also see on a regular basis safety violations out there by non-union companies. And this isn't to condemn non-union contractors, but it's just to point that out. And there needs to be some kind of oversight for city contracts, because I'm sure everybody in this room would not want a tragedy on a city job. Also, I have personally witnessed an African-American owner of a contract or a company
 who didn't have a single African-American worker on there, at least for the concrete phase of two big projects they had. And so I think that for city contracts, it's got to be worker-based, not just for the owners. So that's something to take into consideration also. So thank you very much. Appreciate your testimony. Thank you. And from Northwest Carpenters, Rob Akeley, Dak DeVarar, and Scott Schaefer.
 and they'll be followed by Matt Hill, Samuel Murillo, and Roger Garcia. Gentlemen, thank you for your patience. We sure appreciate it. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Rob Akeley. I'm a representative for the Carpenters Union. I'm also a committee member for the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee in which I interview all kinds of applicants, many applicants every month. Many, many women and people of color and minorities. And I help them find work and work on your projects. In the past, since 2012, the CBA template has
 has proven results and integrates lessons learned from past projects. The template is not broken. The current CEIP proposed language has lots of loopholes and is not very clear. The CBA has been the single best tool in the city's efforts to achieve equitable outcomes for our diverse community members. The current CBA partnership is a success and works well.
 I encourage the City of Portland to not pass the CEIP resolutions that are flawed and take away opportunities from our diverse community. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and the Commissioners. My name is Dale Dvorak. Sorry, maybe my writing wasn't so good. So I'm also a resident. I work for the Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters. I sit on the JATC. I'm also a Marine Corps veteran.
 And, you know, since I've been around, I sit on the JTC, I've worked out there in the community, trying to bring members to the community. And when I saw the CBA agreement and I knew that was in effect, I knew that that was a feat in itself. Bringing that to the table, the years when it came into effect, that in itself was a feat. It was a huge movement in the right direction. Mirroring the community to the job sites and trying to the best.
 If we try to water this thing down with something like CEIP or any other process, and it doesn't mirror what that is, I mean, really, instead of bringing the threshold down, I think CBA should be around $5 million, in my opinion. So definitely I am opposed to going through with that.
 Very good. Thank you, sir. Hello. My name is Scott Schaefer. I am an organizer at the Regional Council of Carpenters, also a member of Local 1503, and a native Oregonian. First of all, I'd like to thank you for having us all here today to be able to give you our opinions on this. I support the Maui and the CBA. The CBA is one of the best tools in the city's effort to achieve goals of these equitable outcomes for the diversely historical excluded members of our community.
 I've seen over my many years in the trades, this helps find people a new path in life. It gives them a career and an overall sense of self-worth.
 A true partnership must be committed between the city, our community contractors, and our labor partners to make the CBA signatory agreement work for so many people to help them get out of the tough situations that they have, poverty, and just lock in their families and to be able to get that living wage.
 The city is known for its diversity, and we can't turn our backs on such an incredible labor pool for this amazing city to let them show pride in what they can do to help the community. This resolution is going to be putting up roadblocks of the CEIP for the CBA. The construction trades, you know, they work so hard to try and make this –
 city, build this city. And such a boom we're having this CBA is such an integral part to help them get a leg up in the community. I think that the best interest of the city and to its people is to make sure the CBA and the Maui is being looked at the correct way. Thank you for your time. Thank you. And then the last three, Matt Hill, Samuel Marillo, and Roger Garcia. Thanks gentlemen again for your patience.
 Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Matt Hill. I'm with the Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters and a member of Local 1503. In the interest of brevity, I won't beleaguer the points that my brothers have made before me. Just to mention that CEIP seems to be a dilution of what the CBA was. I don't see that a lot of the language is actually beneficial to the heart of what the CBA was.
 My main focus is, from what I've seen, the 20% apprenticeship goal that was within the CBA doesn't appear to be there any longer. And that apprenticeship goal is, I think, a very, very important thing. Without the apprenticeship, I would not be the skilled craftsman that I am today.
 And, you know, we've all seen the projections of what the skilled trades are looking at in the future as far as membership and that kind of thing. And having language in there with, like, these 20% goals, that increases the weight of the apprenticeship programs and gets them out there and working. Thank you. Thank you for your time.
 Hi, Samuel Murillo, representative of the Carpenters Union. I am a Mexican. I am a product of what keeping unions accountable is. If you think about it, being a millennial from Hood River, Oregon, born in agriculture, I'm a millennial.
 I had poverty-waste jobs through my parents. I didn't have a future. Now, as a representative of the Carpenters Union, I get to keep Doug Tweedy, my boss, accountable for having minorities and more inclusion and equity and women in the trades, which I appreciate him giving me the opportunity to be able to go out here and push these CBA agreements more and more. The CEIP is a watered-down version of...
 Just a lot of talk. I appreciate your comments about saying that you would like to meet with us. I want to hold you accountable for that, that we actually not just keep the $25 million threshold, that we lower it because it's already been a proven fact that it's been victorious in the past. Why are we changing it? Why are you wanting to reinvent the wheel? I don't see no reason for it. But thank you for your time, sirs and ma'ams. Thank you.
 Last word. Good afternoon. My name is Roger Garcia. I currently got transferred here from the state of Idaho. Also, thank you for letting me speak and my brothers and sisters around me speak. Back home, you might be able to speak, but they just turn their head and they do what they want to do. I believe this is discrimination not just to unions, but to minorities and people of color. I think you guys should be ashamed of yourselves.
 You guys make me feel like I'm back in Idaho. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, I think we're done with public testimony. Is that correct? Mr. Mayor? Commissioner Saltzman. In the spirit, I heard a lot of positive testimony for my first amendment, a lot of head scratching about the second one. In an effort maybe to move this ball down the line further, I would like to now offer my amendment so we can sort of frame the debate in the remaining 30 days.
 So I would like to offer the amendment that we'll hire the CBA for projects over $25 million. I have that written out here for your consideration. Very good. So we have a motion.
 puts me in a quandary. I have a plane to catch in a very short time. I would have hoped to have had more feedback from the staff, from the city attorney. Most of the, if not all, of the $25 million contracts will be in the utilities. Commissioner Fish is not here today. So I appreciate the amendment and I most likely will support it, but I would very much appreciate if we don't vote on it today and have it at the next session.
 So first, is that a second, not to vote on it today, but to put it on the table? Yes, if that provides that, we have a second. Very good. So we have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Fritz. We will not take the vote today. Thank you. I think there's more data gathering information and feedback that this council needs to receive prior to the conversation next month. Commissioner Saltzman, did you have a second amendment you wanted to put on the table?
 to put on the table. Well, I am interested in still looking at the workforce requirement and raising that threshold from $100,000 to $500,000. But I do want to, you know, we heard some interesting testimony today. I heard about a new state law that I wasn't aware of, so I want to do some more research on that. Okay. That's fine. And we can still bring amendments when we take this up the next time. So I just want to say this. Thank you, everybody, for your testimony. Oh, I'd like to. Commissioner Udaly. If you're going to wrap it up. Yeah. Please, go ahead. Please.
 I know this has been a long conversation. This week I had heard we'd been actively discussing this matter for eight years, but as Mr. Posey pointed out today, it actually dates back to the Bud Clark era, so that's at least 25 years.
 I am relatively new to this conversation. I first learned about our CBA pilots about a year ago, came and gave testimony last year in support of the CBA with the chambers packed to the rafters with other people also in support of the CBA. I know a lot of hard work has been put into the CEIP by city staff,
 and we want to move forward. I'm surprised that the CIP left out some of the most critical ingredients of the success of the CBAs, as noted in the evaluation that the city commissioned for itself.
 But I also recognize I have a lot to learn on this issue, and I'm heartened that so many people in this room seem at least marginally supportive of the CEIP with some amendments. I also support Commissioner Saltzman's impending amendment, I guess.
 My questions also center around the rationale behind the $10 million floor and the $25 million ceiling and why we decided to provide a choice for projects above $25 million, as well as concerns about oversight and consequences. I do not agree that a $2,000 cap on penalties for failure to comply is adequate.
 So I'm going to suggest that we consider having a work session on amendments that come forward. I think it would be really helpful to have the council as a body come together with community members and industry experts and city staff to work out these final kinks. And I'm really hopeful that we will come to a...
 amicable conclusion sometime very soon. Thanks everyone for being here and for being so patient.
 Very good. And Commissioner Fritz, please. Thank you, Mayor. Well, I do also want to thank everybody for this. Mayor Wheeler, you're the third mayor I've had the honour of serving with who has brought something like this forward very early in your tenure. And so it definitely is a gnarly issue. It seems to me that we're much closer together now than we were eight years ago. And so I really commend you for that. I also believe that it's
 partly due to the work of Dante James in the Office of Equity and Human Rights. One of the reasons that I chose him to be the director was because of his experience with the Denver Light Rail project and contracting there. And also, I just want to commend Tom Reinhart for your engagement. It does take both the engagement of high-level folks, including the mayor, to be able to get as far as we have done. So, yes, there are still things to work out. I believe this is one that there is...
 Very little probability that anybody will be entirely happy with how we end up on it, but we are a lot further forward, and I think we can have some more constructive conversations to keep moving the dial and show that we can have accountability, transparency, and real equity and inclusion.
 I'm going to let that be the last word, because that is even more eloquently than I will have stated. Thanks to everybody for sticking around. Thank you for your patience. To be continued. And with that, we are adjourned until 2 p.m. And I just passed the President's non-terr, Commissioner Udailish, who will be back being President until I get back from visiting my mother. Your excuse for wrongdoing. That was like the shortest tenure ever. Are you ready now?
 Madam Clerk, are you ready?
 Good afternoon, everyone. If you didn't get enough fun and excitement this morning, we're back. This is the regularly afternoon scheduled meeting of the Portland City Council on July 12th. Second episode. Second episode. We only have one item today. Could you please read it? And I'll call the roll first. You know what? That's a good idea since the law requires us to do that. Could you please call the roll? Gossman. Here. Here.
 Udaly. Here. Fritz. Fish. Wheeler. Here. First item. Item 810, support retaining federal policies protecting net neutrality. Commissioner Swanson. Thank you, Mayor. Last Friday, I was joined here at City Hall by U.S. Senator Ron Wyden to publicly denounce the Trump administration's intentions to overturn the Obama era protections of a free and open Internet.
 Today, across the country, Americans, this is an action day across the country. Americans and American companies such as Google and Facebook are participating in this day of action to save net neutrality and to stop the corporate takeover of Internet content. Now, as Senator Wyden, I'm not stealing any lines here, but Senator Wyden said at our press event last Friday that he gets a lot of good, positive support for his campaign.
 support for net neutrality, but not a lot of people understand what it is. But they say it sounds good. I support it. So we're going to help people to understand what net neutrality is today with a little help from HBO's John Oliver and how important it is too. So we have a brief film clip. I think it's three minutes.
 This might be my favourite session ever. Our top story tonight concerns the internet, aka the electronic cat database. But first, let's take just a moment together and appreciate how amazing the internet is. You can use it to file your taxes, apply for jobs. You can go online right now and buy a case of coyote urine. Do you know how difficult it used to be to obtain coyote urine? LAUGHTER
 You literally had to give a coyote Gatorade and just wait. It was a mess. The system was a mess.
 But if you've turned on the news lately, you may have heard some worrying references to the Internet changing. The Federal Communications Commission has agreed to move forward on a proposal that could change the way we use the Internet. At risk, the basic principle of net neutrality. Net neutrality. Net neutrality. Yes, net neutrality. The only two words that promise more boredom in the English language are featuring sting. And...
 Hearing people talk about it is somehow even worse. As anticipated, the notice proposes to ground the net neutrality rules in Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Oh, my God, that is the most boring thing I've ever seen.
 That is even boring by C-SPAN standards. I would rather read a book by Thomas Friedman than sit through that hearing. I would rather listen to a pair of dockers tell me about the weird dream it had.
 I would rather sit down with my niece and watch Caillou, a children's show about a bald Canadian child who lives a life devoid of any incident. F*** you, Caillou! Grow some hair and leave the house! Find out what the world's about! But here's the thing.
 Net neutrality is actually hugely important. Essentially, it means that all data has to be treated equally, no matter who creates it. It's why the internet is a weirdly level playing field. And start-ups can supplant established brands. That's how Facebook supplanted MySpace.
 Which supplanted Friendster. Which supplanted actually having any friends. Do you remember physically having friends? It was awful. You couldn't tap people's faces to make them go away. The point is, the internet in its current form is not broken. And the FCC is currently taking steps to fix that.
 The FCC is endorsing new rules that could clear the way for a two-tier system. The rules would open the door for the first time for Internet providers like Comcast and Verizon to charge tech companies to send content to consumers more quickly. Netflix, for example, might pay a premium to ensure that its customers can stream movies more reliably at a cost a startup competitor might not be able to afford. No, this cannot happen.
 We're going to stop there. My thoughts exactly. Oh, please. This cannot happen. And that's why the city council today will hopefully pass a resolution to oppose the FCC's efforts to weaken net neutrality or eliminate net neutrality altogether. So that's what comments are due by July 17th. So our resolution is very well timed today. And we have some invited guests here.
 And I wanted to start first by bringing up staff from the City Attorney's Office and the Office for Community Technology to provide an overview of the resolution in two or three minutes or less. Can you be as entertaining? No. No, that was pretty good. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Ann Goldenberg, the Manager for the Office of Community Technology.
 Now, we already heard a pretty good explanation of what net neutrality is, so I'm not going to go very deeply into it, but I'm going to explain a little bit about net neutrality, some of the things that we would lose if we lose net neutrality. And I also want to tell you a little bit about the unique history Portland has as a leader in this issue. And I think that is really something exciting today, being the day of action. We're here because
 The FCC, as we just saw, is poised to unwind the net neutrality rules that they just passed in 2015. These rules are so important to the modern Internet that we're here, along with many others, to speak to it and to pass this resolution to let the FCC know that we oppose what they are doing and we support an open and nondiscriminatory net neutrality.
 The free and unfettered exchange of information between people and organizations with no bandwidth preferences based on the nature of content, authorship or affiliation created the internet we know today. Net neutrality we know fosters competition on the internet. It allows small companies to enter the market on the same footing as large companies, lets our kids do their homework online, and lets all of us have access to information even greater than what we just saw on TV.
 We have new industries here in Portland and around the world based on these principles of a fair playing field, an even and level playing field. Three ways that net neutrality, the elimination of net neutrality, could affect us all, blocking, throttling, and pay to play. Blocking, we all have seen when we've gone to an internet content and we see 404, content not available.
 Can you imagine if our kids had to go get their homework at their school and they see a 404? Not acceptable. We need access and we need it immediately. Throttling, imagine if our meeting right here
 We serve many, many people in our community. The civic purpose of government access is important to create civic engagement and knowledge about our community. However, I'm sorry, you probably don't have as many viewers as, you know, Game of Thrones. If that was decided to be throttled by a company, meaning that it would not even maybe be a clear video stream, that's the same as not having access. We'd lose the ability to have civic engagement if we're throttled.
 Pay to play? Who do we want picking our content for us? An ISP or you? That's a basic issue about your right to be able to get the information you want. And it's especially important for our economic community. We need to be able to have everybody have the same access, whether you're an individual or a business. We need to be able to make sure there is no pay for play. The music companies?
 In the 50s they called it payola. No payola. None of these outcomes are good for us, for our community, for job creation, for civic engagement, for government transparency, emergency preparedness. None. Now Portland has a unique, has played a unique role and we have a unique role today with your resolution. You might even say that net neutrality was born in Portland.
 This position can be traced back to 1998 in a council's consideration of the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission's recommendation that the cable franchise from TCI to AT&T reflect a condition of non-discriminatory open access. 1998, the city voted to require this as a condition of that cable franchise. Guess what? You got sued. You got sued.
 Yeah, but the outcome in this case was very important. The outcome decided that this classification of the FCC as a cable modem service was an information service, was affirmed, and net neutrality as a concept was born. So you might say net neutrality was born here. Since then, the city has taken a bold leadership supporting net neutrality principles.
 It's always been a leader. In 2010 and 2011, the legislative agendas reflected that. In 2014, the mayor of Portland joined the mayors of San Francisco, New York City, to file a letter with the FCC and the legislative delegation supporting net neutrality. All of these efforts paid off in 2015 when the FCC had net neutrality as an OAT rule. Yay! All of it paid off. But now...
 There's an opportunity to have these rules rolled back. Today is a day of action. What are we going to do here in Portland? What can we do? As leadership, you can pass this resolution and let the FCC know how important it is to all of us here in Portland.
 Citizens have a huge and a very important role to play as well. You have a few more days to make a comment to the FCC. www.fcc.gov. The docket is 17-108, and it's called Restoring Internet Freedom, ironically. Tell the FCC, keep net neutrality now. Last time, in 2014, over 4 million people commented.
 We crashed the Internet. Let's do it again. So let's take this day of action. I urge you to pass this resolution. I urge all of our citizens to make a comment to the FCC, and together let's make sure we keep net neutrality. Thank you so much. Thanks, Sam. Thank you.
 Ben, did you want to add? Yes. Ben Wolters with the City Attorney's Office. I'm here for two reasons. One is to first – well, three. First, I want to acknowledge that Mayor Wheeler has already gotten on board with this effort in joining 49 other mayors from around the country in co-signing a letter that was –
 has either will be or has been, I don't know the exact status of it yet, but through the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the assistance of our Government Relations Office, Mayor Wheeler joined in that letter taking a firm position in preserving net neutrality. So thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you very much. And then secondly, the effect of the resolution is to direct our office, the city attorney's office, to work with the Office for Community Technology to file comments and otherwise participate in the FCC's proceeding and to take further action as may be necessary in subsequent judicial proceedings to –
 continue to advocate for net neutrality and the position of open access on the Internet. And with that, if there's any questions, I'm here and available to answer questions. No questions? Well, thank you both. Thank you. Thank you. Next we want to hear from Grace Stratton, who is the field representative for U.S. Senator Wyden. And then we have one invited panel after that.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, City Commissioners. Thank you for having me today. My name is Grace Stratton, and I am here representing U.S. Senator Ron Wyden to express his support and appreciation for this resolution. I'd like to thank Commissioner Saltzman for bringing this resolution forward today.
 Senator Wyden has long fought to protect net neutrality because he knows the importance of equal access to information on the internet for all Americans. Children researching school projects, adults seeking employment, owners of small startup businesses wanting an even playing field, and more. Today is significant for advocates. Today is the day of action to save net neutrality.
 Senator Wyden encourages as many Oregonians as possible to participate by going online and submitting comments to the FCC defending net neutrality. And in the words of Senator Wyden, This is an extraordinarily consequential issue for Portland, for Oregonians, because net neutrality has sparked the flames of innovation and commerce on the Internet. We shouldn't roll back that spirit of innovation and equality that would extinguish much of what the Internet has come to be.
 So with that, I think my comments really mirror a lot of what we've heard already. I just want to end by, again, on behalf of Senator White, and thanking Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners here for considering this resolution, and again for Commissioner Saltzman for bringing it forward. Thank you, Grace. And then our one invited panel is Sue Disciple of the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission, Sam Pastrick of the Oregon Citizen Utility Board, Eric Onan, CTO of Cloudability,
 and David Olson, who is the former director of the Office for Community Technology. Yeah, I guess we need one more chair. It's coming. It's coming. Yeah. Well, good afternoon, Council, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Saltzman, and Mayor Ted Wheeler. Thanks for inviting me to speak to the issue of consumers as it relates to net neutrality.
 I have some history with the issue of net neutrality as the MHCRC representative for the city of Portland. And I had just come on to the MHCRC at the time that the open access issue came to the fore. So that was 19 years ago, as Ann Goldenberg just addressed. And...
 We were, as she indicated, engaged in a battle with our incumbent cable provider over what was then termed open access. And at the time, the company sought to bottleneck control over consumer choice.
 of their Internet service provider. For our consumers here in the metropolitan area, that impact would have been a monopoly-like absence of choice, forcing them to use the company's proprietary platforms. In our rural parts of our state, it could have prevented small ISPs from obtaining carriage and eliminated Internet access altogether for consumers and businesses in those communities. Thank you.
 I'm proud to have been on the MHCRC and representing the City of Portland at that time, and proud that our City Council and County Commission took this fight all the way to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. In doing so, as has been mentioned by other speakers, we struck the first blow on behalf of consumers on the issue that, fast-forwarding now to 2017, is the principle of net neutrality. So,
 As open access was right for consumers and businesses in 1998, net neutrality is right for consumers and businesses today. Telecom and cable companies with market power want to manipulate the timing of information delivery because it gives them the ability to make more money.
 but we all know the vital and important role of the Internet to consumers and businesses. Throttling the Internet for those who do not pay the premium will act as a filter on the flow and timing of information consumers and businesses and news organizations, well, that consumers rely on and that news and business organizations use to disseminate.
 These limitations come purely at the expense of the consumer, as this additional profit-making gambit can be deployed without any additional investment or any additional service improvements. It is not true that under the FCC Chair's proposed rules...
 some information will arise faster. That's a fallacy. All it does is guarantee that some information will arrive slower, essentially curating via delay the information consumers receive. And it's hard to imagine how small startup businesses will compete on an Internet dominated by those who pay for expedited delivery of their messaging.
 So as way back in 2000, we still on the MHCRC have concerns about the rural communities here in Oregon. We haven't gotten really good analysis on this, but many of those communities still, like they did in 1998, depend on small ISPs for their Internet service. It's really hard to see how the erosion of net neutrality rules and principles can be anything but an economic and cultural blow to those communities. Thank you.
 So, members of the Portland City Council, thank you on behalf of consumers in Portland and in our state for once again stepping up and supporting consumers with your resolution on net neutrality. Thank you. Thank you, Sue. Sam? Good afternoon. My name is Sam Pastrick, and I'm here with Oregon Citizens Utility Board. I'm their consumer advocate and membership manager.
 I want to cut right to the chase. This is sort of the line that I always used. I used it last Friday. The Internet is an essential utility service. That's really our stance as the residential utility customer advocate in Oregon.
 It's a service for the public benefit, and what that really means is that everyone is entitled to, you're going to hear this a lot, fair, unfettered, and affordable access to service. This is really the underlying principle of net neutrality. Like MHCRC and the city, CUB has endorsed net neutrality for many years now, but it really wasn't until 2015 when the FCC approved the open Internet order that the federal government actually codified those rules
 based on sound legal footing, that legal footing was Title II. And I don't want to get too wonky there.
 And despite numerous attempts to appeal that decision from the big cable and telephone industry lobby groups, the courts have largely upheld the defense of the order, the last one being last summer. So, however, this might change because the FCC has the apparent vote count to repeal the 2015 order. But an apparent vote count does not always guarantee repeal. We're seeing this play out right now in Washington around health care, and I think that's a really important point to make.
 And this is why local efforts are so, so important. They send a really strong signal that the repeal of these basic common sense protections for consumers needing access to the Internet is completely unacceptable. So I want to give two examples here. Probably the more common one or the more common anecdote in defense of net neutrality or in support of greater digital equity is, you know, sort of the low-income student needing home Internet access to complete his or her homework. This is such a good example.
 because that student, I think we all agree, is entitled to the same speed and access to content as maybe the wealthier family across town or the corporate CEO in a downtown high-rise. But I want to offer a different example that hopefully highlights why folks nowadays, especially those who are most vulnerable, truly need fair, safe, and reliable Internet access. So let's say I'm homebound for any reason, for any period of time.
 So in this scenario, the Internet is really my connection to the outside world, I would argue. It's my vehicle to connect with friends and family. It's my entertainment outlet, probably my only entertainment outlet. It's my way to receive essential medical services, whether that's scheduling my next appointment or reviewing test results or even receiving telecare.
 The internet may also be my best means to order food or get extra help around the house. If I'm employed, it's probably the way that I'm going to keep that job because I can work remotely. I think we've all done a little bit of that.
 If I'm unemployed, though, it's really the only option that I'm going to have to search for a job or apply for a job. So the Internet in this scenario is really the foundation of my health. It's the foundation of my safety, my general well-being, and ability to participate in society in really any meaningful way. So if we can all agree on this critical point that fair and affordable access to the Internet can really help us,
 can really make or break someone's livelihood, then we should also agree that reasonable protections to preserve net neutrality, those that were enshrined in the 2015 order, really must be defended. So in light of this and on behalf of CUB, I want to encourage passage of today's resolution that would officially support the preservation of the 2015 federal open Internet order. Thanks for your time. Of course, I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Sam. Mr. O'Nan?
 Hi, thanks for inviting me. My name is Eric Ahn, and I'm the Chief Technology Officer at Cloudability. Cloudability is one of the technology startups that's been discussed today. We're based here in Portland. We are a company of 80 people, and we employ 60 people living in the greater Portland area. We're proud to be a local Portland startup. I'm here to offer today some anecdotes as to how an absence of net neutrality would negatively impact our business specifically, and then I'll speak a bit more to how it would negatively impact the software industry in general within Oregon.
 First and foremost, a lack of net neutrality would run a significant risk of impeding our ability to operate our business. The product that we create, the product that we engineer here in Oregon, is what's known as a SaaS product, a software-as-a-service product. It's a hosted thing. It's not an installed piece of software on a desktop. It relies on open Internet protocols for our customers to consume the service that we create.
 The absence of net neutrality effectively runs the risk that customers of ours who are trying to consume the product that we create would be artificially impeded in ways that would be difficult for us to diagnose and require us to spend precious revenue just to be able to offer the service that we can currently offer today.
 Secondly, the absence of net neutrality runs the risk of impeding the productivity of our workers here in Oregon. Namely, our knowledge workers, our software engineers who work with large binary assets, who write software for us, rely on large, reliable bandwidth in and out of our office space here in Portland.
 Our sales team heavily uses video conferencing technology and phone technology that is all based on an open principles of open internet, reliable bandwidth, that arbitrary restrictions absent net neutrality would be significantly negatively impacted by. As it stands today, we're already forced to work with two different internet service providers, spending significant money just to have reliable bandwidth coming into our office.
 The last thing that we need is upstream impediment by third parties to restrict that bandwidth so that we can do our jobs on a day-to-day basis.
 And then lastly, I wanted to mention that, as with most software companies like ours, we are a global business. We do business everywhere in the world. We have customers in many countries. We have offices in Australia. We have employees in the UK. And our ability to operate and grow and address a global market is put at risk absent net neutrality. It's essential for us that we can communicate with our remote coworkers, that we have channels to them that are reliable, that don't come and go at awkward, strange –
 unfair principles. So that's effectively how the absence of net neutrality would impact our business. In working with Skip Newberry, the CEO of the Technology Association of Oregon, there's a broader impact to software as it relates to the state of Oregon in that, right now, software in general within the technology sector within Oregon is one of the fastest growing sectors, contributes over $25 billion to the GDP within the state
 And it's one of the highest drivers for annual wages in terms of state accumulation of wealth, more than double the average across other trade sectors within the state. And I feel comfortable sitting here in front of you today telling you that all software, perhaps not all, but the vast majority of software engineers would have a similar sentiment to mine. Their jobs, their ability to effectively operate their business, to perform their day-to-day tasks would be significantly negatively impacted in the absence of net neutrality. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 And finally, David Olson. You can scoot a microphone over there. Thank you, Commissioners. I'm David Olson. For nearly 30 years, I was your Director of Cable Communications and Franchise Management under five mayors. And I arrived with a stack of paper, which used to be a budget tactic for me. Mayor Katz used to be frightened to death.
 at budget time that I would start talking and I used to get my budget passed that way. So just telling you, I'm not going to dwell on that so much. But I know each of you very well. I've not had the pleasure of meeting Commissioner Udaly, but I had the honor of working for Dan. I saw Mayor Wheeler at the county per the Mountain Hood Cable Regulatory Commission meeting.
 And Commissioner Udaly's executive assistant and I more or less co-inhabited an office. Chief of staff. Chief of staff. Marshall Ruckel. More or less co-inhabited an office during the open access fight under Commissioner Stanton. We know each other very well and this issue very well. So I feel very well connected here. First of all, I want to thank the council, Commissioner Saltzman and the council, for introducing this resolution. This is very, very important stuff.
 One other thing John Oliver said in one of his pieces on this is, if you want to do, nationally, if you want to do something really evil, put it inside something really boring. And in essence, a lot of that's what's going on here. Please know that 80% of the wired Internet subscriptions in this country are dominated by five companies, only five companies. 75% of U.S. citizens have one.
 One choice for high-speed data, only one. There's a reason that those companies aren't here today. There's a reason for that, and that is that these companies benefit from stealth. They benefit from people not pitching in. They benefit from there not being an ample public record on this, and that's why you're not going to see much of them at these local meetings. This passed on a two-to-one, the magnificent margin of two-to-one at the FCC when the new administration came in, only two votes. Yes?
 and it would essentially undo what had been done with the Internet as a utility. And so this is a very, very important day of action. I want to echo and associate myself with what Sue Disciple said about rural-urban. If you ever want to work with rural Oregon, this is the issue. They are going to be hung dry if this happens. And I appreciate what you're doing. I want to conclude by...
 giving a shout out to the nationally recognized staff of the Office for Community Technology, which continues to be nationally recognized, and the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. This is another nationally recognized asset for you, these volunteer citizens. Many people don't remember or don't recognize this issue was led from behind at the time. That is, the Portland City Council,
 didn't reach out and grab this issue. This was brought to the council by a very dedicated group of citizens and a multi-jurisdictional commission. It took all of them. And, in fact, it took Troutdale and Multnomah County
 working with commissioners from Portland to get this issue going. And it wasn't easy. But because of the benefits of that multi-jurisdictional partnership, this issue got to you, and it is a national issue that really started here, and because of that unique bond, multi-jurisdictional bond that you have.
 In any event, carry on. Thanks again, Commissioner Saltzman. From the bottom of my heart, I thank Senator Wyden for the attention he's focused on this issue. In fact, I was with him at City Club the other weekend. It was just killing me. It's against City Club rules to recognize people out in the House because they wouldn't have any program time if you did. But I want to say thank you to this council and to the County Commission and to the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission.
 urge all of you to carry on with Senator Wyden. This issue is critically important, and I thank you again for the honor of having been able to serve you all those years. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. That completes invited testimony. Very good. We have public testimony. No one signed up. Does anybody want to provide public testimony? We have one person, one taker in the back. Come on up. If you could state your name for the record, please. Three
 Thank you. My name is Edith Gillis, and I'm really grateful that you're addressing Internet security and justice.
 And one of the things I didn't hear is that it's essential for democracy, and democracy entrusted in it is essential for civil peace, because without it we cannot have civil justice. And that's essential for your peace of mind, your enjoyment. Do you feel good about why you're here, what you're accomplishing? You're trusted and respected in your community. We need to know that we can quickly...
 and correctly get information we need to go to the aid of someone who needs it. When we have disasters, we need to know that we'll have the news, we'll have the information we need. At the Good for the Hood, because of the internet, and because of the incredible work of Antifa, they had pictures of known white supremacist terrorists. I was there to pray and was in the right place at the right time
 to stop two known terrorists from coming in who had planned to shoot people whose pockets were bulging and had at least one weapon on the side. The cops did not stop them, the FBI and whatever sheriff's deputy it was did not stop them.
 But because of Antifa having the open internet, I saw the pictures. I was there praying. I could act. And I could get Black Panthers and Antifa to close off areas that they were accessing. And those places were then guarded. And they never followed through with their plans that all the police would have never stopped. It was the internet.
 It was the access, it was courageous, caring, dedicated people who put the information we needed up there that kept our safe city safe. So I just want to commend you again how important it is for democracy and peace of mind. Thank you. Thank you. Any further questions? Very good. So with that then, we'll go right to calling the roll, please. Saltzman.
 Well, thank you all for being here today. And, again, thanks to Senator Wyden for his outstanding leadership on fighting on behalf of net neutrality. And it really is a very important issue despite its boring title. And it is important to all of us to be able to have equal access to the Internet.
 And I'm very pleased that Portland has such a proud tradition, and the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission, all the jurisdictions have such a proud history of involvement in this issue, maybe even initiation of the concept of net neutrality. So it makes me proud to be here today authoring this resolution to carry on this proud tradition of working to keep net neutrality. And as I said, the comments are due on the 17th, and Nils is going to take our resolution on an airplane to Washington, D.C., as soon as we pass this. Hi. Hi.
 Well, I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman and Senator Wyden and everyone that came here today. You did an excellent job explaining the importance of this issue. It does sound very boring, and I often fear that the public doesn't understand what a huge impact it could have on them. So I like to put things very simply here.
 Your ISP could decide what you see, how interactive it is, how quickly it reaches you, if ever, and then charge whatever it wants for that access. This issue is near and dear to the heart of my office, as was mentioned. Marshall Runkle, my chief of staff, was...
 deeply involved in the work that led to our current policy. He also was behind our first effort to bring municipal broadband to Portland, which is a conversation we may want to return to because it's a
 the strongest move we could make against the loss of net neutrality if that does happen, and it would address our ongoing issue with broadband access equity. It's also near and dear to my heart. I devoted over 20 years of my life to supporting and supporting
 promoting independent media in no small part because of the consolidation of print media, television, radio, etc. into a handful of multinational media conglomerates. I see this as even a bigger threat especially considering that the internet has basically undermined all other forms of media and we're really dependent on it for access. And
 Finally, at a time when our own president is kind of undermining the position of our press, I think it's especially vital and essential, as the raging granny mentioned, to our democracy. So it's a scary thought to think we could lose this. Thank you again. Aye.
 Wheeler. Well, I appreciate this, and I want to thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, and I want to thank the folks who testified. You made this highly entertaining, and any time I can come to a city council session and actually watch John Oliver, I think that's a great day. I want to give a slightly different analogy. As I think everybody here knows, I have a love-hate relationship with the Internet. I do think it democratizes information.
 It does not democratize either facts or knowledge. Those go, you have to go the extra yard for those two things. So I've been struggling for the right analogy, and I've concluded the right analogy is actually looking at the public library system.
 Originally, libraries were private affairs in the United States, meaning if you had access to a library, you had access to the entire body of information. And if you didn't have the means, you did not. And you were relegated to borrowing other people's materials or finding information through other means. But if you really wanted to look at the major works of literature, the major works of art and culture and science,
 There were actually what I guess today we refer to as paywalls for access to that information. We are supplanting, and I hate to say it because I love the public library system, we are supplanting the library system with these open technologies and this access to all of this information.
 And I am very concerned any time somebody suggests that we should not have democratized access to the body of information
 that for 200 plus years in this country, we already made the decision. It is in the best interest of a healthy and thriving democracy and an informed public to have access to that information. So it is appalling to me that there are private sector organizations that should know better and that there are high level elected leaders who should know better, who wanna take us backwards
 in terms of access to that information. So it is very important that we support this resolution. Dan, thank you again for your passionate support of it. And I also want to thank Senator Wyden.
 He's truly been the national leader on this issue, and I know he's going to continue to fight hard on behalf of all of us. But it is important that the city council step up and express our strong support for his works in Washington, D.C. So I will vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you, everybody, for your great testimony and hard work. And with that, believe it or not, we are adjourned.