Good morning, everybody. This is the July 10th, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Caitlin, could you please call the roll? Hardesty. Here. New daily. New daily. Fritz?
 Fish?
 Here.
 Wheeler?
 Here. And now we're going to hear from legal counsel on some of the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Welcome to Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not address it, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Thank you. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless it's otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. And if you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down, which we've got a demonstration of it over there. Thank you. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thanks very much. And, Keelan, it's my understanding the first four individuals on communication would like to come up together. Is that correct? That's correct. From the foster area. Great. Come on up. 643, request of Shea Flaherty Benton to address council regarding foster area business association concerns. 644, request of Christian Smith to address council regarding foster area business association concerns. 645, request of Matthew Mesetic to address counsel regarding Foster Area Business Association concerns. 646, request of Jillian Sevick to address counsel regarding Foster Area Business Association concerns. Good morning. Good morning. Name for the record, three minutes each, please. Would you like to, you have your hands full, why don't you go ahead and start? They're pretty good. They certainly are. No play games. No play games. Are we ready? Yeah. Good morning. Morning. Mayor, Commissioner, PBOT, and fellow constituents, it's wonderful to see you again, Commissioner Fish. Thank you for coming out to the Winterfest this winter. Thank you. On behalf of Foster Powell Business Association, our community, our family, I am here to take a minute to say thank you. My name is Jillian Sevick. This is my daughter, Bayla, age 5, and Mavis, age 2. Together, we make up Hammer and Jack's. A toy store with a place to play and a space to party. In August, we celebrate three years of business in part of the historic shopping district. The current location of the revitalization project. My family and I live in Lentz and regularly travel the Foster Corridor by bike, by car, and by transit, and by foot. We are excited this spring when the sun coming out coincided with the finishing of the new Foster Bike Lanes. I have spent many years biking in Portland, and I have to say the wide lanes, the green boxes, and the double white lines have transformed Foster from a road I would never consider biking on. Do you like biking? Day in and day out, families walk through my door who a year ago would not traverse Foster and now walk to shops, out to coffee, for groceries, or simply for fresh air. Creating more pedestrian-friendly pace on foster has directly correlated into making foster feel safer and more family-friendly and more inviting. So thank you. It's funny to think how a year ago I was terrified to park out in front of my shop. Look. She's got a strong opinion. She does. She really does. For myself and my customers, pinned against our cars and being honked at while trying to retrieve wriggling children from the backseat was hardly manageable. I'm happy to report that the decrease in lanes and the adding of a turning lane has made travel by car not only easier, but created space to maneuver once parked, especially with children. Children are a major part. Yes, they're up there. A major part of the pedestrian travel in the heart of the Foster Powell. Not only do we have families residing in the area, many families, but the Arlita neighborhood, sorry, the Arlita, our neighborhood K38 school is located just a few blocks behind the shop. Before and after school I watched children at the protected crossings and each time I am deeply grateful for the changes PBOT has made in our road. Our community now numbers over 200 businesses, 1,600 employees, and over 3,000 residents, which is soon to be increased exponentially. As our community and commuters and public safety services adjust to the speed changes and become more aware of the secure crossings, I hope to see your continued help and support. Thank you, appreciate it. I did want to invite you to come out to our tasting tour on the 20th of July. So if you get a chance to come see the changes yourself. Excellent, thank you. Thank you. Hola todos, buenos dias. Thank you Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Shea Flory-Batim and I'm the director of the Portland Mercado, a community economic development project of Hacienda CDC. Most Portlanders will know us as the rainbow colored food carts on Foster in the Latinx market. Folks also know us as Portland's incubator for Latinx businesses. We support more than 60 businesses with long term services, provide 19 affordable retail spaces for new entrepreneurs and offer affordable commissary kitchen spaces for over 80 food entrepreneurs. We've been a part of the neighborhood and the Foster Area Business Association for over four years now. We are thrilled by our new streetscape on Foster. We were honored to welcome Commissioner Udalli at the ribbon cutting ceremony three weeks ago. We look forward to seeing the streetscape create more opportunity along Foster for small businesses, for POC entrepreneurs, and for the thriving entrepreneurial ecosystem we have at the Mercado. I want to thank FABA, PBOT, and the city for partnering around district events like Foster Forward, the Winterfest, the Foster Tasting Tour, and our own Taste of Latino America Festival. These partnerships not only impact our businesses and help us compete in a rapidly changing landscape, but help us expand to reach new customers and build intercultural community with Portlanders who still don't know about our mercado. I'd also like to highlight our community's concern around business gentrification and displacement. With so much of the focus right now on housing displacement, we can't ignore how rising commercial real estate costs chain the fabric of our small business landscape. Continued partnership and consideration around equitable neighborhood growth will be key to making sure Foster's Renaissance as a Portland destination benefits all of our communities. Moving forward, I hope we can build on this momentum. Our new bike lanes and sidewalks are a great start, but continuing to work with businesses and our associations will be crucial for mitigating potential displacement. Please consider coming to our Foster Faves event, our tasting tour on July 20th. We'll have a Caribe festival that day. It's going to be great. And Sabor Latinoamerica on September 7th, which is a festival we put on for new entrepreneurs in our programs to get the ropes. So let's look at what comes next, be it more events or further construction that won't impact seasonal sales. Thank you again for your time. Thank you. And where can people get more information about the July 20th event? On our website at portlamercado.org. Excellent. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. First of all, thanks again from all of us for allowing us an opportunity to come and speak to you today. And especially thanks for all of the support from our friends and allies and city council who helped us through the years to see this project finally come to fruition. My name's Christian Smith and I come here today as a former long time community activist and organizer on behalf of the streetscape and former leader of the Foster Powell Neighborhood Association. One of my legacies there was to help build collaborative partnerships between the neighborhoods and the business associations and other nonprofits by helping change perceptions of Foster Road from an asphalt barrier into more of a unifying project that we collectively focus our energies on, both as a revitalized main street and a centerpiece for our communities to coalesce around. So with that, after we came back to council and got our last five votes for the streetscape, I went back to PSU and got my masters. And as part of my graduate work, I put together a study regarding commercial affordability and gentrification. You have a condensed version of that in the packet that we handed out. And while the report focuses on Foster Road, the research and findings are really applicable citywide, I believe. So in a nutshell, the issue is that the city will go into an area and build a series of much needed infrastructure improvements for bike and pedestrian safety, traffic calming, and general livability. Landlords will see this as an opportunity to get more rents from their properties. And locally owned, often minority owned small businesses are either forced out, possibly generally further out east or forced to exit the industry entirely. So this is an issue that's been simmering under the radar, but is emerging as a major concern among business owners and city staff and other stakeholders. However, as it stands, we do not currently have programs needed to address this. nor do we currently have staff or budget allocations to begin the process of developing policies and tools to help the minority and small business community mitigate the gentrifying effects of commercial corridor revitalization. So I don't have a lot of time here, so I won't be able to go into a lot of details of the report, but in it I have put together I was able to identify a lot of potential tools and resources to use as a starting point, including technical assistance, regulatory and zoning changes, and both supply and demand side incentives and programs that would help both tenants and landlords. So my ask here is that we would try to add this issue to the priority list when we look towards policy solutions for other negative impacts of gentrification sooner rather than later. We've already lost some tenants on Foster. I understand that there's merchants along the Broadway-Weidler corridor that are already starting to panic about losing their spaces as a result of an upcoming revitalization project there, and so on. So I'm almost out of time. So anyway, if this is something that any of you would like to pursue further, or if you've got my contact info, I'd be more than happy to come and provide a more detailed... presentation or breakdown of my research and findings and recommendations for next steps. And thanks again so much. Very good. Could I get a copy of your report? I unfortunately don't have it in my – Is this it here? There's a handout. Yeah. You got this one here? Yeah. It's in there. There's a condensed version of that. Excellent. I appreciate it. Great. Commissioner E. Daly. First of all, I want to say I often feel like that on Wednesday mornings. So don't feel bad. Mr. Smith – I would be very interested in working with you on commercial tenant protections. I actually woke up this morning and wrote to my policy director, Jamie Duhamel, and said, do we have any ability to require commercial landlords to give 90 days notice like we do residential? So very timely. And please connect with Jamie. And, you know, this is a new realm of landlord-tenant protection. law for me, so I don't know what we can and can't do yet. Very much so. I'd love to. So who do I? Jamie Duhamel, and she's in my office. She's not in Chambers. I can make that connection. Yes, thank you. Okay, great. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you, commissioners, for accommodating me stepping in this morning. My name is Heather Hale. I am the executive director of Venture Portland. I am speaking on behalf of Matthew Mesetic. Unfortunately, Matthew's store, Red Castle Games, was broken into early this morning, and he got called away to deal with the police and can't be here. But I ask that I read his remarks. So, again, speaking on behalf of Matthew Macetic, owner of Red Castle Games and past president of the Foster Area Business Association. During my tenure, Foster began a transformation physically with the streetscape and culturally as a business association. We have had a close relationship with PBOT during the streetscape project and have worked closely to continue to improve safety for all users on our new Foster Road. Some car drivers have unfortunately rejected the new Safer Foster, and we are seeing increased instances of protest driving in bike lanes and other unsafe behaviors. We ask that the Portland Police Bureau commit to 90 days of stepped-up traffic enforcement to help speed the acceptance of drivers to our new street. While our physical transformation nears completion, our values of diversity, inclusivity, and welcoming neighbors, new and old, will continue to evolve to make sure that all are welcome on Foster. After incidents of anti-immigrant racists threatening parishioners at St. Peter's and Access Covenant in Outer Southeast in early 2017, Foster banded together with the Foster Powell, Mount Scott, Arleta and Brentwood Darlington neighborhood associations. As well as the 82nd Avenue Business Association to create a bilingual document with resources for those targeted by hate. This document also expressed our values of inclusivity. We continue our work welcoming all members of the community with the upcoming shelter opening in the heart of our district. While many groups fought tooth and nail to prevent this shelter from coming, the Foster Area Business Association participated at every opportunity to make sure that the shelter in our neighborhood is an example for the rest of the city on what can happen when we come together to welcome our neighbors. Part of this has been managing expectations of neighbors and business owners. One of the areas of greatest concern we hear is around trash. While trying to address this concern by applying for grants, we learned that BPS has a program with resources slated for trash cans and service on foster. We ask that deployment of these trash cans be accelerated to happen by fall to coincide with the opening of the shelter. When we know that shelter residents won't add litter to the district, it will be a powerful visual sign for anyone using foster that the city cares and wants to keep our new street beautiful. We are ready and willing to be a strong partner and advocate with the city, but we need your help to make our partnership work. Please increase traffic enforcement for 90 days, deploy trash cans, provide an update on the shelter's community investment fund status, and continue to work with us to prevent gentrification and displacement as a result of the city's outstanding investment in our district. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Appreciate it. And I just want to acknowledge Heather. Thank you for the work that you and your neighbors did with regard to the foster shelter. Now, of course, that's going to be renamed the Laurelwood Center. This is going to actually be one of the crown jewels in the shelter system. It is going to provide space for 120 people and it's using the navigation style model. So people have access to service in that facility, including job training, including opportunities to help connect them with whatever services they need to stay off the streets. And it could not have happened without the active participation and shaping of the proposal by people in the neighborhood. And I didn't want you to leave today without my acknowledging that really important difference. There was an article that went around the country this week talking about the resistance that traditionally progressive communities have been putting forth when it comes to sheltering people. And your neighborhood was a demonstration of how if you work collaboratively with a neighborhood, we actually all end up with something that's better, I think, than even the original design. With regard to enhanced policing, I will raise this question with the chief. I can't give you an answer here today, but I will take that up both with the chief and East Precinct as well. And as you know, I'm just enthusiastic about policing. the interest that people in the community have around the basics of keeping the sidewalks clean and making sure that we have appropriate trash receptacles and that we have the service in place to be able to maintain those receptacles. So I'm happy to work with you and others on that. Mayor. Commissioner Fish. First, Heather Hale, thank you very much for helping to coordinate this. I understand that The goal is on a monthly basis to hear from a different business association. There's nothing like having this opportunity to hear from you directly. And thank you all for the work that you're doing to enhance the neighborhood. Parks has already announced, but I'll just reaffirm, that we're going to make a substantial investment in Laurelwood Park, and we're going to do so to... update it and we'll be engaging the community and the visioning process. But that's a very important part of the success story of that part of Foster. So we'll be investing in an updated Laurelwood Park and we look forward to working with you on that project. So thank you very much. One other thing I should have mentioned, TPI, of course, is going to be managing that shelter. They have experience around the city. They will be sending the shelter manager. Excuse me. The shelter manager will actually be participating in both the neighborhood associations and the business associations on a monthly basis. So you'll have ongoing opportunities for input and support shaping the program. Very good. Anything else? Okay. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you all. I especially appreciate you bringing your daughters today and having them be part of this process. I want to encourage Foster Business Association to actually partner with other business associations in the city because Foster Avenue is not the only avenue that's having issues of being able to maintain the small business environment. And I always like it better when we are working cooperatively to make the entire city better for all of us, rather than only being focused on our own neighborhood. And so I just want to put that out there and say, you know, I think that you're doing fabulous work, but look outside the borders because, you know, a lot of us are struggling with the exact same issues. It is hard to afford to live here and it's very hard to afford to run a business here. And so I think collaboratively we will come up with much better solutions if they're not just neighborhood specific. So thank you. Thanks for being here. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next is item 647, . Request of injured and pissed off to address council regarding honest attorney and ACLU. Good morning. Good morning. My name's injured and I swear my name is injured and pissed off. June 27th, I spoke at the Mcnoma County Board meeting and it was addressing a letter that was sent in the mail from the United States District Court Federal Juror Qualifications questionnaire and it was addressed to my old name So I didn't do nothing with that. Today's meeting, as I spoke here May 8, I had addressed that I would be talking July 3 here. And of course, well, I'm talking here. But I wrote down, wanted honest attorney Helen Keller and ACLU. In previous meetings, such as deleting names like Ed Tabor, You said that they were third parties. Well, I'm surprised that you wrote the ACLU. The reason why I mentioned that I was going to talk about Helen Keller is that I found out that she was one of the founding members of the ACLU. I wonder what people think of that, hearing that a blind woman that's deaf, she's no longer living and why the city wouldn't print even her name and of course I'm trying to sue the city and county and state for my seven dog attacks a dog I had attacked my service animal seven time and times in less than six years and the city was well aware of all the stuff and even dreamt up things like uninvited guests writing an article and They apparently didn't think that my service animal was real Mr. Wheeler you wrote a letter addressing the Oregon laws that was totally ignored. And of course your successor was such a fine man, smoking pot and chasing women and having all kinds of fun, he totally ignored two more dog attacks. I call that, rather than seven accidents, I call it accidents. A-S-S-I-D-E-N-T. There is no such word, but I think that anybody could gather the meaning of it, especially if they'd had their hip broke and two fractures to their spinal cord. And I'm sure that I'll be talking to the ACLU and see what they think of my letters and notifications such as a civil conspiracy and conflict interest that the city has. Thank you. That completes communication. Keelan, my understanding is Commissioner Fritz would like us to pull item 665. So as a courtesy, I'm going to pull that. Have any other items been pulled? Yeah, we've had two additional items pulled. Which? 664. 664, correct, okay. And 653. And 653, very good. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Hardesty, New Daily. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item, please. Item number 648. Accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer. Colleagues, the Technology Oversight Committee, as you know, provides volunteer citizen oversight on city technology projects that have a significant impact on city operations, especially projects that are either considered high risk or high cost for the purpose of increasing accountability and transparency. Thank you. This is an independent five-member committee. It's comprised of individuals with what I would regard as very impressive technology backgrounds and expertise, and they provide both advice as well as their personal insight on projects during implementation. The TOC reports on a quarterly basis on projects under its oversight to the Chief Administrative Officer, who then of course forwards the report to us, the City Council. The quarterly reports provide information from each technology project's independent quality assurance consultant, along with TOC's assessment of the project status. The committee's staff coordinator, Heather Hafer, is here to present the latest quarterly report. Hello, good morning. It's nice to see you here. As the mayor said, I'm Heather Hafer, and along with being the Senior Management Analyst in the Office of Management and Finance, I have the distinct pleasure of overseeing the Technology Oversight Committee. And, Mayor, thank you for pointing out that they have an impressive background and expertise. I've been working with boards, committees, and commissions for 17 years in local government, and TOC is by far the best, most intelligent group I have worked with. I love working with them. So as the mayor also said, TOC is made up of five members, one for each of our city council members. And today with me we have Victoria Trapp, who represents Joanne Hardesty. And also to my left we have Jeff Baer, the director of the Bureau of Technology Services. This past quarter, TOC oversaw two projects, Portland's online permitting system, or what we call a POPS, as well as the open accountable elections. This is the first time we've included this program in our quarterly update. TUC also received its quarterly Portland, Oregon website replacement project update, which we realized you haven't heard much about. And it's a fantastic program and so we're going to tell you a little bit more about that today. But first, even though it technically happened one day after the reporting period, we wanted to start our update off with some really great news. POP's development hub project went live on July 1st. So now community members can apply can apply for permits online. And we wanted to show you a quick video to tell you a little bit more about that. You're going to recognize a familiar face. Just about a minute long. So you have all these technology geniuses. Unless you've got the tools for you, it'll say you're interpreting to the Bureau of Development Services downtown. Now you can skip the line and manage your online permits anytime, anywhere with a simple use service called Development Hub PDF. Thank you. Remind me to never do one of those. He's just freaking us out sitting next to him and watching us. How do you think I feel? How do you think I feel? It is buffering. Well, the technology's great. The Wi-Fi could be a little better. Yeah. Yeah, could you do something about the Wi-Fi in the building? What's that? I was just asking. Keelan's going to come. Are those two kids still here? They probably are. Yeah. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. It's true. Okay. So you can see we need help. Happens everywhere. They're like getting their resumes updated. You want them to sign off this? Yeah. Well, maybe we should come back to that. It is very exciting. Maybe we can even start over from the beginning so we get the whole experience. I could just act it out live. I could do the live. Yeah. Yeah. Why don't you do that? Yeah. So that was our introduction to the POPs project, which now Jeff Beyer is going to tell you a little bit more about. Morning Chair. Thank you Heather. Good morning. Mayor Wheeler, members of City Council. Victoria and I are here to provide updates since the report only covers the April through June timeframe. We're also here to answer any questions or concerns you may have regarding any of these projects. I want to focus a little bit on POPs as it continues to trend as indicated in the report. Both the QA and TOC members are rating it in the yellow, yellow, green or yellow, green, green categories. You'll see a, you'll notice a slight difference in the report from the QA. This was a concern that the QA raised related to a couple of line item budgets, expenses that were exceeding the baseline project projections. This is likely due to a miscoding error on our accounting system, so our project team is currently reviewing that and looking into it. This does not impact the overall budget of the project, which is why you also see the green rating for the overall budget as indicated. The project team is nearly complete with their second round of business testing for the Amanda 7 migration. And as Heather indicated on July 1st, we went live with the development hub PDX or Dev Hub. And during the first week it was available, 69 permits were created. And our team developed a dashboard report to track the number of permits created through this new portal. And having 69 created the first week on July 1st, so far this week as of this morning, we added another 93 permits created through the Dev Hub. So customers are now able to apply for permits online through the new permitting website and don't need to travel down to the Development Services Center just to get their permit approved. BDS has received very positive reviews for this new feature and over time I'm expecting the trend to be that it's going to move over from being in person to actually on the web portal. So very good news about the POPs team delivering that on time. And overall POPs is making very good progress to our go live date later this year in November. So we're on progress for that. On the Portland, Oregon website replacement, one project you may not have heard much about, but we've been actively engaged with the different bureaus and many of your staff to I've developed the beta site. It's live right now. It's beta.portlandoregon.gov. We're shifting to developing a migration plan, which includes identifying the various groups within the bureaus, who are the administrators, who are the content developers, and providing that to build into our migration plan. So we're really looking at what are those crucial contents pieces that are going to be ported over into the new plan. We're estimating somewhere around 15 to 25 percent of what's currently available on PortlandOregon.gov over onto the new website. And we're still on target for release of the new website sometime later this year in the fourth quarter, so we're actively engaged moving towards that plan. And we've got really good engagement with the bureaus over in providing that information on that project. So I'm going to turn it over to Victoria for some comments on the Open Accountable Elections. Jeff, before you do that, I just have a very basic question. What are we to make of the fact that the QA assessment, for scope and liability is, and confidence level is yellow, and the TOC assessment is green. And how do we reconcile that? I think you're going to see from the QA's perspective, they're much more embedded into the project team day-to-day and see some of the more granular impacts of the project. There's some, as we're going through testing, we're finding different issues that we're conveying back to the vendor, for example, and they're working on new releases to provide those corrections and fixes to that. So there's a little bit different level of digging deep into the project. And I don't know if, as a TOC member, maybe Victoria has a different perspective. Yeah, I think... based upon the information that we received is that from the TOC perspective we're not concerned that it's going to go over budget I think from the project perspective they're using more of their original budget than they had originally intended but that is why the budget is what it is because there are going to be those unforeseen things that need to be fixed in the QA cycle so I think that is the call out there Mayor. Commissioner Daly. I don't see anything in this report about the website, so were you just mentioning that? Yes. Yeah. It's not an official TOC project, but we wanted to have a quarterly update from the project team to see the status of that. Great. I have been anxiously awaiting that for quite some time, so thank you. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you. Can you tell me how the community finds out about this fabulous online permitting system? Don't we have a video? Well, we also have a communication team that I put together when I had BDS. I know BDS has a, I think it's the DRAC, I forget what the acronym stands for, but it's working with the contracting community to provide here's what's coming up for POP's release and specifically for the Dev Hub. Well, because I agree with you. I think that ultimately people being able to get permits online 24-7 when they want it, rather than coming downtown and standing in line is a great outcome. But people have to know it exists in order for them to use it. So that's why the question. Thank you. And I think you'll see as I indicated we had 69 just on the first week that we opened. We've got 93 to date just as of this morning just from Monday and Tuesday. So it's getting bigger. And if I could just mention this is well known out there amongst project managers as well. We've been working on this for a couple of years as a city. Is that across the board with minority, very small contractors? I mean the difference between what the big place is. I don't know the honest answer to that, but with time I'm hoping this becomes the standard. And from our perspective, one of the ways that it really helps is it It clearly lays out the steps for development, the steps to get the permit. And a lot of the problem that we've had previously in terms of getting permits out the door on a timely basis has just been people don't know what to bring. And then they come in and they don't have the completed documents, then they have to leave, then they have to come back. And this will help people tee everything up in a timely way. So I think it's a win for the city, it's certainly a win for those who are trying to put projects on the ground. and a good step forward, and everybody should be proud of the great work. Okay. Open and accountable elections. What I'd like to do first is highlight a few of the major accomplishments the project has accomplished in the last quarter. One of those is that the – There you go. The new QA consultant has been on board and providing the TOC with updates on a monthly basis and working very closely with the project team to make sure that they're staying true to the milestones and the project plan that they have. Additionally, there's been an advanced data science and fraud detection component that was completed. And I call this out because many other cities that have this sort of system don't actually have that cybersecurity piece in place. And it's critically important for the validity of the data. And then also the project team has brought on two additional engineering consultants to ensure that they're still driving toward that September 1st deadline and getting as much done as they can so that they can get to that plan A, which is everything is up and working on September 1. That said, we do have a few milestones coming up. One of those things is the risk management plan. So if plan A, and that is 100% of everything is up and operating, is not possible since we're about 45 days out from go live now. What does it look like for Plan B? And making sure that those contingency plans are documented. So if there's manual work required, if we need additional resources, that, in fact, those are in place and they're up and running and ready to go. And that is something that the QA consultant is also working with the project team on. And something that the TOC has asked about as well. The user acceptance testing is continuing. And we'll continue through the go live. as well as the front end completion is coming up. And there are five modules that are still all in play and still being worked on in various stages in addition to with Civic Software Foundation and the overall project team there. As you can see on the scorecard, Our risk and major concern is around the expected completion, and that is really centered on the project timeline for Plan A, and that's 100% of everything. I think that from the TOC perspective, we would see that change if, in fact, we have a documented plan about what that contingency looks like. If there's manual work involved, What is that plan? When are those resources going to be in place? And, for instance, are there equipment and all those things that go along with that, that that red would change? No. Any questions? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Victoria, I know that the last time we talked about the open and accountable elections, there were some concerns about the quality assurance piece. Are you feeling like you're getting all the information that you need now to be able to do the analysis that you need to do? Most definitely. With our QA resource being added, we've gained greater clarity and visibility to where the project is and what they're still behind on. And so I, you know, because we love when you guys come and you show all the yellow and green because it always looks like progress. But I just wanted to make sure that it was on the record that this in no way reflects progress. that there are bad things happening with the open and accountable elections. It just says that we're under this very short timeline and we need to make sure that we have plan A fully fleshed out and plan B fully fleshed out before we go live. Is that accurate? That's accurate, yes. Thank you. That's an accurate assessment. We... are very pleased to see the progress we've seen since we talked last. And our biggest call-out is just that timeline. It's very aggressive, and we knew that from the beginning. Jeff, let me ask you a question. In the last 24 hours, two candidates have announced that they intend to use this system again. If we're not, if the TOC is not sure whether we're going to meet deadlines, then how are we confident that we're giving information to potential candidates about what the ground rules are going to be? I believe the project team has worked on three different options. As Victoria mentioned, A, B, and C. I think the last option is strictly a manual process for comparing all the information with the thing that's called ORSTAR from the state to do a manual process. So it's going to be a manual process, and that's the way it's going to be if that's where we end up. Okay, and at this point, though, because there are revs on the TOC assessment, you are preparing us for the possibility that that could happen. Correct. Correct. And what is the additional budget ask that would be associated with going to that contingency? That I don't know. I think that would be more for the project team to answer that question. But we would anticipate an additional ask. Is that correct? Yes. If there's additional labor costs, that would be more project cost added onto it? Correct. I think what – sorry, go ahead. So I just want to be clear to my colleagues because we've been down this road a lot. Red is not good. Red on one of these charts is not good. We should not sugarcoat it. Red says there is a problem. And whether it is a problem that we've identified or it's a problem where we don't have the information to make the assessment – The, the, what I have found historically is, you know, yellows and greens tell us we're, we're in the swim and we're making some progress. Red says we have a problem. And, and at some point, the council is going to have to decide if we go to a contingency and their additional costs, how do we fund that? What's the, what's the transition and how does it impact the experience both of the candidates that are, that are filing? Okay. And the public, which wants to have some confidence in the system to be able to verify that people are actually eligible for the match. So, Jeff, when's the next time you come before us? It would be September. So early September? We don't have a date yet, but we can make it early September. Well, I want to make sure that if that remains red, that the council has enough time to weigh in, to have the benefit of your report, and then we may have to pivot and start looking at whether there are additional costs associated with one of the other contingencies. So, Meir, I would suggest we bring this earlier in September so we have some time to discuss contingencies. Okay. If the red doesn't, if the red, if I can make another suggestion, we could also provide your office with the monthly TOC report. That would give you a monthly indicator of how things are progressing. That would be helpful. I think that would be very helpful. And I just want to make sure that we have enough time as a deliberative body to act, to pivot, if in fact necessary. Option A is not feasible. And then I think we're going to want to know what the delay might be, what the additional cost might be. And what I would be particularly interested in is how does it impact the experience of the candidate and the public who are watching the system very closely. So we can provide that monthly report. I think that will give you a good 30-day indicator as we go forward. We're in such a short timeline. I don't think waiting for the next quarterly report is going to be that helpful. Yeah. Thank you very much. And it is worth noting for your information that the TOC when we met, because we meet monthly, we met at the end of June and we did ask for an updated report on some milestones as to where they were and also for this contingency plan prior to waiting for us to have our July TOC meeting. So we're still waiting on that report. But the request is out there to the project team to provide that to the TOC as well. Thank you so much. I remember when the director was here speaking in front of this body, it was very clearly addressed by Commissioner Fritz that the budget is the budget. So we would either have less money to distribute to candidates – if we had to hire additional staff. And so I think it's very clear what the contingency plan is, but I would be very grateful to get the monthly report. And I know why we have the red in April, May, June, because you guys told us when you were here last time that this was the situation that you were confronting. And so I just wanna make sure on behalf of Commissioner Fritz and she's not here. She's in England but she's probably watching. So I want to make sure that she that that that I present that on her behalf. We know that we have a limited budget. We are clear that they're not going to come back asking for additional resources for this round and whatever money we have is the money we have. So thank you. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. I'll entertain a motion. Colleagues? So moved. Second? We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, second from Commissioner Fish. Please call the roll, Kim. Hardesty? New Daily? Aye. Fish? Thank you very much for your service and your work. This is really important stuff, and we appreciate the care and thought that goes into these presentations. Thank you so much. Aye. Wheeler. It's an honor. Aye. The report's accepted. Thanks. Thank you. Really appreciate it. Thank you for your time. Next up, please, is item number 649. 650. Authorize new construction financing in an amount not to exceed $3.3 million. No, no, no, no. 649, please. Oh, I'm sorry. 649, authorize the purchase of certain real property located at 4931 to 4947 North Williams Avenue and 20 to 114 North Alberta Street for affordable housing not to exceed $6.8 million plus closing costs. Colleagues, the city is pleased to see the land under discussion being preserved for future affordable housing, particularly in a neighborhood that's been historically impacted by displacement. I think we all understand that land is an increasing premium in North and Northeast Portland, and this acquisition contributes to the goals of the North Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy, and importantly it responds to the stated community priority of creating a land bank for the future before properties like this one are eventually lost to the pressures of the market. I want to personally thank the Strong family for coming to meet with me. And I commend them for their willingness to partner with us on this important project and providing what I believe is an invaluable service to the community. And this is despite a history with Portland City government that would give them every reason not to trust us. We're grateful to have had this partnership and helping to make this reality, and I want to thank you for not only the tremendous work you've done on this, but I want to thank you for being here today as well. Director Callahan. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. This is one of two items this morning that is advancing our north and northeast neighborhood strategy. In 2015, City Council adopted the north and northeast neighborhood housing strategy. Shannon, I'm sorry to interrupt. Did you want me to read 650 and 651 at the same time? Not yet, Mayor. Okay, we'll do that independently. Okay, very good. Sorry for the interruption. Oh, no problem. So the North and Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy is a community-driven initiative to address the impacts of the city's actions and the ongoing threat to the long-time community from displacement. The plan consists of four overarching goals. And this morning, the first item before us is actually related to the fourth strategy, which is land banking. And with this purchase, we will actually have concluded with three land banking properties in the district. The first being a property on North Interstate, the second being Cary Boulevard, and then significantly this strong family property. The property itself is in the heart of the Albina Community District as well as the Humboldt neighborhood. It is located on... the corner of North Williams and North Alberta. It is nearly an acre and can hold up to 150 new homes, whether they be apartments for rent or condos for homeownership development. That is to be much later determined with a community process. But we intend to hold this property for future development. And I would really just like to – Thank and acknowledge the Strong family for working with us for, I think it's been almost four years of discussions with the Housing Bureau. Active discussions in trying to make sure that this property remained a community asset and contains affordable housing for generations to come. So I appreciate the willingness to work with us and talk with us. and the willingness to commit this property going forward. And with that, I would turn it over to Mark Strong, Jackie Strong, and Kathy Rhodes, members of the family that are selling the property to the Housing Bureau. We want to just say thank you for this opportunity. The property has been our family for a number of years. Prior to us purchasing the property, my grandmother, my grandfather, Opal Luther Strong, just lived right down about a half a block from where the property is located on Williams Avenue. As kids, we used to go to Mr. Horse's store and buy penny candy and used to goof around just playing in the neighborhood and that type of thing. And so it's been a... an integral part of our lives for many, many years. My uncle even backed further than that. Just seeing, you know, the last, you know, several years, just the change in North and Northeast Portland, you know, has been, you know, just kind of disheartening to watch, you know, the fingerprints of the African-American community being etched away. It's just been very, very painful. Our parents, who Kathy and I represent today, along with my uncle, it's just that... they're getting older and they want to do something a little bit different. But part of our dilemma was we just didn't want to put the property in the hands of developers who have no heart or no kind of concern or moral sense of justice for some of the long time inhabitants of our community. So we begin the conversation with the city. They've been long and it's been a while. But we feel comfortable doing this because we know that you know, selling the property to the city is going to be beneficial for some of the residents there for their welfare and so forth. So we're glad to be able to do that. It makes it a little bit easier to pass the title along. Thank you, Mark. I think you said that very well. Growing up in the Northeast community has a lot of really rich memories for me, like you mentioned with our grandparents just living right down the street. And just the process. the property has been a real place of family and community for us in the neighborhood. So seeing a lot of change over the years has been pretty remarkable in that we've seen a lot of people displaced. A lot of families that we've shared the community with and shared a lot of time with and just seeing all of that stretch out further east has been difficult for a lot of people in our community. My children especially they've been like right in the midst of all of this transition and are wondering what to make of it so it creates a lot of economic issues for a lot of people and so we are just so grateful and thankful that you're looking beyond just the the economic impact of all of this displacement, that you're looking at families and you're looking at building community. And that is so important, and it makes me feel honored to be a part of, you know, the city of Portland, that you're looking at giving back and making opportunities for those that have been displaced to be able to come back to the community they know as home. We are grateful to be here today and grateful that you have a mindset for more than just economics, but for building community. Commissioner Hurst? Yes. And I'll be brief and quick. I just want to thank a few people real quickly because when I started this process, we were really feeling like we had been gentrified. As a person that really came from a background that had nominal means, we weren't a rich or wealthy family by any means. But through hard work and determination, my father taught us the same virtue and gentrification. virtuous skills that are needed for us to be able to be at this point in time. So with all my little dollars and pennies saved and accumulated together, and my brother as well, we were able to buy this property that my nieces and nephews have talked about that was right across the street from where we grew up. But along that pathway, we experienced gentrification at the highest levels. And we really were thinking that the city was our enemy versus our friend. So when we started out on this course, we were zoned at a density level that was far less than what those that surrounded us were. And us not having any experience doing this, I dived in to say, I'm going to get this zone changed. And people like Nan Stark, Carl Dinklespiel, uh, uh, uh. Tanya Wilsperger, Shannon, nieces and nephews, my wonderful wife Eileen, we all came together and we came and we pushed, we got the zone changed. And then we went back and we negotiated a dollar amount with me without having any experience ever having done this before. But the reason why I'm mentioning that is because it was a collaboration. And with that being the case, I think we set on the precipice of being able to come up with a model that might be able to be duplicated nationwide. Whereas instead of the city, the large municipality going in and robbing and raping and pillaging those communities that are marginalized, we joined together and came up with a model that can help not only the strong family for generations to come, but also the community of Portland, we can be that being, that star. So I am indebted forever and forever grateful to what you are about, hopefully, to improve. And again, thank you for joining with us. And we're not done yet because, you know, I just met with Prosper Portland. We're hoping that the building will be named after us in some way. And we're going to be actively involved in what goes in there. And we're going to be fighting, just like my mom did, Opal Strong for the community and making sure that it's developed the right way. Thank you. Mayor, if I may. You bet. Okay. I want to applaud your family. I want to applaud your family because in this time where land is being grabbed up all over the city of Portland, you could have chosen a different route. I'm not a real estate person, but I suspect you could have also got more money. if the goal was just about money. Exactly, yeah. I want to applaud you because most people don't have the patience for how slow the city moves. Amen. And the fact that you are carrying on the legacy of your parents who had the foresight to purchase this property and you've had the foresight to maintain the property and you decided that you would only let it go if you were going to let it go so that it would be beneficial to those who have lived and made in the Northeast a place that people want to live, and then for those who are coming in the future. So I feel a little guilty sitting back here having you thank us when in fact it is your vision that brings us to this place today. So thank you. Well, again, thank you so much. And again, it just shows your wisdom because you're right. We could have put it on the open market and had a much more competitive process. But we did. And again, I'm the one and my brother were the ones that bought this property. Okay? It wasn't our parents. But the point that I'm making behind that is that we came together, and now the whole family is going to benefit. And that's what's important.
 Mayor. Commissioner Udaly. I want to echo Commissioner Hardesty's statement and just say or note how vital it is that we move as much property out of the private market as we can and turn it into permanently affordable housing. I mean, I think it's the only way forward to housing preserving any kind of racial or economic diversity in the city. So I want to applaud you as well. I want to say Opal Strong has a real nice ring to it. So I do hope that that naming takes place. And Director Callahan, I mean, I've read the report and there's no there's some minor soil contamination. The new zoning has already been secured so we don't anticipate much issues with many issues with actually moving forward with this development, including with the neighborhood. No. No, we've done complete testing throughout the sale process and are confident both in the ability to move forward on a future development. But we do intend to hold this property for a period of time. And obviously the family is still living on the property presently, but intends to move off, I believe, very soon. And I didn't hear it mentioned, but I'm assuming that the units, when they're eventually built, will be subject to our preference policy? Yes. And, and yes indeed. Fantastic. Anything, anything in the, under the North and Northeast neighborhood strategy or an interstate is. I think it's just good to note every time we. Thank you Commissioner.
 Yeah. Thank you. Very good. Excellent. Thank you again. We'll now take public testimony. We've had four people sign up. I'll read the first three names. Curtis Faye, Jan Conant and Lightning. Thank you very much. You can go ahead and take your seats. Thank you for being here. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. Congratulations to the Strong family. And again, on the record, they have stated they would like to be able to name this property after themselves or a name they come up with. And you must stand by that on the record. Now, one of the concerns I did have is that I noticed there were some, if I'm correct, three homes that were... Currently on this site, I'm really against deconstruction and having homes demolished. Is there any way that we can come up with a different plan to possibly if these homes could be moved to another property, whether it's a private owner or someone else within the area itself, and have a moving company move these houses? I'm just really against any deconstruction or demolition of older homes. And to me, that just kind of goes against... Kind of the historic value of certain properties were built many years ago and such as family members possibly or friends utilizing those properties. So that's a concern to me maybe to be looked at and if that could happen that would be very much appreciated. Again, just on the amount of units being built there, I like everything I see. Absolutely want to see this go forward and approved. I think it's a great location to build these type of units, the multifamily and or units that could possibly be owned in the future by the tenants themselves. And that's a real important issue to me on this type of property here is just from my position and possibly the family would agree on this is that Ownership in the future is really kind of a thing that presents that gentrification and people having to move out of the areas. As a tenant, you have a certain amount of rights, but let's face it. If you can move this into ownership rights to the people acquiring and getting into these units, That to me is the best possibility and the outcome for this property, in my opinion. So again, I'm hoping that'll happen. I like the fact of any time the city is involved in these type of transactions, if we can move it not into a tenant-based type property, but ownership in the future type property. That's really the difference between the private ownership and the city owning a property is they have the potential to, to move them in as owners in the future. They have that potential to do that, and that's what I want to start seeing is our taxpayer dollars moving people into ownership of these units and having ownership not being called a tenant at the end of the day from the city of Portland. That is really taking care of the people of this city. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Jan Connett. I want to thank the Strong family very, very much. Eric Reich owned property out there for a really long time. I think the store that you were referring to maybe is one that he had owned. And he kept it tied up for years, so I'm hoping that his daughter Erica saw fit to sell them. Aside from that, I'm really glad to see the Northeast area come back. Dad didn't want me there, but my friends made sure that I got to go over there every once in a while. And it's a beautiful neighborhood, so I hope whatever they build, they build in the true fashion. you go down Mississippi anywhere over there, the houses are vibrant. They're beautiful. I hope that this doesn't become another rat box building, which is all I see. Rat box, rat box. You know, even New York had more class than this. So, um, I want to thank the strong family very much for their endeavor in this. And I wish and pray for them all the best. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Curtis Faith. Um, I wanted to address at a general level the lack of addressing the primary need for all of these kinds of housing activities, which is that the, let's just say, less favorable at the time segments of the population from the perspective of the companies and people that were running the city in the 40s, 50s and 60s that took all of the homes and put Exhibition centers on top of them and didn't compensate people on the east side for all of the homes that they had. Didn't compensate the Chinese and didn't compensate the Japanese and now all of their descendants are poor and don't have any equity and cannot find housing. And so we're papering this over with some sort of emergency resolution on a property that we are going to hold for several years. I don't see why that's an emergency resolution. I think you're using the emergency-ness of it to make your paperwork easier, and you're not addressing the emergency of the fact that there wasn't even a shelter for people last night that showed up in town who didn't have a house to sleep in. Last night you were turned away. That's the emergency this city is not addressing. And you, sir, are not anything other than a real estate developer trying to attack a problem you know nothing about because you've not spent any time in the field. I know because I've spent the last nine months on the streets of this city preparing to talk to this city, waiting for the trial wherein your city... employees would admit that they were targeting people. This trial took place yesterday. So, again, I just remind you your testimony needs to stay to the issue at hand. Yes, and it is relevant to this particular item because it is an emergency resolution. I'm saying it shouldn't be. Thank you. Any further testimony on this item, Keelan? Maggie. Come on up. Okay. I also want to reference that I understand the historical nature of this accomplishment in terms of how this land has been, you know, taken by the government for whatever purposes, roads, bureaucracies or whatever. And then people or gentrification and people displaced. However, I have been over on the East side and one of the things that I think did when I was over there was I walked all over the place and what I saw were these little tiny plots of land everywhere around properties like this Alberta property where you guys could be paying urban farmers to grow little community gardens and it seems to me that the government really owes this particular region, when people first came here during World War II to work for government contractors, and this is still going on within Intel, you had a government contractor and then, you know, they hired these minorities. And then I brought one to you who's been back out on the street. She used to work for Intel. You know, Intel says, oh, yeah, we're going to hire these people. And they do so through a contract. And then they just fire them. And then they can't pay their rent and they're homeless. And so this cycle happens over and over and over and over again. But as far as the Alberta area, why can't the Department of Agriculture get into this new thing, urban farming, and pay urban farmers? This is a new thing. You can go to Carvalhos. Fine. find, you know, an African-American dude or a Chinese dude or a Japanese dude who's doing, you know, a minority. What does this have to do with the item? Or a woman. Or a you know, who's been historically displaced and wants to do some urban farming on these little, you know, there's these little plots of land everywhere. Like, you know, they're like less than 80. Maggie, are you for or against this item? Pardon? Are you for or against this item? I'm for it. But what I'm against is traditionally what's happened is, you know, you build interurban housing near these, like, big free, freeway arterials and then the chain link fencing goes up. How about lots of little community gardens and no chain link fencing? Thank you. Super. Thank you. Any further discussion, please call the roll. I am absolutely excited about voting yes on this proposal. I think this is the kind of proposal that I hope gets broad media coverage so that we have more opportunities to be intentional about how we develop the little remaining land left in the city of Portland. I vote aye. New Daily. I pretty much already said what I have to say. I don't always agree with Mr. Lightning, but I want to agree with him right now that as well as removing land from the private market, creating home ownership opportunities for low and moderate income households is an important issue. And my office is working on a couple different strategies around that. And thank you to the Strong family for being here and for working with the city. And despite the history, I vote aye. Well, first Shannon, thanks for bringing this forward. And thanks to the Strong family for sharing your history with us today. It's an honor to have you. This is a great deal. We are not going to solve our long term affordable housing problem unless we build a lot more affordable housing. And this is a terrific location and I'm pleased that we'll be doing the land banking now and then figuring out how to maximize the use. I'm a big believer that the name of the property should reflect the history. So I think we have a pretty good record here today that says there's going to be something about the Strong family at this location. And anyway, whenever we can celebrate a win like this for the community, it's special. And Commissioner Hardesty expects this to be on the front page of all of our media tomorrow. She's relatively new to council. The truth is the good stories usually don't have, there isn't a lot of space for the good stories because of the other stories that displace them. But this is a good story and let's hope that we get a chance to celebrate this because we don't have a chance to celebrate the wins enough in our community. Thank you for making this day possible. Very proud to vote aye. Miller. I want to thank the strong family as well. Thank you for the time you spent with me. Thank you for the time that you've spent with the Housing Bureau. And in particular, Shannon, I want to thank you and the Bureau for continuing our efforts around the North Northeast strategy, as well as securing the preference policy as a viable option in our community. And many times people have asked about the prospect of land banking, about the prospect of making sure that we respect the history of the community. And this most certainly does not make amends. for the history in North Portland, Northeast Portland. But it is a step in the right direction. It's an acknowledgment that we as a community can do better. And thanks to you and the Strong family, you're demonstrating that with a partnership, we can really do some amazing work together. And so I'm very proud to bring this on behalf of the Housing Bureau. I want to thank Andrea and Cupid from my office for the work that they've put into this as well. I want to thank my colleagues for their support. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. And into the future we go. Thank you. I broke the rules, sorry. That's all right. Item 650. Authorize new construction financing in an amount not to exceed $3.3 million for the Kilpatrick Affordable Home Ownership Project. Director Callahan, do you want to just come on up? No, she's going to push this other one. Oh, very good. Excellent. Thank you. Good morning. Hi. Good morning, commissioners and mayor. My name is Dana Shepard, and I'm actually here to present this along with Steve with Habitat. All right. And are you coming along, Dr. Holtz? One more chair. All right. Good morning. All right. Good morning. Good morning. So I am going to, again, my name is Dana Shepard with the Housing Bureau. I manage the homeownership and home retention programs. And I am here to speak about strategy number two of the four overarching strategies of the Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy, and that is creating new homeownership. So, creating homeownership in this area, the interstate urban renewal area, has presented its own set of challenges. As you all have already acknowledged, this area has experienced rising housing costs over the last few decades. So, what we are doing, this is the first North Northeast homeownership development to come in front of City Council for funding approval. This project provides affordable home ownership opportunities for first time home buyers, giving priority to the families with historic ties to the neighborhood that have been impacted by displacement. As the surrounding area has gentrified. So specifically, the homeowners of all 30 of these units have been identified by the Northeast preference policy. So this project not only provides stable housing in a high opportunity area, but offers families the ability to participate in the equity increase of their home and to create wealth for the next generation. Like I said, there are 30 units in the Kilpatrick project, and they are all townhomes, correct? And there will be family size with 15 two-bedroom units and 15 three-bedroom units. All right, so initial preference policy home buyers are targeted at much lower incomes with 12 homes reserved for families earning between 35 and 60% area median income. 13 homes for families at 61 to 80% area median income and five homes for families from the 81 to 100% area median income. The projected average income for the Kilpatrick homebuyers is about 66% area median income. That's equivalent to about $58,014 for a family of four. The project's 30 units help us to reach our goal of creating 110 new homeowners under the North Northeast Housing Strategy by 2022. Again, all of which are identified through the North Northeast Preference Policy. Habitat is an experienced developer and has been providing home ownership opportunities for hardworking families, having built and sold over 400 homes in partnership with local families over the past 38 years. Approximately 90% of Habitat's existing home buyers are from communities of color. 30% identified a family member with a disability and nearly all have children below the age of 18. Average household income has been 38,117 or 46% area median income. The total Portland Housing Bureau construction financing of 3.3 million is leveraging over 7 million and other sources of financing including a First Republic construction loan. habitat donations and sponsorships and other exemptions or waivers. I'm just going to connect this a little bit with the program side of things. The Portland Housing Center has been working with households that have been identified through the first round of preference policy, and they will be assessing households for their interest in their ability to purchase one of these 30 homes. So I believe Earlier in the year, Dr. Hope presented the North Northeast strategy, and we talked about time. And so we're really optimistic that with working with our partners that these households have had some time to get themselves ready and to be able to finance one of these homes. I'll pass this on. Great. Thank you, Dana. And thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for your continued commitment to creating a Portland that's affordable for all of our residents. Unfortunately, we have a long way to go. I'm Steve Messonetti. I'm the CEO of Habitat for Humanity. And according to our 2016 census data, 27% of Portland renters are now paying more than 50% of their income on rent. That's almost one out of every three households in our city that are unable to afford food, transportation, health care because of their high housing costs. With median income for black families in our city at $26,000, the numbers are even worse. Today, according to the city's seat of housing report, there are no Portland neighborhoods in our city that the average black family can afford. And not only that, but blacks own homes nearly at half the rate of their white counterparts. And even today that ownership rate for blacks in our city is going down. Your home shouldn't cost you your family's health. Your home shouldn't cost you your family's, your kid's education. When the cost of home is your family's future, the cost is too high. And when the cost of home is any family's future, that's something none of us can afford. So I thank the council for dedicating resources specifically toward people who have been systemically denied wealth building opportunities for generations and finally giving some the opportunity to buy a home and to build the strength, stability, and self-reliance that comes with homeownership. The preference policy is working. For phase one of this project, eight of 12 of the households have reserved spots and are ready to buy these homes with an average income of $42,000. Six of eight are single parents. Seven of eight are African American. Each has their own story of displacement and housing instability. I'm joined today actually by three of these homebuyers. Reina Hernandez is in the back, John Robertson, and then to my left, Mr. Anthony Handy is going to share a little bit of his family story. Turn it over to him. So when I got introduced to the policy preference. Can you go a little bit closer to us? When I got introduced to the policy preference program, it was hard for me to get a mortgage. It wasn't never enough money. You had to make so much money to even afford for a single father with two daughters, right? And so I had to keep going with the proud African American program and then there was another one and everybody kept turning me down at this point. So I ended up at Habitat of Humanity and you know and like I'm a recovery drug addict from the HR program. I just met you about a month ago, right? And so credit scores and all of that stuff, records from the past and stuff, you know. The only place I could go to was Habitat for Humanity, you know, and get some help. And so, like, I think I got like six months or something left. Then they move into a condo, you know, and it's been kind of discouraging. venture, but I stayed the course. They helped me out over here. They showed me how to do finances and they got, it's a pretty good program, you know, for a first-time homeowner, you know, that's been displaced. You know, my family was, lived over there down by the freeway. I was born on Boise, Boise School, Fremont and Borfrix, you know, and so it's nice to that you guys are giving back. I've been to some of the meetings and some of the people that was from the development commission. They was telling us how they were sorry about what they did. They knew what they was doing and they just wanted to help us. And so... It's a great opportunity for me right now, as a single parent with two daughters I'm trying to raise on my own, for them to have a stable home for themselves. And that's all anybody ever will, you know what I'm saying? Yes. Thanks, Anthony, for being here. Appreciate it. Steve, can I just clarify something? Can we go back one picture? These look like condos. Is that what these are? They are. These are – it's a little unclear in the picture, but there's actually two buildings. The one that's closest to the street there on the corner of Alberta and – or Interstate and Kilpatrick is a 12-unit building. The top floor units are – is being referred to as townhomes, meaning there's upstairs bedrooms and downstairs living space. But these are stacked buildings. condo units. So that's okay. Thank you. And then there's an 18-unit building right next to it as well. Thank you. All right. What do you think? Good morning, everyone. Morning. Commissioner, it's good to see you. Mr. Mayor, good to see you. Good to see you, too. Dr. Stephen Holt, Chair of the Oversight Committee for the North Northeast Housing Strategies. And you've seen the strategies emphasized today. I just want to say two things. One specifically related to the home ownership piece. And, Steve, you used a lot of the information that I was going to say. So I won't reiterate it. I have a whole prepared document this time. Okay. I will say that home ownership for African Americans in the city of Portland is now equaling 1965 numbers. We've gone backward. opportunities like this cannot be overemphasized. The more that we can do, the more aggressive we can be, the more intentional we can be, the better off we will be as a community. To quote what Commissioner Hardesty has already referred to in regard to land banking and securing property. It's just good wisdom. It's just good movement. And so I'm excited about what we've been able to do with the strong property. I grew up right around the corner on Williams and Wygant in New York. know the area and the heartbeat and what that community once was which it is no longer so as we can be intentional and strategic and very purposeful in our forethought and our purpose I don't think that we could do more than is presently happening so the oversight committee is 100% in support obviously these are the strategies we've been working at as a response to the robust community engagement we have were involved in to lay these pieces out. So the only thing that I think would be more exciting is more money so that we can do more of this great work. So thank you guys so much. Thanks, Dr. Holt. Appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Thank you so much for the presentation. It is exciting, and I hope lightning is still back there. I can't tell. Okay, good. So, you know, you talked about home ownership opportunities. Here are some home ownership opportunities. I just want to correct something that Steve said, which is you said the preference policy is working. And I would respectfully disagree when you think about the amount of people who've been displaced as compared to the opportunities that we're making available. So with all due respect, it's not even close to being well, good. But we are working hard towards a vision about people being able to live wherever they want to regardless of income. We do not want to be one of those cities where your income dictates your zip code. We are very, very close to that today. I appreciate the hard work. Your reputation is really stellar. I'm looking forward to this being one of those green buildings that will be a model for how we move forward. But please don't tell anybody how well we're doing because we have a long way to go before we can pat ourselves on the back for what we're doing. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Mayor. Well, I would just say that doing well is relative. It is relative. And relative to what we heard from... sorry, the North Northeast group last year, there's been an improvement. So I do think we should celebrate that. And one of the improvements is personal to me. Before I came here, when I was a low-income single parent, one of those people paying over 50% of my income for rent, I started a Facebook group called The Shed, and I met a young single mom in similar circumstances to me named Chelsea Hicks. who is an African-American woman whose family goes back at least three generations in northeast Portland and had been displaced numerous times and was really struggling, as I was, to keep a roof over her family's head. And her first – I told her about this program, and she was really excited. She went to one of the very first – I see – I'm glad that I have the story right – orientations, she applied and she didn't get through and I think that's, we realized in that moment that we hadn't accounted for the fact that the very people we wanted to bring back were we're facing additional challenges that we hadn't addressed through the strategy. So I am very pleased to say that she has now qualified, and she and her son will be moving into a home. And she beat me to homeownership, and I appreciate your comment about the wreckage of the past because I don't have the same – challenges as you have had clearly, but I'm still recovering from years of being a cost burden renter and not in a position to buy, despite the fact that I'm sitting here and I'm very well compensated and I've been paying rent on time for 30 years. You'd think I'd be able to buy a house, but not quite yet. So I just want to commend everyone, agree with Commissioner Hardesty that we have a long way to go, but I'm relieved that it's going better. Public testimony. We've had five people sign up. The first three, Curtis Faith, Jan Conant, and Lightning. Sir, how many did you say signed up? Good morning again, council members, mayor. I just want to say again how grateful I am to the Star family and I can't emphasize it enough. I'm really tired of seeing rat boxes everywhere. Could you guys please add a little bit of class and a little bit of style, especially if you are going to name it after the Strongville? Because that's really important. And Portland has always been known for all of our creative infrastructure as far as housing and stuff like that goes. And we're losing it, and we're losing it so fast. I come over the bridge and I look up at the West Hills and I think, damn, Vincent Price, did you have to die so soon? In which case, some of those houses wouldn't be there. We all know that. There used to be a code in Portland that you couldn't build a house that would distract the view from the West Hills where those people lived. I'm very grateful to each and every one of them and I wish it was active because when I look around Portland, great, great. gray. Even the windows look gray. And so I'm really concerned. I've heard people come up here and say the same thing and just be ignored. I'm sorry, could we pause for a moment? This job involves hours of active listening in these council sessions. Absolutely. And we have a policy that says public testimony needs to be relevant to the item at hand. This is... And you're well aware of it. So are you in support of or against this item? And either way, why? Okay. I don't need to hear your critique of architectural- I'm for any items you guys want to do as long as you start using the class with it. And I'm not the first one to sit here and tell you guys that. Great. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Curtis Faith again. Um, I had a couple comments. One is I again don't understand why this is an emergency resolution. Although it seems that from the last time I was here five months ago. Could I clarify that because it is confusing and I concede that. It's actually, and I wish we could come up with a different way of saying it other than emergency, but that's just administratively under our rules what it is described. It's not referring to the situation. This is an administrative item. If we don't have an emergency clause, what happens is, is the item is moved to second reading and then it is approved and then we have to wait 30 days until the ordinance is actually enacted. So by putting the emergency clause on it, it's not saying it's more important than other items that don't have the emergency clause. It just means we can begin the financing right away. So it's really about a timeliness issue as opposed to... the significance of the problem. That's the reference to emergency. And that it's in the public interest for us to move faster than the 30 to 45 days it would take if it wasn't. Exactly. If I could also add, Mayor, we've had two different council meetings in the next month that were previously scheduled canceled because of lack of a quorum. Correct. So we're also trying to make sure that we do the people's business and not get jammed by people in the future in which we don't have counsel. Right. But I concede it is confusing, so I appreciate your raising that. So the terminology doesn't have anything to do with there being a specific emergency resolution for particular types of deals. That is correct. That is correct. Thank you. My comment specifically relates to the ability of the – public to adequately understand the information so that they could make comment that's relevant. In particular, I would just say that I am having listened to the presentation in favor of this resolution, but I'm not equipped ahead of time to know whether I would be or not. And that's the problem I'd like to address. I think one of the ways that that could be very specifically addressed is that we should put real numbers in instead of 35 to 60 percent of AMI, which is a relatively complex mathematical concept because most people don't know the difference between the mean and the median, And then when you go look at the numbers in the state, they're all in different tables everywhere. It takes you half an hour to find out what could have been done on the report to begin with, which is what is the actual income levels that we're talking about here when we say 35% to 60% at this particular time. I also think it would be useful if we had a listing of the ongoing subsidy budget implications of any of these projects. If we've got subsidies going in for lower income housing people, then we ought to know we're talking about $6.8 million right now, but we're talking about X number of dollars per year per low income subsidized person that needs to come out of some revenue somewhere, I assume, right? And then it also would be useful if we had some itemization of a . . . some standard way of looking at these across them so we can say we're paying $350,000 per person, new homeowner here. Those are the kinds of numbers that matter to citizens because they're the only way we can assess whether or not this is a useful project or not. And, you know... We could come up with a limited number of these projects and say we're doing great things no matter what we do, but how is this impacting the overall number of homeless people that we need? The overall number, are we actually making progress on that chart, or is this just sand in a box that's not going to amount to a hill of beans? Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you. Your time is up. Good morning. Good morning. My time is not up. I thought you had already testified. I apologize. Sorry. That was a little abrupt, but you got on your point. Go for it. So the AMI, 30 to 65 percent right now for the gentleman in the green is $85,000 is the AMI. So if you can do the math on the 30 to 65 percent of that, you'll have your answer for that question. Okay. So my comment is further... Furthering what the gentleman in the green just said about the total amount of money for affordable housing, the total amount of money being spent for shelters, the total amount of money being spent for permanent supportive housing, I can tell you right now the shelters are inhumane. I'm in a TPI shelter on the east side. This has nothing to do with the matter for us. I get it. You're flooring against it. We're talking about people being over 60, over 65, sleeping on the sidewalks in the rain with no sleeping bag. This is the kind of population we're talking about. When you say affordable housing, you're talking about housing people who are going to make money. $15 an hour, who are ambulatory, who are only economically marginalized, who are not disabled, who don't have a- Could we stop the time again please? Maggie, multiple times now you've been told your testimony needs to be relevant to the item at hand. I am. Your time's been stopped and I'm speaking now. This is one piece of our overall strategy to address affordable housing and homelessness. It has nothing to do with shelters. It's not money that we can spend on shelters. So you need to keep your testimony relevant to this item. And speaking to the last gentleman who was up here, if you want to better understand these items, Our whole agenda is published the Friday before City Council. You can click through the links and read all the materials that are provided to us in our binders. You can contact our offices if you have any questions. And you can look on the housing bureau's website and you can see the current income guidelines that we use that are dictated by HUD. I agree that the city doesn't do a good enough job informing the public. I know that our website is hard to navigate. But these are two pretty simple things you can do. You can read our agenda starting Friday before council, and you can look at the information and resources on the Housing Bureau's website. Do you have testimony relevant to this item? Yes. Which is, are you for it or against it? And if so, why? Okay, there's not enough affordable housing and there's not enough permanent supportive housing and we need to abolish shelters. So more of the same for affordable housing because when you have these government contractors come in, they hire these temporary workers and then they lay them off over and over again and they can't pay their rent anymore. Maggie, I'm sorry. I'm going to have to move on. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I like the projects that I'm seeing here with Habitat Humanity. I think it's very well thought out. I especially like the larger size of the units that you're developing, townhouse style. One of the things that I guess I have a little bit of a confusion on is that when you develop a property like this and then you put in the construction financing and then you're going to come in and do a partial separation project from that construction financing, a partial release of the trustee security. How do you do that? Do you actually do like a condo plat on the whole facility itself and then you plat that out individually on the construction financing? I don't know if that's been made clear yet because that's what a lot of people know in this room. You can go out and buy a 20 unit apartment building and then do a condo plat on it and sell those units out individually as condominiums, as individual units. So, but they're building this right now and then putting construction financing in place. So I assume you're working with the lender on that condo plat situation and separating it out with the lender. So I don't know if you can have a speaker come up and explain exactly how they do that on the new development. But it says it very clear here is that PHB intends to convert the construction loan into permanent affordability subsidies through partial release of its trustee security at the time to qualified homebuyers. So my only other thing, the term on that qualified homebuyers, I'm hoping there's a way also when people may not qualify or they'll be closed. then maybe the city can step in and also be a guarantee to the construction loan financing and say that we'll guarantee that there'll be a payment made above what they can do at this time to get them into these units. The Lightning, one of our cornerstone programs is a down payment assistance program. Yes. Which helps people get over that hurdle, which for a lot of people, and we've heard lots of testimony on this, that becomes a big barrier. So the city does have a program which helps people with down payment assistance. Because a gentleman came up here and was using kind of a $26,000 a year income basis, and what I'd like to see is that... Can we do a guarantee above that income level from the city to the people that are offering the construction financing to put people into housing? And that's a small additional subsidy from the city. And I know where you're coming from on the down payment issue, but I'm talking the actual payment per month issue also throughout the years. And I notice that they're giving a 10-year subsidy. property tax exemption to certain qualified home buyers. I'd like to see that pushed to maybe 20 years for these buyers. And, again, that comes back to negotiations with the city and the different places that we obtain the financing. So, again, maybe more clarity on that condominium-type situation. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. We have one more person signed up, Diane Lynn. Very good. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. It's good to see you. Hi there. Good morning. My name is Diane Lynn. I'm Executive Director of Proud Ground. It's wonderful to see you all, Mayor, members of the Council. We work in partnership with Habitat for Humanity Portland Metro East on creating permanently affordable homeownership opportunities for low and moderate income families, as you all know. I'm here to emphasize the extraordinary collaboration and innovation that has occurred to really help make this project on Kilpatrick the first of several projects, as you know, that will put us on track to move towards the goals we're trying to achieve with this extraordinary effort in North and Northeast Portland. We've been working together as a team with PHB and the other agencies to match the families to these units. And along with several single family homes in the community, we're starting that process more vigorously. And these units are obviously critical to that process. I'd like to emphasize for just a moment the impact that these projects will have into the future in these communities because these units will be permanently affordable. Along with that, the families will build equity at the time if and when they choose to sell. They can leave their units to their children into the future. If they choose to sell, our research is showing that in a 10-year window, a family can generate at 60% of median income, and that's about 40,000-45,000 a year for a family of two or three. can generate up to $80,000 in 10 years' time. That can be a game-changer into the future for families. And at the same time, we sell that unit again to the next income-qualified family. That's the critical part of the investment you're all supporting today in these kinds of projects. It's not just today's impact. It's going to make a difference well into the future. And these shared equity and sweat equity models really bring the community together to support these projects. I'm excited to hear about the strong family contribution to our community today. And we very much look forward to working with you on several other projects that are in the pipeline. Diane, I have one question. And since you're here, and I think you can speak for Steve on this, is, We're all used to the sweat equity model that Habitat for Humanity has for detached single-family homes where prospective homeowners and the families put in time as part of their eligibility for becoming first-time homeowners. How does that work with condos? Condos are a little different, and I hate to speak for – Just in very general terms. But very general terms, people put in their sweat equity homes. hours on other projects. They don't try to build the condo. That has to be done by a professional team. But there's still a sweat equity piece. It's just elsewhere. Absolutely. Exemption for elderly or disabled individuals? Steve, I'm sure you're there yet. Yes. I'm sure they make accommodations for anyone to meet the needs of the family. Glad to hear it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all so much. Thanks for your partnership, Diane. Very good. That completes public testimony. Any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll, Keelan. Hard to speak. I am so thrilled that today is a very good day here at City Hall. We are actually being very intentional about how we address this core issue of how people with limited income are able to live and thrive in the City of Portland. I wholeheartedly support this proposal. Of course I wish it was four times the size and we had 20 times the number of people ready to have a home ownership. But you know how do you eat an elephant? One bite at a time. So I vote aye. New daily. Well I want to thank the Portland Housing Bureau and the members of the North Northeast Oversight Committee. Thank you for bringing us some good news today. I'm very pleased to vote aye. Thanks Steve Messonetti and Habitat, which is really been a fantastic partner for the city. I love the model. The last time I had a chance to join Habitat was in Cully, where we gave some keys to some new homeowners. Fast forward, my daughter and I went back on a Thanksgiving to deliver some flowers and no one was home. But the intent was good, we just didn't coordinate it effectively. But love the model. And also, inexplicably, interest rates are coming down, which is weird because there was a prediction that interest rates were going to start going up as the Fed was tightening. But in relative terms, it's not a bad time to place first-time homeowners and low-income families in a home, given the interest rate environment. But again, Steve Messonetti and Habitat are such great partners, so I'm very pleased to support this. So as the commissioner in charge of the housing bureau, I have to say this has been one of the more interesting projects that we've been working on in recent years. I think all of us understand that home ownership stabilizes neighborhoods, it stabilizes communities. And here, at least in the United States, passing on homeownership is still the best way to create intergenerational wealth. And so as we talk about some of the gaps that exist in this community, not only around housing, but also income inequality and wealth inequality, this is the... type of strategy that can help address those issues. And I also just want to clarify, this is just one of the many steps that the city is taking to help close the gaps in terms of home ownership. This, as you have heard, has been the basis of a broad community partnership. And today we've heard from some of those partners. And I particularly want to thank the North Northeast Oversight Committee. I agree with Commissioner Udailey, considering where we started a couple of years ago, where we are today is leaps and bounds beyond that. And I want to thank the committee members and Dr. Holt and others who worked so hard on that. The African American Alliance for Homeownership Collaborative, Habitat for Humanity, of course, who has always been a great partner to us here at City Hall, proud ground and of course, the Portland Housing Center. Last but not least, I want to thank the Housing Bureau again. This following right on the heels of the strong property. acquisition, which is largely a play around anti-displacement, but also continues to dovetail with the North Northeast strategy, as well as the preference policy. These things combined start to become pieces of a bigger strategy that we should all be proud of. I'm very pleased with the work that's been done and what will be done in the future, and I always agree with those who come up here and say we should be concerned about architecture. I agree with that. And I have to say that from my personal perspective, architecture is somewhat of an art form. It's in the eyes of the beholder. I actually believe that the projects that we have done ribbon cuttings on of late have been outstanding from an architectural perspective. And those of us who went to the Blackburn Center ribbon cutting yesterday, frankly, it was not amazing. I mean, just from an architectural perspective, it was amazing. So I'm excited about this. I'm excited about the work the Housing Bureau's done. I'm excited about our collaborations with the community, and I vote the ordinance is adopted. Next item 651, and just to give people a heads up, we're going to be cutting public testimony to two minutes. Thank you, Mayor. 651, authorize new construction financing in amount not to exceed $7,350,000 for the 106 Halsey Gateway Park project. So, colleagues, this is part three. This project comes as a result of a long, close working partnership with the Housing Bureau Prosper Portland and the community to add to the vibrancy and diversity of the Gateway District. This new development will ensure the new opportunity for low and middle income households to live and thrive in East Portland while adding much needed affordable commercial space to further the dreams of local Portland entrepreneurs. These 75 total units respond to the great need for affordable housing options in East Portland and further our commitment to the East Portland community as well as taking meaningful steps to both prevent and mitigate displacement. Right up front, I want to thank the good folks at Human Solutions, Gerting Edlin, and the Gateway community at large for their excellent participation and collaboration on this project. Director Callahan. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. We're really pleased to be here today to take this final step to move this project into fruition. This really is the culmination of efforts from the entire Gateway community and the East Portland Action Plan, as well as a number of different city partners, our sister agency, Prosper Portland, the Housing Bureau, and of course the Parks Bureau for the beautiful park which this project, property will actually reside and be married as neighbors. And of course, to Human Solutions and Gritting Edlin for the dynamic new community asset that they are about to create. Just to give you a little overview of the project from the Housing Bureau's perspective, the project itself, as the Mayor has said, will blend middle income and affordable rental housing. 52 units of affordable housing are being supported by the Portland Housing Bureau. 45 of these units will be available to families who make less than 60% of median income. That means a two-person household, for example, who makes approximately $42,000 a year. And seven units will be available for families who make 30% or less than median family income. And that would be the same two-person household who makes $21,000 or less a year. And Prosper is supporting 23 middle-income units in addition to affordable commercial and office space. And I'd now like to turn it over to my colleague, Director Branham. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners, Kimberly Branham, Executive Director of Prosper Portland. And as a result of all the partnerships that Shannon and Mayor Wheeler mentioned, we are looking at a – potentially unprecedented partnership and mix of uses, and we're delighted to have been able to participate. So we're supporting the 23 market rate units and approximately 11,000 square feet of office space for human solutions, as well as just over 11,000 square feet of affordable commercial space on the ground floor space. The first example of our affordable commercial space is in Alberta Commons. And so we're having a grand opening on July 20th. Would encourage everyone to be there. But what you'll see is a really dynamic mix of local businesses who will benefit from the proximity to the park and will provide critical services. Later today, the Prosper Portland Board of Commissioners will consider a complimentary investment of $9.5 million of tax increment finance to support these priorities. And as was referenced, the project actually began back in 2008 when Portland Parks and Recreation and Prosper Portland bought this property, this four-acre site together with the goal of building a world-class park anchored with a mixed-use retail and housing development. So as you know, in 2018, the park opened. And Portland Bureau of Transportation has recently completed some beautiful streetscape and safety improvements along Halsey-Widler. Prosper Portland has supported 14 businesses along the corridor. So we feel like together with the community, we are working to deliver on community priorities and supporting Gateway to be a family-friendly, inclusive, and vibrant place to work. We appreciate that. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Good morning. Jill Sherman with Girding Edlin, here to answer any specific questions you may have about the project. And we'd just like to note a couple things. This has been something that we've been working on along with the city now for probably four or five years. So it's been a journey. There have been twists and turns, and our partnership with the city to sort of react to those and figure out how to move forward productively has really been critical and is why we're able to be here today asking for your support in the financing for the project. I'll also say this is one of the more complicated projects I've worked on from a financing and capital stack perspective, and I work on some pretty – complicated project. So another thing that really couldn't happen without everybody sort of pulling together. And then one interesting thing I wanted to note is this project is unique in that the units, whether they're affordable or middle income, will be distributed throughout the residential floors. So we brought additional complexity to ourselves, if you will, by rather than saying, you know, one floor would be affordable and one floor would be middle income, we actually are going unit by unit. which has created additional complexity, but was something that Human Solutions and everybody felt really strongly about, to really do mixed-income housing the way mixed-income housing should be done. Thank you. Marisha Daly. I'm curious. I mean, that sounds like the ideal to me. It's truly, you know, multi-income housing, right? I certainly wouldn't want us to be supporting the creation of poor floors or poor entrances, to use some really negative terminology. But what are the... complexities you're referring to? So the affordable housing is supported, as you know, by low-income housing tax credits. The office component, retail component, and middle-income housing are supported, excuse me, not the retail, but the office and the middle-income housing are supported by new market tax credits. Those two components financing tools cannot be in the same ownership structure. So we have had to create condominium structure so that we can separate the financing. And that's why you often see separate buildings or separate floors. I'm very relieved to hear it is about the financing and not about people who make different incomes coexisting side by side, which, as I'm sure you know, some people don't. want to have to do. If I can respond real briefly, Andy Miller from Human Solutions just on that piece, we were pretty insistent that the model would be fully integrated. We've been partnering and studying and learning from a national non-profit called Purpose Built Communities which is really based in Atlanta, Georgia, redeveloped the area of East Lake in a way that we think Portland could learn a lot of lessons from and we've brought them to Portland and many staff from Portland Boroughs down to Atlanta to learn. I'm not sure if They've really developed a healthy model of mixed-income housing and are very insistent that the units be identical, that even the services provided to residents are identical. And so the boundaries between the different types of units exist only in the financing and legal structure, not in the actual operation of the project. Great. I'm really happy to hear that. Jill, I have a question. This particular development is going to be very conceptualized. conspicuous because it's next to a park. And in some earlier pictures, I wasn't clear about what choices you had settled on in terms of materials for the surface. And whether those materials for the surface consistent with some of the other building types in that area and fit. So could you address that? Sure. So facing the park, it's primarily metal panel. It's like a A gray but not shiny panel that will really reflect and change with different sunlight and shadow. We actually initially had a very bright color and a bright, vibrant red that was not preferred by the Gateway neighborhood. And so we worked with them and provided a bunch of different options, and we ended up with this color. kind of gray and then we do have some brick facing Halsey and we also kept the two-story part of the project on Halsey so that it would be more compatible with the streetscape as you go along. So there is some brick on Halsey? Yes. This is, you know, everybody has their own view on this and this is just one person's view but for example I find the Vera, which is going up and I drive by regularly as I go to OHSU. I find the choice of materials to make the building unduly cold. It feels very cold and unapproachable because of the use of metal and the treatment. And I think whenever possible, obviously we want these buildings to be inviting, and we want them to be consistent with the surrounding environment. So I'm very pleased to hear you've chosen brick on Halsey. Andy, any? Sure. Andy Miller, Executive Director of Human Solutions. Our mission is to counter the forces that give rise to homelessness and poverty. We do that work primarily in East Portland and East Multnomah County, and we've been doing it for 30 years. Thank you. We need to push through those complexities sometimes to get to the right place. And so the mix of uses and financing in this project is highly complex. We're reaching a major milestone today, assuming the support from this body and from Prosper Portland later today, and we hope to be under construction in September. With respect to the design and the program, we had enormous community involvement from the Gateway neighborhood, homeowners, tenants. uh, EPAP, the Gateway Area Business Association, uh, the neighborhood associations, all came to community forums and pushed and polled and worked, uh, I want to give a shout out to Dave Addy at Holst who designed an absolutely beautiful building, um, in response to a lot of, uh, different levels of input in different directions. But we landed on something that I think everybody agrees is going to be an enormous complement to the neighborhood. And I really want to emphasize that this isn't just a housing project, it's a neighborhood project. It's built alongside a park. It is an inclusive and equitable form of housing in that it has mixed income units. It includes our services that will be on site to support some of maybe the more invisible members of the Gateway neighborhood whose needs are not always being met as that neighborhood receives investment and improves. So we think that's an important balancing piece to the economic development that the retail will provide. It includes many firsts for Human Solutions, first partnership with Grading Edland, which was absolutely invaluable to us and to the project. Their expertise in this realm really, I think, helped us get through some of the hardest problem solving that we had to do on the project. It is our first development. on a park. I think parks and housing go together like peanut butter and jelly. And I see that being eaten in the park by residents. But I think the notion that the immediate access to green space, to recreation activities and programming in the park is a huge benefit to the housing residents. But I also think the 24 seven eyes on the park from the residents adds to the degree of community ownership of that park space and community support. So we're thrilled with this project. It was a journey, but we're getting to the end of it or at least the start of the next phase of it. So we look forward to inviting you all to the groundbreaking August, September, sometime therein. Thank you. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. An observation and then a question. You know, I, having served, having had the honor of serving as the housing commissioner a number of years ago, And I'm thinking specifically about Gray's Landing. I approach affordable housing a little differently than some because what I have come to appreciate is that they are almost impossible projects to pencil out and to do. People say, why does it take time? Why do you need a girding needling? Why do you need an extra partner? Well, we can cite chapter and verse of well intentioned projects around the city where they just didn't have the capacity at the front end. And didn't get favorable responses to RFPs and other things because they didn't have the horsepower. And then the complexity of how you do tax credits and we have made the development of affordable housing in this country inordinately complicated. And when you bring tax credits into the equation, a market-based system, you've got to bring lawyers and accountants and all kinds of people. So I operate from the assumption that it is almost impossible to do these projects correctly. So it's a cause for great celebration when all the pieces come together. And I just don't know a community that is more proficient at getting to yes despite all the obstacles because the obstacles are extraordinary. The question I wanted to ask is a mundane one. There's a plaza in front of the building. Who will ultimately be responsible for activating the plaza? Will it be you, Andy? Will it be Prosper Portland? Or will it be Parks or some combination? Thank you for the question Commissioner. So, so parks will program as you know there is a space for a staff person and some materials that is on the park and so there's a staff person regularly there. So they will be responsible for programming the park and the plaza. We have had great conversations with the Parks Bureau to make sure that the retailers, to the extent possible, can also help to activate and sort of spill into the park. and also not make sure that they're at cross-purposes with what the parks envision on the plaza. So we are committed to activating it and to doing so in a collaborative way. But ultimately, parks is responsible for the portion that they will own in perpetuity. And Kimberly, in terms of the retail space, Mm-hmm. Is this building covered by the overall strategy we have of affordable commercial space and looking for opportunities for new entrepreneurs to get a foothold? Absolutely. So we've learned a lot from our pilots, which is the intent of pilots. And so we will begin looking for tenants. almost as soon as these actions take place. And we will be bringing the retail space, which Prosper, unlike the other two properties, actually Prosper will be the owner of the retail space. So we're not subleasing it. We are going to maintain ownership of it. So we are going to bring it to warm shell. And we will be looking for small businesses that can benefit from being along the corridor as well as, as businesses that can provide services, childcare comes to mind or grocery kinds of services. So we'll be working with the community group as well as Human Solutions and our partners to make sure that that's done well. Can I get a commitment from you that under no circumstances will there be a liquor store? Absolutely. That's not an allowed use. That is a commitment. It is anomalous to me that in some of our legacy projects, we had liquor stores and buildings with people in recovery, and it seems like we were working across purposes. Yes, we will not have that. Thank you. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you. As you know, I love, love, love this project, and it's beautiful. been a long, long, long time coming. Just for the sake of public disclosure, I am the Vice Chair of the Human Solutions Board, so I just want to make sure that people know that I'm speaking in that context as well as as a city commissioner. But Kimberly, my question is really for you, and the question is about the retail space. Does Prosper have to make a return on its investment in that space? So we are anticipating, and my staff person here can speak in more detail, but we are anticipating that we are subsidizing the space in a permanent way, but not in entirety. So similar to affordable housing where there is some rent that is anticipated to service the financing, we are anticipating some rents coming from the lease process. the leases to repay the financing, but there is a portion that is permanently subsidized and allows us to keep those rents at affordable levels. Because I thank you for that response. As you know, I continue to advocate with you, and so now I'm going to do it in public. that it would be great to have meeting space in East Portland. There is a lack of space for community members to be able to come together and actually be able to work cooperatively to be able to create opportunity. And I think that this is an ideal space for us to be able to make that happen. And so I really want to work with you and my other colleagues to help us figure out how do we make some space available specifically for nonprofits and for grassroots community groups. As you know, there are a lot of new groups starting in East Portland that don't even have budgets, right? they have vision and they have energy and they want to do good things in the community they live in. And I would hate to miss this opportunity with this new beautiful space connected to this great beautiful park to not create space for community members to be able to utilize it and participate. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty, I can speak to that. The office portion that exists above the retail will be occupied by Human Solutions and our board meetings will take place there. So we'll have a board room and adjacent meeting rooms that we're trying to design as flex space with the idea that we can open it up off hours when we're not using it to the community for community meetings or community events. There's also a resident services room that I believe opens up out onto the park that can accommodate some indoor outdoor events with some shared uses between the housing and the park with some indoor outdoor space. So we haven't finalized all the details there but we've been thinking a lot and are well aware of the need for a lack of good gathering space in East Portland and in particular in Gateway. Yes. I want to remind you, Andy, I know how quickly Human Solutions gets booked up solid. We do. 182nd and Burnside is my case in point, right? So this is an opportunity for us to think about it before, right? We actually opened the door. So I appreciate you saying that, but I also know how booked Human Solutions gets. Good observation. We do. We're booked in Rockwood all the time. Very good. Thanks to all of you. Appreciate it. Public testimony. We've had four people sign up. Two minutes each please. Mayor, can I just remind everyone who's testifying, this project has already been given the green light. Today we are talking about the financing piece, new construction financing, but the project has already been approved by the council. We have Curtis Faith, Jan Conant, and Lightning, and the fourth person is Maggie. And feel free to decline if you have already said your piece. I just want to know. How many of the units are going to be for supportive housing? How many units are there? How big is the land? How many are going to be truly for supportive housing? I'd be happy to try to answer that for you Maggie if you'd like. So Human Solutions has support staff in their building and they will be in that building working with all the tenants helping them to get connected to whatever it is they need. So this will be one of the buildings that you won't have to worry about whether or not people have access to what they need when they need it. I can guarantee that for you. So what else you got? Thank you. Thank you. Next. Yes, my name is Lightning. I do approve of any of the construction finances that is needed. The project looks very good. I like the fact, as you have stated, it's on a park, and everything looks real good on this. Human Solutions and Girding and Edlund, they're going to do an outstanding project here. They have the experience and everything. the project in the past to justify that. So I don't have any concerns on this. One of the things I guess that I was kind of wondering here is that this is TIF financing and I was wondering on these other projects we've kind of seen today is that does the affordable housing bond come into play on any of these projects or they could possibly is that correct? So because I haven't heard anything on the affordable housing bond and the money sitting there to maybe be used on these type of projects. So maybe someone could explain that to me on this because I understand is the TIF financing. And but other than that, like I say, I really like the project and. Everything appears good and like I say, I signed up to maybe speak on three items that I thought would be condensed to one. I think the Mayor knew that also. So anyway, everything. This project for a long time has had a carve out within the urban renewal district for this building. Yeah. So that's why TIFF is being used. And as you know, when they when you do a bond project or something else, you have to go through an RFP and a competitive solicitation. So there was a prior carve out for this project. Okay. Already prior on that. Okay. And again, just real fast, I really like the location and putting the money out near Halsey in the 106 area. So again, just from my position, absolutely approve this. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. I just don't think there are enough units of supportive housing that are being – Thank you. Thank you. You know. I just had one – can I have your name for the record, sir? Curtis Faith. I had a comment regarding – I was trying to figure out how this related to the other – that had just sort of initially been proposed, at least as a floated idea a few months back. Not related. Near the Gateway Center. That's a private development, and they have not come back for their financing request. This is with a nonprofit partner. They're totally unrelated. But, I mean, just in terms of geography, are we talking blocks away? Are we talking, I understand that from a project perspective. They're within a half a mile of each other. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Is that complete public testimony? Jeanne Conant signed up, but I don't believe she's here. Jeanne, are you here anywhere? Last chance, please call the roll. Part of state. It is rare in this building that I get to see these kind of projects from a whole lot of different sides. My work with Human Solutions over the last eight years, my work with the East Portland Action Plan over the last nine years, just makes it absolutely fabulous to be sitting in this space today to be able to support this project. This is a vital project that will add lots of fabulous... beautiful homes for people who live in East Portland. This is an opportunity to actually build a model that I think and hope will be duplicated. I like the idea of having market rate and low income affordable housing units interconnected in a way that is seamless. And this is going to be one of those great projects. And I'm thrilled to vote aye, even though I wished, again, that we had, like, a lot more. But we do have limited resources to invest. But I'm thrilled to vote aye for this one. Thank you, Daly. So it goes without saying, as the commissioner in charge of both Prosper Portland and the Housing Bureau, I'm thrilled with this project. And I know a lot of people worked tirelessly on it. I particularly want to thank the community that worked in close collaboration with the city and all of our partners in this. And again, this is one more step. towards creating the community that we want, making sure that it is an inclusive community the way we want it to be, making sure that we have a good mix of resources, particularly in this case in the Gateway community, and that we're being smart as a city institution by leveraging the public investments we've already made, in this particular case, in the park. And so I just think this is a win-win-win-win. Mayor? She's got to vote. She's got to vote. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you called me. No, I'm sorry. I called you, Danny. The Mayor is so excited about this project. I am. I'll go ahead and vote first. I vote aye. Commissioner Fish. No, Mayor. I would defer to you, Mayor. I'll go ahead and seek questions. You should take a bow. I just did. I just voted aye. Go ahead. Okay. Um, Andy Miller. What is happening here? The excitement was just so much. I heard my name. I'm sorry. Andy Miller. Um. took over Human Solutions from a legendary housing figure in our community. And has built on that strong foundation and has continued to do great work. And Andy, of course, is a veteran of the Portland Housing Bureau and other leadership positions in our community. So congratulations to Andy and to Human Solutions. Parks Prosper Portland and the Portland Housing Bureau, that's a pretty good team. Throw in Gertie and Evelyn, it's unbeatable. So we're delighted to be part of that. And while Commissioner Fritz is in England and isn't here to take a bow, this really started with a park and a vision. And we can all be grateful that there was such a run-up in systems development charges because of all the development in our community that we were able to put money into this park. And I forget whether it's over a five-year period or a little longer, but I saw a number recently that as much as $70 million has been invested in East Portland Parks, in part thanks to the bond and to systems development charges. That's a heck of a down payment. I'm pleased to vote aye. You, Daly? Well, I'm sorry if I messed everything up by not being here when my name was called. I'll just quickly thank the Housing Bureau, Human Solutions, Prosper Portland Parks, and the community for their involvement and input. And it sounds like also thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. And while I'm at it, I think I'll just thank PBOT, because I'm pretty sure they've done a bunch of safety improvements out there, too. I vote aye. Mayor? That's a wrap. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Thanks, everybody. Thank you. We are now on the regular agenda. Item 667. Amend acquisition of public art code to expand eligible uses of the 2% funds, explicitly prioritize underserved communities, and clarify city accountability. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. We have a substitute to move, and if counsel has been provided with the substitute, I would ask someone to move it. I move the substitute. Second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll. Okay. I didn't think there was a vote today. We're just putting substitute on the table. Okay, yeah. Call the roll. Hardesty, New Daily, Fish, Wheeler. All right, substitutes on the table. So, Mayor and colleagues, following our first presentation on these proposed changes to the 2% for our program, we elected to pause for a couple of weeks to have further conversations with our partners at the Regional Arts Council or RAC. That conversation was fruitful and today we are offering a substitute ordinance that we believe is better. The changes we incorporated are modest and do not affect the key components of the update. We have distributed a red line version of the ordinance to each of you. We've also touched base with each office and the council clerk has copies available to anyone who wants an additional copy. I want to thank Madison Cario, the new executive director of RAC, and Commissioner Udaly's office, and particularly Polly, for their tremendous partnership during this process. We have staff here to answer any questions as they arise, but we think the substitute is pretty straightforward. Jamie, did I miss anything? No, sir. That's everything. Why don't you introduce the panel just so people know who's here. Absolutely. I'm Jamie Dunphy. I'm Senior Policy Director with Commissioner Fish's office. To my right is Tracy Schreiber, also with Commissioner Fish's office. And to my left is Pollyann Faith Burge with the office of Commissioner Udaly. We're available for any questions, but the majority of the amendments to this red line version are clarifying and do not change the core of what we're trying to ultimately accomplish. We think it strengthens it. We appreciate the partnership with RAC and council colleagues. We'll be coming back to council. Later this summer, early this fall with an update on all the work we've done since the audit and since the adoption of the arts affordability agenda. And I think you'll be pleasantly surprised by the amount of work that we've been able to do in a collaborative way. Thank you. Any questions? No. Okay. Well, colleagues, I will not be here for the final vote on this item, so I hope you will humor me for a minute or two because I'd like to give my closing remarks. When is the final vote? It's on the 24th, I think. They bumped it up until next week. No, next week we don't have council. Nope. Next week is the 17th, the 24th. The following week. Okay. I would be. The 24th. Oh, sorry. Sorry. Nope. This is only the 10th. Oh, yes. Sorry. I'm a week ahead. You're right. The 24th. Sorry. The 24th. 24th. All right. Okay. Here it goes. I wrote this when we heard it the first time around. As a long-time and active member of the arts community, I can personally attest to how essential affordable space is to our arts and culture community. I count among my friends artists, designers, musicians, filmmakers, writers, performers, makers, and creative entrepreneurs whose work spans the past six decades in Portland. And this diverse group of individuals have had one thing in common, one thing absolutely essential to developing their craft and becoming successful working artists, affordable space to live, create, exhibit, perform, and sell their work. Anyone who knows my work knows my unwavering commitment to protecting and stabilizing renters in their homes. While this may be a single issue, it is by no means a single-minded pursuit. Lack of affordable residential and commercial space has far-reaching effects beyond the ability of an individual struggling to pay the rent. It's terrible for our neighborhoods, our communities, our schools, as well as tourism and our local economy. It also makes it exponentially harder to preserve, sustain, and grow our glorious arts and culture community. The result is a less vibrant, less prosperous, less diverse, and less visionary arts and culture landscape. As Commissioner Fish noted previously, the inner core of the city is already relatively arts rich, which is why we're making these changes. But it's not artist rich, as artists are among the tens of thousands of people who have been displaced to the margins of our city and beyond. That's not a Portland that I or many Portlanders want to live in. The code changes one small but meaningful step towards mitigating those impacts. And I'd also like to highlight the fact that it is another item on our aspirational wish list known as the Arts Affordability Plan that we have now accomplished. So April Bear, if you're listening, please take note and upgrade our grade on that. This change gives us greater flexibility in how we use a 2% for arts fund by decoupling the dollars from specific sites, allowing us to invest in creative space, both fixed and mobile, as well as artist residencies, with an explicit prioritization of underserved neighborhoods and communities. It's not going to make a big visible splash at the outset, but over time it will enrich the art. the arts and culture landscape more equitably across the whole city. So thank you to the fish crew, Tracy Schreiber, Jamie Dumphy, and Sonia Schmansky for their all-hands-on-deck approach and for their collaboration with our office. I also want to thank David Huff, the City Arts Manager, and RAC staff, including Madison Cario, Jeff Hawthorne, and Kristen Calhoun. Last but not least, thanks to my wonderful Arts and Culture Policy Director, Pauline Burge. And? All the lights. I believe, do we move to the next item? No, we take testimony on the substitute. Oh, I thought we would take it at the vote, but yeah. Is there public testimony on this item? We've had two people sign up, Jan, Connett, and Maggie. I don't know that either one of them are here. All right. Ann, Maggie, not present. Seeing nothing, we will be, please read the next item. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 668, grant a franchise to Exo Communications Services LLC for telecommunications services and facilities for a period of 10 years. Okay, so since this is an unexpected moment for me as... Not the actual president of the council and working without a script because the mayor's left. The good news is there's a second reading. The room, yes, okay. I was just killing a little time while I got to this agenda. Could you please call the roll? Hardesty. New Daily. Wheeler. Oh, no, I'm sorry. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. All right. The ordinance has passed. Please read the next item. 669. Authorize a contract for utility bill printing, mailing, and presentment for a term of five years for $4.6 million.
 Okay. We have staff here to present, and I will let you introduce yourselves. Good morning. Scott Schneider from Procurement Services. I'm Kathy Cook with the Water Bureau. Before you, you have the procurement report for the recommendation of the award of a contract for utility bill printing, mailing, and presentment for not to exceed amount of $4,600,000 and an initial term of five years. On October 26, 2018, Procurement Services advertised RFP number 985, and on November 26, eight proposals were received. All eight proposals were deemed responsive to the requirements of the solicitation and were reviewed by an evaluation committee. The City issued a notice of intent to award the contract to InfoSend on February 11th, 2019 and no protests were received. InfoSend has a current City of Portland business tax account and is in compliance with the City's contracting requirements. InfoSend is not a COVID-certified, minority-owned, women-owned, service-disabled, veteran-owned, or emerging small business. There are no subcontractors on this project. Based on the expected spend over the next five years, the confidence level for this procurement is high. If Council has any questions... What was the original... When we went into this contract, what was the amount that we originally, medium confidence, thought this would cost us? The enabling ordinance was 7.5. 7.5. Correct. So it is a tremendous... that we came in, that the bidding came in so far below our estimates. Would either one of you care to just opine as to why the winning bid is so far below our original estimate? Okay. When we originally went into it, we didn't know what to expect as far as pricing, so we hadn't gone out to see what that would be. So we took our actual budget of what we had budget authority for because we do it in-house now and just straight across said that's what our estimate is. Now that we've actually gone out, we are far more familiar with what their actual cost will be. But this is really a terrific news that it came in so far below. Kathy, I'm tempted to offer a friendly amendment that would require you to extend your stay with the city for 10 years to implement this. Do you have any problem with that? Do I get a say? You do. It has to be a friendly amendment. Okay. No, good work. We'll see. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Thank you. I also was going to comment on the fact that it came in about $2 million less than what I saw as the original bid amount, and I want to compliment that. I want to ask questions about how do we diversify these kind of contracts so that we can ensure that we're creating opportunities for women and people of color, business owners? I know that you said this particular contractor is not registered as a minority or woman or emerging small business. And I know that we have aspirations. But what do we do proactively to work with businesses that we want to build long-term relationships with to ensure that we are actually expanding opportunity? Thank you. So some of the things that we can do and which we do on especially some of our larger solicitations is to do active outreach to potential vendors. The COVID directory is a good place for us to start because we can see who's currently certified. And it's organized by industry type, so you can go and see who's active in this particular area. We also, for professional services contracts, do have some greater flexibility to contract directly with certified firms. We have some code changes that I think we have a work session coming up on to discuss with council. We're looking to possibly extend that to contracts that fall under the goods and services code, so not just the professional services but single trades and other just more ordinary goods and services that haven't had that same level of support in the past. None of the vendors that applied were COVID, but for this particular company, the composition of their staff is 38% female and 72% people of color. For their mid-managers, they have 22% female and 100% people of color, so it is definitely a company who's interested in that as well. That gives me a lot of hope because they weren't certified in that manner. My assumption was that it was a majority business that really didn't have the kind of data that you're talking about. Thank you. That helps me a lot. Appreciate that. Thank you. Anybody signed up? Public testimony, please. We didn't put out a sign-up sheet for this one. Okay. Any further discussion on this item? No. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Wait, I'm sorry. Is this a report? Report, correct. Oh, this is a report. I move the report. Second. Oh, I'm sorry. You're on 69 already? Yeah. Okay, I apologize. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion on the report, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Aye. Newdaly? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Report's adopted. We've had a request. Colleagues, without any objection, I'd like to move 676 next, please. Please read item 676. Authorize a $75,000 total in grant funds for the Constructing Civic Dialogues Grant Program in the Office of Community and Civic Life. Commissioner Newdaly. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, this ordinance authorizes the Office of Community and Civic Life to add Portland United Against Hate as a partner to the Constructing Civic Dialogues program. Here today we have Angela Prevodeli from Civic Life and Rabbi Deborah Kolodny for the presentation. Rabbi, you are a trooper. Welcome back. Post surgery. I'm bionic. You are bionic. Yes. Yeah, congratulations, and thank you for your patience. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you so much for accommodating the request to move this early. Of course. I really appreciate it. Hello, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to bring this grant recommendation to you today. My name is Angela Privadelli. I am a grants coordinator at the Office of Community and Civic Life. For today's presentation, I will begin by providing an overview of the proposed grant agreement, and then Rabbi Deb Kolodny will present on Portland United Against Hate's work more broadly, providing updates on their accomplishments and their vision moving forward. This ordinance asks for approval on a $75,000 grant agreement so that Portland United Against Hate can join the cohort of grantees providing trainings through the Constructing Civic Dialogue Grants Program. On the grant agreement that's included in Exhibit A, you'll see that Southeast Uplift is listed as the signatory. They're acting as the fiscal sponsor for this grant agreement. Civic Life launched the CCD, Constructing Civic Dialogue, grant program with city council approval in January of this year. The first six months of the CCD workshops and trainings have been very successful. There's been great interest and demand for the workshops, and they often fill to capacity very quickly. After the initial launch, Civic Life reviewed the program offerings, reflected on feedback that we've been receiving from our communities, and we identified a gap. Portland's communities are experiencing an increase in hate violence. The impact of this violence is profound, with our most vulnerable communities experiencing the greatest impact. Recognizing the need for resources to identify, address, and hopefully prevent hate violence, we asked PUA, Portland United Against Hate, to apply for the CCD grant program. Civic Life reviewed and accepted their proposal, and today we ask for your approval. Through this grant agreement, PUA will provide five types of trainings, each one approaching hate violence from a distinct perspective. PUA plans to partner with the city's district coalition offices to provide these capacity building trainings. The coalition offices have expressed a great amount of excitement and anticipation for these workshops, as they see firsthand the impact that hate violence is having in their communities. Each workshop will be offered four times for a total of 20 workshops. PUA coalition organizations, each specializing in a particular topic, will provide those workshops. The power of having PUA as part of our grantee cohort for CCD is that their coalition is diverse and comprised of organizations that have up to 15 years of experience in delivering these trainings. These workshops include Hate and the Landscape of Our City, which will be provided by the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, Transgender in America, provided by Lewis and Clark College's Transactive Gender Project. Islamophobia, provided by the Muslim Educational Trust. Trauma-informed care for targeted and impacted communities, provided by Lutheran Community Services Northwest. And interrupting hate in public spaces, provided by As the Spirit Moves Us. You can read more details about the services. There are methods of data collection, expected outcomes in Exhibit A, Attachment A in your packets. Now I'm going to turn it over to Rabbi Deb to talk about PUA's accomplishments more broadly, and then after that we'll be happy to answer any questions. Thank you for the honor and privilege of speaking before you today, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. We're continuing a conversation that began in November 2016 when our nation and our city experienced a collective wake-up call demanding that we say no to hate. It's been almost three years since the ugly white nationalist underbelly of this nation and this city has been emboldened. Our work was hard enough before that election and then bam. We had to ramp up to the nonstop hypervigilance, resistance and persistence necessary to confront tyranny, hate, white nationalism, Christian hegemony, federal government criminality and the most disgustingly greedy version of gangster capitalism again at the federal level ever. Because of Oregon's history as a white state, the work here in Portland was some of the hardest in the country. So PUA formed and PUA visioned and PUA embarked on our mission to give trauma-informed support to targeted communities, provide tools, skills, and knowledge to thwart hate before it harms, and of course collect data by creating a safe anonymous tool that people would actually use so we could scope out the breadth and depth of the problem and find solutions tailored to our specific reality. Back in January, we gave a report that offered up the information that our data tracking tool got 138 responses in 2018 during a very small beta test, and that dwarfed official hate incident data collected by the police. We learned that 54% of those incidents were perpetrated against the Latinx population. 13% of them occurred targeting black, African, African-American, Gambian, and Somali community members alike. We learned that we are not safe in the streets and we're not safe at home. Perpetrators included neighbors and landlords, property managers, supervisors, and the general public. In the first six months of 2019, we collected data from 65 respondents to date. And this data was collected across the city. We've begun to push out and promote the tool so that it's gone beyond the original grantee organizations. Latinx individuals still comprise the largest target group. They're reduced to 35.4%. And in a massive increase, 28% of targeted individuals identified as gender fluid, gender non-conforming, non-binary, and or transgender. And that's no surprise to those of us who have been paying attention. The percentage of those targeted who are African black, Somali, and Gambian individuals increased twofold to 26%. And just as an aside, 37% of all of those incidents were also reported to the police. And so that we keep this real and we keep this current, I just want to say that just yesterday, a white nationalist with a knife assaulted activists who were protesting ICE in what has been described as a horrifying attack. Since our reporting isn't due yet for this particular grant cycle, we can't update our stats on trainings and support. So I'll just repeat that for 2018, more than 2,667 people were trained in 152 trainings that addressed hate incidents, know your rights, trauma-informed support, and more. 9,429 people in 11 languages were also supported with outreach engagement and support trauma-informed care. But of course our work goes beyond statistics. We heard your feedback that we needed to expand who was at the PUA table and we responded. This spring we did a massive outreach and we doubled the size of the PUA steering committee and we're bringing on key municipal agencies like PBOT, TRIMET, the Office of Crime Prevention, the Office of Equity and Human Rights, as well as representation from the county, three additional neighborhood coalitions and key community organizations, serving targeted communities like the Guardian Angels, the Council on American Islamic Relations, and Greater Portland Transunity. We're also manifesting our intention to end our total dependence on city funding. Our fiscal sponsor agreement with Southeast Uplift launched July 1st, and we have many donations pending, including one for $5,000. With data in the pipeline, we're excited to expand our work beyond training trauma-informed care and data collection infrastructure. We're poised to begin evaluating that data and determining which policies can help the city get upstream and create a hate and hostility-free city. In August, we're going to begin to evaluate where we can throw our collective clout to strengthen the work of potential partners. For example, can we support the student leaders at Cleveland High School who are inundated, deluged with hate incidents? Pictures of swastikas and lynchings one week after the next. I think there was a blackface cake at a bake sale. Is there a role for CUA to play with Portland Street Response as it supports the houseless population which is so heavily targeted by hate? As we expand into policy and campaign work, our training has moved beyond individual skill building and empowerment to institutional policy making. For example, I recently trained PBOT in interrupting hate in public spaces, not just so staff can feel personally empowered, but so they can establish policies and protocols to empower the collective to deploy someone to center the target, somebody to de-escalate the perpetrator, and then to follow through on whatever happened after the incident takes place. And also to help us push people to report so we get the best data possible. We're also thrilled to be at the table with your staff to partner around the training that you so wisely decided was necessary on white supremacy and white nationalism. I want to close with just how much optimism this Civic Dialogue Grant offers for our collective work. It's the perfect example of how the city can find ongoing funding to manifest its obligation to keep the city safe, livable, and welcoming. Suk-Ree is to be applauded for her ingenuity and vision. I hope you share my optimism that together we can find other mechanisms to fully fund PUA through ongoing funding. Together, let's answer the questions. What city granting mechanisms support trauma-informed care for targeted populations, community-driven data collection and advocacy and representation for targeted populations? And then follow that inquiry up with, how can we secure part of that funding for the organizations that are doing the work of POA so we're not continually in the cycle of asking for special appropriations? As you probably know, between the City Special Appropriation Grant and this Civic Dialogue Grant, we have $175,000 less funding than in our first cycle. But our work is by no means shrinking. So how can we tap into the resources that we already have and build on the wisdom of Sukri to make this work sustainable? We are the humans of Portland who constitute the buffer between the nightmare that has emerged in America in the past three years and the tragedy that America can become. We owe it to those who perished at the hands of white nationalists to find sustainable means for supporting this work. We owe it to Larnell Bruce Jr., a 19-year-old black man killed on August 10, 2016. We owe it to Ricky Best and Talazine Mirdin Namkhi Mej, active bystanders killed on the MAX. We owe it to Titi Gulley Jr., a 31-year-old black homeless trans woman found hanging from a tree six weeks ago. We owe it to those civil rights activists who were assaulted yesterday on the streets of Portland. But even more so, we owe it to the hundreds of those subjected to hate every year in our city. Thank you for listening. Thank you for caring. And thank you for acting. Thank you. That's all I have. Very good. Thank you. Public testimony. Commissioner Hurst, did you have a question? Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Rabbi, for your very powerful testimony. I want to applaud Pua because when Pua came to meet with my office, I told them that it was not appropriate to be reliant on public funding, that they needed to become independent, that they needed to figure out who they were, who they were representing. It's been incredible watching the growth that's taken place since that conversation. I want to be clear, it's not that I'm not 100 percent in supportive of the education and the work that's being done. But it's just not appropriate for the city to continue to do these one-time funding, one-time funding, one-time funding, and create expectations that we have no ability to live up to. And so I just want to applaud the fact that you heard loud and clear. And Rabbi, as you know, I've attended your training, and I know that you've done some incredible trainings because of the situation that we find ourselves in. And I just want you to know that my office is available to work with POA and with the Office of Civic and Community Life to help you identify other opportunities to get people to invest in this ongoing work. I would love to say that a change of federal leadership would mean that hate would disappear. We know better than that because it was here all along. It was just covered up with pretty words and somebody's basement, right? It's always been here. It's part of Oregon's DNA. And unless we have an ongoing group that's really committed to actually giving people the tools to stand up to that hate, even with the change in federal leadership, we'll just go back to... the same old same old pretending that hate is not part of our DNA. People of color, people who've been marginalized, low-income people know that every single day we confront hate and we confronted in very different ways and so I just want to applaud the work that you're doing. I agree I think Suqq has been really visionary about and very intentional about how we're moving this work forward And thank you for not being dependent on the city to actually fund what is absolutely a community effort. and it must be funded and supported by a broader community. So thank you. Thank you. You reminded me that there's actually a Meyer Memorial Grant RFP that's just come out that we've spoken with them about that's perfectly situated for the work we're doing, so we're hopeful about that. Excellent. Maybe let our support let me know. Oh, great. Thank you. Very good. Public testimony? People who signed up have left. Can you call their names just to make sure? Yes. Thank you. Jan, Conant, and Maggie. All right. Very good. With that, unless there's any further questions, we'll call the roll. Hardesty. Daly. I am really pleased and proud of the work that PUA has done. I inherited Civic Life and the fledgling PUA project when I walked into this building. And it was a big... lift to make it all come together and while I am happy to continue looking for ways that the city can support your work, I also understand and support PUA becoming an independent entity because I recognize that we play really different roles as community-led advocacy group and government, but I look forward to continuing to work together and I'm also a big fan of the Constructing Civic Dialogues program, although I am concerned that the name is a little academic and dry, and the public may not be able to surmise what it's really about. And it's really about bringing community members together to talk about really challenging subjects, and get to the root of what, as you mentioned, is often written off as interpersonal conflict, but is really about race, culture, class, religion. So I'm pleased about that work, and I'd like to continue promoting it, because I want to make sure as many people are showing up and know what it's about as possible. We need to promote... We know that we need to provide the community with tools and resources to be able to engage and learn from each other across difficult issues. When we don't, we see the effects manifest in disputes among neighbors and our public forums, like today perhaps. and more. So these upstream approaches not only save us time and resources in the long run, but are better for the health and safety of our communities. I think of PUA as community self-defense, and the work that Constructing Civic Dialogues is doing is very supportive of those efforts. I want to note that combating white supremacy and the rise of alt-right violence is a citywide priority. Although, obviously, we can't make policies and laws that target one particular group, we can certainly speak out against hate and against white supremacy. This is not going to be addressed through any singular effort, which is why I'm proud to see Civic Life embed this goal into their existing programming, the goal of combating white supremacy. And I want to take this opportunity to encourage other bureaus to consider ways that they can contribute to these efforts. Finally, a few thank yous. Again, thank you, Rabbi Kolodny, for joining us today. I don't think I would have your fortitude to come down to City Hall and sit through hours of council session. I apologize for the delay. And thank you, Portland United Against Hate, for continuing your great work. And congratulations on inspiring New York City to launch an almost identical program. That is one side effect of this job that I wasn't aware of, but I really love seeing other cities adopt our policies and programs. We need more inspiration like that. So I'm proud to continue to support your work. Thank you, Angela Prevedeli, and all Civic Life staff who will be supporting this program. I vote aye. Fish. Wehler. I want to build on the good comments that Commissioner Daley just made. She mentioned race, culture, class, and religion as being flashpoints. And I think she got it exactly correctly. And the reason I'm sort of musing over it now is when I think about really what's at the heart of all of this. From my personal perspective, I believe it's change. and the fear that change evokes. And so I'm really excited for the dialogues that you've described. I think part of the problem we're having as a nation, as a culture, is our inability to communicate with each other. And as our nation becomes politically and in many regards philosophically more sharply divided, those opportunities to sit down and say, hey, what is it? What is actually going on? What is the basis of change? your activities or your action, those are difficult conversations to have in this day and age. But I think that's part of what's missing from this overall equation is just interacting with people who do not agree with your perspective or come at it from a different perspective and find out what the basis of it is. And as mayor, I find myself more often than I probably care to in the middle of this conversation about managing dynamic change. And the fear that it evokes and the reactions that it evokes. And oftentimes for a small percentage of people, that reaction is either hateful speech or hateful action or violence. And so I support the work that Portland United Against Hate is doing. It's very, very difficult work. I acknowledge, as my colleagues just have, that it's not the whole solution. It's an important component of it. And without Portland United Against Hate, we don't get anywhere. But there are many other aspects to this that we have to collectively be willing to address as a community. And some of those conversations going forward, I think, are going to be challenging. for many, but I'm really glad, Commissioner Udali, that you're bringing this forward. I'm glad that the Council is being supportive of it. We have to show the rest of this increasingly divided nation that we can bring people together and that we can get back on the same page. And in the meanwhile, the training that you have conducted Rabbi, and all the work that Portland United Against Hate is in. It's very practical. It's pragmatic. It gives people the information they need in a time when there's a lot of misinformation out there. So that's a long way of saying I'm really pleased with the work that you're doing, and the contributions we're making are relatively small compared to the upside here. So thank you for all you do. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, can I just jump in on time management? Commissioner Fish. If I add up all the time on things that we have left, it's about an hour. Not going to happen. And I'm taking a break at 1, so I just want a fair warning. Well, the good news is I've got a couple of items here, and Shannon Callahan and I collectively are time management experts. So let's start with the Labor Issue 670. Okay. Ratify a letter of agreement between the American Federation of State, City, and Municipal Employees, Local 189-3 to merge with AFSCME Local 189. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Labor Relations Coordinator Jamal Anthony. Good morning. Good morning, how are you? Good afternoon, sorry. Good afternoon, good afternoon. I heard what you guys just said, so I'll be expeditious. Thank you. So in 2017, the AFSCME represented members of Portland Housing Bureau, elected to become members of the District Council of Trades Unions. And per the Public Employees Collective Bargaining Agreement, the city and the union had to meet to discuss the terms of the merger into the larger union. The city met with the union in May, and we were able to reach a tentative agreement, which outlines all of the provisions of the DCTU contract, which will and will not apply to these employees for the duration of the DCTU contract, which expires June 30th of 2020. So that's what the ordinance is before you today. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions? Any public testimony on this item? Keelan? Jan, Connett, and Maggie, but they've left. Jan and Maggie are gone. Call the roll. Artistry? New daily.
 Aye.
 Fish.
 Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. Coordinates adopted. Thanks. 671. This is a second reading, but I'm going to do something with it in a minute. Go ahead. Authorize a borrowing of not more than $52,900,000 in anticipation of the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund levy for FY 2019-20. Colleagues, I'm going to do something slightly unusual. This is a second reading, but I'm also going to ask that we add an emergency letter. Clause to this through amendment, the emergency language will read as follows. A, section two, the council declares that an emergency exists to eliminate the potential of a negative fire and police and disability retirement fund balance that may occur under circumstances, the borrowing experiences and unforeseen delay. Therefore, the ordinance shall be in full force in effect after it's a passage by the council. I'm moving that. Do I have a second? Second. We have a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Please call the roll on the amendment. Hardesty? Aye.
 Newdailey?
 Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye. The amendment is adopted. Now to the second reading. This is a second reading. We've already heard the presentation in public testimony. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll on the ordinance as amended. Hardesty? I just wanted to say when I first saw this, I was like, what? Why are we borrowing this much money? But I am happy to say that I am very comfortable with what it is we're doing and the reasons behind what we're doing. And so I am an aye. Daly? Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye.
 Wheeler? The ordinance is adopted as amended. Item 672. Item 672. amend Joint Office of Homeless Services Intergovernmental Agreement with Multnomah County to authorize FY 1920 budget allocation to the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Very good. And we have Shannon Callahan, the Portland Housing Bureau Director, and Mark Jolin from the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Mark and I are here to answer any questions you may have about the IGA in front of you. This is the Third year that we have made an amendment to the IGA, we are making an amendment to reflect and effectuate the budget that council approved in June. So essentially what we're doing is making sure that we can freely flow money between the Housing Bureau, the city, and Multnomah County's Joint Office of Homeless Services. So with that, I would see if Mark wanted to say anything. And otherwise, we're just here to answer questions. Only that there are no other changes to the IGA. It's truly just the addition of the new budget amounts as an attachment to the IGA. Very good. Any further discussion? Any public testimony on this item, Keelan? Yes. We've had six people sign up. Very good. Two minutes each, please. Curtis Faith, Jan Conant, Joe Walsh. Doesn't look like. Lightning, Diana. Thank you. I had to leave. All right. Very good. Going once, going twice. Sold. Sorry. Oh, there you are. Sorry. I apologize. Welcome. It's good to see you. Good to see you again. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I just... Could you put your name in the record? Oh, yes. I apologize. My name is Diana. And I think that this is really great. I feel that homelessness is... a very, very serious issue. I was homeless for two years due to displacement. And so to see advocacy by the city to combat that is very, very much important. So I'm for this and that's really all I have to say today. Thanks, Diana. Commissioner Hardesty. Diana, I just want to thank you for keep coming back. I just love the fact that you have this curiosity about you and you ask good questions and you're very mindful and thoughtful. I hope you're a model for other people who come and testify here about the issues that are in front of the city council. So I just want to thank you for coming back. Appreciate it. Thank you, Commissioner. It's good to see you. Thank you. With that, please call the roll. Hard to see. Aye. New Daily. Aye. Fish. I want to thank Mark Jolin for his excellent work. Wheeler. The ordinance is adopted. 673, please. Authorize intergovernmental agreement with Prosper Portland in support of the ongoing implementation of housing functions at the City of Portland Housing Bureau and economic opportunity functions at Prosper Portland. Shannon, are you covering this one? Very good. Shannon Callahan, Director of the Portland Housing Bureau. Good afternoon. Once again, Shannon Callahan. This is similarly to the joint office IGA, which you just voted on, an intergovernmental agreement that effectuates the transfer of funds between the Housing Bureau and Prosper Portland. Primarily, we are a recipient from Prosper Portland of the transfer of funds. of TIF dollars for affordable housing development, and then we also transfer some of our federal dollars, namely CDBG, for workforce development efforts at Prosper Portland. These are also... These were what you approved in the budget process as well. So this is, both of these items are two things we do on an annual basis following your adoption of the budget. Yeah, very good. Thank you. Any further questions of Director Callahan? Any public testimony on this item? We've had four people sign up. Jan Conant, Joe Walsh, Lightning, and Maggie. I don't believe they're here. I don't see any of them here. Very good. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. New Daily. Aye. Fish. Once upon a time, this was actually a controversial matter on our agenda. Okay. That was before we took the housing functions out of PDC, created a freestanding housing bureau, and then settled the question about using CDBG funding for economic development. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And you're going to have to read 674 and we'll move it. Amend public improvements code to permit the attachment of wireless facilities on poles. Colleagues, this has been rescheduled to July 31st, 2019-2011. During the morning session, 9.30 a.m. Thank you. Next item, 675. This is also going to be moved. Amend contract with TriMet for $6,571,781 to provide for enhanced upkeep and security of the Portland Transit Mall and the original light rail transit loop segment of First Avenue, Morrison, and Neon Hill Streets. Colleagues, this is also being rescheduled to July 31st, 2019 at 930 a.m. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I would ask for courtesy that this be heard when I'm back in town the following week, because I think that this requires more conversation since we're not talking about it today. Commissioner Udaly, do you have thoughts on that? We're talking about 675? Yeah. I just know that the summer schedule is very challenging and I'm assuming that there is some timeliness. So I need, I mean, can we just proceed and I'll ask staff to see if there's another workable time because I'll be out in August and. Yeah. Commissioner, if we reschedule it to the 31st, then we can work with the clerk's office. Great. We can always move it later, but we should hold the space now. Thank you. Okay, very good. We've already done 676. 677, please. Remove the designation of five trees as City of Portland Heritage Trees. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, heritage trees are trees that have been formally recognized by the City Council. An important and essential part of the program is that no tree on private property can be designated without the consent of the property owner. Today's item is related to a case from 1999 where the trees were designated without the proper private property owner consent. Now let's be clear, we cherish our heritage trees and we are very reluctant to propose to remove a tree from the list. But the city has clear rules that we must follow and the alternative to council action is that it is likely, according to our attorneys, that a court will reverse whatever we do and we will incur attorney fees, which is not something that I recommend lightly. It is absolutely clear that the rules were not followed in this case and therefore we're asking for this unusual action of council to delist five heritage trees. With us today are Portland Parks and Recreation Director, Adina Long, Deputy City Attorney, Molly Washington, and Urban Forestry Analyst, Brian Lando, and they're here to give us a very brief presentation. Director Long. Thank you Commissioner. Good afternoon Commissioners. Heritage trees are trees that have been formally recognized by city council for their unique size, age, historical, or horticultural significance. Heritage trees are given the highest level of protection in city code. City code requires documented permission of the property owner at the time of designation for a private property tree to become a heritage tree. In 1999, five American sycamore trees at 230 2nd Avenue, sorry, Southwest 2nd Avenue, were designated by council as heritage trees in the public right-of-way. The current property owner informed the city that these trees were on private property at the time of council action, and there is no record of property owner consent. This claim was researched and confirmed. Per city code, the Urban Forestry Commission is responsible for making formal recommendations to city council on the listing and delisting of heritage trees. The Urban Forestry Commission is comprised of 11 community members who volunteer their time to advise the city on matters pertaining to trees, including regulations, budget, policies, and plans. The Urban Forestry Commission declined to recommend the heritage tree designation be removed from these trees and referred this decision to City Council. A statement to this effect from the chair of the Urban Forestry Commission has been submitted to City Council. Because no property owner consent was obtained prior to the listing of these trees in 1999, the heritage tree designation was applied erroneously. We ask City Council to remove the heritage tree designation. One other point if I just make for my colleagues, the developer does plan to build housing at this site and this will be an inclusionary housing project. So we will be getting some affordable housing in a very important part of our city. Molly, do you have anything to add? No, just that this is the appropriate process to go through to remove this designation. Thank you, Council. And Commissioner Hersey. Thank you. I just I chuckled a bit when we have a commission that punts to the city council. Right. But the buck does stop with us. And I appreciate the due diligence that was done. and notifying our office and having this conversation because I think somebody noticed that I would be, what do you mean you're removing these trees? So I appreciate your proactive approach, and you're absolutely right. This is the right place to make that decision. It would be good if the commission would have actually thought about that as well. Do we know how many other trees are on the list that, in fact, have not received the – of the property owner, and how many times will we be doing this in the near future? I believe it's just those trees that are in question for this particular property. I know for this property, but I mean, is this going to be a trend that we're going to be asked over and over and over again? No, this is an unusual set of circumstances. Excellent. And in fairness, this predates everybody at council. So this is a 1999 decision. A property owner is free to raise this issue in the future as we do development. But there was no question in this instance that there was no documentation establishing consent. And so it's a relatively straightforward case. Commissioner E. Daly. Thank you, Mayor. I have a few questions that you may or may not be able to answer. Um. this is an unfortunate situation. Never like to see mature trees cut down. I don't think that we have legal grounds to deny it. However, my concern centers around mitigating the loss of the tree and the fee paid in lieu. So first I want to get clear on what we're talking about. We're talking about three trees that are street trees and one that is on private property. It's four trees? Right. And then a fifth. Oh, so there's five. Okay. So four street trees and one on private property. Because it just says, oh, so the four trees refer to the street trees. That's correct. Okay. So the one that's on the private property will not have to be replaced because the zoning doesn't require it. And the street trees will have to be replaced, correct? So there will be four trees cut down and four trees planted. Actually, my name is Brian Landon. I'm an analyst with Urban Forestry. The mitigation for street trees that are removed in development is actually two for one. So there would be eight trees that have to be replanted or a fee paid in lieu. So I guess that's my question. I think clearly there's not enough room for eight trees on this strip. So they could plant... four more trees somewhere else or they could pay a fee in lieu? Yeah, so they would most likely pay the fee in lieu because of the space available, which is $1,125 per tree. I'm all for requiring developers to replace more trees than they're taking down, but in the case of the street trees, it seems a little, little bit odd. I'll think about that later. So my final question is this paint, this payment in lieu. Obviously, this doesn't remotely cover the true value of a mature tree over its lifetime. And I know that's not something that we can really fix today, but it's something that I would like to address for the future. Because I really, I think we still make it too easy and too affordable for developers to cut trees down and get out of mitigation. And we just I think contracted with PSU for a report that showed how important trees and just any green planting in the city is for eliminating hot spots throughout the city. So I just I would want all of our policies to be supporting at the very least protecting what we have if not increasing what what we have. Commissioner Daley, just one one qualification in this particular case. It is City Code that requires that the lot line be moved to a place that makes it impossible for the trees in this instance to remain. So this is not a developer and targeting these trees. Our own design guidelines and our zoning code require that the lot line be moved forward. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Any public testimony on this item? Yes. Jan Conant, Lightning and Bruce Nelson, Maggie, Greg S. Everhart, and then after that will be Connor Stava and Kristy White. My name is Bruce Nelson. I'm a long-time resident of the Cully neighborhood and a long-time volunteer involved with tree activities in the Portland metropolitan area. The procedure that was used... To delist heritage trees has not been followed. There's supposed to be public notice. There's supposed to be a fair amount of time. That procedure has not been followed. Perhaps there are grounds for it, but I'd just like to point that out. Urban Forestry Commission got 48 hours notice of this being brought before it, and they had 54 pages of documents submitted by the applicant to review in that time. These are volunteers on the Urban Forestry Commission. That's unfortunate that that happened. I'd like to switch gears now to ask you if perhaps there's another way to go about doing this. I want to encourage all of you to try to help the owner of this property find a way that the owner can win and that Portland can win. And by that I mean the owner is going to realize greater economic benefits from this property if there are some sort of landmark trees on the property, the value and the rental values of storefront property will increase. The sales in those storefront properties will increase. That can be a win for Portland. That can be a win for the owner of the property. I would hope that you could encourage the owner to figure out a way where the residents that are going to live in these quote affordable units, the There's a listing of 151 units. I don't know if that means residential units that are proposed or not. We gain the benefits from trees that are with us every day. We don't necessarily go to a park to see those benefits. Where we work, where we live, we need the benefits of those trees. Is that my three minutes already? Two. Thank you. What? Two minutes. Okay. Is that all I get? That's it. Thank you. Well, all right. Good luck. Thanks. Good luck with this. We appreciate your being here. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. I'm actually taking my hat off as Urban Forestry Commissioner and as the chair of the Heritage Street Committee. And I'm really crossing my fingers. We've got a technical problem. My presentation was pictures because I wanted to show you and basically ask for help. I know Mayor Wheeler has both planning and sustainability and development services. I was going to show you five examples of heritage trees around which buildings have been built. Two of them are actually six stories. One of them has housing above. Okay. retail. They actually in that case separated it into two buildings and have a minor setback by the tree, which is perfect for kind of the street life, you know, tables, dining and so forth. In both cases, I am sure that the big buildings, that the units that are next to these trees will be the premier ones. I don't know if you can change the rent depending on the amenity when you look out on a tree. But if this doesn't work, I don't know whether this is considered an emergency or not. But I have brought a petition. We literally learned of this two days ago. And fortunately we had the showings of canopy stories. And in those movies, the Monday showing had the story of saving the Eastmoreland giant sequoias. Well, we got a picture at least. And then the one last night showed the Corbett Oak. And so there were a lot of people there that are tree activists as well as film aficionados. And they really were willing to sign you know, their hope that if this was found to be a legal problem, that the city could work with this development team, perhaps encourage them. It was on the petition, but they would need an arborist. They'd need a landscape architect. Can I just say something? Sure. Thank you for coming today. I apologize for the technology glitch. This is the second or third that we've had in Mayors. Once and for all, can we fix the technology glitches? I will pass that on to the auditor and the council clerk. Well, I'm willing to entertain a motion for additional resources so that we can have a system that works, particularly when members of the public bring PowerPoints. But the other thing I just want to say to our friend from the Urban Forestry Commission, without the consent of the property owner, we have nothing to enforce. That's right. And we don't disagree about values. We don't disagree about the significance of heritage trees. We don't disagree about the value of heritage trees to new development and to park development, other things. There is a single legal issue here, which is whether we have the consent of the property owner at the time the designation was made. Absent that consent, we go to court and we lose. We have nothing to enforce. So I don't want this to become, I don't want the impression to be left that somehow this council is indifferent to the fate of heritage trees. There is a very narrow question, and no one has provided any evidence to the contrary that there was no consent. And absent consent, we have no enforceable right against that tree. The default is the code that allows for the removal of the tree, which our code requires as part of this development, and then the replacement through mitigation. So I just want that on the record because... You are often here as the chair of the Heritage Tree Subcommittee. It's one of my favorite annual exercises when we designate heritage trees. But for some reason, the city screwed up on this one. And without the consent, we have nothing to enforce. And I just want to be clear about that.
 Right. And so if we frankly were hoping for a miracle, there are actually people that came too late to sign up that actually also want to testify. I know you have run out of time. But, you know... It's sort of a de facto heritage tree status. And you'll hear from the attorneys last. But those plaques have been on the trees. The landowners never questioned it and complained it. So you're raising a question of adverse possession or some concept in the law. And we have a world-class legal department that advises us. And that's not a legal basis that we can assert. So when you said earlier that it would take a miracle to... it would take a miracle because the developer, in this instance, the property owner is well within his rights because the approval was never secured. This occurred well before you and I were in leadership positions. So let's be clear. And we cannot retroactively tag a property. a property owner with a requirement that the city failed to follow its own guidelines. Right. Let's be very clear about that. Right. But I wanted to show the council, as well as any public that's watching, that there are successful developments around large heritage trees with this kind of building. So Keelan has found the right key, so here we are. Why don't you take a minute and walk us through it? I'll go back to the beginning. Okay, great. So I've handed over the petition signatures. It was a mistake. The committee at the time felt that the sidewalk, and usually there's about two feet behind it, is in the right of way. But I want you to see these trees because it's very clear they're going to be removed. There was a room on the petition for comments. Some of them actually were quite fun. Most of them basically saved the trees. It's interesting that this diagram is presented because this shows sort of the prescriptive route. One foot out from the center of the tree for every inch of diameter at breast height. There is an alternative, which actually takes an arborist and you figure out where the roots are. You can have a very different, conceivably much smaller root protection zone. But you actually have to get the expertise and take the time to do it. I'll skip that one. You guys approved it earlier this year. This is a landmark in my life. You can see that this tree is actually above grade of the road, the sidewalk, and the building's finished floor. It'll give you some of the dimensions there. It's been that way for years and tolerates it. This project up in North Portland is still under construction. They dug two floors deep to do underground parking. And I've got a second set of pictures just to show you how the units that are next to this tree and sort of how close this tree is. It's actually in the public right-of-way next to a sidewalk. It was designated a heritage tree after they had approval. And Urban Forestry didn't enforce any of the regulations they would have done afterwards. This tree is surviving. This landowner felt it was really important and valuable to their property to preserve this tree. And that's where we are hoping development services can look at all the kind of inducements and flexibilities. You don't have to build to the zero lot line if you have some reasons not to. And that's what it would take to save one or two of these trees. This tree's up in Northwest. I actually watched this reconstruction, but I couldn't find my photographs. Again, a very deep pit. Nick actually probably goes by this tree. It's crossed from Cinnamon 21, absolute landmark on that street. Again, I think there would be real premium prices as well as a business opportunity on the street. Then finally, of course, the famous beach at Portland State. where both the tree and the building are better together than they would have been separately. So thank you for the extra time. I appreciate the difficult position you're in. Thank you. Appreciate it. But there were some people that didn't get to sign up. So I don't know what the process is. We're going to lose a quorum really soon. You're here if you want to make a quick point. Go ahead. I just wanted to say something. My name is Connor. I'm just here as a concerned citizen. I don't have any necessarily skin in the game in that neighborhood. I come from the east side of town at one of the most polluted areas in the Montevia near 84 and Halsey. I shook Joanne Hardesty's, Ms. Hardesty's hand out there last year at this time. You were in Montevia at the Stark neighborhood with a booth running for the council. that's very specific time in July. If you noticed out there, there wasn't a lot of people. It was 108 degrees out there during the day. One of the things is that there's no trees on that street. That's right. There's no trees on that street. I ask, what are we doing? I mean, this is a possibility that we have to have some benefit in this area. These are old trees, something that we don't have in our neighborhood. I just wish that the council would give a little bit more advanced notice for projects like this. I look at the painting up here and I see, I'm not sure how to read this painting. I'm sure you guys know the history of it, but it's, for me, reading it from left to right in the traditional way, it's moving the city back into the forest. And in the foreground, there's trees right there. I mean, what's the importance of... And I think we need to think about that moving forward. Thank you. Appreciate it. Colleagues, any further? There's one other person who signed up. Christy White. Come on up, Christy. I don't believe she's here. Hi, thank you. I will be quick. It's Christy White. I represent the property owner in this case. And I just say that we concur with the testimony and facts offered by the city attorney and the city forester before the UFC that's now reflected in the ordinance. We concur that the city code is clear, that there's no evidence of consent and consent was required. And just to emphasize a few things that have come up here. Um, Commissioner Fish mentioned this is an inclusionary housing project and what's great about it is it's one that's in the downtown core and is going to actually integrate the units in the building itself. And with this designation removed, I'd also respond, we still have to comply with Title 11 for tree removal and tree replacement. So there still will be trees along the right-of-way. And this building also intends to have a green roof, which will be helpful in the heat sink. And then, of course, the hottest spot is a surface parking lot, which will be going away on this site and replaced with something that is more advantageous in that regard. So with that, I know you're in a hurry. to get out at 1 o'clock, and I'm available for any questions if you have them. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Any further discussion? Mayor, because of the unsettled schedule that we have, I would move that we put an emergency clause on 677. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further discussion? Call the roll. Hardesty. Udaly. I've already put my concerns on the record. I'm... kind of regrettably supporting this, but would just want to encourage anyone facing this kind of decision to really get creative and try to work around existing mature trees, because although they'll be replaced, these trees will take years, if not decades, to reach the size and impact of the trees that are being removed. I vote aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is on the table to the main motion is amended. Please call the roll. And then I need you for one other item. Oh, for Pete's sake. Hard to see. Hard to see. It'll be fast. Aye. Udaly. It's just become a Udaly tradition to give closing remarks on the amendment before the actual final vote. So y'all heard me. And I vote aye. Fish. Aye. Mueller. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Colleagues, we have three very quick items here on the consent. The first requires four of us to be present. Read 653, please. Pay bodily injury claim of Michelle Longtane in the sum of $125,000 resulting from a motor vehicle collision involving the Portland Bureau of Environmental Services. Who pulled it? Joe Walsh. He's gone. Any testimony? Seeing none, call the roll. Hardesty. New daily? Aye. Okay. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Coordinates is adopted. 654 please. Assess property. I'm sorry. 664? Yeah. 654. 664. Yeah. 664. I thought, oh, so 654 was not pulled? Nope. No. It was not pulled. Okay. 664 was pulled? Yes. Very good. Go for it. Amend city code to update oath of office requirements. Any testimony on this item? Ah, here's the auditor. Madam Auditor. I pulled it. I had a question about this. Bring it in. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. The Auditor's Office is proposing housekeeping changes to update the oath of office requirements set forth in Chapter 3.74 of the City Code and related requirements included in Code Sections 3.20, 190 and 3.20.240. Here's some history. The sections included in Code Chapter 3.74 were last amended in 1995 or 2007. Section 3.2019 was last amended in 1991, and Section 3.20240 was last amended in 1973. The effort to update these code provisions was underway when I took office in 2015. At that time, Ben Walters from the city attorney's office was working with Sue Parsons from the council clerk's office and other auditor's office staff to develop proposed revisions. This effort stalled when Ben Walters retired but was revised earlier this year when a deputy city attorney brought the issue of inconsistent oath code language to our attention. Current Auditor's Office staff work with Ben Walters' initial draft revisions to develop the proposed code changes that are before you today, with helpful input from the City Attorney's Office. Please note that the proposal includes changes to Code Sections 3.20.190 and 3.20.2.40, which are part of the Police Bureau's code and address oaths of office. We forwarded draft changes to the Police Bureau and City Attorneys for the Police Bureau today. who reviewed and approved the changes and made further revisions to better reflect current terminology and practices. Please also note that the code updates that are proposed today are housekeeping changes intended to address inconsistencies, clarify oath, administration, and timing requirements, and eliminate gender specific and other outdated terms. The auditor's office was asked yesterday why this legislation does not eliminate some additional outdated terms. For example, in section 3.74.010, we propose replacing the gendered and outdated term substitute policeman with reserve officers. even though the police bureau does not currently use reserve officers. The term reserve officer is the term that is currently used in several other sections of code, and the proposed revised language merely retains the requirement that such officers, if they were used, would be required to take an oath of office. We were also asked yesterday about Code Section 3.74010, which requires private police officers to take an oath, This is original code language that does not appear to have ever been amended. The term private police officer was not flagged for deletion in 2015, and the auditor's office does not have enough information about its history to determine if it needs to be changed. If the police bureau has some context in which it uses private police officers, it would be consistent with the other categories of officers to require them to take an oath. Commissioner Hardesty. What's a private police officer? I don't know. Neither do I, so why would we want it in the code? Because there are a landscape of things in the city that I don't know, and if there are some contexts in which the police bureau would use those, such as in a mutual aid situation, an earthquake, I just don't know where that comes from. And so no matter what they do, we would like them to take an oath if they're in use, just like the reserve officer code. Okay. Now, I don't think that there's any situation where we would have private police officers, so it just doesn't make sense to me that if the goal is to clean up the language, that we would be leaving language that makes no sense. And so, in my mind, that is not a good reason to, just because it's in the code, that we should just leave it there. So my friendly amendment would be to take that out, and if the auditor's office is not comfortable with that, then I would be a no vote, and it wouldn't pass, so... I have no opinion on that. Neither do I. Okay. Well, this is being brought by the auditor. She doesn't have an opinion. You do have an opinion. This is a non-emergency ordinance. I suggest over the course of the next week we iron it out before we take the final vote. Is there any public testimony on this item? Seeing none, this is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 665. Amen. Portland Policy Documents Code to update and clarify repository procedures. This was pulled at the request of Commissioner Fritz. Is there any testimony? Seeing none, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. And my belief is the last item is... We have one more, didn't we? Or am I mistaken? I don't think so. I believe we're done for this morning. That's it. Okay. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Before you gavel us out, I just want to put on the record that I hope that we hold off on any conversations around police body cams while I'm on vacation for the next three weeks. Because, as you know, I want to be very involved in that conversation. So just wanted to add on the record that... I'm hopeful that we will have that conversation when I'm back in the country. I'm not aware of the forward-looking council agenda for the subsequent week, but I will pass that on to the police bureau. Thank you. Very good. Without further ado, we are adjourned. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, July 10th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Keelan, good afternoon. Could you please call the roll? Hardesty? Here. Thank you. You daily. You know there's something can I just say something. I can barely hear you. We can't hear you and I would get a little closer and just enunciate a little more because I can't hear you either. I thought you said Wheeler this time. It's too soon. Okay my apologies. You daily. Here.
 Fritz.
 Fish.
 Here.
 Wheeler.
 Here. Thank you. Now we're going to hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. It's been Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the City's business. The Presiding Officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. Thumbs... just kidding, just one up is fine. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. And, Keelan, we're going to read the first two items together, please. Items 678 and 679. 678, inform council of the city's efforts through the Bloomberg Philanthropies American Cities Climate Challenge. 679, direct the Portland Bureau of Transportation and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to form a dedicated task force to study and recommend both near and long-term strategies for pricing for equitable mobility. Colleagues, we're going to now hear a presentation from the joint effort from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Bureau of Transportation through the American Cities Climate Challenge. Portland was selected to take part in the Bloomberg Philanthropies American Cities Climate Challenge back in the fall of 2018. This is an unprecedented effort, empowering 25 of the largest U.S. cities to deliver America's pledge on climate action. As we all know, Portland is and has been a climate action leader, which is a source of great pride for our community. We've made great progress on reducing our carbon emissions, but the fact remains that we still have a lot more to do. Through the climate challenge, we have yet another opportunity to show cities around the country and the world how to lead on tackling the climate crisis. We're accelerating our efforts over the next two years with our participation in the challenge and embarking on an update of pioneer award-winning climate action planning. All of these actions support our work to reach 100% renewable energy economy and community by the year 2050. On July 17th, I'll testify in front of the Senate Democrats Special Committee on the Climate Crisis, alongside mayors from Atlanta, St. Paul, and Pittsburgh. I will relay much of the information we're about to hear about how Portland is leading the way in this space and call on the federal government to make more that helps, not hinders. city innovation and progress around carbon reduction. I'm bringing this today with Commissioner Udalli. I'd like to ask Commissioner Udalli to offer some opening remarks as well please. Thank you Mayor. Climate change is an issue of economic and racial injustice as well as an environmental crisis. Low-income residents and communities of color are disproportionately impacted by climate change. Communities who are already vulnerable due to economic injustices bear the brunt of climate disasters and do not have the resources to combat them. In this presentation, we will hear how PBOT and BPS's efforts through the climate challenge will support our commitment to advancing racial equity and transportation justice objectives. The transportation sector contributes 42% of our local carbon emissions, and while we have made progress overall on reducing carbon emissions, we are going the wrong direction on transportation. As the Commissioner in charge of PBOT, I am supportive of the bold transportation actions we'll hear about during this presentation. I think that's putting a little bit lightly. I might be behind some of it. These actions are not only critical to combating climate change, they're steps we must take to create a more equitable transportation system. There's a reason this is called a climate challenge. It pushes Portland to go further and faster and continue to be a leader on this issue. I know we're up for the challenge. And now I'd like to hand it over to PBOT Director Chris Warner, who will kick off the presentation. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Udaly, and thank you, other members of council, for the opportunity to present today. As Commissioner said, I'm Chris Warner. I'm the Director of the Bureau of Transportation. And the work of our two bureaus, we're working together to really undertake this process of the American... cities' climate challenge. As was mentioned, this is an unprecedented effort for our cities. In 2018, in the wake of the federal government's decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Agreement, Bloomberg Philanthropies created the American Cities Climate Challenge to empower cities to lead the way. Cities are the biggest contributor to climate change, accounting for more than 70% of global emissions. But cities are also key to solving the challenge of climate change and mitigating its effects. Cities are effective hubs of innovation and experimentation. And city governments are also uniquely positioned to take accelerated, impactful actions on carbon reduction efforts. The climate challenge supported with $70 million in funding from Bloomberg Philanthropies provides access to capacity building package of resources to augment and accelerate our near-term climate action efforts. And by participating in the challenge, we can go further, faster in our work to curb emissions. The 100 largest U.S. cities were invited to apply to the challenge. Portland was one of 25 cities selected to be part of this two-year effort, which runs to the end of 2020. The other cities are shown on the screen. Good afternoon. For the record, I'm Andrea Durbin, the Bureau Director for Planning and Sustainability. Thank you very much for having us here, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you. The climate challenge focuses on areas where cities can deliver the most impact, the transportation and building sectors. Most carbon emissions in the United States come from powering our homes, businesses, and in Portland, it's the same. Based on the latest figures, 42% of emissions in Multnomah County come from transportation, while building energy, broken into residential and commercial, accounts for 40% of the pie. The climate challenge focuses on impact and on action, providing cities resources to accelerate and augment our climate action efforts. The 25 cities combined will have a goal of reducing 40 million metric tons of CO2 by 2025. That would be equivalent to taking 8.5 million cars off the road or closing 10 coal-fired power plants. The climate change, the climate challenge coincides with our bureau's work to update Portland and Multnomah County's climate action plan in 2020. The initiatives and strategies we advance with climate challenge support will form the foundation for the building energy and transportation chapters of that updated plan. The climate challenge efforts will also support the city's commitment to advancing racial equity and transportation justice. Specifically by first, providing resources that enable us to better partner with and build the capacity of community-based organizations to deliver innovative climate solutions in a climate justice-centered way. And second, supporting technical analysis and modeling so we know who our investments impact, what barriers and choices Portlanders face when making transportation decisions, and how our climate action work improves equitable outcomes across the city. But before we dive into what we'll be doing through the Climate Challenge program, let's take a look at how we're doing in terms of carbon emissions. Overall, we've made progress over the last decades, and we're reducing emissions faster than the country as a whole. That said, our emissions have fluctuated over the last two years, and we need to quicken the pace of action to cut carbon pollution to meet our goals. Our Climate Action Plan has ambitious goals. By 2030, we're committed to reducing our emissions by 40% compared to 1990 levels. And by 2050, our current goal is to reduce carbon emissions by 80%. But we plan to recommend that this be updated to reflect the city's commitment of 100% renewables and calls from scientists that say that we need to reduce emissions by 100% below 1990 levels by 2050. You can see here how far we have to go to close these gaps. Again, we need to accelerate and go bigger on our actions to reduce carbon. This chart shows the trend across different sectors of Multnomah County between 2000 and 2017. As our population continues to grow and more and more people move through our region, our transportation emissions have actually increased, as you can see by the bars in the middle of this graph. In the last year alone, transportation emissions increased by 6.4%, and since 1990, they've increased by a total of 8%. To get back on the right track, we would have to reduce the amount that we drive alone to deal with carbon emissions. And the vehicles that remain on the road need to be fueled by electricity or other low-carbon fuels. So what do we get for participating in the climate challenge? All 25 cities get access to a network of partners to help build capacity, share information and resources, and engage in peer learning on how to accelerate carbon reduction efforts. Some of these partners are shown on the slide. Portland also receives deep dive tailored support to help with our specific goals. This would include technical planning and design consultation from Nelson Nygaard, the Rocky Mountain Institute, and the Natural Resources Defense Council. Behavioral nudging strategy and campaign development support from Ideas 42 to enhance transportation demand management around PBOT capital projects. Funding from the Energy Foundation to engage local community-based organizations in our conversations around pricing for equitable mobility and community renewables. And data governance from the Center for Government Excellence at Johns Hopkins University. A full-time climate advisor is also embedded at PBOT, funded by NRDC, to support program delivery, stakeholder engagement, in coordination with the broader climate challenge network. And now we'll talk specifically about the initiatives under the climate challenge. Our game plan encompasses several big moves and bright ideas that will move the needle on emissions in the building and transportation sectors. I will cover two of those. One, energy efficiency is the most cost-effective actions that we can take to reach our climate goals. We have an opportunity to significantly increase energy efficiency in buildings that the city owns and manages, save the city money, and use these cost savings to finance this program. With the help of the climate challenge, we're putting together an energy action plan for city buildings that will guide where we invest in energy efficiency at a much faster and deeper scale than we've attempted before. In 2017, the City Council established a goal to be 100% renewable, community and economy-wide, by 2050. Last fall, Mayor, you signed C40's net-zero carbon buildings declaration, which commits us to own and operate net-zero carbon municipal assets by 2030. Reducing energy use is a fundamental pillar of decarbonizing buildings and getting to 100% renewable. Without energy efficiency, we cannot meet our climate reduction goals. The City has been investing in energy efficiency since the 1990s through the Sustainable City Government Program, which directs bureaus to invest in any energy efficiency measures that have a 10-year payback or less. These efforts have saved us over $80 million since 1991. Peabot's LED street lighting project is a great example of this. However, investments in our building stock have lagged lately. We have a lot of energy efficiency savings potential and savings opportunities. Energy efficiency delivers multiple benefits and positive outcomes for the city aside from reducing carbon emissions. It saves us money, reduces maintenance costs, improves asset management, contributes to local jobs and opportunities for workforce development, and creates healthier buildings for people to work in. The Parks Bureau has created a great model of investing in energy efficiency for some of their buildings, which will save them millions in utility and maintenance costs over time. That work will inform our recommended plan. We expect to come back to City Council with the Energy Action Plan and subsequent funding proposals to move this work forward that relies on the cost savings to fund these investments. So more to come soon. The second area of focus for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability in this climate challenge is focused on community-based renewable energy, specifically community solar. Community solar is a collective effort to site, fund, and construct community-scale solar energy systems that benefit people who can't put solar on their own rooftops. We know that our renewable energy programs over the past have benefited mostly white homeowners. Community Solar offers a chance to expand access and benefits to people of color and low-income Portlanders, including reduced energy costs and creating jobs in this sector. Our climate challenge goal is to support the development of at least one community solar project in Portland that benefits low-income and communities of color by the end of 2020. We're working with several partners, including Verde, the Energy Foundation, and great alternatives for this pilot. The lessons from this project will also inform the work of the Portland Clean Energy Fund, which opens up the possibility of scaling community solar benefits across the city. As you know, the council adopted the Central City in Motion implementation plan in 2018. During the climate challenge period, we will be implementing four Central City in Motion projects. One is the Southwest Madison dedicated bus lane, which opened last month. A second will be the Northwest Everett dedicated bus lane, which will be coming next month. then the Burnside Bridge phase one we're working with Multnomah County will be a dedicated bus lane on coming this fall and then Burnside phase two which is a dedicated bus lane all the way to 12th Avenue on the east side that will be coming next fall. All the way to 12? All the way to 12. This is Central City in motion Commissioner. And the climate challenge resources will help us to improve and expand our communications around these projects, highlighting the climate action benefit and capitalizing on the improvements to encourage behavior among Portland commuters. We'll also work with climate challenge partners, specifically Nelson Nygaard, to learn from the Central City in Motion experience and inform the development of the Enhanced Transit Priority Network pilot, which you probably heard called the Red Lane or the Rose Lane project. On the bicycle side, we are advancing three Central City in Motion projects during the Climate Challenge window, Southwest Madison, Burnside Phases 1 and 2, as well as the advancing of the planning around the Better NATO permanent installation and adding dedicated bike lanes on Southwest 4th Avenue. Our Transportation Demand Management Team within PBOT Active Transportation and Safety implements a number of top-notch programs that encourages Portlanders to take transit, bike, or walk. This includes Smart Trips, the Transportation Wallet, and Sunday Parkways. Through the climate challenge, we will get focused, deep dive support from behavioral insights firm Ideas 42, who will help us develop new TDM tools and messages, test their effectiveness, and boost the impact of our existing and future TDM programs. We're also planning to pilot an HOV prioritization program that will incentivize multi-passenger trips in taxis and TNCs. Finally, the climate challenge resources will enable us to engage the local community partners in dialogue around pricing for equitable mobility. And you'll be hearing more from that in a little bit. But first, I would like to invite our partner from NRDC to say a few words on the climate challenge and how they are supporting our work. So there's Elizabeth right there. Here I am. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. Can you hear me okay? Not at all. All right. Is that better? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. I'm Elizabeth Stamp with NRDC, the Natural Resources Defense Council. I'm a city strategist with the American Cities Climate Challenge. I work with Portland as well as five other Western cities to help each city advance its climate goals. Portland, as you've heard, was chosen for its vision and its ambitious goals. We are enthusiastic in our support for what you're doing, for these actions that you've heard about, and also particularly I think in Portland for your thoughtful commitment and approach to equity and transportation justice as part of that work. We are also excited that you, Mayor Wheeler, will be going to Washington DC next week, along with mayors from three other climate challenge cities, to demonstrate Portland's leadership on climate on the national stage. Thank you. Thank you. I'm looking forward to that, too. So we are here to answer any questions you might have about this piece. We have a bunch of other folks from both of our bureaus here, if there's any specifics you want. And so we can have that dialogue, and then we'll talk about the value pricing. Okay. Ms. Shee Daly. Dr. Durbin, could you elaborate a little bit on what a community solar project would look like? Maybe everyone in the room knows what it would look like, but perhaps viewers at home do not, because I think it's a little more exciting than... than what it sounds like. And what I just said. What I just said. Yes. No, no. That's okay. Oh, nice. No, no. Of course. Than what the term sounds like. Yes, of course. So, the community solar program is a way for if you don't have your own home, it isn't well positioned for solar, you can benefit from solar being placed in another place where it is available for solar and you can directly benefit from the reduced cost savings because you can participate in a broader program. There are opportunities to really scale solar in communities, broader communities, and really thinking about ways to build resilience for communities as well and being dependent on the shift away from fossil fuel dependency towards renewables. Community solar, I think, can really play an important role in providing that resilience and independence for communities to rely on solar power. So the actual equipment would be sited on one or more buildings, but it could serve dozens of households? It can serve many households, multiple households, depending on the size of, yes. And community and kind of a neighborhood kind of focus as well. Great. Thank you. I have a question. The chart that you showed us, Andrea, on Multnomah County carbon emissions, I was struck by the fact that wastewater treatment is listed, but it's listed at zero. So why is it listed and assuming that it's slightly more than zero, what are we talking about? That is a good question. I don't know if my staff in the room have an answer to that question or not. The, I think it's probably listed as zero so it probably doesn't rank enough to categorize it here, but Well, I mean, I have the BES in my portfolio. Yes, you do. I was just curious, since it called out wastewater treatment, but was it zero? And we're thinking about ways of reducing our carbon footprint, and we're already at zero. So you're good. Okay. Quit branding wells. You're 0.8 maybe. I don't need an answer today, but I'd be interested in just knowing why is it called out? Why are we at zero? And assuming that it's rounded down to zero, why? What is the remaining challenge that you've identified? We'll follow up with you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much. Commissioner Hardesty. COMMISSIONER HARDESTY. COMMISSIONER HARDESTY. THANK YOU, MAYOR. THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THE PRESENTATION. I JUST HAD A COUPLE OF QUICK QUESTIONS RIGHT OFF THE BAT. ON YOUR PAGE WHERE YOU LIST YOUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS, YOU HAVE LISTED FOURTH EMPOWERING MOBILITY, WHICH IS THE ELECTRIC AUTO COMPANY AND SEI AS PARTNERS IN THIS EFFORT. WHAT DO THOSE TWO BRING TO THIS EFFORT? those two organizations bring to this effort? Yeah, I can certainly talk about fourth. I think SEI is not the SEI that we're thinking of. I can talk about SEI. Oh, is that another SEI? Yeah, we did. I see what happens when you use acronyms. Told you guys, right? All right, yes, I'd love to know what SEI stands for. I'm not sure I can tell you what SEI stands for. Stockholm Energy Institute. Thank you. Stockholm Energy Institute. Thank you, Emma. Thank you. I can tell you their role, which is they're doing the modeling that's calculating the emissions reductions from the different actions. Thank you. I think that's an important, you know, the acronyms make me crazy around here because we do that a lot. But it's a good reminder that because immediately I had self-enhancement ink in mind when I read SEI, so that was my assumption. So thank you. Thank you. And I believe, fourth, when we're dealing with electrification of the transportation system, I think they're a great partner with us in terms of bringing their expertise and their values and their abilities to the table. I used to participate in their meetings before I ended up here. And I agree, I think that they could be a good partner, but the state passed a law to make it easier for low income people to buy electric cars and we spent no money. They met for at least a year and a half trying to figure out how they could partner with community-based organizations. So, you know, we have resources available that we haven't tapped into. How are we going to make them spend that money in low-income communities? I don't know. I saw the article in the paper this morning, and hopefully they are – Hopefully they are making progress in terms, I think there was some hesitation in terms of the lawsuit by the auto dealers in terms of whether or not they would implement it. But it seems to me that they do have a contractor on board that can start with that program. But I think you're right that there is, we'd love to get that program moving quicker. Me too. Especially out in East Portland where, you know, we need help. Mayor, Chris, since you're here on the Bloomberg app on my phone today, I saw an announcement by Uber, presumably Lyft is going to follow, saying that within the next five years, they want to have a fleet that is completely automated and without any operator in their cars. Right. I'm assuming that we're not as a city party to any such discussions with TNCs currently. And at some point in the future, if that does become the new business model, That would come to council for robust discussion about whether that's something we want to see here? Oh, absolutely. I think we've talked about doing some possible testing, but not with Uber or Lyft. I think there are some other companies that might be interested in testing. But, yeah, no, I think that's a long ways off in terms of, and we would, we are very, very anxious to make sure that we're not, number one, preempted by the state, but two, that our values are reflected in any kind of work that any TNCs would do in the city. So we would be very, very... hesitant to endorse any kind of effort. And that would include a pilot, right? Any conversation about a pilot would first come to council for discussion? It could. We haven't gotten that far. It could or would. Would you like it to? I would like to put a marker down that even a pilot would come to council for discussion. Because I know we have to put the infrastructure in with these TNCs and I just think we're opening up a Pandora's box that we need to have a conversation about. I guess I want to clarify, a pilot with TNCs would definitely be something, but just if any other pilot just on automated vehicles, would you like that to come to council? I think so. Okay. Anything that doesn't involve a driver in a vehicle in my neighborhood. Okay. I'd like to have a chance to learn more about it and why we're confident. that we can meet certain safety standards. And given the behavior of the TNCs in the last legislative session where they worked overtime to try to preempt the city of Portland from doing even modest regulations of that industry, that was not a confidence-building measure for me. I think we've taken notes. Yeah, I'm taking notes on that one. Yeah, I mean, it wasn't a confidence building measure for me either, but they failed. Yeah. Yeah, but. They are resilient. They'll come back. They will be back. They will be back. Yes. So am I. Now I have. I think we do have one more question. You mentioned something about the solar project. And I just wanted to, for the public record, remind people that the Portland Clean Energy Fund initiative really will be driven by the community proposals and not by what government thinks would be a really cool thing to do. Right? So I don't want to leave the perception that somehow we're going to take this fund and we're going to put solar all over the city of Portland because that's not, in fact, what this fund is about. So I just wanted to correct that for the public record. Thank you. Okay. I'm back. Okay. Okay. Very good. Super. So I would love to talk about the pricing for equitable mobility. I'd like Noah Siegel and Shoshana Cohen from PBOT to come up, and we can have a conversation on that. Thank you, counsel. Thanks a lot. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you. I'm Shoshana Cohen. Sorry, a little close. I'm the Mobility and Government Affairs Manager in PBOT's Office of the Director, and I appreciate your time today. As Director Warner just said, we're going to switch gears and begin to talk about pricing for equitable mobility. So as we begin, first, why are we here? Why are we bringing a resolution on pricing for equitable mobility as part of this discussion today? This is really the next stage of work that began back in November 2017. At that time, City Council asked PBOT and BPS to begin to consider congestion pricing, also sometimes known as pricing for mobility or even value pricing. We're not sure of the exact name yet. Specifically, we were asked at that time to work with ODOT and their pricing project on I-5 and I-205 and advocate for a pricing project that supports demand management and a project that is designed to help improve equity, climate, and safety outcomes. This request to work with ODOT was driven by the fact that the city's Central City 2035 plan pairs the Rose Quarter Improvement Project with pricing along I-5. And these things were paired in the plan to ensure that any design improvements were coupled with policies to use space as efficiently as possible by managing demand and prevent future costly major expansions. The second part of the 2017 resolution was to begin to more broadly consider how congestion pricing can be used as a congestion management tool to help us deliver on our wider transportation system goals. And we were asked at that time to report back to Council, and so here we are. So before we go into details about what we've been doing and what we've learned, we do want to revisit briefly sort of why are we even considering congestion pricing. Put simply, people don't like congestion. The chart here is from a 2019 ODOT survey on transportation needs and attitudes. And when asked how serious is traffic congestion in your area, 76% of Portland survey respondents said that it was either very serious or somewhat serious. Portlanders think congestion is a problem. Not only is congestion a problem right now, but it's a growing problem. The region is expected to grow by 500,000 people by 2040. And as the population grows, so will our congestion problem. Put sort of simply, more people and more cars equals more misery for those stuck in congestion or those experiencing the negative impacts of congestion. And congestion does bring with it very significant problems. It amounts to a hidden tax, or really you could think of it as multiple taxes. There are economic costs to businesses and families for fuel, vehicle maintenance, and lost time. It brings health problems that are caused by long commutes and poor air quality. And, of course, there are climate impacts. As you just heard already, about 42% of carbon emissions in Multnomah County come from the transportation sector. And transportation is trending in the wrong direction. Greenhouse gas emissions have increased 8% since 1990. And all of the discussion about our various climate initiatives today is because there's urgency to this work. In Oregon, we're already experiencing the effects of the climate crisis in the form of more extreme weather and forest fires. The status quo and the impacts of congestion are also inequitable. The median family income of Portland area car commuters is about 73%, while that of bike and walk commuters is about 42,000. Sorry, I said 73%, 73,000. While that of bike and walk commuters is about 42,000 and transit riders is 44,700. And communities of color are more transit dependent in Portland. Non-white Portlanders make up only 22% of drive-alone commuters, but 36% of transit commuters. We know that some low income Portlanders have been displaced to the edges of the city, giving them longer commutes. Yet as of 2015, almost 31% of black households in Portland did not have access to a vehicle versus just under 14% of white households. And average commute times for black commuters are 20% longer than white commuters. Excuse me, is that national data or is that local? Portland. I think it's based on 2015 from PolicyLink National Equity Atlas, but it's City of Portland specific. Thank you. And as the picture on your screens here demonstrates, currently buses are by and large riding in the same lanes as car traffic. We mentioned the Rose Lane projects and other projects we are intending to do to move them out of traffic, but still in many cases buses are getting stuck in traffic behind the single occupancy vehicles and the people on the buses are having problems of congestion and not causing them. And lastly, for those that do drive, it's expensive. Most transportation funding sources, like the fuels tax and the vehicle registration fee, are regressive. Transportation is often the second highest household expense. And as transportation costs rise, lower income people have to spend proportionally more of their income on transportation. Transportation is also in the midst of big changes and disruption, and possibly more. We have the private-for-hire industry, TNCs, Uber, and Lyft, have recently entered our city. They're talking about things like autonomous vehicles. And the maps that you're looking at here are maps of private-for-hire rides in rush hours. These include Lyft, Uber, and also the taxi industry rides. And on the left, this shows the origins of rides that terminate in the central city. And the yellow areas are the places with the most rides. So what we're seeing here are that there are many short rides during peak hours, which are happening in close-in areas with a variety of transportation options. And then the right shows a similar pattern. It's true for rides that are leaving the central city during rush hour. Many are going just short distances in transportation-rich areas. So it's clear that congestion causes many problems, but why do we think we need to consider pricing as one of the solutions? The answer is really because everything else we're doing is simply not enough. As a city, we have many ambitious planned projects and strategies to relieve congestion and help people get where they need to go, both people and goods. We're constantly working to provide better facilities and options for people to take transit, to walk, to bike. And we're not alone in this work. The regional transportation plan lays out almost 15 billion worth of planned transportation system investments by 2040. Yet modeling shows that even with all of these investments, vehicle hours of delay are still expected to go up by 120% by 2027. In other words, the status quo is not really an option, and we need to consider new tools like pricing if we want to more effectively relieve congestion and increase mobility for all of us. So back to 2017 and what we've been doing since you first asked us to consider pricing. First, the City of Portland did participate in the ODOT Portland Metro Area Value Pricing Advisory Committee. We advocated during that process for City of Portland values within the process, and we're pleased that the first phase of the project finished with an application to the Federal Highway Administration that reflected a commitment to continue analysis of equity impacts and solutions, transit needs, and diversion. We've also engaged in pure city learning, both directly with other cities and with a variety of national and international associations. We've learned from international cities like London and Stockholm who have implemented congestion pricing. And we've also learned from a variety of North American cities who, like us, are grappling with congestion and the negative impacts and thinking about how congestion pricing may be a solution to improve mobility, climate, and equity outcomes. And we have really focused in on questions of pricing and equity. We know that pricing can work from a demand management perspective. The question is, can it also be a tool to deliver more equitable transportation outcomes? And Noah is going to continue to share more detail about what we've learned. Thank you, Shoshana. I'm Noah Siegel, the Interim Deputy Director of PBOT. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. So during this time of our study and partnerships with other cities and organizations such as the American Cities Climate Challenge. What have we learned? So on this graph on slide 12, this is actually a pullout from the recent Seattle congestion pricing report. We're working very closely and sort of in tandem with them. You see, number one, that pricing really works, that congestion pricing in the cities listed here, such as Stockholm, London, Singapore, New And others have delivered a significant reduction in single occupancy vehicle trips, motor vehicle trips in general, significant reduction in greenhouse gases. Time saved for people to be with their families, to get more work done. And quite a bit of revenue as well is generated through this. So just on a technical level, pricing really works. Noah, can I ask you a question? Earlier in our PowerPoint, it says we're poised to invest almost $15 billion in our transportation system by 2040. And so that's a big number, and I know there's some variables in that. But actually what struck me is that the net annual revenue is pretty modest compared to the needs of our system. But rather than look at it just in terms of the number, I'd be interested to know in any of these peer cities, what did they do with that net revenue? Yeah, I'm going to touch on that in a little bit. They invested in something related to the problem. That's right. And I'd just be curious what kinds of investments they made. Yeah, I'd love to share that with you. I think, first of all, just on the first point that you made, that number, the $15 billion, is from the regional transportation plan. So that covers the entire region, including ODOT investments, TriMed investments, within, I believe, the financially constrained region. forecast for the region. So that's well beyond the city of Portland, and it covers all kinds of modes. So the amounts that are generated here look largely at central city area-based pricing, cordons around downtowns, and heavily congested areas. So just to sort of put that in context, these are annual numbers too, by the way. And on the question of what have other cities done with their revenue, just trying to think. It's two slides ahead. Can you hang in there with me? Are you going to preempt you? The second thing we learned, I just wanted to, this is sort of an important figure, which is that small changes really matter. So when our recession hit in 2008 and fewer people were, unfortunately fewer people were driving to work. The number of vehicles and trips on the road declined 3%, but the measures of congestion as a result dropped 30%. And it sounds counterintuitive, but if you've been on the roads during spring break for school and a certain number of drivers are pulled off the road, the effects are exponential. So it's not about pulling everybody off the road. It's really the small changes in behavior, the trips avoided, make a huge difference. It's an important fact. The other... lesson that we learned getting to your point Commissioner Fish is that the link to transit is really critical and where this has happened there's been dramatic investment in transit across the board and that connection is is really vital because it you know, you don't it it To be successful, you can't just frame it in terms of the punitive effects of, you know, you can't drive, you have to pay more. It's really about freeing people from sitting in traffic in their cars and giving other options. So, for instance, in London, about 90% of the revenue went to transit expansion and service. In Oslo, they recently shifted to 100% of revenue going to support transit revenue. in LA. The head of the Metro LA has talked about congestion pricing making transit free in LA. These are some of the proposals and ideas and uses of the revenue that have come in. We do have an obstacle in this respect and that the Oregon Constitution prohibits the use of revenues generated from the road on non-roadway improvements, such as transit operations. That's an obstacle that we know about and need to wrestle with. There may be solutions to that going forward, but it's there. In addition, by the way, there's also the question what you do with the revenue also can be a question of exemptions and assistance to low income. We'll talk about that in a little bit. So once you've generated that value, there's a question of what do you do with it and what's important to you. Some cities have exempted, for instance, electric vehicles from the pricing scheme because they prioritize clean vehicles. Others have put it towards low income support. So there's a question of you generate the value and then where do you put it? We also have learned that every place is unique, and the political economy, the goals of each place really matter, and understanding what drives a place to make what is a very difficult solution is really critical to moving forward, and that's how we're arriving at our framing here today. So the picture you see here is the alliance that was put together in New York, between safety advocates, union workers, environmentalists, really about saving the MTA, the subway system in New York, that's been driving the congestion pricing plans there. Madrid was focused on cutting air pollution, and Seattle has really been focused on its climate goals as the motivating factor. So it's different in each place. And we really want to acknowledge the specific challenges in Portland in looking at this. So we want to be ambitious but also thoughtful about how we do this. So unlike in other cities, many of our commuters into downtown are not wealthy. For instance, San Francisco and New York have about 2% to 3% of low-income people going into downtown ever by car. It makes sense. The parking is exorbitant. Why would you do it? Here, it's much higher, closer to 10%, and then an additional good chunk of over 40% would be median income. So it's not as clear-cut here. People who's going into downtown also, as mentioned before, gentrification and displacement, place additional burdens on low-income people, people of color coming into the city. And I just think it's important to be honest, too, that for many, many people, cars represent the solution to their immediate crises. And we heard this directly from community groups we met with, that the climate crisis is real, it's important, but the daily crisis of getting to work, getting to child care, solving those problems is what people are dealing with. And for many of those people, cars are the solution right now. So that's our starting place, and we need to be honest about that. We also want to acknowledge that it's politically hard. This guy, Boris Johnson, who's probably going to become the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom this week, started his career in running for Mayor of London in opposition to congestion pricing. There was a major backlash against it. So it's politically difficult and at the same time I would point out that he never removed the congestion pricing once he came into office. It worked well and he didn't change it. In addition, Stockholm before they adopted had only 30% support for the project. After it was adopted they had 70% support for it and according to that same DHM poll We start off in a better place. Portlanders are about 50-50 in support of congestion pricing out of the gate. So, you know, it's a difficult subject but not impossible. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Is that across the board? Is that based on community? You said Portlanders are about 50-50? in support of congestion policy? No, that's... I mean, you mean like broken down into demographics? I mean, demographically, low-income people think this is a really cool thing, people of color think it's a cool thing, or is that just a generic 50%? That's generic. I don't have the crosstabs, but that's the kind of thing we really need to dig into as well. Right. Because I would suggest that different communities would have a different answer to that question. Yeah, that may be. I mean, I think that... Again, focusing on, yeah, I mean, it's not easy. That's definitely part of the struggle with this, and keeping that in mind, that's absolutely right. Yeah, Commissioner? I was just going to say, yeah. They may have different opinions, but congestion and climate change has a pretty similar effect on all of us. So I think it's incumbent upon us to convey to the public that we have really limited options to solving for these problems. And one of the things that I'm excited about with this challenge is that we're going to get a chance to show the public that, like the Roseland Project, for instance— is one piece of the overall strategy. We can't just give priority bus lanes. We have to improve our overall system. We have to solve for racial equity, accessibility, etc. I mentioned in our meeting yesterday, I think it was yesterday, I'm not sure what day it is anymore, that with very few exceptions, I agree with all the criticisms and fears I'm hearing about the Rose Lane project. I also have an answer for almost all of them. But they are legitimate concerns given the current conditions on the ground. So, Noah where are you in your presentation? Because I'll probably save the rest of my comments for... We're about two-thirds of the way through. If I may, Mayor. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you for that statement, Commissioner Udalli. And my comments are really about doing it right as compared to just doing it. Because we have too many examples of saying that we're going to protect low income people and communities that have been marginalized and pushed to the edges of our city. And at the end of the day, that is not a reality. And so I'm looking forward to working with your office and with the Department of Transportation and others to make sure that if we roll out a congestion pricing program that we have the best one possible that absolutely protects low income people and those who've been pushed to the edges of our city. I think it would be criminal to charge people for the privilege of coming back to a city they've been pushed out of and I would not support something that did that later. It has to be done at the front end and not the back end. Well, Commissioner I certainly agree with you and I want to note that this initiative is not called congestion pricing, it's called pricing for equitable mobility and racial justice is at the heart of our efforts here. I know but we say that so often. Okay, well I'm saying it. I hear you but I'm telling you at the end of the day it has to be at the beginning and not at the back end. That's exactly right. You know what, before I just lose one thought, I want to, and with my luck, it's going to be two slides forward. So let me just flag it. I mean, one way of looking at this is that we charge people a little more to change their behavior so they don't contribute to congestion. Another way of looking at this problem is working with our employers to, to create flexible work schedules so that people are not required to go to work during peak times. The city, for example, could be the leader in saying, you don't have to get in the queue with your car during the peak congestion periods. We'll give you some flexibility. Are we coupling... our work on congestion pricing with thinking about ways of being a leader as a governmental entity and working with our private employers to create some more flexibility in scheduling? Yeah, I think – The next slide. Thank you for the lead-in. Just following on what you were saying, Commissioner Hardesty, I actually, you know, when we took this charge in 2017 and we went back, I think the traditional path that we've seen a lot of other cities take is to write up sort of glossy technical reports and to pull in consultants and start with why this is good for everyone. And they're not wrong. I mean, on a pure policy basis, this really is the only solution long-term to congestion. And you can come to that solution, that decision tomorrow or in 15 years, but it will remain true. how you get there is probably more important than what the solution is. And we've seen many, many more cities try and fail to implement this than those that have succeeded. So we went back and asked ourselves, what would success look like in a Portland context? And what we did, Commissioner Fish, was we actually took a giant step back. And this was right when I had the pleasure of joining PBOT about a year ago. And we said we actually need to rethink our entire strategic plan. So to just run out in front and say it's time to price everyone, that's not really what we're talking about. We're talking about a holistic approach. to how we grow as a city together and how we do that fairly. So we have launched actually today, it's going live digitally, our new PBOT strategic plan. So we look at safety, which you've heard about in other presentations. Our asset management and then moving people and goods which we look at as a suite of solutions that include building new things. Southwest Corridor light rail for instance is something that's come before you. So division transit, these are things that we're building out, that's an important part of the solution. Reallocating right of way such as the Rose Lane project. And then how we do price signals, both positive and negative. So that includes working with employers, Commissioner Fish. We're having a big program effort to reach out this year to start working with employers. So, yes, it's the positive and the negative price signals and incentives that we want to work on together. And I will say that our starting place is actually entirely regressive. We still have a federal tax subsidy for corporate parking spaces in downtown Portland. So we are encouraging people to drive alone to court. to businesses. That's our starting place. So how we start to work with employers to move away from that and think about who needs these trips the most, and how do we work to use our limited road space the most effectively that we can. And I just want to note, the driving questions between every solution in that strategic plan are how will this advance racial equity, and how will this impact climate change? Thanks. Next. Jump to the next slide then. Yeah. That's right. We ran our entire, including this pricing effort through those two questions. And so again, Commissioner Hardesty, we came to the decision here that what we're doing is not trying to price, to implement congestion pricing. We're trying to get the right price signals in place to make our transportation system more equitable. So what are we talking about? There are a number of different kinds of congestion pricing, which we'll touch on. You see pictures here that represent it. There's... The cat wrapping. Traditional freeway tolling. There's our parking kitty cat wrapper. You can do congestion pricing. San Francisco is looking at doing this through dynamic parking. The airport does a form of congestion pricing with Uber and Lyft currently. So L.A. has a lot of toll roads. Is that technically congestion pricing? It's on the continuum. I mean, I think that the toll roads are often implemented to gather revenue to build more roads, right? And so once you have the tolling, yes, you can manage demand on those roads. But, yes. Well, I was in L.A. recently, and I noticed that there was a box on my rent-a-car. And I would have been charged had I moved four lanes out to get on the high-speed lanes. They were largely empty, actually, as I was stuck in traffic. But is that a kind of congestion pricing? That's the kind of congestion pricing that's most familiar to Americans, which is what has sometimes been called Lexus lanes. So you get the privilege of going faster if you pay. So build out another road or reallocate an HOV lane. That's a form of congestion pricing. We... have not looked at that in Portland because we don't have the extra freeway space that some of those cities do to reallocate. And actually, it's not really what we're after. At the end of the day, we're after managing the entire system, and that's how ODOT and their advisory committee arrived at those two pilot projects. But yes, that is a form of, there's a limited supply of expedited road space at Express Lane, and you price it. So, and then there are cordons around cities, sort of circles around cities for entry, with an entry fee. And finally, sort of more futuristic ideas about pricing per mile or road user charges, which may be particularly applicable as we enter into the age of autonomous vehicles. So in terms of what we're doing, I'll hand it back to Shoshana. So moving forward, we are sort of grouping all of those different types into three buckets of pricing policies. And again, with each of these types, the question is how could they be implemented in a way that actually increases equitable mobility? The three groupings that you see here are based on who is in the position to deliver or implement these policies. So the first type are options for high congested areas within the city of Portland and under city of Portland control. The next grouping is the ongoing work that ODOT is leading to consider how pricing can be used on I-5 and I-205. And finally, there are sort of larger interjurisdictional potential pricing policies, and Metro is leading this work to begin technical analysis and consider larger system-wide pricing. Just one question. Under any one of these types, 1, 2, or 3, is there a permission that we need to have from the federal government Well, it varies. And so for things, and we're going to talk a little bit more in the next slides, for city of Portland-only things, we're really talking about things like variable parking, demand-based parking. We have control over that. The freeway pricing, there is a permission needed from the federal government. ODOT has already submitted an application to the Federal Highway Administration and received sort of tentative permission or permission to move forward. The state of Oregon is... has a position in what's called the Value Pricing Pilot Program. So we do need to work with the federal government on the federal facilities. But then there are things that are within our control as well. Thank you. Just a point of interest, we have asked Mayor Wheeler to deliver in his trip to Washington the message that if the federal government is neither going to pay for our infrastructure nor address our climate crisis, they should at least remove the prohibitions on us from managing the freeway system that runs through our city. Thank you. The last time someone was that undiplomatic, they lost their job in London. So I just want you to know that you, why don't we send Noah to deliver that message? No, I intend to deliver it myself. They're eagerly waiting it. So again, within City of Portland Control, we really want to look at how we are allocating the space within our right-of-way and consider how we're valuing the space and getting the most efficient use out of it. So again, we could consider more demand-based variable parking pricing or consider more private-for-hire fleet management pricing policies or how we prioritize and price high-occupancy vehicles on City of Portland streets. I have a question about the... the like Uber and Lyft kind of services, we could also regulate them to ensure that they're not clogging up our roads during key hours. Right. And are we looking at that as part of this whole thing? what makes sense, right? Because I don't know that if we've got people driving two miles or three miles somewhere that that's really helpful, right, as we're looking at the amount of cars that are currently on the road. So as part of this process, those are also things we can look at. Excellent. Yes, definitely. So, yes, we will consider all of those sort of city of Portland things under our control. And I just want to put a time check out. It's 3 o'clock and I'm just looking at where we are on the agenda. So quickly, the second body is to continue engaging with ODOT on their project and continue advocating for City of Portland priorities, including making sure that it doesn't harm historically underserved communities, cause diversion, and we're thinking carefully about the associated transit needs. And then this resolution before you today also directs us to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with Metro. Again, they are going to be undertaking a project to do the technical analysis, to understand the feasibility and effects of different congestion pricing tools in the region. These are mostly larger tools, you know, a potential cordon, more robust freeway pricing or, a future sort of road user charge where pricing would be based on the vehicle miles that you travel. These are long-term strategies that are going to take a lot of thought and work, but we're excited to be partnering with Metro to get them started. You know, New York is moving forward after at least 10 years of considering pricing, so we need to get going. Yeah. And so we've been saying we want to think about how we can actually price to increase equitable mobility. What does that really mean? Based on what we've learned over the last year, we think that the answer is in a couple of things. One is how you spend the revenue and how you really very carefully design a particular pricing system. Revenue, again, as Noah mentioned, is most often linked to transit service improvements or potentially fare discounts. It could also be used for better infrastructure for walking, biking, and transit, especially with a focus on historically underserved areas. In designing the system for equity, the first thing we want to do is make sure to involve our equity stakeholders in design choices. We would want to consider particular geographies and rates carefully, provide discounts and exemptions on the fee for some drivers, potentially cash payment options, and prioritize emission reductions and other benefits for lower income communities. And basically for any particular project, we need to ask who's benefiting and who's being burdened, and also who's benefiting and being burdened by the status quo. So we know that we have a lot of work. We're just beginning and want to consider these topics, but we have a lot of work to do to get it right. So what we're really – the resolution before you today is asking to convene a pricing for equitable mobility task force to engage in this work with us. We want to bring together a range of stakeholders to continue to study pricing options with us, and we want to really center equity voices in this task force. We are excited to be partnering with the Climate Challenge and their resources to partner with OPAL, as well as some other sort of known transportation justice leaders in the community, and setting up this task force to report directly to the directors of PBOT and BPS, And just bring the task force along with us in thinking about all of these, the three types of pricing that we just described. And really helping advise in the work moving forward in a way that works specifically within the Portland context. The timing of the work that we're talking about is we're hoping to convene this task force this fall, get started as soon as possible, and looking to them to provide a first near-term set of recommendations by next summer, and then with a final set of recommendations to City Council in spring 2020. That's it. We have some invited testimony, and we're also happy to take. Very good. Any questions before we bring up the invited testimony? Great presentation. Appreciate it very much. Thank you. So I'm going to call people up for invited testimony. Please come up when your name is called and state your name for the record. Because we are in a bit of a time crunch, try to keep it real neat, tidy, and concise. So I want to invite Carrie Ayers Palanek from TriMet, A.D. Leverett from Business for a Better Portland, and Jillian Detweiler from the Street Trust as our first guest. invited Gus. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Please begin. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. I'm Carrie Ayers Palahniuk, the Director of Planning and Policy from TriMet. I'm happy to be here today in support of the city's efforts to enhance transit in the central city and support the Rose Lanes project and the study of pricing for equitable mobility. TriMet is excited to support the advanced thinking underway as part of the climate challenge, especially as it relates to enhanced public transit. For the Rose Lane project, we appreciate the focus on near-term projects to have in place by the end of 2020, including over a mile and a half of bus-only lanes in the central city and kicking off the Rose Lanes project. In addition, we are also excited that the TriMet board has committed to move forward on a non-diesel bus fleet by 2040, By the end of this year, TriMet will have five battery electric buses on site and another five on order. For the pricing of equitable mobility, we are eager to be at the table to begin the community conversations. It is crucial that we continue to work together to move our bus and streetcar passengers through or around traffic congestion to reduce transit delay, improve transit reliability, and improve and expand access for our transit riders to move around their communities. Reallocation of roadway space where one or more than one frequent service bus line travels is crucial to increase transit ridership. And to meet our transit mode share goals within the city of Portland and in the greater metro region. These opportunities in front of us are crucial to highlight how high ridership transit is the most efficient, equitable, and sustainable way to move people. We also need to amplify our messaging and awareness to make sure riders see these changes on the ground to help them reach their destinations in a timely manner. TriMet is excited and ready to work with the City of Portland on these efforts as we tackle ways that the transportation sector can reduce levels of emissions and improve our community together through the Climate Challenge and Rose Lanes projects. Many of our frequent service lines are great candidate locations for Rose Lanes in order to further build upon the investments in service that we have in place through the frequent transit network. Thank you and we look forward to continuing our work together. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Jillian Detweiler, Executive Director of the Street Trust. We're advocates for safe and convenient walking, biking, and public transportation. Everyone, regardless of race or income, should have safe, easy, and affordable transportation options. We were at the legislature calling for congestion pricing. We believe congestion pricing on the freeways needs to happen before freeways are expanded. And we were here in November 2017 when most of the council members sitting here today, except for Commissioner Hardesty, expressed an intention to study pricing as a way to manage transportation demand. We're here in support of today's resolution to create a task force and contract with Metro to study pricing options to manage demand on our transportation system. In the face of a climate crisis, as well as the immediate term impacts of growth and displacement, we need to consider all the tools and strategies available to make our transportation system work better for people and the environment. Taking a deliberate look at pricing strategies to manage demand is an important piece of work. We especially appreciate the city's intent to think broadly about forms of pricing that might be considered beyond tolling. The task force will need to understand who pays now and how low-income households are impacted by our existing pricing schemes. A 2015 study found the subsidy of car users cost the typical American household $1,100 per year, over and above what they're paying for gas, gas taxes, tolls, and other user fees. The task force should also attempt to understand how transportation investments funded by user fees can benefit low income households by lowering transportation costs and reducing the amount of time trapped in traffic. Finally, the task force should compare pricing schemes to regulatory approaches. Pricing should not be a tool that allows people with money to continue business as usual, while those of lesser means make the changes we need to make to address climate change and congestion. Options need to reduce unfair burden that low income and communities of color have historically faced in transportation funding decisions. The city needs to provide the resources needed for organizations representing low-income people and people of color to have capacity to fully participate in the task force and engage their stakeholders in the process. It's taken 20 months to get to today's recommendation of forming a task force. And so we urge the council and the commissioner in charge to commit to ensuring that benchmarks are met leading up to a final report in the spring of 2021. This can't wait. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Good afternoon. My name is Aidy Leverett. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today. I'm here on behalf of Business for a Better Portland to complain to you guys about traffic. It's pretty bad, and it's only getting worse. I remember when it used to take only 15 minutes in a car to get pretty much anywhere in town. Now commutes are long and unreliable, freight moves through the region at a snail's pace, and you never know when your day is going to be brought to a grinding halt on the road. But while traffic might be everybody's favorite problem to complain about, with so many cultural and financial incentives that encourage us to drive, the solutions aren't immediately clear. But this idea of congestion pricing has gotten a lot of attention across the country lately. Of course, if you mention tolling as a solution to traffic, the reaction isn't typically enthusiastic. Nobody gets excited about paying for something that used to be free. But it's really time to take into account the severe toll that worsening traffic is already exacting on our city and our businesses. I'm not just talking about inconvenience. I'm talking about the huge societal costs associated with our clogged roads. These costs include the negative economic impacts of lost time, the negative health impacts of sedentary lifestyles and air pollution, and the negative climate impacts of greenhouse gas emissions. Even worse, these burdens are not distributed equitably throughout society. Low-income and communities of color suffer to a disproportionate degree because they typically can't afford to live close to where they work and are therefore forced to travel greater distances. Negative impacts in any one of these categories should be of grave concern to this council, and the fact that there is a single issue that's causing such widespread problems means that bold action is required. Implementing some form of value or congestion pricing in Portland as part of a comprehensive strategy that includes infrastructure improvements and significant investment in transit service is the kind of bold action that could really make a difference. Value pricing can take many forms and has the potential to create unintended consequences, however, so it's paramount that we study the options carefully and find meaningful ways to compensate for regressive impacts. For congestion pricing to be successful and equitable, people need to have reliable, affordable alternatives to driving. What is clear is that we cannot afford not to act. Other metropolitan areas provide cautionary tales for what can happen when growth outpaces transportation innovation. But we don't need to make those same mistakes. We know from other cities around the world that growth and mobility don't have to be at odds with each other when the system is designed to prioritize active transportation and public transit. Business for a Better Portland believes that business thrives when Portland thrives. Neither business nor Portland can thrive in gridlock. We must carefully consider every tool at our disposal to reduce congestion in our region, with particular attention toward reducing single occupancy vehicle use, improving the quality and reliability of public transit, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and ensuring that we're creating economic opportunities rather than economic burdens for low-income Portlanders and people of color. Thank you very much, Heidi. Thanks to all three of you. All right, next up we have Maria Hernandez from OPPO Environmental Justice Oregon, John Isaacs from Portland Business Alliance, Sarah Wright from the Oregon Environmental Council. And I'm going to go ahead and call up Phil Wu, retired pediatrician from Kaiser Permanente and vice chair of the Oregon Environmental Council Board, and just invite you to pull up a fourth chair from the gallery. Thank you. Welcome, and please make sure and state your name for the record. Thank you and good afternoon. For the record, my name is Maria Hernandez Segoviano, Advocacy and Policy Manager at Opal Environmental Justice Oregon. Environmental justice acknowledges that the quality of our environmental impacts affects our lives, and the negative environmental impacts shall not disproportionately burden low-income or other impacted communities. While understanding that even a well-designed value congestion pricing, or any pricing for that matter, can be less burdensome to low-income communities if planned accordingly and if those same communities can be brought in mind, we need to be carefully considering what does that look like and how does that process move forward. Therefore, we are here in support of Resolution 678-7-79, pricing for equitable mobility, because we know key questions must be asked first to those first and worst impacted by the same issues such as transportation or for a better framing, lack of access of transportation mobility. Initiating conversations around a co-created congestion or in general pricing mechanisms needs to be co-created with community. We also understand that as an example, congestion pricing can indeed be a good funding source for aging transportation infrastructure and public transit alternatives. And of course to reduce congestion and more importantly bring other outcomes such as climate benefits to our communities at the same time. However, we must ask the question about who benefits the most and to whom and where the burdens are placed needed in order to provide a robust equity analysis to view the potential unintended consequences, as already mentioned by a couple of other testimonies and some of you commissioners as well. It is important to note that as we continue with this conversation, we must also understand what are the current barriers in place for our communities before a new system comes in place. We know that a lot of our income communities, individuals may not be able to afford tolling if we're looking at congestion tolling as a whole. Some high income user are more likely to remain on the highway, pay the congestion fee and benefit from a faster trip. In other terms, also low-income users may be worse off if they choose other less expensive times, routes, or other modes of transportation. Some even have just ultimately barriers to transporter ownership. Others don't have a credit card. Others don't even have the technology to access what a good congestion pricing and tolling system could look like. Those are just a couple of things. a couple of the many barriers our community is faced with when talking about what is it that they need and what is the most current benefit that can come out of this conversation. Therefore, we really appreciate the fact that this is not just talking about congestion pricing and they're really asking the core key question about what are the other access points to be able to access transportation as a whole. Because we believe transportation is a human right, we believe individuals have access the right to be able to go to their job, go to their school, go to their medical appointments, and go ultimately also to their home. Housing and transportation are core, and we are very happy to partner with you all and continue the conversation moving forward. And ultimately, I'll leave you with a couple of just questions to ask, which is, As we're thinking about equity as a whole, it is true we cannot just name equity. We must put equity at the forefront in written form and ultimately bring those conversations forward. And one of the questions to have folks is ultimately some parts of our regions are growing economically. more than others because that is what is ultimately happening, that we continue to see Portland as a unifying city that is connecting everyone to the places that they need to live, the places that they need to be at the right time. And ultimately the question is, what can we do to make sure that as we're studying these processes that we ultimately don't forget the question of what is it that you need and how can we support it? And I welcome you to ask those questions to our communities and EJ communities beforehand. And again, super pleased to be part of this and also happy to answer any questions if you have any. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is John Isaacs, and I'm the vice president of government affairs for the Portland Business Alliance. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today. The Portland Business Alliance is the greater Portland Chamber of Commerce and the leading voice of business in the region. The alliance takes direction from our members to advocate on their behalf at all levels of government to support commerce, community health, and the shared and sustainable prosperity for our region and our state. On behalf of our 1,900 members, I am here today to express our support for Resolution 678-79, which directs the Portland Bureau of Transportation to create a task force dedicated to evaluating pricing strategies to reduce congestion. I want to be clear that our support is not an endorsement of pricing at this time, but rather an agreement that PBOT must undergo an evaluation of pricing as a potential policy tool to help reduce congestion. And we do strongly endorse the approach of evaluating pricing in partnership with stakeholders. It is clear that policy strategies and infrastructure investments to stem increased traffic congestion is a top priority of our region's residents and businesses. In January, PBA released the results of our annual survey to assess the policy values and priorities of Portland area likely voters. John, I don't mean to interrupt, but one thing that caught my eye in your written testimony is what is the Portland area that you polled? The metro region. The three county? The tri-county region, and we also oversample Portland, city of Portland proper likely voters. So it's two-thirds city of Portland proper voters, and then a third are the region. Thank you. Yes, thank you, no problem. PBA has partnered with DHM Research to conduct and release this survey every year for the past decade as a service to the community in conjunction with our annual Value of Jobs economic checkup. The clear takeaway from the 2019 survey is that issues impacting our region's livability are far and away the top priority. Homelessness, the cost of housing, and increasing traffic congestion were the only issues that registered in the double digits. And while a majority of voters felt that the city and the region were on the right Nearly two-thirds of voters said the region's livability is getting worse. In follow-up questions, nearly all survey respondents cited homelessness, housing, or traffic congestion as the reason they felt livability was declining. The survey of the entire community aligns with the results of surveys we have conducted of PBA's approximately 1,900 members. Increasing congestion has a significant negative impact on our region's businesses, and while the overall economic health of our region is currently strong, we know that the economic and environmental impacts of congestion are a significant threat to the long-term sustainability of our region's health. Congestion drives up the cost of shipping freight and goods, delivering projects on time and on budget, and impacts the competitiveness of our local retailers. And we all know too well, as many have stated here today, the significant negative impacts congestion have on the daily livability of our Portland area residents. PBA and our members are ready to get to work to partner with the Mayor, Transportation Commissioner, Hugh Daley, and the entire Council and PBOT to develop new innovative strategies to stem the tide of congestion for the long-term health of our city and economy. Very recently, we have seen states and cities such as New York take important steps in overcoming historic political divides to adopt congestion management policies that include pricing. Research these policy and political breakthroughs and you will see that one of the key factors that led to the success was the willingness of policymakers, community leaders, regulators, and the business community to collaborate to identify shared values, agree on the problem, and develop innovative solutions together. They further recognize that this is a problem that can only be solved through public-private partnerships that leverage the benefits of innovation and technology developed by the private sector. PBA and our members are ready to get to work to support and participate in a similarly collaborative process with the vision of tackling the congestion problem here in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Sarah Wright with Oregon Environmental Council and thank you for the opportunity to speak today. Oregon Environmental Council strongly supports the development of a task force to study and recommend strategies on pricing for equitable mobility. It's great to see the city taking action and we're pleased to see that the partnership with American Cities Climate Challenge is helping move this work forward. We are glad to see that the task force conversation is explicitly centered on equity. Our current transportation system is not equitable, and it never was. The City of Portland provides valuable resources, our publicly owned rights away, to anybody to use for free. However, these free resources disproportionately provide the benefits of mobility and access to people who can drive a private car. The negative consequences of the system, air toxics, greenhouse gas emissions, physical injury and death, and more affect all of us, but they disproportionately affect people of color and people with lower incomes and less wealth. Congestion makes the existing problem worse. As Portland grows and the public streets fill up with parked and moving private cars, the impacts become even more inequitable. People who have been displaced further and further from their jobs, services, and gathering places suffer the most from delay and unreliability due to congestion. We cannot fix this system by continuing to do the same things we've done for the last hundred years. The City of Portland has innumerable goals about environmental health and economic sustainability, and about equitable processes and equitable outcomes. It's time to step back and consider how we can solve the problem at hand. How do we make sure people and goods can get to the places they need to go in a way that meets those goals that we already have? Oregon Environmental Council has long been a proponent of pricing the right way. We can price our community-owned resources and make sure that the benefits of the changes go first to the most disadvantaged communities. If we center equitable outcomes, we can build a transportation system that supports clean air, climate stability, and healthy families living in economically vibrant neighborhoods. We encourage you to take this next step and convene a task force. And we agree with the Street Trust that it can't wait. So hurry up. Thank you very much. Thank you. That's what I said to them, too. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Phil Wu. I am a retired pediatrician from Kaiser Permanente, and I am currently the vice chair of the Oregon Environmental Council Board of Directors. My comments are going to be a little different. They're going to be very specific to the health impacts of congestion pricing on air pollution. And I'm going to highlight the outcomes of a study done on the Stockholm experience around congestion pricing. That particular program focused on the health of children, specifically via childhood asthma. And so before I get into that, I want to take a few minutes, well not a few minutes, a few seconds, and go over a primer or a review of the significance of child asthma just so that we are all on the same page. And I think this will help set the framework for why child asthma is such an important indicator of overall health, even going into adulthood. So as some of you may know, in the United States, childhood asthma affects approximately 10% of all children. And the increases in incidence and prevalence of child asthma go up as congestion or traffic congestion has gone up. The severity of asthma is affected both by the level of pollution and the duration of exposure. So in other words, pollution has a cumulative effect that is not immediately reversed. The corollary is that a short-term decrease in pollution, for whatever reason, has a very small effect on the long-term course of this disease progress. As we've heard before around disparities, increase in asthma rates are very and perhaps most pronounced for people of low economic status and communities of color who disproportionately live in and around severe traffic congestion. Asthma is the most chronic inflammatory disease in children and the leading cause of hospitalization. For developing lungs, this has significant long-term impact since deficits during lung growth and development can be permanent. So as we all know, there's a very strong correlation between child asthma and adult chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, otherwise known as COPD. Children with asthma have a 12% higher risk of adult obesity. Young adults with asthma as children have had as much as 50% increased rates of absenteeism from school and work. And most authorities now believe that the seriousness and impact of childhood asthma must be thought of in a similar fashion to other major childhood conditions such as low birth weight, ADHD, and adverse childhood experiences. So what about the Stockholm experience? Stockholm put into place a trial, initially a trial, of congestion pricing between January through July of 2006. More than a year later, the city implemented a permanent plan around congestion pricing in August of 2007. The first initial trial was studied by a group of researchers from the University of California and Princeton and others to look at what happened to air pollution and the impact on the rates of childhood asthma in Stockholm. So they looked at nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter, or PM10 levels, as indicators of pollution from automobiles. The latter, PM10, is especially damaging to lung growth and function in children. Congestion pricing during those seven months resulted in nitrogen dioxide levels falling by 5% to 7.5%. and PM10 levels falling by 15 to 20 percent. This resulted in a decrease in outpatient and inpatient visits for acute asthma by up to 15 percent, depending on the length of air pollution reduction. So, more improvement in asthma was seen as congestion pricing was in place longer. Those results, up to 15%, are likely to be understated because the body takes time to respond to these lower levels of pollution. So it's very likely that as time went on, those improvements would actually have been higher. It's important to note that Stockholm was already experiencing low levels of air pollution even before congestion pricing went into place. And even in that particular setting, congestion pricing had a very significant impact on asthma visits. So we could imagine that in any other city environment where pollution levels are higher, those kinds of impacts would even be greater. Thank you. So in conclusion, we have hard medical evidence that demonstrates the impact of congestion pricing on a population that I think everyone in this room cares about. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks, all of you, for your great testimony. Keelan, how many people do we have signed up for either item 678 or 679? We have one person signed up, Phil Richmond. Very good. Come on up. Two minutes, please. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. I didn't bring you any poetry today, but thanks for having me. My name is Phil Richmond, and I'm here on behalf of the Street Trust. I'm also here to urge you to support Commissioner Udaly's efforts to curb the epidemic that's the ubiquitous reliance of our citizens on single occupancy vehicle mobility. The obvious need for changes in the status quo for poor emitters came years ago, but little has changed. Climate change is real, but without real leadership to help inform and guide our citizens into enacting changes in their day-to-day mobility choices, we may just as well burn coal. We need this task force in order for Portland to look critically at the state's mandate for spending half a billion dollars on freeway expansion on I-5 and 205 without consideration of whether or not such projects illustrate a history of success for its citizens, particularly those from marginalized communities. Isn't it true that much of the traffic we've seen in recent years is from out of state and in many cases are contract workers for one of two for-profit corporations? We need a transformation of our pricing mechanisms for mobility because they are currently backward. Just this past weekend, on Saturday night, I was driven downtown where the parking was free, but it cost almost $6 to get home on an e-scooter. What does the carbon-free option—why does the carbon-free option cost so much more? Why is downtown parking ever free? And if not free, why so cheap? As a city, we simply can't continue to induce demand for unsustainable travel modes by keeping parking free in most places, dedicating 100% of the roadway to motor vehicles only, or providing no curb space for anything but private vehicle storage. What we have is anything but equitable or sustainable. Please pass this resolution. Thank you. Thank you very much. Any further questions? Discussion? The first item is a report. I'll entertain a motion for 6-7-8. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. New Daily? Aye. Well, we didn't make much of a big deal about this when we were selected. So I just want to take this opportunity to let everyone know that 100 cities, 100 of the largest cities across the country were invited to apply to participate in the American Cities Climate Challenge. Twenty-five were selected. Portland is one of them. I'm very proud of that. As was noted, we were selected, I think, based on some of our history and also current leadership. I feel like I have to call the city out a little bit. I don't necessarily think that we deserve our kind of green badge of honor. We are in Multnomah County. Multnomah County has the worst air quality of any county in the state. So I would just say that we cannot rest on our laurels, Portlanders. We have to live up to our green reputation and we really have to solve for congestion and climate change. We also have an increasingly racially and economically segregated city. And low income households and communities of color bear the brunt of the impacts that we are trying to solve for. Sorry, it's my post-it note speech again. And Noah didn't say something, which is one of my favorite kind of things that came out of this, is that we're already paying a tax or a toll. It's our time. And I figured out my toll. If I were to value my free time, the same commensurate with my pay, I would be spending, I carpool to work, I spend about 45 minutes a day longer getting to and from my home than I did years before this congestion really began increasing. And it is costing me $12,480 a year. and it is costing me over 200 hours of my life. And that is time that I could be spending with my family and friends, taking care of myself, in therapy, whatever the case may be. There are numerous things I would rather be doing than sitting in a car, although I do get to sit in a car with my executive assistant, Robin Mullins, and I love and enjoy her company. So I want to thank Bloomberg Philanthropies, the National Resource Defense Council, BPS and PBOT, Mayor Wheeler, our invited guests, and of course the community who is supporting us, informing us, guiding us, and is going to hold us accountable throughout this process. I vote aye. Fish? Well, Commissioner Daly, thank you for bringing this matter forward. Thanks to your team for an excellent presentation. The mayor did it, too. Pardon me? The mayor's in on it, too. Let's give him a little credit. Yeah, but he gets a trip to D.C. next week. Okay, well, I'm going to London, so. He gets all the glory. I want to give you your share of the credit. Thank you. Thank you for the printouts that I can read. Yes. There is one factoid that jumped off the script to me. Vehicle hours of delay are still expected to go up by 120% by 2027. That means as bad as it is today, it's going to be twice as bad in the not-too-distant future. So we've got to act. This seems like a prudent thing to study and to take up. Thank you for all the thought and care that went into the presentation. I vote aye. Wheeler? Aye. The report's adopted. To the next item, 679, that's resolution. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Notwithstanding my concerns about ensuring that we protect the people who have been most impacted by gentrification and the lack of a quality public transit system, I am very excited about the potential of this task force and want to be very appreciative of Commissioner Udalli, ODOT, and all the folks who have been involved in making this process a reality. I also wanted to take a moment to really appreciate the folks from... Noah, Soshana, and Irene, because I know they have worked their hearts out to really engage communities who aren't traditionally engaged in these conversations early on. This, for me, is much about, I believe it's as important the process is. that we take as the policy that we end up with. And if the process is equitable and just from the beginning, the policy will naturally reflect that. And so I am voting yes. I look forward to the task force tackling these huge issues. And as Commissioner Fish said, if we're going to increase traffic over 100 percent, We've got to have a plan, and we've got to have a plan in place very soon. I vote aye. Udaly? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you, everyone. Next item is item number 680, please. declare the right to safe and legal abortion and affirm the city's commitment to act in support of that right by authorizing the city attorney to participate as an amicus in forthcoming federal lawsuits challenging abortion bans around the country. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, City Council colleagues. I want to appreciate that this will be a unanimous resolution because our... all members of the city council have signed on to it. I want to take the opportunity to also invite up our first panel That will include a NARAL pro-choice Oregon, Kimberly Koops, Planned Parenthood Advocates of Oregon. On due will come Forward Together, Michelle Griffin. We will have two panels, and then I will say a little bit more before reading the resolution. Welcome. You may stop. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Honorable Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners Udailey, Fish, Fritz and Hardesty. My name is Kimberly Koops and I'm the policy director at NARAL Pro-Choice Oregon. As one of the seven in ten Americans who support access to safe and legal abortion, and as one of many of the rural Oregonians who personally relied on abortion care in the city of Portland, I am here to testify on behalf of NARAL in support of resolution 680. We would like to recognize Commissioner Joanne Hardesty and her staff for working with us to bring forward today's resolution, which is central to our organization's mission. We are dedicated to developing and sustaining a constituency that uses the political process to guarantee every person the right to make personal decisions regarding the full range of reproductive choices, including preventing unintended pregnancy, bearing healthy children, and choosing legal abortion. We believe everyone, especially those from communities of color, LGBTQ+, folks, trans and gender nonconforming individuals, people with lower income levels, or from immigrant families, deserve the tools to be able to make those personal decisions. Politicians in states like Alabama, Ohio, and Georgia are signing blatantly unconstitutional bills into law to restrict abortion with the explicit goal of overturning Roe v. Wade. 27 abortion bans have been enacted across 12 states so far in 2019. And just this May, Alabama's governor signed the most restrictive abortion ban in the country into law. With attacks like these, we should take action at the national level. But we should also remember last November's Measure 106. Threats to safe and legal abortion in Oregon are as real as anywhere else. This legislative session alone, anti-abortion lawmakers introduced 11 bills that would create dangerous barriers to reproductive health care access. As Oregonians, we believe that everyone should have the right to make their own personal medical decisions. And Portland already plays a critical role in abortion access. 67% of all the abortion services received in Oregon were performed in the Portland metro area. Growing up on the rural Oregon coast, I know firsthand how important Portland is for abortion access. Just over 10 years ago, I seriously questioned whether I would even be able to graduate from high school. And when I did, I realized that I had overcome the odds. The odds were an abusive relationship that started when I was 15. And the reason that I am here today and how I was able to attend college, law school, work in D.C., and run for office was because I was able to have an abortion after I was sexually assaulted and leave my abusive partner. That abortion was so much more than one procedure. It was a rallying cry that I deserve to make my own decisions, that I deserved to be economically stable, to be safe, and to have children when and if I wanted to. That was my right, and that is a human right that we all have. And I'm thankful to the city of Portland for continuing to support these rights for all. In addition to folks from across the state, our city has also welcomed those who may face bans in their home states. Of the 844 people who traveled from out of state to have an abortion in Oregon, 771 of them, 91%, received services here in Multnomah County in 2017. And that is why this resolution is so important. It will support the people most impacted by two of the most egregious bans passed this year in Alabama and Ohio. Alabama just enacted a complete abortion ban that would also make performing an abortion in Alabama a felony. It even defines a fetus as a legal person for homicide purposes and compares abortion to the Holocaust. Under the Ohio ban, doctors who perform abortions after a fetal heartbeat is detected could be found guilty of a fifth-degree felony and could face a suit for civil damages along with up to $20,000 in fines. These threats are real, and we applaud and support our local leaders in putting forth this important resolution that will send a message of solidarity, along with an amicus brief, to support the people living in states who are most impacted by these abortion bans. Thanks to your leadership, Portland can continue to be a beacon for people across our state and the entire country where all people can access the full range of reproductive health care, including safe and legal abortion. Thank you all. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Udailey, Fritz, Hardesty, and Fish. For the record, my name is Ando. I serve as the political director for Planned Parenthood Advocates of Oregon. On the behalf of the 60,000 Oregonians we serve every year, Planned Parenthood Health Center strongly supports Resolution 680 and its move to file amicus briefs in opposition to state abortion bans. One in four women in this country will have an abortion in her lifetime. A patient's health should drive important medical decisions, not a politician's beliefs. These issues are between individuals, their families, and their doctors. Abortion is safe and has been legal in this country for more than four decades. But now our rights and freedoms hang in the balance. Since 2011, politicians have passed more than 400 new state abortion restrictions that shame, pressure, and punish those who decide to have an abortion. Just this year, an unprecedented number of extreme abortion bans are being enacted across the country. These bans would allow the state to investigate miscarriages and could jail providers in one case for up to 99 years simply for providing care. Meanwhile, in Missouri, politicians have tried to deny a license to the state's only health center that provides abortion care. These bans go beyond rhetoric. They have dire consequences for individuals and families across this country, and they are starting to land on governors' desks at a rapid pace. This is no coincidence. After a decades-long strategy of chipping away at abortion access state by state, the abortion bans that are sweeping the country are an attempt to ban abortion outright. This is not just an attack on the people who live in those states. This is an attack on all of us, on every single person who might and can get pregnant. There are already 13 abortion cases that are just one step away from the Supreme Court. If Roe versus Wade is overturned, one in three women of reproductive age lives in a state where abortion would be outlawed. That's more than 25 million people. This includes more than 4.3 million Hispanic and Latina women, more than 3.5 million black or African American women, more than 800,000 Asian women, and nearly 300,000 American Indian and Alaskan Native women of reproductive age. Due to discriminatory public policy and systemic racism, people of color, queer people, and those with low incomes already face significant barriers in accessing health care. In some states, legislators have used cultural misinformation to craft restrictions used to target Asian American women's access to abortion. Meanwhile, Latinas and non-Hispanic black women are less likely to have access to family planning services, which can result in significantly lower rates of contraceptive use. Even as rates of unintended pregnancies have dropped substantially in the past 30 years, women of color are still roughly twice as likely to experience an unintended pregnancy as white women. Marginalized communities that have been most impacted by the United States' vast income inequality are more likely to access health care through federally funded insurance plans, which are barred by the Hyde Amendment from covering abortion. For too long, the Hyde Amendment has banned Medicaid coverage of abortion, pushing access to health care because abortion is health care. Out of reach for low-income individuals, especially people of color, young, and queer people. It is clear that in a world where abortion is illegal, those who already face the greatest barriers to accessing health care will further bear the brunt of the harm. Politicians are passing bans in direct defiance of the American people, whose support for access to safe legal abortion is at an all-time high and growing. In fact, 73% of Americans say they do not want to see Roe overturned. If these politicians truly valued life, they would get to work solving an actual public health crisis, such as a national maternal mortality rate that far outpaces other developed countries and that disproportionately impacts black women. Banning abortion only makes a bad situation worse and puts people's lives in jeopardy. Our bodies are our own. If they are not, we cannot truly be free or equal. Now is the time to unite, voice our opposition, and fight to ensure that each of us has the ability to define our own path and the opportunity to live lives that are healthy and full. We will not tolerate this assault on our health and rights. Portland has long acted as a hub for reproductive health care access, with people traveling from around the state and across the country to receive care in our city. With this resolution, the City of Portland has the opportunity to send a message to the rest of the country. We value an individual's health, we value their bodily autonomy, and we will not permit an erosion of those fundamental rights. Planned Parenthood advocates of Oregon thank you for your support of resolution 608 to protect abortion access here in Portland and across the country. We thank you for your time, leadership, and consideration in this critical matter. Thank you for your leadership. Hi, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Thank you so much for having me. My name is Michelle Ruffin, and I'm the Oregon Advocacy Manager at Forward Together. Forward Together works in Oregon and nationally to win rights, recognition, and resources for all families. We work at the intersections of race, gender, and sexuality, and are a women of color-led organization making sure that all Oregon families have access to health care, including abortion access, recognition of their families, and live in safe communities. And I'm here to testify in support of Resolution 680. to file amicus briefs in opposition to state abortion bans. We're really pleased to see the City Commission's action to affirm the right to an abortion. And as Oregonians, we really believe that everyone should have the right to make their own personal health care decisions, regardless of whether we are black, brown, who we love, how much money we make, or how we are insured. But we've seen the efforts being made across the country to introduce abortion bans that would be blatantly unconstitutional. These bans... already worsened structural racism that places barriers for pregnant people and women of color to access high quality health care. Last year's measure 106 reminded us that the threats to abortion in Oregon are as real as anywhere else. This legislative session alone, anti-abortion lawmakers introduced 12 pieces of legislation that would create dangerous barriers to reproductive health care access here at home. People of color, especially queer and transgender people of color, live at the intersection of a multitude of disparities and structural barriers. Structural barriers that often lead to a higher likelihood of being in a low-income job, low-wage job, Medicaid eligible, and subject to the harmful Hyde Amendment, which bans federal funding for abortion. People of color are also disproportionately without access to paid time off to address their health needs. These factors, combined with existing abortion restrictions that require people to find transportation, often to clinics that are very far away from them, and secure child care means that abortion bans make it even more difficult for people of color to access abortion care. In a world where black women die at three to four times the rate of white women due to pregnancy-related issues, and where one in five transgender people are just denied health care access outright because of who they are, we know that more restrictive laws and accessing health care, especially reproductive services, is the wrong direction to go. Oregonians rely on Portland to be a beacon of reproductive health care access. People travel from around the state and the country to receive these services in our city. And as Kimberly said, 67% of all abortions performed in Oregon were in the Portland metro area. With more than 300, well over 300 abortion bans introduced this year alone, it's important that we take a step in the right direction for our own communities. Because we know abortion is health care. By standing up to these abortion bans, we're sending a message that we stand with women of color and all pregnant people. Thank you so much. I appreciate your action on this. And, of course, we support this resolution and we urge a yes. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you all. Excellent job. I'm going to call up two other invited speakers. We have Ivy Major McDowell from Opano and a Northwest Abortion Access Fund, Beth Vial. Please come up. Welcome. Good afternoon. Either one will be fine. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Ted Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Ivy Major McDowell and I'm the legislative coordinator for the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon which is a statewide grassroots organization that works with Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders across the state of Oregon to advance social justice. I'm here to testify in support of Resolution 680 to file amicus briefs in opposition to state abortion bans and to affirm the City of Portland's commitment to protect our right to safe and legal abortion. Upon when we started to engage our members around reproductive health, we noticed that reproductive justice was deeply linked to other issues our communities face. In particular, the impacts of healthcare exclusion and barriers on low-income families, LGBTQ folks, immigrants, refugees, and citizens of the compact of free association nations of Palau, the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia. That's why we support the Reproductive Health Equity Act in 2017, to ensure that all Oregonians, regardless of income, citizenship status, race, gender, and sexual orientation, have access to health insurance coverage for reproductive health care. And we helped defeat Measure 106 last year, along with the No Cuts Care campaign. But our work is clearly not done. The urgency and need to work on reproductive justice remains as true today as when we started. This year alone, 378 abortion bans have been introduced, moved, or enacted in 15 states. Many of them are states with the fastest growing API populations in the U.S., including the states of Georgia, North Dakota, and Texas, where the API community has grown over 116% to 130% since 2000. During our own legislative session, we saw 11 anti-abortion legislation introduced by local lawmakers that would create dangerous barriers to reproductive health care access, proving that the threat to safe and legal abortion is real in our own state. We know that our communities are less likely to have affordable health care coverage and access to reproductive health services. We know that it is our communities who are often excluded or the first to be left behind. Finally, I'd like to say that these issues are deeply personal to me. As a transnational adoptee born in China, my biological parents did not have rights to reproductive justice and access to resources to raise me, so they had to give me up. While I built a beautiful life here in Oregon, the knowledge of my history and this reality inspires me to ensure that everyone has access to reproductive health care, and families are not forced to make such difficult choices. We must protect and ensure that all families have the power to choose, to make decisions about their own bodies and families in the ways that they want, here in Oregon and across the nation. I thank the leadership of Commissioner Hardesty and the City Council for introducing and supporting this resolution and for sending a clear message to the rest of the country that we won't go back. We remain a sanctuary and a model to accessing the full range of reproductive health care that includes safe and legal abortion. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, my name is Beth Vial. I live here in Portland and I'm a board member at Northwest Abortion Access Fund. The Northwest Abortion Access Fund is an abortion fund serving Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Alaska. We help people pay for their abortion care, help people get to and from the clinic, and we make sure people traveling for care have a safe place to stay. We are a 501c3 nonprofit and a member of the National Network of Abortion Funds, a membership organization of over 70 funds across the United States. We are a mostly volunteer organization, and we move over $300,000 each year to people in our region who are facing logistical barriers to accessing abortion. I'm here to testify in support of the resolution to file amicus briefs in opposition to state abortion bans. With Justice Kavanaugh's recent appointment to the Supreme Court, the fight to protect abortion access is more important than ever. We cannot do this work without you. Last year, we filled in over 2,000 calls from people who are facing logistical barriers to abortion access. We know that Portland and Seattle are beacons of reproductive health care access within our region. People travel from around the state and the country to receive abortion services in our city. That being said, though, we still have gaps. Even in Oregon, we have a shortage of providers and limited access to abortions that happen later in pregnancy. In fall 2017, I needed an abortion. Chronic health conditions made it hard to tell I was pregnant, and there was a series of events which led me to doctors feeding me misinformation. I had PCOS, and doctors told me I could never conceive. My doctor's medical assistant referred me to a crisis pregnancy center, and I was bounced from fake clinic to fake clinic, getting false counseling and a free ultrasound claiming I was 16 weeks pregnant. When I realized what was happening, I went to OHSU, and they told me I was actually 26 weeks pregnant. They informed me that they had the ability to help me, but ultimately chose not to. Because I was actually six months pregnant, the decision to provide me with health care was left up to a panel of physicians, and they voted no. They said they weren't comfortable with my case. So instead of being able to receive health care in my own city and sleep in my own bed those nights, I had to fly over 1,000 miles and spend over $10,000 to receive health care from people who would help me, including the Northwest Abortion Access Fund. The details of my story are rare, but the experience of having to travel outside of Oregon for abortion care is not uncommon. Oregonians are still denied based on gestation and geographic positioning, and Oregonians deserve better. Stigma in people's opinions are the only things that stood in my way, and I learned that legislation isn't everything and rights don't always equal access. The abortion fund is thrilled to see that this resolution declares the city of Portland remains committed to eliminating stigma surrounding abortion so that every person in our city who makes the choice to access safe and legal abortion care will feel supported, welcome, and safe doing so. This year, our abortion fund colleagues in New York City have successfully worked with their city to make a historic investment of $250,000 in their state's abortion fund. Last week when I shared my story at an event in Seattle, Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal from Washington State indicated that she would like to see the same type of investment made in New York made in the Northwest. I, on behalf of the Northwest Abortion Access Fund, would like to request the same of you. So call me. The resolution cannot pass soon enough. For the aforementioned reasons, I argue to support the critical resolution to protect abortion access here in Portland and across the country. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for sharing your story. How many people do we have time to sign up? I'm sorry? Public testimony, how many people? We have 10 people signed up. Very good. So the microphones move around, two minutes each, please. And if you could just state your name for the record, we'd appreciate it. I'll call up the first three. Mary Lou Carrera, Sahar Yerjani Marinovich, Raina Casey. And if I may, Mayor, while they're coming up, I just want to make two clear points so that people understand what the resolution will do. It actually does two very specific things. This resolution actually allows the city attorneys to file an amicus brief to ensure that both... I just lost my other paper. I have it, Alabama and Ohio, that we will file an eminence brief in support of legal abortions. And so that we will be at the forefront of that. But the second thing that I think is really key is that it directs our city attorneys to build a coalition of other city attorneys. so that we have a big impact across the country to make sure that other communities who believe like we do will stand up and actually fight back against these very draconian actions that are being taken. So I just wanted to make sure that was on the back end. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Hardesty, Commissioner Udaly. Commissioner Fish and Mayor Wheeler, thank you for having me. My name is Sahar Yarjani Muranovich, for the record. As the new executive director of the Oregon Chapter of NOW, the National Organization for Women, I am here to lend my support for Resolution 680. Since 1973, anti-choice extremists have been creating a myriad of financial and logistical barriers to chip away at abortion access. With the current state of our judicial branch, our fundamental rights are under attack right now. Abortion is healthcare and healthcare is a human right. Every single person should have the right to determine if, when, how, and with whom to grow a family. Abortion bills sweeping our country are not about family values or about the sanctity of life. They are about power over the bodies and lives of marginalized communities and are rooted in white supremacist patriarchal ideology. When undertaken by a healthcare professional, abortions are one of the safest medical procedures safer than childbirth. Restrictions on reproductive health care don't stop abortions. They just make them unsafe. Abortion will always be available for the rich and powerful. Anti-abortion laws directly and specifically target historically oppressed communities. These laws target people like Marsha Jones in Alabama, who was charged with manslaughter after being shot in the stomach while pregnant. Thankfully, those charges were dropped after public outcry. People with low incomes, teenagers, black and indigenous people, and people of color, migrants and refugees, and queer and trans folks are hit hardest by these abortion restrictions. Intentionally so. Abortion is a trans issue, it's a class issue, and it's a race issue. It is now more important than ever to take a stand. The world is watching. Thank you. Good afternoon, Commissioners Mayer and Wheeler. Good afternoon. My name is Mary Lou Carrera. I am a Filipino and Japanese American queer individual. I'm an organizer, facilitator, and nurse, and I am the Community Health Equity Manager at OHE, the Oregon Health Equity Alliance. We are a people of color-led collaborative organized to center and uplift the wisdom of our communities of color through racial justice-informed health equity policies and practices as part of the movement to dismantle white supremacy and shift the imbalance of power. I'm here simply because reproductive justice is a health equity issue. Equitable access to basic health care is our work, yet we recognize there are many ways in which systems intersect to create barriers to access, particularly so for people of color, LGBTQ plus people, and those at the margins. Who gets hired? Who gets paid what? Who is insured, has access to transit options, and gets time off? These all matter when basic health care is needed, including abortion. I'm also here today because I was 20 years old when I had my abortion. I didn't know then that my abortion would lead me to become a nurse, which led me to hospital care and outpatient abortion procedure care, or that even later as a public health practitioner, this would lead me to advocate for racial and health equity as tools for reproductive justice. But for many people, the tools for our success aren't merely handed to you. A myriad of factors are always at play and they always inform one another. I was very fortunate. I was able to take time off from work and school to get an abortion. I had caring and financial support from friends. I had a way to get to the health center and back home, which was necessary because of sedation medication. I also knew I needed to count on a provider to be there with medically accurate information. I needed to know the healthcare organization that provided my abortion wasn't just looking out for me, but was proactively ensuring that I was safe and had options at any point in my journey, whether that included parenthood or not. It was and is a privilege to make important decisions about my own body, about my abortion, and there is no reason we should expect, we shouldn't expect to have autonomy of our bodies today. Thank you for supporting this critical resolution and for your time. Thank you. Honorable Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Udaele, and Hardesty. My name is Raina Casey and I live here in Portland, Oregon. I'm here to testify in support of the resolution to file amicus briefs in opposition to state abortion bans. I'm also here to tell my mother's story in her absence. My mother had my older brother when she was 15. When she went to the doctor for my brother's six-week appointment, she was told by her doctor that she was pregnant again. My mother wanted to have an abortion, but my grandmother didn't believe in it. She had a you made your bed, you lay down philosophy. I used the pregnancy as punishment for having teen sex and having sex out of wedlock. She went on so far as to have my mother stand in front of the church to admit her shame. Like many people faced with similar circumstances, my mother attempted to take matters into her own hands and threw herself down a flight of stairs in an attempt to terminate her pregnancy. She sought other resources, but wasn't able to receive care, and a month and a half later, she attempted suicide. When I was 11 years old, my mother shared this story with me, because she wanted me to know the pain that people go through when they aren't able to have control over their reproductive health care. I think she also wanted to somehow explain why our relationship was difficult at times. Well, I wouldn't be here today if it weren't for the barriers my mother faced. It took an emotional and mental toll on her for years with those reproductive fights being taken away. I'm here today and I firmly believe that a woman should have a right to do what she wants to do with her own body. Everyone should have the right to terminate, everyone should have the right to have the healthy means to terminate their pregnancy if they so choose. By standing up against abortion bans, the city of Portland is sending a message to the rest of the country. We won't go back and we will remain a sanctuary to access the full range of reproductive health care, including safe and legal abortion. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners for your support of resolution 608. And thank you to Commissioner Hardesty for your leadership on this issue. Thank you. Thank you all. Mayor, I made a mistake and did not invite the city attorney, Tracy Reeves, to come up and make comments. So if it's okay, I would love to give her an opportunity to come up. Next. Thank you. My apology. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, Mayor, Commissioner Udailey. We are thrilled to have the opportunity to participate as an amicus and support access to healthcare rights and access to abortion rights. One of our office's goals is to support the equity policies that this council and the city establishes. And we've done that often in cases where we're partnering with other cities and other jurisdictions that have like minded policies, whether it's been our sanctuary city cases, some of our DACA cases, or a whole range of other things. We look forward to both participating on behalf of the city of Portland, but also working with other cities to build, as you say, a national coalition to address this. And we appreciate the resolution authorizing us to do this, so thank you. Thank you. And Tracy, I just want to publicly say I really appreciate you and your immediate support and vision around this resolution. Without you being as enthusiastic as you were, we would not be here today. So I just want to thank you for that. Well, thank you. It's exciting work to have the opportunity to do, Commissioner. Thank you. The next people are Dacia Graber, Ellie Schmidt, and Kristen Almey. Good afternoon. Welcome. It's good to have you here. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, my name is Dacia Graber and I'm here today as a private citizen, a mother of four, a health care provider, and an advocate for safe, accessible reproductive care. I'm here to testify in support of the resolution to file amicus briefs in opposition to state abortion bans. As you have heard today, 27 abortion bans have been enacted across 12 states so far in 2019 alone. Alabama's governor signed into law the most restrictive abortion legislation in the United States, banning abortion in nearly all circumstances, including rape and incest. The only exception to the ban are cases in which a woman's health is at serious risk. We may think that here in Oregon we are safe from these threats, that these draconian and cruel laws won't ever apply here. But last year's Measure 106 reminded us that there continue to be threats to safe and legal abortion in Oregon. In this legislative session alone, anti-abortion lawmakers introduced 12 pieces of legislation that would create dangerous barriers to health care access. Oregon can do better. We must not only hold the line, but be a beacon of reproductive health care access. Furthermore, we must not be afraid or fearful to state that we will never compromise safe and legal abortion care access, not only for the women of this state, but for this country. And in Oregon, Portland is the region where women come for safe, accessible abortion services. 844 people in 2017 traveled from out of state for abortion care, and of those 844, 771, or 91%, chose to come to Multnomah County. Here is a powerful opportunity for the city of Portland to send a message to the nation. We respect a woman's right to choose and to care for her body as she decides. We refuse to return to an era of illegal back alley procedures where women died seeking safe haven and help in their greatest moments of need and vulnerability. We believe in the power of a woman's choice, and we will remain a proud sanctuary to a full range of reproductive health care, including safe and legal abortion. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners Udailey, Hardesty, and Fish, my name is Ellie Schmidt, and I'm a third-year medical student at Oregon Health Science University here in Portland. I am here to testify in support of the resolution to file amicus briefs in opposition to state abortion bans. As a medical student, I know that abortion is health care, and health care is a fundamental human right. In fact, when we do our OBGYN rotations, we not only learn about labor and delivery, we learn about providing abortion care. Because just like carrying a pregnancy to term, abortion is an option that should be available to all those who can become pregnant. As a medical student, I have seen firsthand that there are indeed many reasons that women seek abortion care. The only consistent theme I have noticed is that each decision is personal. It is essential that people who become pregnant have access to a full spectrum of care that is safe, dignified, and which allows them to retain their autonomy. Abortion bans like those passed in Alabama and Ohio stigmatize abortion and further an inflammatory and false narrative about reproductive health care. I'm thankful to Commissioner Hardesty for her leadership in this resolution. And to Mayor Wheeler and every commissioner for their support, because it's time that we not only protect abortion care, but that we normalize it. We should be expanding reproductive rights, not taking them away. With policies like the Reproductive Health Equity Act and no restrictions on access to safe and legal abortion, Oregon is the most pro-choice state in the nation and a beacon of hope for those across the country who are facing unprecedented attacks on their bodily autonomy and agency. I applaud the Portland City Commissioners for not only fighting against the Ohio and Alabama abortion bans, but for ensuring that Portland continues to be a leader in protecting reproductive health care access. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Kristen Almey, and I'm a member of the Steering Committee for the Leadership and Advocacy Team of Planned Parenthood Advocates of Oregon. Our organization fights to ensure all Oregonians have access to safe, medically accurate health care, including abortion, regardless of your race, gender identity, or socioeconomic status. I'm here to testify in support of the resolution to file amicus brief in opposition to state abortion bans. This resolution is so important because of the 27 abortion bans that have already been enacted across 12 states so far in 2019, with potentially more to come if Roe versus Wade is overturned. And as we saw with measure 106 last year, we're not safe in our state either. As an advocate of accessible and medically accurate health care, we can see the impact that these bans have on medical providers, as well as the folks that need access to abortion. In both Alabama and Ohio, doctors who perform abortion may face felony charges. Meanwhile, health centers in Georgia and Alabama have been flooded by women calling. scared that they're going to lose their appointments or no longer have access to abortion. So many calls were received during this time that they had to set up additional lines just to be able to manage the volume. Enacting this city resolution will ensure that Portland will continue to be a beacon of reproductive health care access. And by standing up against these abortion bans, the city of Portland is sending a message to the rest of the country, we're not going back and we'll remain that sanctuary. of access to the full range of reproductive health care, including safe and legal abortion. I stand before you not only as a representative of the leadership and advocacy team for Planned Parenthood Advocates of Oregon, but as a person who firmly believes that abortion is health care. I urge you to support this critical resolution and to protect abortion access here in Portland and across the country. Thank you. Cordelia Newberry, Katrina Dowdy, and Samantha Gladue. The final person to testify is Alisa Bang. Good afternoon. Come up if you want, Mr. Fourth Chair. Hold on to the last person. Oh, please start. Let's start. All right. Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners, my name is Katrina Doughty. I use the pronouns she, her, and hers, and I was recently elected to the Multnomah Education Service District Board of Directors. Congratulations. Thank you. I live in Portland, and I am here to testify in support of the resolution to file amicus briefs in opposition to state abortion bans. In my day job, I work for 211 Info as the maternal and child health coordinator, helping Oregonians determine what resources are available and what reproductive health care options they have. I get calls every day from folks across the Pacific Northwest, calls of people who are lacking access to the care they need and deserve. As Oregonians, we believe that everyone should have right to make their own personal medical decisions, regardless of their race, their gender identity, who they love, how much money they make, their field of work, or how they are insured. However, we've seen the recent headlines. Legislators across the country are introducing bills to restrict abortion that, if passed, would be blatantly unconstitutional. These bills have a disproportionate impact on the most vulnerable and targeted Americans, including those who already face the most significant barriers in accessing reproductive health care. Queer people need abortions. Reproductive healthcare is a right, and a right that everyone should have access to. LGBTQIA2S plus people depend on healthcare services offered by facilities that provide abortion access, like Planned Parenthood. Researchers have consistently found that queer people are more likely to experience poverty than non-queer people, and there is an even more severe disparity for queer folks of color. Because impoverished people are more likely to rely on safety net clinics and health care facilities that provide abortion, closing these clinics means severing some of the most marginalized within our community from accessible health care. Oregonians rely on Portland to be a beacon for reproductive justice. I call for your support. Thank you.
 Hi. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you so much for having us. My name is Cordelia Newbery, and I'm a member of the Steering Committee for Planned Parenthood Advocates of Oregon's Leadership and Advocacy Team. On the PPAOL80, we galvanize our communities to fight for reproductive justice across Oregon, including the assurance that all Oregonians have access to safe, quality, nonjudgmental health care, including abortion, regardless of race, gender identity, or socioeconomic status. I am here to testify in support of Resolution 680 and its directive to file amicus briefs in the opposition to state abortion bans. This resolution is so important because as Oregonians, we believe that everyone should have the right to make their own personal medical decisions. And we've seen the recent headlines mentioned earlier. Legislatures across the country are introducing bills to restrict abortion that would be blatantly unconstitutional. Such as Alabama's governor who recently signed into law the most restrictive abortion legislation in the United States. This legislation bans abortion in nearly all circumstances, including rape and incest. Planned Parenthood providers need this resolution enacted in Portland so we can continue to serve our communities with medically accurate, safe, economically accessible, and non-discriminatory medical care. Abortion bans are also racial, LGBTQ+, and economic injustices. People of color live at the intersection of a multitude of structural and economic barriers, including disproportionately living without access to paid time off to address their health needs. These factors, combined with existing abortion restrictions, make it even more difficult for people of color to access abortion care. Also, researchers have consistently found that queer people are more likely to experience poverty than non-queer people. And because impoverished people are more likely to rely on health care facilities that provide abortion, closing these clinics means severing some of the most marginalized within our community from accessible health care. Enacting Resolution 680 would ensure that Portland will continue to be a beacon of reproductive justice and economically accessible, medically accurate health care. As has been stated, in 2017, 844 people traveled from out of state to have an abortion in Oregon, and 91% came to Multnomah County. Our city needs to take a resolute stand protecting access to safe, medically accurate, and economically affordable reproductive health care. We need to do this to serve Oregonians, to provide access to our neighbors, and to stand proudly as a beacon of reproductive justice. Thank you all for supporting this critical resolution and protecting abortion access here in Portland and across the country. Thank you. All right. My name is Samantha Glagiu. I'm in my day job as the executive director of the BUS Project, and I'm here in my role as a board member at the Northwest Abortion Access Fund, where I've been a volunteer since 2012 and a board member since 2015. And you've heard from Beth, my colleague, already about abortion funds and what we do, and you've heard from everyone all these great points. So I'm going to keep it really brief. I just say that we know that abortion access elsewhere impacts abortion access here in Portland, Oregon. Bans in other states contribute toward confusion, barriers to care, and the necessity for people to have to travel from their homes to places like Portland and Seattle to get abortion care. And by passing this resolution, the city of Portland is affirming values of love, compassion, autonomy, and collective power. By directing the city attorney to monitor, engage, and build coalitions around abortion bans, the city is telling Portlanders and all women and people who can become pregnant that you've got their back. So I want to thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, and the team at Nero Pro-Choice Oregon, and the city attorney for bringing this forward today, and to the rest of the council for your unanimous support. Real pumped to see you pass it. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Hey everyone, my name is Alyssa Bang. Pronouns she, her. I'm trans, I'm indigenous, I'm queer. I mean, I can't have kids, so I mean, it's, yeah. But I am the co-founder of Portland's Liberation. The reason I'm speaking before you all today is that I've been asked to deliver a message to the mayor from the people of Portland. We are sick of the ineptness of our local leadership when it comes to anti-fascist domestic terrorist groups such as Rose City Anti- I'm sorry, this is off subject. You're out of order. Wrong meeting. Bye-bye. Thank you. Just finally address it, please. Not now. Have a good day. Any further public testimony? Thank you all for your testimony. Trump City Council experience. Thank you. Indeed, it was authentic. It was authentic. Be complete without a disruption. And I kind of knew. I was waiting. I just had a finger. You know, it just wouldn't have been a complete day without it. It's been such a smooth day so far. I was beginning to feel like people liked us or something. Keelan, does that complete public testimony? Yes. Very good. Colleagues, any further discussion or questions prior to calling the roll on the resolution? Keelan, please call the roll. Would you like me to read the resolution? Yeah, why don't you go ahead and please do that again. Read the resolution. Okay. Yeah, go ahead. Okay. Okay. So the resolution is as follows. Declaring the right to safe and legal abortion and affirming the city of Portland's commitment to act in support of that right by authorizing the city attorney to participate as an amicus in forthcoming federal lawsuits challenging abortion bans around the country. Whereas state governments across the nation are passing laws that expressly or effectively ban abortion in those states. And whereas Oregon is the only state with no additional statutory restrictions on abortion. And whereas the city of Portland has a history of supporting the right to abortion dating Roe versus Wade and has continued to lobby at the federal level for increased access to abortion services. And, whereas, the city of Portland provided to city employees municipal insurance coverage for abortion services prior to the passage of the Oregon Reproductive Act. Health Equity Act, which required that insurance cover abortion services. And whereas the City of Portland has been a champion of progressive measures dedicated to increasing access to the full range of reproductive health services, such as mandated employer-provided paid sick leave prior to it being codified by the state and protections against discrimination based on pregnancy and gender identity. And whereas Oregon House Bill 3391, the Reproductive Health Equity Act of 2017 codify the right to safe and legal abortion in the state of Oregon, and whereas every person who can become pregnant needs access to the full range of safe, affordable, and comprehensive reproductive health care services throughout their life, including but not limited to screening for cancer, diabetes, and sexually transmitted infections, contraceptive services, abortion care, prenatal care, labor and delivery services, and postpartum care. And whereas various states have proposed legislation that would prevent a person who can become pregnant from obtaining an abortion as early as six weeks after the first day of their last menstrual period when a person is often yet aware, not aware of their pregnancy. And whereas some of this legislation also threatens health care providers with prison time of up to 99 years and fines for performing abortions in their capacity as medical professionals. And whereas such legislation will have profoundly negative impacts on the health of people who can become pregnant by violating long held constitutionally protected rights and effectively eliminating access to all safe and legal abortion services. And whereas since 1976 federal legislation known as the Hyde Amendment has prohibited specifically Medicaid funds, for abortion services, and due to systems of structural racism, socioeconomic inequality, low income, and people of color are disproportionately likely to be... insured by Medicare, which therefore means that they are disproportionately likely to be subject to the restrictions of the Hyde Amendment limiting their access to safe abortions and... It's a long one. Whereas the lack of consistent and affordable access to health quality contraceptive services in low-income communities and communities of color reinforces the disproportional impact of restrictions on safe and legal abortions. And whereas such laws, while simultaneously eliminating safe and legal options for abortion and potentially driving people who become pregnant to illegal abortion providers who are unregulated and subject to no safety standards, further risking the health of people who are pregnant. And, whereas Oregon voters rejected measure 106 and 2018, which would have denied insurance coverage for abortion to the most vulnerable Oregonians, including those who serve the city of Portland and other public employees, as well as those who rely on the Oregon health plan. And whereas opposition to abortion has long been entrenched with sexism and misogamy, and the right to an abortion and control of one's own body remains one of the few ways people who can become pregnant are able to effectively exercise control over their lives and reproductive health. And whereas the passage and implementation of policies that have no basis in medicine are reflective of a hyper-focus on birth and a compulsion to control people who are able to become pregnant, but which do little to alleviate the physical, emotional, and financial burden of child-rearing. And whereas policymakers should instead focus on the maintenance and expansion of supportive services whose aim is the reduction of unintended pregnancies, preventing sexual violence, and promoting individual bodily autonomy. and the success of all families by investing in comprehensive sexual health education, access to full range of reproductive health care, paid family and medical leave, and high-quality affordable child care. Now, therefore, be it resolved, the City of Portland unequivocally condemns any attempt to restrict, prohibit, or otherwise impede access to safe and legal abortion care. Access to safe and legal abortion services is vital to the health of people who can become pregnant and our broader community. And be it therefore resolved, the City of Portland remains committed to eliminating stigma surrounding abortion so that every person in our city who makes the choice to access safe and legal abortion care will feel supported, welcome, and safe doing so. Likewise, the City of Portland will continue to stand with health care providers and organizations that provide essential, high quality, and affordable reproductive health care and sexual health education to thousands of Portland residents, with or without insurance coverage and regardless of citizenship status. and be it therefore resolved, the City Council directs the City Attorney to monitor suits that may arise from the Ohio Senate Bill 23 and Albany, Alabama's state's expansive legislation restricting abortion rights as well as other restrictive abortion legislation. And if sued is foul, directs the city attorney evaluate opportunities to participate as an amicus and authorizes the city attorney to seek to participate as an amicus in litigation challenging the legality of these laws at the time and in the cases the city attorney believes to be the most effective and strategically valuable. Additionally, the city attorney is encouraged to reach out to and work with attorneys representing other states and local governments across the country to build a coalition of amici willing to participate in legal challenges to these and other laws limiting access to abortion services. And be it therefore resolved, the City Council requests the Office of Government Relations deliver copies of this resolution upon adoption to the Governor of Oregon, the Speaker of Oregon State House of Representatives, and the President of the Oregon State Senate, and to any other interested parties. Therefore, adopted by the Council, by us. That is the resolution and we should be proud to be a city council that is playing a leadership role and passing a resolution of this sort. Thanks, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Please call the roll. Hardesty. I've got to talk again? You have to vote yes. I've got to vote yes. Right, right, right. I don't know. Should I vote yes? Thank you. I want to take a moment, though, to thank all the brave people who came and shared their personal story. You know, it takes a lot of guts to share stories that are so personal so publicly. And I want to thank each and every one of you who took the time to do that. This is a very emotional issue. But everybody spoke with compassion and empathy and love. And I just want to... acknowledge that and appreciate that and I wholeheartedly vote yes. Well, colleagues, I know it's been a long day and we want to get out of here, but this is a really important moment and I have a few brief remarks, but I'm going to talk a lot faster than usual. Reproductive freedom and justice is essential to bodily autonomy, to full equality, and to our very destiny. After all, some of us would not be here had our own mothers not had the choice of when and how they wanted to become parents. Some of us would not have the beautiful children we do have, had we not had the right to choose when we would become mothers. And some of us would not be here at all had we been forced to carry dangerous pregnancies to term or endured the trauma of unwanted, of enforced motherhood. You don't have to like abortion to support reproductive freedom. And if you don't like it, you can support proven methods of preventing unwanted pregnancies. From comprehensive sex education in schools, to affordable, easy-to-access birth control, to raising your sons to take as much responsibility for unplanned pregnancies as you do your daughters. Reproductive freedom, oh sorry. With that I'd like to encourage anyone, and this is really more for the benefit of anyone who might be watching, who hasn't already done so, to read the essay by Gabriel Blair, a New York Times bestseller designer and Mormon mother of six, called Men Cause 100% of Unwanted Pregnancies. I wasn't convinced when I started, but I'm pretty sure it's true now that I read it. Which challenges the placement of the burden of the responsibility on women and provides women and others who can become pregnant and provides a much needed perspective shift and reality check that should leave everyone questioning their assumption about responsibility. I also want to thank those of you who came today to share your story. It has broken my heart over and over again to hear and read people sharing incredibly painful and personal stories as part of our defense strategy and imploring the public and policymakers to not take away our rights. I'm grateful for the reproductive freedoms that I have been guaranteed by my feminist foremothers, including abortion. And I'm looking forward to the fast approaching day when I will no longer have to manage my own fertility. But I really am. Believe me, I can't wait. Thank you. I will continue to fight like hell to the end of my days to protect those rights for the generations coming up behind us. I vote aye. Fish. I think it's worth noting that we're having this hearing today while a panel of federal judges is contemplating whether to set aside Obamacare, and particularly the preexisting conditions, protections that those of us living with chronic illnesses enjoy. So it's a perilous day for health care in America. To our newest colleague, Commissioner Hardesty, thank you for taking the lead on this resolution. And I'm proud to be a co-sponsor with all my colleagues. To NARAL and Planned Parenthood, Northwest Abortion Access Fund, and all the other groups that came out today and the individual voices who testified today, Thank you for being present today to lend your moral weight behind what we're doing. I am proud to live in a state that protects a woman's right to reproductive health care. I have a 26-year-old daughter. I want her to live in a country where she has the freedom to make her own health care choices. Today is a small step in the direction of making a large statement about our values. I'm pleased to vote aye. Wheeler. Well, I usually end my remarks with thank yous to the council members who lead and to the members of the community who are there and directly involved. Today I want to start with both a thank you and an acknowledgment. With Commissioner Harderstein's tenure, we now have for the first time a city council that is majority women. Thank you. And the fight against reproductive rights and reproductive help is most notably led, on the other hand, by cisgender men who seek to control both women and people who can become pregnant. And I believe we have not listened enough to the stories and the voices of women and people who can become pregnant. So I'm very appreciative that we've had this opportunity here in our chamber to do so. I'd like to thank first and foremost Commissioner Hardesty for the hard work you've put into this and bringing this forward. City Attorney Tracy Reeve for what I know will be excellent legal representation going forward. NARAL Pro-Choice Oregon forward together in a pano for working to bring this resolution before the Portland City Council today. As I look at the makeup of the council, I think it's very important to note that this initiative, this resolution today has been led by a woman. And accordingly, I want to keep my remarks as brief as I possibly can. I don't think it's necessarily appropriate for the airwaves to be crowded by male voices, particularly on this issue. But there are a couple of comments I'd like to make. First of all, I think it's important that as men, we find the opportunities to speak up in support of women and people who can become pregnant. I think it's also important that we acknowledge that we are not immune from the ramifications of restrictive abortion laws that are fundamentally about ensuring births at all costs with little and in some cases no regard for the quality and health of the lives that are impacted. A person's right to safe and legal abortion services has been enshrined in constitutional law in this country for over four decades. And we're seeing that the landscape in 2019 is fundamentally different than the landscape that we've seen in previous years. In previous years, yes, of course, there were bills introduced intending to restrict abortion rights. Those measures, for the most part, failed. But as testimony indicated today, what we're seeing that's completely different is measures passing in multiple states, including complete outright bans on abortion as in the case of the state of Alabama. Left out of some of the abortion analyses are the following considerations. The number of children who live in poverty in this country. Child food insecurity rates, which continue to grow. The percentage of household income that goes towards child care. And according to the federal government, anything beyond 7% is considered unaffordable. Child care costs relative to the overall cost of rent. Access to prenatal care, not just across states, but even across counties. and infant mortality rates, and whether these states have maternity or family leave laws. All too often, these issues are completely left out of the conversations. And yet, advocates for these bills steal themselves against criticism by claiming, cynically, that these bills are in the defense of human rights. The threats being levied against the right to safe and legal abortions, they are real and they are dangerous. And collectively, we need to continue fighting back. I want you to know that I will continue to be a fully engaged ally and I'll do my part. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Colleagues, do you want to take a two-minute break? Five-minute break it is. We are in recess. I'm out of here. We are back in session. Keelan, could you please read items 681, 82, and 83? 681, authorized contracts with Kaiser Health Plan of the Northwest, Vision Service Plan Insurance Company, Moda Health Plan, Inc., Oregon Dental Service, DBA, Delta Dental Plan of Oregon, and Standard Insurance Company from July 1st, 2019 through June 30, 2024, as administratively required by Bureau of Human Resources for the city's self-insured and insured plan offerings beginning July 1, 2019. Thank you. Colleagues, these ordinances are related to the city's employee benefits program. The set of contracts with health insurance providers that are before you today are the result of an RFP process and negotiations that the Bureau of Human Resources carried out over the course of the past year, working with the city's benefit consultants and members of the Labor Management Benefits Committee. Kathy Bless is here. She is the Deputy Chief Human Resources Officer who will walk us quickly through these three ordinances. Good afternoon. Oh, I'm sorry. I don't mean to interrupt. We'll need to read the next two as well. Oh, I'm sorry. Did we not get that? I apologize. The first one was really long. Okay. Sorry. Not my fault, not yours. Okay. 682, authorized contract renewal with Ann Consulting, Inc. for employee benefits consultant services through June 30, 2024 in an amount not to exceed $3,811,105. 683, amend the City of Portland Employee Benefits Program to reflect... necessary plan design changes as recommended by the Labor Management Benefits Committee and as administratively required by the Bureau of Human Resources for the city's plan offerings beginning July 1, 2019. That's much better. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor. We're going to do 684 separately at the end. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Again, I'm Kathy Bless, Deputy Chief Human Resources Officer with BHR. I will tee it up, three ordinances within this time certain. And then we will offer our balance of the time to the Fire Bureau and you, Commissioner Hardesty, for the next ordinance. Item 681 authorizes the contracts with Kaiser Health Plan, Vision Service Plan, Moda Health Plan, Oregon Dental Service, and Standard Insurance. Item 682 is authorizing a contract renewal with Aon Consulting to ensure the continuation of consistent actuarial support and negotiation on behalf of the health care plans. The last is item 683, which amends the city's plan design and plan document for the 2019-20 plan year. This is the portion in which Labor Management Benefits Committee makes recommendations to council. We include those changes within the plan document. There were minimal changes this year. We did waive all mental health. co-pays under all plans so that we could remove barriers and support the mental health initiative that's rolling out next week. And then we also implemented a telehealth option through OHSU at a $10 co-pay. If you have any questions, I'm here to… Any questions? Answer. Okay. And is there any public testimony on 681, 82 or 83? We have one person signed up, Yasmin Ibar. Very good, welcome. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon. This is my first time actually providing testimony before you could go. Well, welcome. I'm usually behind the scenes. My name is Yasmeen. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. My name is Yasmeen. I'm the political and governmental affairs liaison for SEIU Local 49. I'm here today because you all are voting on a large contract with Standard Insurance, and we believe that this company is not aligned with the city's commitment to providing great jobs for our community. Standard Insurance owns the Standard Plaza and the Standard Insurance Center buildings in downtown. And up until earlier, up until this month, those buildings were being cleaned by a union janitorial company. Those union jobs allowed for workers to have fair wages, affordable health care, and important worker protections. And unfortunately, Standard decided to go with a non-union company, laying off 15 workers of whom we represent. The company it decided to go with is Millennium Building Services. And in my testimony, it provided a couple examples of the problems that workers have encountered with this company. We believe that standard insurance switching from a union company to a non-union company is really undermining the work that janitors in our region have fought really hard to raise. I have a picture of Adela here. I'm sure that you all have seen Adela. She is a janitor who's a leader in our union. She worked for the standard insurance building for nine years and with a union janitorial company for 19 years. I mean she's one of those 15 people who's going to lose their jobs. I'm here because I believe the city should be prioritizing and working with companies that provide good jobs for our community and that are reflective of the city's values. And on behalf of these 15 workers and their families, I'm asking that the city reach out to the standard insurance company and ask them to restore its contract with the union company and be more in alignment with the city's commitment to good jobs. I have a couple questions, Mayor. Commissioner Fish, yeah, sure. So, first of all, this is your first testimony? Yes. Nicely done. Thank you. Did you know that she was right on time? I was trying real hard. We hope you set an example for some of the people that come here and manage to give their testimony while the thing is going, every bell and whistle is going off. So your request is that we reach out to the standard to discuss this decision. And you know this council is on record as strongly supporting justice for janitors and the campaign to bring fair wages and benefits, whether it's a union or non-union context to janitors in the city of Portland. So I think that's a fair request. We don't have, I don't have, a formal statement from the standard on this issue. I'll check my mail when I go back, but so we have your appeal. And I think this is an emergency item because we're required to put into place these things so that we have continuity in our health care. But I think it's perfectly appropriate for you to put this marker down. And I see no reason why the city can't pursue this on a dual track basis, which is proceed with the recommendations from our committee. while also engaging the standard on this issue of who they choose to hire as janitors. And we're also collectively aware of the fact that that if the percentage of people providing services in Portland falls below a certain amount, it affects everyone's ability to get health care. That's right. So this is an issue near and dear to my heart. You have my commitment that I will work with SEIU to engage this issue, and I appreciate that you've... You've decoupled the two issues that you haven't said, no, don't proceed with the recommendation today. But at the same time, you said, would we make an overture? And you have my commitment to do that. Thank you.
 Wonderful. Excuse me, Mayor. Commissioner Harstead and Commissioner Daly. Thank you. Could we bring, I'm sorry, what was your name again? Yes. Kathy back up so that we can get Kathy on the record to find out what Kathy's going to do as she's moving this contract forward. Okay. Well, Kathy doesn't have anything to do with janitors. No, but she's going to be the one negotiating the contract, right? I mean, what we're doing is actually approving this contract, right? And they're going to be moving it forward. So I just want to know how much time we have between the time we approve this and the time it's actually signed. July 1? Is it past July 1? I guess it is, isn't it? It's July 10th. Okay, so... You have my commitment to absolutely take this forward and work with the commissioner and the mayor's offices to address this within standard insurance. Well, I mean, I appreciate that, but I want us to be really proactive. I believe that we as a city council have been really clear that we value union employment, right? We value good wages. We value health care, et cetera, et cetera. Why are you getting a little nervous over there? Because we can't dictate union employment. We advocate for standards of adequate wages and benefits. When we intrude into the conversation by insisting that it be union versus non-union, we've gone beyond the scope of what we've done historically because that's interfering with the right of workers to make that judgment. I appreciate that, but we can certainly advocate for a living wage and health care and vacation and all the things that are associated with taking care of employees, right? That's why, Commissioner, consistent with SEIU's previous overtures to us on this issue and the request that was made by the organizer, I I was hoping I was speaking for the council and saying at the leadership level we will take this up and engage the standard on this issue, which was the request. Kathy's job is to provide the health care benefits, and I just wanted to keep them separate. I appreciate that. Thank you very much. I just want to make sure everybody's on the racket, having the same value system in place. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Yes.
 Great. For somebody who is testifying for the first time, you certainly got everything all riled up. Well done. And she did it with a smile. The whole time. You can come back weekly, and we'll put you on first. Just so we'll sort of set a standard for our testifying. Commissioner Udaly. I've got somewhere to go, people. I just want to say... Similar to Commissioner Fish, I need a little more information, but certainly supportive of your concerns. And let's follow up. Great. Thank you. Looking forward to it. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions on 81 to 83? Please call the roll, Keelan, on 681, Ordinance. Hard to see. Aye. Aye. You daily? Aye. Fish? Kathy, thanks for all the great work you do and also for putting in place a flexible spending account process this year, which is ten times easier to use and to access than the ones we've had in the past. You and I have had this conversation on an ongoing basis. Really appreciate your responsiveness and the way you manage this process. Aye. Thank you. Thank you.
 Meela. Great job Kathy. I've been asked by Commissioner Fritz to read her statement as a courtesy. I will thank you for reading the statement into the record while I visit my mother in England. I hope my colleagues on the council will support my request of Labor Management Benefits Committee to explore options for improving fertility coverage for City of Portland employees in this upcoming fiscal year. As an employer of choice, the City commits itself to attracting, developing, and retaining a diverse, culturally competent, fully engaged workforce providing excellent public services. In my time on the council, we have added inclusive benefits for City employees, including paid sick leave, paid parental leave, including foster and adoptive parents, cognitive behavioral therapy for autism and transgender health care. There are often huge financial barriers to fertility care, which has negative impacts on income as well as an employee's mental health as they navigate the complex journey of trying to start a family. At the same time, the cost burden to the city is likely to be minimal. In Massachusetts, the state with the most comprehensive mandate for infertility coverage, The cost of coverage was one of the lowest amongst its mandated benefits at just $2.49 per member per year. There are also disproportionate impacts of this coverage on single and LGBTQ plus parents, in particular through fertility care needs, sorry, though fertility care needs are not exclusive to these communities. Fertility is a fundamental part of health care and should be accessible to everyone, regardless of age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, expression, or marital status. My staff and I look forward to supporting the LMBC's pursuit of improved benefit options in this area. That from Commissioner Fritz. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 682, please call the roll. Hardesty. 682. Aye. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Fish.
 Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. Ordinance is adopted. 683. Call the roll. Hardesty. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Ordinance is adopted. Read item 684. Thank you. Last bit of business. Thank you, Kathy. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Oregon Health and Science University in an amount not to exceed $250,000 for medical wellness director services for Portland Fire and Rescue Firefighters. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you very much, Mayor. I am so excited to have my fabulous interim fire chief here to discuss this new benefit that we're making sure will be in place and a wonderful partnership we're creating with OHSU. Take it away. All right. Good afternoon. I'm Ryan Gillespie, interim fire chief for Portland Fire and Rescue. I know you've had a very busy day, so I'll be brief here. The ordinance today is to add a critical piece of the International Association of Firefighter, International Association of Fire Chief Wellness Fitness Initiative into our health and wellness program. This IGA with OHSU will provide physician oversight and referral capabilities to our firefighters. They will also be analyzing data to determine risk factors and to suggest... mitigating practices to reduce injuries and illnesses within our workforce. Beside me here, I have Janet Woodside, who is our EMS program manager. She's been with Portland Fire and Rescue for close to 20 years and has been taking the lead in our health and wellness program for our firefighters. She's done an incredible amount of work. in moving us forward in this arena and we would be happy to take any questions that you have. Can you think of any reason why this council should not support this this ordinance? Okay I'm ready to vote. Great all right moving right along. Any other questions Commissioner Hardesty? No. Commissioner Udalli? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.