Depending on how competitive we want it to be in the market. Do we want to be above the market, meet the market, or just beneath what the market would suggest our vacation accrual level should have been? And it was a beautiful recommendation.
 It was so well thought out, which you all have the data on, it was so well thought out that I was immediately convinced that the medium, the midpoint, the more moderate accrual rate was in the best interest of the city to allow us to remain competitive, especially as we continue to compete both inside the city as well as with external regional competitors for talent.
 So what you have before you is in Exhibit A, my recommendation, which is an adjustment to the vacation accrual table for the HRAR 6.03. Any questions? Very good. Before we do public comment? Could you just summarize what the changes are? So the change generally is...
 The largest change happens when a new hire comes on board for the City of Portland. Currently, we max out at 80 hours per year that you can accrue towards when you first start at the City of Portland. And you are not able to accrue at a higher rate for four years. Well, that's not as progressive as the market would suggest it should be. In today's market, employees...
 move around from employer to employer more frequently than four to eight to twelve years. And so in order for us to incent them to stick around, we are allowing them to accrue at more of a less of a stair step every four years to each year they can accrue at a higher rate. So we initially bumped up the maximum accrual rate at year one
 to 112 hours up from 80 hours. And then it increases four hours every subsequent year that they're here, which is a significant change and shift from where we were historically, which is every four years you would receive approximately six hours more. If I could just chime in on this. Yes. One of the things that really struck me about this was how noncompetitive we were for new employees.
 And particularly for our departments that have technical support, engineering support, specific skills, we just weren't competitive with the private sector. And that was clearly impacting our ability to recruit quality talent. And so I think your thinking on this and the logic you used is spot on. Absolutely. So we bumped up the accrual that you can in the early years, and you said instead of –
 And we've used a, what's that metaphor, a staircase? Right. Every four years, a step up. Now it's just a gradual incline each year. I see. Good. Yep.
 And we weren't just not competitive with the for-profit sector. We also weren't competitive with Metro, the state, TriNet. One of the ways that we knew we weren't competitive is that we were constantly in the searches that we were involved with being asked to approve a greater accrual for candidates that expect – where the candidate was saying the industry standard is X.
 you're at a step, and we had to, in effect, give that additional benefit in order to land the candidate of choice. That's exactly right. We were asking for exceptions with the bulk of our hires. Okay, good. Very good. Any questions before we move this on to public question? I would like to ask if we can move this to an emergency ordinate for a vote today, since we have so many of our union representatives before us.
 And you want to implement this on an expeditious basis. Is that correct? It will be implemented in January. We have to actually change the entire SAP system. We need a little bit of runway to get the system adjusted so that the accrual rate is impacting the entire city. Happy to do so. Moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll on the motion.
 You should state on the record the emergency so it can be recited in the audience. The emergency is that it allows us to begin the accrual process sooner, speed up the administrative part, and frankly, not insignificantly, the partners who worked very hard to help craft this proposal are here in the room today, and I'd like to see them actually see their work come to fruition.
 I think we have a second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. Any further questions before we move to public testimony? Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, gentlemen. We have four people signed up. Very good. The first three are Rachel Whiteside, Elliot Levin, and Paul Cohn. Good morning again. Good morning again. It's good to see you.
 Good morning. Thank you. Once again, my name is Rachel Whiteside, and I'm union representative for PTE Local 17 members here at the City of Portland. And in the interest of disclosure, I sat on the work group that made the recommendation to the HR director. You are the best. Thank you.
 It is my opinion that if it weren't for my local 17 members, we wouldn't be here before you today with the progressive recommendation that you took a look at. But I also want to fully acknowledge it required the participation of our union brothers and sisters, many of which I've seen in the audience today. Thank you very much. And a commitment. Why don't you ask them to stand so we can just acknowledge them, the people that were involved in this?
 And I would also like to acknowledge the commitment by the city. This was a true labor management partnership, and if it weren't for the committed staff of the Labor Relations Department, we wouldn't be here as well either. Thank you.
 This vacation leave workgroup was a unique labor management partnership, as Cyrilda mentioned, formed to examine a specific issue outside of the formal bargaining process. All parties entered with no preconceived notion of what our final outcome would be, but with a willingness to define our shared interests and work from there.
 We were able to review data and discuss concepts without the carefully choreographed dance that you have in a formal negotiation. And I believe that this latitude allowed us to present the sweeping changes that are before you today. And that this recommendation will reposition the city of Portland within the marketplace. And it demonstrates a deliberate intent to be an employer of choice, which I mentioned earlier. It's a real challenge.
 Passion of mine. I want you to keep mentioning that. I think it's great. So I am in full support of this recommendation. I truly consider this process to be a genuine success, and I hope that council will support similar endeavors in the future. Maybe we can take up that sick leave usage issue. Thank you for your time. You've already voted yes. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler, members of council, my name is Elliot Levin. I'm the director of research and Oregon legislative advocate for professional and technical employees at Local 17, and I wish to speak in favor of the ordinance before you this morning.
 In addition to improving the work-life balance and job satisfaction of current employees, we believe that this ordinance is a major step forward in attracting the next generation of talent to work for the city. The engineers, planners, technicians, and information technology professionals that we represent have many employment options in the current labor market. And in recent years, we have seen increasing competition for top-tier talent in many specialized fields. This morning's ordinance will make the City of Portland significantly more attractive in this competitive labor market.
 We find that younger employees place a high value on quality of life aspects of their job. The vacation is a significant factor in comparing job offers. Increasing the early years of the vacation accrual table to be highly competitive with comparable local public employers will help the city attract the next generation of talent into the workforce.
 Additionally, mid-career professionals are often taking considerable loss in vacation to change jobs and work for the city, but we believe that this ordinance will help to ease the transition considerably, specifically by increasing the accrual rates at each year of employment rather than in five-year blocks. New City of Portland employees can expect to return to previous levels of vacation accrual faster under this new system. Thank you.
 This removes a significant barrier to attracting the kind of experts and skilled professionals that Portland will need as the city continues to grow. By embracing this forward-thinking model for vacation accrual, I wish to thank City Council, and I look forward to seeing the positive impact of today's action on the future of workfires. Thank you. Thank you very much. We appreciate it.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of council. My name is Paul Cohn, and I'm the president of the Portland chapter of PT17. I'm also a city employee with 15 years of experience in several bureaus. I just want to also, before I read the rest of my remarks, acknowledge Amy Bowles, who championed this for us at the bargaining table last year and has now moved on to be one of our executive directors for the union in Seattle. So thank you, Amy. Thank you.
 As a representative of nearly 900 engineers, planners, technicians, IT specialists like myself and other professionals represented by PT Local 17, I want to speak today in favor of the vacation leave ordinance before you. For years, Local 17 has heard that increasing vacation leave accrual is a primary priority for our members. We polled our members prior to bargaining. About 50% of them responded, which was an amazing response, and this was number one on their list.
 As we have spoken to members across the city, we've heard several repeated themes that fit with a changing workforce and assumptions about the relationship between work, life, and family. As employees across the economy work seemingly longer hours and families are stretched to find time together,
 We continuously hear that work-life balance is a crucial concern for our members. Workers often struggle to find time during busy work weeks for friends, family, and personal pursuits. More vacation time will allow our members to be more connected to their loved ones and communities and strengthens our society. Rest time away from work is important for the morale and effectiveness of a workforce.
 After time away, employees come back to work more productive and effectively. Additionally, medical research has shown that employees that have access to adequate vacation leave have lower rates of heart disease, depression, stress, and high blood pressure. In fact, there was one study that showed a 31% decrease in death from coronary heart disease amongst men who took regular vacations.
 And while many of our members are fortunate enough to take leave for leisure activities, we find that our members increasingly need to use vacation time, something that Kathy Bless alluded to, to care for children, spouses, and parents. You know, sometimes if those folks have health care concerns. Vacation leave is no longer a priority.
 only used for travel and relaxation, but it's become a crucial element of family safety nets, and employees rely on this benefit to be able to provide care without making burdensome financial sacrifices. As both child care and elder care becomes an ever more present part of workers' responsibilities, vacation leave allows employees to bridge the gap between work, financial, and family responsibilities. By adopting this ordinance, you will have a tangible impact upon thousands of city employees...
 satisfaction with their jobs, their quality of life, their ability to care for their families. Our members take pride in their work and the professional services they provide for the people of Portland, and the benefits we hope you extend today will significantly improve their ability to provide these services. So we thank you for your support. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. We really appreciate it. The last person who's signed up is Ted Bryan. Very good. Mr. Walsh, did you want to come up as well? Yeah, come on up.
 Good morning.
 My name is Ted Bryan. I'm a representative of Laborers Local 43. I was also a member of the Vacation Leave Work Group. And the first thing I'd like to mention today, I'd just like to underscore the remarks that Director Summers-McGee made about the process that the work group went through. It was really refreshing for all of us to actually go through a process where it felt like a collaborative effort. It was fact-based and it didn't involve the sort of usual song and dance that we sometimes find in bargaining.
 I think right now at this point in history when there's really an attack on the rights of public sector workers across the country, it's important that the city of Portland really be leading in terms of its labor relations. And I think we're seeing a big change in terms of the relationship between labor and management here. And that's really encouraging for us. I think the logic of the ordinance is impeccable. It's a real substantial commitment by the city to the health and well-being of our members, and they appreciate that.
 And I just wanted to say I'd be remiss if I didn't mention the hundreds of so-called casual and seasonal employees who work for the city, who are out there maintaining our parks and community centers, who unfortunately at this point, many of them don't have vacation leave or paid holidays.
 but I just want to say that in the past few years, we've seen council make real commitments to those workers as well, and so I'm hoping that going forward, the city will actually maintain its commitments to all of its employees, which is what we're seeing now, and I just hope that that spirit continues in the future. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, City Council members. I'm Joanne Hardesty, and I also just want to echo what an incredible model the City Council and Human Resources is in a union government partnership.
 I think it's really wonderful to see outside of a bargaining process that we were able to actually help employees spend more time with their families and have more downtime because, as we know, you have to check out sometime. And I just want to say, Mayor Willer, this is the second time in two days that I've complimented you on something, and so I want the record to reflect that. Thank you, Joanne. Why don't you put on the record then, therefore, the bureaus that you're seeking. Okay.
 I will take whatever the mayor would like to give me. Very good. Thank you. And thank you for coming in and expressing that. I know people appreciate hearing that. So thank you. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Again, for the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We love labor unions. We also love employees. And employees that work for the city, we love especially.
 Because we know how hard they work. We know how dedicated they are. In the corporate world, if you get called up at 3 o'clock in the morning to come into work, they would laugh. Wouldn't happen. I remember being called up at 3 o'clock in the morning on the federal level and had to come into work because Long Beach Naval Shipyard was under a storm and we had to go in. So I have some appreciation of what your employees do.
 And it's, again, for Joanne and I to compliment you twice in one day, it's going to ruin our reputations. We'll survive. I looked at the agenda, and I'm not too sure if anything that I'm really going to criticize you on today. Well, maybe there's one thing. We applaud you. We criticize you often. We get thrown out a lot. Not me.
 Not Joanne. When I say we, I mean individuals for justice. But congratulations. If you pass this, this is kind of cool. And you should be proud of it. And when we yell at you, it's on an issue. And it's not personal, even though it sounds personal sometimes. And that's just our inability to make it issue-oriented. It's our problem, not yours.
 So thanks again for this. Thanks to the union. Thanks to what I used to call IRO, or human resources. It seems that everybody worked together on this and came up with a really good solution. And I'm really proud to sit next to Joanne on this one and be on the same page. This is not that unusual. So thanks again.
 And write it down. Twice. Twice. History is made here today. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. Was there anybody else, Carla? That was all who had signed up. All right. Very good. Colleagues, anything else before we move to a vote since we have amended? Oh, I'm sorry. Could anything else direct Ms. McGee? I just need to stay here for the vote, yes? If you would like to. Okay. Good. Please call the roll. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank both management and labor for coming together and taking a good look at this very important issue. I think, as many of you testified, it's increasingly difficult today to achieve that right work-life balance. And many of us are always...
 seeking to find that and it's harder to find with all the competing demands including care for dependents. So I think increasing our accrual is the right thing to do and I'm very pleased to be able to support this and say hi. Well I would just like to thank Director Summers-McGee for her hard work. It's been a pleasure working for you and I'm really pleased with the direction that we're
 moving in and thank our union, our staff and our union members as well. I heard three things today that really warm my heart. I heard our labor partners talk about meaningful, measurable progress towards becoming an employer of choice. And we want to be an employer of choice because it means we're recruiting the best talent and we're retaining the best talent.
 And so there's some things we have to do to get there, but this is a big step in that direction. Second thing I heard was that a number of people said that this reflects a change in the relationship between labor and management. That's very important because we can disagree on issues from time to time, but we are at our best when we are operating as true partners for the benefit of the most important commodity and precious resource we have in this city, which is the workers who do the work.
 So I was pleased to hear that. And then on the question of work-life balance that Dan alluded to, you know, it's been important to me because, you know, I have a family and a young kid who's active, and I want to be present for his milestones. But it became even more important when I had a serious health challenge, and I had to begin to rethink some of my priorities and make sure that I was getting the rest I needed and the downtime in order to be effective in my day job.
 So this is a win-win-win. I'm very pleased today to vote aye. Wheeler. This is about respect, and this is about acknowledgement. It's about respecting and acknowledging the people who do the work for the residents of this city. It is hard work. It is tireless work. It is often thankless work, and it's mostly behind the scenes. And I want to share a story, then I want to just share a thought. First, the story.
 I have never liked the negative stereotypes about public employees, and I think they're largely cheap shots at people who care about this community. They see the value in this community. They see the potential in this community, and they're actually wanting to work hard to serve the community. Services is the thread that holds all of our values.
 folks together. And the story I want to share is one I've told before. I remember seeing a public employee on his belly in a deep puddle of mud trying to clear a storm drain with his bare hands in the winter. And I remember driving by just watching this guy in the mud, in the water, and I remember thinking that is incredible dedication in any field.
 that would be defined as incredible dedication. And that was a real moment of pride for me just to see that level of commitment and dedication. Now, in terms of what I want to say, Cirilda, when you were hired...
 One of the conversations we had was about changing the dynamic in this city. And we talked about how it was going to be hard to change the dynamic. And we talked about the employer of choice model. And we talked about labor relations. And you and I collectively had heard a lot of positive, but we'd also heard some negative.
 about collective bargaining in particular, but just generally some of the disconnect between management and our rank and file employees.
 And when I hear labor leaders and I hear others from the community come up and they talk about how you and your labor relations team in a relatively short period of time are already changing that culture and are already building that trust, even outside of bargaining, that's exactly what you were brought on to do. And from my estimation, you're doing really, really well. So keep it up.
 I think this is a great proposal. It's a data-driven proposal. It's based on fact. It works within the confines of science.
 finite resources, but it's also the right thing to do both in terms of compassion and it's the right thing to do in terms of recruiting and retention. And perhaps most importantly of all, it's just the right thing to do to say that we respect the people who work for the city of Portland and we support them in the work that they do. So I vote aye and the ordinance is adopted. Thanks for your hard work.
 Carla, could you? Yes, we've had a request for 748. 748, could you please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda? Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Commissioner Udaly? Next individual, please. 740, request of Edith Gillis to address council regarding a proposal for permanent public art, historical displays, and interactive museum.
 Good morning. Thank you. Since June 18th, I've repeatedly tried to be on the agenda to have us consider and commemorate how our past, present, and hopefully future decisions as City Council and other Portlanders can educate, inspire a city, state, nation, and world.
 I don't know why I've had so many repeated technical problems on my part, but I want to thank ahead our council clerk for her incredible patience and forgiveness, her grace under pressure and her ability to keep principle detail as well as the bigger picture so that finally I'm here and I'm just so grateful. What I want to do is have us
 share a vision of what we can do in learning the lessons and blessings from our past and current adversity and do this to not only recognize how we are being treated, but to
 already leaders of the nation, for good or for bad, and how we can make that for the better. Imagine with me an outdoor permanent art installation, interactive museum, and a tourist in training destination. We would go from Southwest Bancroft at Moody, one lot south,
 along the east side of the bike path, the riverside, that is now currently the Abolish Ice encampment, after we hopefully successfully and positively succeed in the purpose of the camp. Let's have it be Monarchs Migration and Multnomah Camp, in which we look at
 look at not only the monarch butterflies that have traveled between Canada and Mexico, and the ways in which the city of Portland has harmed the environment, killing our milkweed and our toxicity, but now is cleaning up our Superfund and other toxic sites, and is bringing back monarch butterflies as we're looking at this being a migratory route of salmon, of beaver, and of elk, etc. And the
 It's also been a migratory area, a gathering of peoples and ideas. We've had over 30,000 years of First Nations coming to the Portland area,
 from east of the Mississippi, as seen through purple shell from the other side, from the Gulf of Mexico, buffalo, carved walrus tusk. And so we can show how we've had people sharing ideas, the same route that Lewis and Clark were led by a young woman on, and how we can see how we've had centuries of the United States purposely moving people unfairly
 and how we can change that to respect and to stop the separation of families and how we can right the wrongs of our past and commemorate the ideas from monarchs from Russia, Japan, Hawaii, France, great-grandfather of the United States and how we cannot have that kind of robber baron, railroad baron mentality here and commemorate all the opportunities that
 awesome, wonderful things that the City Council and the people of Portland have been doing at Multnomah-Kant to show the world a better way in which we can self-govern and right injustice. Thank you. Appreciate it. 746, please.
 Authorized purchase of certain real property located at 5827 Northeast Prescott Street at a price and closing costs not to exceed $558,000 to develop new affordable housing. Colleagues, this is 747 Red in connection with this. As it says, 15 minutes for both.
 Yeah, let's do that. Good call. Michelle, is there any reason why I shouldn't read 747? Let's go ahead and read 747 as well. Thanks, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Commissioner Fish.
 Authorize Portland Housing Bureau to assume certain contracts that will be assigned to the Housing Bureau in connection with acquisition of real property located at 5827 Northeast Prescott Street. So, colleagues, this is yet another property associated with the Portland Housing Bond.
 The housing bond promised 1,300 units of permanently affordable housing, and it promised that that would be created within a five- to seven-year timeframe of passage. In the first year and a half, we have approximately half of the promised units either already purchased or in process in both new developments and acquisitions of existing buildings.
 This acquisition represents the fourth project identified under the housing bond. The Portland Housing Bureau is excited to bring this ordinance before the council today as another step towards meeting the goals of the housing bond. The acquisition of this property will create 50 to 75 new units of affordable housing in the Cully neighborhood, a neighborhood on the front lines of gentrification and displacement.
 Future development of this property will create additional family-sized units for households earning 0% to 30% AMI, as well as providing more supportive housing units to the city in coordination with the Joint Office of Homeless Services.
 And just colloquially, 0% to 30%, that is housing with support services for the people we are seeing on the streets, people who are chronically homeless, people who are in crisis. This not only allows them access to housing that they can afford and be successful in, it will also provide opportunities for services.
 PHB and its partner, Home Ford, will begin planning for programming and services for this property by the end of this year, the end of 2018, which will inform future development goals. With that, I'll pass it over to Housing Director Shannon Callahan. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. I am Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau. And as the Mayor said, we are here today with the fourth identified Portland Housing Bond property and our second property acquired for new development.
 This property is located in the Cully neighborhood, and today I am joined by one of our five Bond Oversight Committee members, Todd Struble of APANO, the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon. By the way, I'm not saying he's the best committee member, but I think he was my appointee. I believe he was indeed your appointee. Thank you very much. And Cameron Harrington, a member of the Portland Housing Advisory Commission and of Living Cully. Thank you.
 Just for a little bit of grounding about the Portland Housing Bond's production and policy goals, we are seeking to create or acquire 1,300 permanently affordable homes, 600 of which, as the Mayor indicated, will be deeply affordable, 300 of which will be set aside for supportive housing, and 650 of which will be sized for families, two bedrooms or even larger. Thank you.
 Under the housing bond, we are seeking to create new housing and well as prevent displacement. That's why we're both investing in properties for new development as well as acquiring existing buildings. We are prioritizing communities of color, families and households facing homelessness or displacement. We are investing citywide in areas of high opportunity and areas at high risk of gentrification.
 As the Mayor said, we are particularly excited about the opportunity to purchase this property in the Cully neighborhood, an area of rich diversity and a strong sense of community, and unfortunately also with a high risk of gentrification. This is one of the target neighborhoods that we specifically sought out and are very pleased that we were able to acquire this property. Thank you.
 This particular property is being purchased for $50,000. It can hold as many as... $500,000. Oh, I'm sorry, $50,000. Wow, that's a really good deal. Well done, well done. I don't know if the owner knew that or not.
 $500,000, which is still a very, very good price for this property. It can be developed for as many as 75 units, but at the present moment we're counting between 50 and 75 because we don't know the mix of the bedroom size or family size until we start to work first with our bond oversight community and with our community in general. Thank you.
 If you're not familiar with this property, it is located on numerous transit lines and in close proximity to a grocery store, which is a huge amenity for families who may be transit dependent as they look to move into a new neighborhood.
 As a reminder, for all bond acquisitions, they are put through an analysis of our adopted policy framework. We assess the property or buildings with on-site site visits, and then we have a formal review process as adopted by our Bond Oversight Committee before we make a formal offer to purchase.
 This particular property began that process last December. We moved through a formal review committee in January, started our due diligence, and are now here before you to ask for your approval on the purchase of the property. Okay.
 And just before I turn it over to Todd, I'd like to just show you a brief map of the four identified properties. This property, if approved, would join a property in East Portland we just purchased a few weeks ago, and also our 30th and Powell new development site, which we are beginning pre-development activities on presently. And then, of course, our first bond purchase in Northeast Portland, the 263-unit Ellington Apartments.
 And with that, I'll turn it over to Todd. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Todd Struble, and I serve on the Housing Bond Oversight Committee. In that role, our goal is to hold PHB accountable to the stakeholder advisory committee that created a framework for this bond.
 With that in mind, we believe this project absolutely follows that framework. It's a good investment. It's a wise long-term investment. And we know that it's going to be supporting the folks that are experiencing homelessness and families that are really vulnerable to displacement.
 So with that, I think it's an excellent investment. And I'd also just like to also point out that it's in an area where the city has focused resources. It's close to a neighborhood prosperity initiative, and there's many nonprofit organizations that are doing work on the ground that will continue to support this investment as it goes forward. So with that, I'd like to say thank you and endorse this. Thank you. Thanks, Todd.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Thank you for having me this morning. My name is Cameron Harrington. I'm here speaking on behalf of the Living Cully Partners to express our support for this acquisition. As you've heard, this property is in an excellent location in one of the most diverse neighborhoods in the state of Oregon. It's across the street from a full-service grocery store. It's within easy walking distance of two...
 elementary schools, of the new Cunnamux Park that opened a couple of years ago. It has easy transit access, so it's a great location for families and other low-income folks who are in need of stable, affordable homes. I wanted to share...
 a few words about our involvement in the bond and some experiences we've had in the Cully neighborhood. So Living Cully organizes a grassroots group called the Cully Housing Action Team that knocked on over 1,100 doors in our neighborhood to support the bond campaign in 2016.
 And so we were very gratified that voters approved these funds, and then we're excited that this is resulting in new affordable homes in our neighborhood. As part of that campaign in 2016, a number of families participated in door knocking who lived at the Normandy Apartments in Cully on Northeast Killingsworth, which...
 Those families lost their homes last year when an investor purchased the building and doubled their rents.
 Five of those families were able to find stable affordable homes at the Ellington apartment building, which was the first bond acquisition. And so I thought that was an important connection to make here between folks who are involved in grassroots affordable housing advocacy on the ground who themselves are facing a crisis in their own housing, and this bond has directly supported them in finding permanent, stable, affordable homes.
 But that does lead me to note that the bond and all of the acquisitions that are being made with it are, as I know you have all noted, are one piece of the affordable housing puzzle in Portland. And so building on this momentum in the Cully neighborhood, we're excited that the manufactured housing park zoning proposal is coming to council very soon, which will –
 prevent the displacement of over 3,000 households in this city, which is more than twice as many as will be served by the bond itself. So those two things going hand-in-hand make a lot of sense. We encourage you to take up a vote on that zoning proposal as soon as possible so that more property owners of manufactured housing parks do not file permits to redevelop before the zone is changed. We're very concerned about that. And then...
 The last piece that I wanted to mention for the Cully neighborhood is our ongoing work led by Hacienda Community Development to develop affordable housing on the former Sugar Shack property that Living Cully was able to acquire in 2015. So this bond acquisition is very exciting news for our neighborhood, and we are very eager to work with
 and with the Housing Bureau to keep that momentum rolling into the next steps for preserving affordable housing, building new affordable housing, and preventing displacement in the Cully neighborhood and across the city. Thank you. And Commissioner Fish first. Go ahead. So, Director Callahan, thank you very much for your presentation. The materials that you gave us say that there's –
 We're planning up to, that's quote, up to 13 units of permanent supportive housing. So they'll call that the ceiling. What's the floor? Oh, Commissioner, I don't know that I could say that there is a floor. We're looking to maximize our supportive housing wherever we can in any particular project. Each project would have supportive housing contained in it, but I think it depends on the mix of whether it's,
 focused on families or single. So I would not be able to proffer an answer for you on that right now. So in the context, the council has adopted with the county a very big goal of 2,000 units of permanent supportive housing between now and 2027. When you come back with a development proposal, I'll be keenly interested in where we land in those numbers.
 And the second thing is we had prior testimony about the sugar shack. Now, I think it's wonderful that we're acquiring land in Cully, in effect land banking and allowing us to do some future development. But the sugar shack development site has been a top priority of this council for a long time, and it goes back to when there was a strip club.
 across from Hacienda's housing and really a tremendous blight in a neighborhood that was struggling to move forward. Fortunately, the land and the building has been acquired by a number of partners, including Hacienda. But there's a gap in their financing, and one of the reasons there's a gap is the Trump tax overhaul plan has had a negative impact on our tax credit market.
 And this is not the first time in the last ten years we've seen the value of tax credits come down a little bit.
 What assurances can you give council that we continue to be committed to helping our partners close the gap on Sugar Shack and move forward? So, Commissioner, I myself and the mayor, staff, and mayor have all had conversations with Hacienda. I think we'd all like to find a path forward to develop the Sugar Shack. We did have initial conversations with them about bond resources, and I believe it was not the right fit for the property with the current bond restrictions.
 But we are releasing a notice of funds availability later this month with the direction of the mayor, and we believe that that would be a top contender for those resources. Well, we're seeing significant inflation in the cost of building things. So that's a big cost driver. We're seeing a drop in the value of tax credits, which makes these things harder to pencil out.
 But, Mayor, I hope that when the NOFA issues and we get a chance to look at ways we can help our friends in Cully, that we're not shy about using HIF resources, other GAP resources. It is vitally important that we jumpstart this development, and it's been a council priority for a very long time. And I would be very aggrieved if this thing stalled out. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. I think you had it on the graphic, but how many –
 Two, three bedroom units will there be? We don't know yet. In terms of family size units with the bond, half of the bond resources are to develop family size units. With this particular property, we have not yet had a dialogue about what we think the property –
 would be best suited for. And our first stop for that is our Bond Oversight Committee, looking at the property itself, the makeup of the neighborhood, and the other goals that we have under the bond.
 Each property we need to make sure that we're meeting our overarching goals when we reach 1300 or greater units that we Do hit all of the other properties each does not look the same as each other Meaning some are slated for fam more slated for families some we look at we'll be looking at for more individuals or couples who may live in a smaller unit and may need more supportive housing services and
 So we don't yet know, but we're looking forward to having that dialogue with our bond oversight committee and the Cully neighborhood as well. So I guess similar to Commissioner Fish's discussion he just had about permanent supportive housing, you know, what's the floor, what's the ceiling? Yeah.
 Is it safe to say there will be some family-sized units in this development? I would imagine that this would be a building that we would be looking to prioritize family-sized units. But, again, as I have not had that conversation with our Bond Oversight Committee, I would not be able to definitively say that or not. But, yes, I think that would be our sense is that it would be a very good site for family-sized units. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Does that complete your presentation, Shannon? It does. Very good. Public testimony on this, Carla? Yes. We have three people signed up. Please come on up. Our Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, David Sweet, and Edith Gillis. And just as a reminder, people, this is both for 746 and 747, if you'd like to testify. Good morning. Good morning.
 Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, my name is David Sweet. I'm the Land Use Transportation Chair for the Cully Association of Neighbors. And I'm remiss in not handing you our inclusive Cully policy, which was adopted two and a half years ago. And it's our attempt as a neighborhood association to address the problem of displacement in Cully. I want to...
 I'll read you just a small portion of that. We value the economic and ethnic diversity of our neighborhood. We are aware that the economic forces that threaten that diversity by displacing many of us. We acknowledge that people of color face higher barriers to finding housing and employment and are particularly vulnerable to displacement.
 Improvements to our parks and transportation infrastructure and the growth and enhancement of our commercial areas, while needed and desirable, are making our neighborhood more attractive to developers, investors, and homebuyers, driving up prices and exacerbating displacement. It is our vision that improvements in Cully will benefit existing residents and encourage them to remain in the neighborhood as we also welcome and make room for new residents. Thank you.
 So it is because of that we do encourage the development of permanently affordable housing in Cully, and we're delighted to learn of this new development that will join the more than 300 units of affordable housing owned by ASEAN and CDC, the many more development units that will be developed on the property formerly known as the Sugar Shack,
 the 59 units that's being built by a local developer in conjunction with Naya and Nara on 42nd Avenue. This is very exciting for us and one thing we'd like to make sure of is that these affordable units do benefit people who in Cully who are at risk of displacement
 first and foremost, and we hope that the Housing Bureau can find a way to reach out to folks like the residents of the Normandy apartments who are being displaced by economic forces, and we don't want to lose those folks from our neighborhood. So
 We urge your support for this acquisition. Thank you to the Housing Bureau for looking in, Collie, and please help us prevent displacement of our current residents.
 So I have to say, I've seen this statement before, and I love the Cully neighborhood, and this statement for me is a really excellent broad statement that should be applied citywide. And there's a couple of things I want to specifically call out, and I've noted this before.
 It's very positive. It starts out by expressing a mutual pride in the neighborhood and acknowledging the uniqueness of the neighborhood, and then going on to talk about specific action steps in terms of how to make the neighborhood or keep the neighborhood accessible and affordable and vibrant and safe and sustainable.
 all of the things that we want to see for the city at large. And I just really appreciate the way that you and your neighbors have come together in what I think is a really positive and productive way, and you've worked with the city council and you've worked with the housing bureau to help make your vision a reality. We need more of this. Thank you.
 At times when we're struggling with the growing pains in our city and struggling with a lot of social problems, I appreciate the fact you guys push your chair into the table, you provide concrete solutions, you provide a positive vision, and you put your time and your energy and your money behind it. And we're proud to be your partners in Cully. So thank you, and please take that back to the Cully neighborhood. I certainly will. I'm really proud of the relationship that we've developed. Certainly.
 Certainly will. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I'd be remiss if I didn't mention the many other very active and able community organizations at work in Cully that our Neighborhood Association works with and in support of. They're the ones pulling the laboring oars here. We'll support as best we can.
 but we really appreciate the Living Kali Partners Verdi, Hacienda, Habitat for Humanity, Naya and all the others who are doing such great work in Kali. Well what's going on in Kali I hope is contagious it's just a really positive example of the community coming together to make the community work and
 And I'm proud to be mayor and have a community like Cully. So please call on me often. This is just one more example of what I think is the great work we can do together.
 Thank you. Good morning. Hello, my name is Edith Gillis, and I would like 50 to 75 percent of this property to be for those that are below the poverty line. I'd like us to have a diversity of types of units, studio apartments, dorm style, single rooms with a shared living space, multiple bedrooms, four to six bedrooms.
 bedrooms per unit with multiple space for multiple beds. I'd like it to be ADA, chemical sensitive, sensory adaptive, with food growing on the eaves in the green roof area, and I'd like to have a composting toilet as an option. To pay for these extra expenses, I'd like to take it from the police budget as part of preventing crime and cop calls. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioner Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson.
 And part of the motivation behind the housing bond and this particular property in Cully is because we need to try and try even harder to have a city where there'll be no more Karen Lee Batts killed by us. It was a very rough introduction for the mayor and his term that the city.
 and the county, and a particular judge, and a particular non-profit housing corporation, murdered Karen Lee Batts by hypothermia in a parking garage on 10th. Fortunately, Commissioner Fitz did mention supportive housing, but having spent time visiting people at Northwest Towers, out on Beaverton Hillsdale Highway where there's another unit, the city needs to be clear and frequently explicit about what is the safety net
 for people that are on disability, struggling with mental illness, possibly causing uncomfortable situations for their neighbors also in public and subsidized housing. How are we going to have a Vision Zero so that none of these people get evicted? Because that's actually what happens to an unknown percentage of our public housing residents. They're sent there, and it turns out to be a death camp. There used to be a woman who testified here frequently. She killed herself in Northwest Tower.
 When people go to a publicly funded university, part of the budget is set aside to do a crime report. It should be a general livability report, but at least a crime report. But we don't talk honestly and openly about the challenges of keeping people struggling with mental illness and compounding that with the situation of living in public subsidized housing alive.
 When we look at the great decision that's happening here in Cully, the need to move this project forward as fast as possible, we also need to not rush past the issues of how we will eventually build a system where almost no one has to get evicted from these. We want to see some people, when they get housed and stabilized, are going to be able to trend to lives that are more richer and more productive. But challenges come up, and we need to have a solution other than saying,
 oh, this crazy person didn't pay their $138 rent. Let's go to court and put them in eviction. There's got to be a better way. We have to talk about it often and clearly and communicate it to the people that are in need and struggling with those issues. Thank you very much. Yes, and thank you for correctly mentioning that. And I'm pleased not only with the direction this project is taking in terms of support, the NOFA that happens,
 the housing director mentioned earlier, is actually going to be the first NOFA of its kind that's going to combine both the infrastructure and the housing with the mental health services needed to help people be successful in that housing and stay in that housing and be healthy in that housing.
 So I just want to acknowledge that I agree with what you're saying, and that is in fact the direction that we are moving, and we're moving there aggressively. So thank you for pointing that out. Exactly. We're also seeing progress with Cascadia's Garlington development. They're great. Yeah, absolutely. But people need to know to see where they can see this in black and white, like portland.org.gov slash smart, which you all fixed. Thanks. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks to all three of you. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity Watchdog. I do like this project. I like your price on this project. I like the fact you're going for the new development. Again, when we're talking the permanent supportive housing, I want it to be made an amenity in any public housing facility. But I also want to have a clear understanding, and it's the most important amenity, for mental health and addiction services.
 must be included in every project. That means when we're building these buildings, we need to develop a certain amount of space to be utilized for
 for that specifically. Then we need to develop ways to fund the resources for that amenity to be ongoing and geographically located through the communities. And also working alongside the Unity Center in being advised from the professionals on what they think would be advantageous in these buildings and to work alongside of them to
 If something becomes very serious, they go to the Unity Center. How do we transport them to the Unity Center? This all needs to be included in the plan. Again, I prefer family-sized units. As you know, I prefer the 0% to 30% MFI. But again, I like this project. I like everything I see. I want to see the...
 The number of units expanded, that will stabilize overall rents, and that's what you're doing here. You're building more units, not buying seasoned units, and just holding those units and not developing out. So I like everything on this project. Again...
 stay focused on the 0 to 30 percent. In my understanding, permanent supportive housing could be implemented into all these buildings for every unit if the service is needed as an amenity. Anyone should be able to use those services. Anyone.
 should be able to use that amenity. Anyone should have a right in that building. If they are having any type of a mental health crisis, feel free to go to the professionals. We provided that amenity in this building and work alongside our professionals. That is an amenity that needs to be included. That's never been done in the city of Portland. There should be no limitations to
 anybody in that building wanting to use that service, that amenity, for mental health reasons, addiction services, to better themselves. So thank you. Yeah, agreed. And the corollary of that, of course, just to be clear, not everybody in 0 to 30 percent needs this supportive component either. Sure.
 Everybody, again, like I've stated, should have the option to use it or their relatives that visit them or people in their units at the time that might need that assistance at the time. This is a great service to have, a great amenity, and it's kind of going into the settlement agreement plan, as you know.
 geographically locating, which, again, that's what you're doing by doing this in working with the Unity Senator. Unity Senator. Thank you. Good testimony. Thank you. Thanks, everybody. All right. So with that, colleagues, any further discussions or questions? Very good. Carla, could you please call the roll on item 746? Saltzman. Well, I want to congratulate the Housing Bureau and the colleague.
 All the active groups in Cully, including the Neighborhood Association, for identifying yet another site to develop affordable housing for our residents. It sounds like a great piece of property, and I'm sure it will be a great thing we put on that property, too. Aye. Eudalie. Thank you to the Housing Bureau, and thank you to Living Cully for being such great community partners. Aye. Fish. I'm really excited about this acquisition and acquisition.
 Mayor, I also want to just say I think you and Director Callahan have come up with a new way of talking about the bond and how we're getting money out the door, which is an improvement over how we used to communicate the progress. And it allows people to see that we are actually well on track in meeting the commitment that we made to the community. So I'm very pleased with that. We have institutionalized our thinking about permanent supportive housing programs.
 To Lightning's point, it is now embedded in all that we do in new construction and in preservation. And Lightning's exactly right, and the other testimony is exactly right, that our challenge is twofold. One is to continue to have the will to put the units aside and subsidize them. The second is to provide the services. The combination of the subsidy plus the services is approximately $15,000 a unit per year.
 Do the math on the 2,000 units we've committed to. We can't get there without a robust partnership with the county, with the state, and at some point with a partner in Washington. So I'm very pleased with this action and proud to vote aye. Wheeler. Well, I've speechified enough on this. I'm enthusiastically supportive. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call the roll on item 747. Saltzman. I also want to thank Mayor Wheeler also. Aye. Udaly.
 Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everybody, for your hard work. Item 738, request of David Keefe Davis to address council regarding city-sponsored political terrorism. Good morning. Is it a good morning? Uh-uh. Ted, I'd like to start out with saying you can't grow a beard. You can't grow a beard, Ted, so give it up. You're looking like a...
 Little teenager with that little scruff on your face. And I wanted to tell you a quote from someone that you've said you'd admired in the past, Thomas Paine. Are you an admirer of him? He said, politics is a trade at which only the most despicable scoundrels and swindlers can hope to succeed. What do you think of that quote, Ted? Are you a despicable scoundrel? How about you, Khloe?
 How about you, Dan? Okay, so this is about the political terrorist attacks by the Portland police against cop watchers. You've been issuing stalking orders against cop watchers. Your chief of police, chief outlaw, got a stalking order put on Eli Ritchie for asking her a few questions.
 Your Nazi cop, Mark Kruger, who's the head of the vice unit, which is a wet dream for a Nazi eugenicist that likes to wage war on minorities and the lower classes. And I also saw your buddy who recently gave you a $10,000 donation for your campaign, right?
 the hotel owner of Portland, how he got elected as the ambassador for the EU by Trump. So you and Donald Trump have something in common. He got a million dollars in his campaign, and you got $10,000, and now one of your buddies is an appointee for the Trump regime. That might explain your war on cop watchers and how you have no respect for the Constitution. Yeah.
 How you're just a little Harvard rich boy that's out of place, out of time, totally irrelevant to what's going on in 2018. You're a seventh generation proud boy, right? Seventh generation proud boy of Oregon. Proud Oregonian colonizer. What's up, Ted? Do you like this ice camp that's city sanctioned?
 Time's up. Next communication, please. Will you sanction a homeless camp? Next individual, please. Next individual, please. We're going to start a homeless camp. Excuse me. This is in violation of council rules. You will be asked to leave. You are in violation of council rules. You will be asked to leave. ...uneducated cats... ...suffering post-traumatic stress...
 All right, excuse me, folks.
 Next communication. If you read item 745, it's going to be moved, but if you could read it for the record, please. 745, initiate foreclosure action on four properties for the collection of delinquent city liens placed against the properties. Colleagues, at the request of the auditor, I believe, this is being moved to August 8th, 2018.
 at 9.45 a.m. time certain. Again, that's August 8th, 9.45 a.m. time certain.
 Sorry about that. Thank you, Mayor. I move that the rules be suspended to take the time-certain item 771 from the afternoon agenda and place it at the end of this morning's agenda. Today there are two agenda items that pertain to the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. Agenda item 771 is an ordinance that authorizes the Bureau to use its new name, the Office of Community and Civic Life.
 Item 772 is a resolution to convene a committee that will make recommendations about the future direction of the Bureau. The new name was selected with considerable public process, which included a public survey, focus groups, and interviews of key internal stakeholders, including Commissioner Fritz and I.
 This name change, or a name change, has been requested by the community for years through bureau advisory committee meetings, the 2008 Community Connect Report, and countless conversations with community partners.
 in order to better reflect the scope of work that the Bureau has been charged with. I'm requesting that we proceed with this as an emergency item to prevent continued confusion about the name internally and externally. Anyone who wants to discuss the Bureau's priorities should reserve their testimony for our afternoon session when we'll be talking about the code that governs the Bureau. Second. Thank you. We have a motion and a second discussion.
 I would just like to raise one question. I'm torn because I want to obviously provide you with the courtesy as a fellow commissioner. On the other hand, I know there are people who want to testify on this item this afternoon. Is there any chance we could keep it in the afternoon and just have it be served as a first reading for the afternoon and then take up the second vote next week? Then it takes 30 days to implement without an emergency clause. And we've...
 The reason that it's happening after July 1 is when we rolled out the new name and the new branding is that we struggled to find a time certain on a date when four of us would be here. So I would strongly prefer not to do that. The fact is we've done the public engagement, and this name change is happening. And, I mean, this is a formality.
 From a practical, and I'm not disagreeing, but from a practical stance, it's been my understanding that the name change had already happened, the rebranding had already happened. Does this, by having the vote, having the ordinance go into effect 30 days later, or the code change 30 days later, does that practically change anything in terms of the actual rollout of the branding? It's just confusing, and, I mean, we have –
 Name changes of other bureaus have also happened on an emergency basis. I'm just having a real hard time understanding any reluctance here since we've engaged all of your offices on this issue. And to be clear, my concern is really just when people show up this afternoon and say where is the opportunity to testify, I feel like we need an answer for them. So this is a...
 to suspend the rules, which I am allowed to make and we are allowed to do, but I need the support of all three of you. Mayor, I have a question. If we agree to suspend the rules, when would we take this up to this morning? The end of the morning session. End of the regular agenda. And since I'm partly responsible for this train wreck because I have a doctor's appointment this afternoon, would it make any difference if I were to...
 call in this afternoon for the vote on the name change? Does that change? Does that in any way make it easier to accommodate the mayor's request? Well, it certainly would. I'd hate to ask you to do that, Commissioner. Well, but I'm trying to reconcile two things where a commissioner has said that it's important we take action today.
 And the mayor has said that he wants to make sure people have a full opportunity to testify. Mayor, what if we were to say that I called in at 4 o'clock for the sole purpose of voting on the ordinance?
 and with the council, I would offer that not as an amendment, but as an alternative to the motion that's made, that the council allow me to participate by phone at 4 o'clock to vote solely on Council Item 771. Thank you, Commissioner. I'll withdraw my motion, and I deeply appreciate your willingness to take the time to...
 I see a way of reconciling two interests here and still keeping your motion on track. So, Mayor, if that's acceptable to you. Good. It sounds like we all walk away happy, and I really appreciate your flexibility, Commissioner Fish. So, Carla, could we make that a time certain at 4 p.m.? It doesn't have to be noticed at this point. This is just that the time certain remains at 2, Mayor. The vote will be held on 7-7-1 at 4 o'clock. I see what you're saying. Okay, very good. That works. Thank you. Illegal.
 Could I get an opinion from legal counsel? That's acceptable. Thank you very much. He works for you. Next item. He works for you. Question, please, Carla. 739. Thank you. Request of Charles Bridgecrane Johnson to this counsel regarding hashtag abolish ICE and drop 16-CR-20322 hashtag Black Lives Matter. Good morning.
 Impressive you can say that. It's another day in paradise. We'll clarify that paradise thing in just a moment. My name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and on the authority of the Portland Police Association, I greet you all, cesspool lords. Obviously, that's the president of the union representing the police when facing facts that
 Unfortunately, your administration didn't discover on its own. We had to rely on the Oregonian? We had to rely on the freaking Oregonian to tell us that over half the people processed by Portland police are homeless. And as of yet, we know that the independent police review is doing an investigation that will...
 go on while probably hundreds of other homeless people are pointlessly processed through the jail. And I hope that when the brilliant leadership that Daryl Turner gives the Portland Police Association is fully processed with this investigation, we'll see that
 It probably wasn't the best idea to throw another million dollars at them just because Permit Patty is concerned about the 911 response time when she calls to complain about black people having a barbecue. So please, you know, there are people that engage with the community well in the Portland Police Department. Help Chief Outlaw get them to the top. Be honest with officers. Be honest.
 you know, there's many people that will tell you about racism problems in the Portland Police Department. So maybe the answer is just honesty. And when we see these mostly white men that are still the Portland Police, we can just ask them, was your election of Daryl Turner to be your president some kind of racist joke? Um, it should be clearly put on the record right here that the guy who represents our finest is more concerned
 the businesses possibly having poop in their doorways than the fact that thousands of our neighbors have nowhere else to poop. You even lock the bathroom right there at 10 o'clock. Three armored steel jail toilets that could be used 24 hours a day, but you all lock them up. So, tots and prayers. What else is there? I don't know. We need some action, and of course the people need to step up and guide you in the right way. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next item, we're going to do a little bit of magic here to accommodate the quorum. Item 773, this is being moved from the PM agenda. This was noticed in the Tuesday memo. If you could read item 773, please.
 amend inclusionary housing to make technical corrections to the fee-in-lieu payment following the implementation of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code and to clarify that the calculation is based on gross residential and residential-related square footage. Colleagues, this ordinance is technical in nature. The ordinance replaces and adds a few key words for clarity
 and purpose of Section F of the inclusionary housing fee in lieu. The ordinance changes a grammatical er, changing they to the, and adds residential and residential-related.
 These are technical changes that need to be made following the adoption and implementation of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan that went into effect on May 24th of 2018. New commercial mixed-use zones were adopted that need to be reflected in the document. The Fee and Lue schedule must reflect the incorporated land use and zoning changes.
 These technical changes are Portland Housing Bureau's response to feedback and requests from the development community to clarify the fee-in-lieu section of inclusionary housing. Director Callahan.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Commissioners, as you have said, we are doing two things with this ordinance. One is a clarification regarding the fee in lieu applying only to residential portions of a building. This actually came up when we had a building come in through BDS to calculate their fee, and we realized, based on various portions of the code, that we had confused the intent, the original intent of council, and so we are clarifying that today. Okay.
 The second is in response to the comprehensive plan adoption and the change in the underlying zoning for the city, as well as a simple consolidation of the fee. Matthew Schibold and myself are here to answer any particular questions you may have. I don't see any. Let's go straight to public testimony. Carla is getting the list for us. And, Dan, we're going to do the children's levy. Okay. Thank you.
 Two people signed up. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson and Brian Owendorf. Very good. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. You go first. Go ahead. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioners, for allowing me to speak on behalf. My name is Brian Owendorf. I live and work in the city of Portland and have been involved in commercial development for over 30 years, a third of that here in Portland, including six mixed-use towers in downtown Portland. I'm here today to express my full support of the changes to the ordinance.
 I have been heavily involved in the design of large scale mixed use projects in downtown Portland and the project that was mentioned is a potential development of a 35 story tower which has three components, an office component, a hotel component and a mixed use or a residential component.
 The way the ordinance is currently written right now, we would actually have to pay for a fee in lieu of almost $29 million to offset just 28 affordable housing units, which would frankly kill the project. I think it's fair to have this payment be attributable only to the residential units. This will frankly kill a lot of mixed-use projects absent this change to have it just be applied to the residential side. Let me use real-life numbers. This site currently today...
 throws off about $160,000 of real property taxes and income taxes. If this project moves forward, it would raise that number to close to $10 million per year on this full block. So over a 10-year period, it would be over $100 million of net new income to the city to fund vital city services.
 The other point I wanted to make is that this will, like I said, make large mixed-use events like a mixed-use tower not be economically feasible. So I hope you will support this amendment because, in my opinion, this was not the intent of the original legislation. Thank you. And that is correct, by the way. This is tuning it back to the intent. Thank you, sir. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and I have developed zero mixed-use towers. Whether or not at 2 o'clock in the morning all the bathrooms were locked and I had to urinate on one, Fifth Amendment. So it's good to have a developer from the community come in and engage on this. When we talk about this, though, we also want to talk about that we only had a partial victory in Salem. We need to...
 be looking at both ends of the spectrum, ways that we can fine-tune IZ, inclusionary zoning, so that developers can bring forth units that will have affordability within them and also to get developers and the state legislature to understand that
 Zero to 30 MFI people aren't going away. We'll have them forever, and we need an inclusionary zoning statute that addresses every type of resident in this city. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you both. We appreciate it. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fish? I'm really glad that Mr. Owendorf came today because one of the things we heard
 beyond people saying we should make technical changes to strengthen IZ, was that IZ effectively prevented development from proceeding. He has essentially clobbered that issue by indicating that with this technical change that we're making, he's prepared to proceed with a very robust development proposal, and nowhere in his testimony did he say that IZ prevented this from penciling out.
 So we look forward to lots of other developers stepping up and following the law as well, because as Dan Saltzman famously said a few months ago, IZ is not going anywhere. Aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Please, Carla. Mayor, I need to make a motion before communications. Commissioner Udaly.
 I'm making a motion to suspend the rules to move time certain item to the morning agenda. So I move that the rules be suspended to take the time certain item 771 from the afternoon agenda and place it at the end of this morning's agenda. Mr. Mayor? Yes. You'll need four votes for that.
 Motion to carry. Can you defer that for a few minutes? I know Commissioner Fish will be here. Can you defer that for a bit? Okay, thank you. First communications, please. Works for all of us. Next item, please, is item number 743.
 743, amend Human Resources Administrative Rule 6.04, sick leave, to increase the calendar year maximum for dependent care from 40 hours to 104 hours of accrued leave. Colleagues, this ordinance increases the amount of sick leave an employee is eligible to use for qualifying Family Medical Leave Act FMLA and Oregon Family Leave Act OFLA dependent events.
 The current rule allows an employee up to 40 hours of accrued sick time to care for a qualifying dependent. That's a spouse, a child, a parent, et cetera. This ordinance increases the amount to 104 hours of accrued sick time to care for a qualified dependent. The change is aligned with the overall employer of choice strategies approved by the council. Supporting employees during qualifying events is important.
 Yeah, I hate to talk about this as qualifying events. I realize this is HR and it's legal, but what we're really talking about is allowing our employees to care for loved ones when they're experiencing a very serious or potentially terminal health event. Okay.
 Only allowing an employee to use 40 hours of sick time can be a hardship to the employee if they don't have sizable vacation and or comp time banks and or significant personal savings. This change is already in place within the PTE-17 collective bargaining agreement as the request to increase this offering for PTE-17 members originated through collective bargaining.
 Changing this within the human resources administrative rule to support non-represented employees and then also offering this to other union groups through a memorandum of agreement is appropriate to consistently apply the rule across all city employees. And with that, I'd like to pass this on to Health and Financial Benefits Manager Kathy Bless. Thank you for being here today. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor, good morning, commissioners.
 There's not a lot to add to your talking points. We support and want to recognize employees who really are struggling to balance a serious health condition of a dependent, an eligible dependent, and their work, right? These are protected benefits under federal family leave laws and the Oregon Family Leave Act.
 And it isn't additional time, right? So employees earn sick leave as part of the benefits that they receive. And so this doesn't increase that. It just changes the way in which an employee is allowed to use the time that they accrue. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions? Commissioner Daly? Very good. Public testimony? Yes.
 Yes, one person signed up. Very good. Rachel Whiteside. Good morning. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I am a union representative for PTE Local 17 members, and I'm here to speak in support of this ordinance. As was already mentioned, we have received this benefit through our negotiations. But while I'm here to speak in support of this, I wanted to let you know that –
 During the course of our research for negotiations, we could not find any other public employer that placed any limitations on the use of personal sick leave for the care of dependents. I strongly support any step towards making the city an employer of choice, but I do think if you're really committed to that, you could go a step further. But...
 I support this as a good step. We wholeheartedly support all employees receiving the benefits that we negotiated on behalf of our employees. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate that. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. A long time ago, in the 1990s, I was a chief union steward for the IPW and a federal worker. We didn't have any limitations on sick leave.
 We accumulated sick leave, if I remember correctly, eight hours a month. It was four hours a payday. So if you were not very ill over a long period of time and then you became ill, you were pretty well covered. You were covered with our medical, which was pretty good, but also sick leave. Any limitations on sick leave should be rational.
 This is not rational. 40 hours max, if I understand what you're saying. No, Joe. It's not rational. It isn't 40 hours. Please explain. It's been increased from 40 hours to 104 hours. Which is what people... Well, it's 40 hours now. We're about to vote on a map which would increase the ceiling to 104 hours. I know. But what do you have now? What is it now? It's 40, and this will increase... That's what I said. I said...
 Forty hours is irrational. That's where you are now. You want to go to 120, right? 104. Okay. Well, I mean, I'm just saying to you that we support you on this one, that we don't have a problem, and we're pointing out to any opposition that it is illogical to put a burden on your employees over 40 hours. That's crazy.
 That's not good policy. You should take care of your employees. And if you're going to go step by step, I hope someday you do what the feds do, and you do it eight hours a month. I think it was eight hours a month. Two paydays, yeah, eight hours a month. So anyway, I'm sorry I confused you, Commissioner. Thank you.
 I'm not feeling that well. And I'm easily confused these days, Joe. You're doing great. Pardon? You're doing great. And you're supporting this. Yeah. Our argument is that it should be the most generous that you can possibly do. I know you're restrained by money and you have lots of employees. So every time you do something, it's really expensive. But this is money I think well spent if you take care of your employees.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. I have a question for staff. Commissioner Udaly. Thanks. Hi. Hi. So just so everyone's on the same page, could you tell us...
 How many hours people accrue of sick pay on a monthly and annual basis? Absolutely. So they do accrue four hours of sick time per pay period. It's 104 hours per calendar year, and it accrues in an unlimited basis. So employees can save that time. And just also to clarify kind of the sequence of how employees use time, okay.
 This ordinance obviously changes the use of access to sick leave accrual for dependents from 40 hours to 104. So that's initially right out of the gate. After that 104 hours, the employee can move to access their vacation time and their comp time. And if they're out of all other paid time, they circle back to being able to use their sick time.
 And then if they exhaust all time, they would also be eligible to apply for catastrophic leave. So we have a number of different ways in which we will continue to support the employee through the process. So I think I understood what you just said, but if they can circle back and use the rest of their sick time, why wouldn't we just allow...
 Do we let them roll over sick time in perpetuity? They get to keep all of it? Okay. They do. So why wouldn't we allow them to just exhaust the sick time up front and then move on?
 That would be an amendment to the ordinance, certainly. But, Kathy, it's not just an amendment to the ordinance. This is what was bargained at the table. It was. Oh, yeah, that was my next. We can technically amend any ordinance, but I would be reluctant to get in the middle of collective bargaining once we've struck a contract. Sure. Okay.
 Right, and this was collectively bargained through the PTE contract. This ordinance allows us to offer it to all the other unions through a memorandum of understanding, and it allows us to rule this out to nonrepresented employees. So we can absolutely talk with council about how to move forward in later negotiations, but at this point in time, this is the ordinance that's here today.
 Great. Yeah, and I'm not suggesting an amendment. I just thought there were some legitimate questions raised. What was the answer to Commissioner Udeli's question about rolling over? How much can be rolled over for how long? You can roll over on an unlimited basis for your career. Now, Kathy, I have to say, having represented labor organizations 25 years ago, and Joe Walsh was talking about his experience with the IBEW,
 It wasn't that long ago that the standard clause that I'm familiar with was use it or lose it, and there were strict limits on rollovers. So what we've done is we've now...
 boosted by about two and a half times the amount that you can accrue and use in a calendar year. And we put no limits on rollover. So I think we should be pretty proud of that. And as someone dealing with a major health challenge, I think the more freedom, the more flexibility we give our workforce to be able to deal with health issues away from work safely so they don't have to come to work when they're not feeling well is important.
 And I think there's been a suggestion that we may want to even enhance this benefit the next time we take it up. I'd be interested in knowing how other cities and counties have addressed it. But, you know, 25 years ago,
 The standard was not even close to this, and there was a use it, you lose it in a lot of the contracts that I had a hand in. And so I think we're on our way to becoming a model employer. Maybe we need to do better, but I think we should celebrate that this is a big step forward. And this was achieved at the bargaining table through demands made by our labor partners, so credit to them. Correct. Correct.
 Correct. And protected leave wasn't really in place up to 25 years ago either. That's correct. So there's been a lot of enhancements over time. Shift in thinking. Absolutely. Thank you. Appreciate it. Please call the roll, Carla. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Thanks for your hard work on this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item. 742, request of Sylvia Mitchell to address council regarding homeless issues.
 Is Ms. Mitchell here today? I don't see her. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda, Carla? Everybody, this is the July 18, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Fish? Wheeler? Here. Good morning.
 Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass.
 Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you, Robert, and thank you, everyone. As you well know, this is a very busy council agenda today. We have a number of items here that impact lower-income folks who are seeking housing. I want to make sure we get to that. We have a number of our labor partners here today to talk about some important labor issues that are before the council.
 Due to quorum issues, we've had to shuffle things around a bit, so we have a very full agenda. I want to thank people who have accommodated those changes, particularly some of the Bureau staff who've worked hard to make this work. So thank you for that. And with that, communicate. 744, please. Amend human resources. Excuse me. This is in violation of Council rules. You heard the rules. You're going to be asked to leave if you do not stop.
 She wants to be asked to wait. I know. One moment. 744, amend human resources admin rule 6.03. Excuse me. We're going to take a three-minute recess. Carla. Carla. Carla.
 I don't want to be a victim, Dan. Mr. Waltz? I don't want to be a victim. Sign up to testify. Sign up to testify. You get to use... Oh, I never did that. I know. I don't want to do that. I'm very shocked. Get her in jail now. In Portland. Get them out. Get us out of here. Dan, whatever you did... Next individual, please, Carla. Thank you.
 Item 741, request of Donelda Weiss to address counsel regarding comments made by a sergeant and police officers. And, Edith, thank you for acknowledging the good work of Carla and the clerk staff. They do fantastic work, so thank you for shouting that out. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm an invisible woman from a community that is overlooked. I'm a low-income resident of Multnomah County. I'm here to talk about the lack of effective communication between officers and low-income people. I live in Project Housing. I'm a domestic violence survivor that was one of the first in a program called Divert. Divert placed me in low-income housing to ensure my safety, but in actuality, am I truly safe?
 I was told by a supervisor at Portland Police Department that we are short three bodies, and I don't have the time to deal with this, and I should be grateful that an officer was there handling the situation. The reason why I called the supervisor was because the officer was judging me by past 911 calls by saying, oh, I know you, I dealt with you a few months ago. The officer was talking about a domestic violence situation and acting like I was the problem caller, when in fact I'm a community leader. I'm someone who sticks up for my community and values the area that I live in.
 I walked away from my abuser to never return. I'm raising three sons that I hold responsible for their actions, so when I see police officers not following the law and making discriminating statements, I will hold them responsible too. Should a mother that is trying to protect their children be ridiculed by the past domestic violence calls from a police officer? Should I be told that they are shorthanded and that I should be grateful? No. I am a resident of Multnomah County.
 I have the right to call the police and not be harassed by them. I have the right to ask for a supervisor and not to be told to be grateful. The police are not here just for the elite. They are here for everyone and anyone who is in need of assistance. I do not call the police often, but when I do it is because the safety of my family or myself is in jeopardy. I am tired of feeling like I live in a community that they do not police or that they can ridicule.
 The stereotype of low-income communities are that they don't call the police, and how can you judge them and blame them? If you want to clean up the areas from gangs, drugs, shootings, and other kinds of crimes, then train your officers to protect and serve the vulnerable.
 Have a community that feels safe when they call the police and not only like they are being judged. Let my son see the justice system not only work for the elite crowd. Let us teach our children that it is safe to call the police. And in order to do that, you have to ensure my community that discrimination and bullying does not exist within the police force. Or that the city of Portland is trying to understand the communication gap that is happening when low-income people call 911 and the police respond.
 Portland Police Department needs to be reminded that they are here to protect and serve everyone. Because right now, in my community, they only see the police and their ineffective abilities to communicate and protect everyone. We, too, want to feel safe. Thank you, Ms. Weiss. Thank you. And could I...
 First of all, thank you for coming in and sharing your story. It's a powerful story, and it's one of perseverance, which I appreciate. I would love to be able to share that with Chief Outlaw. Could I possibly get a copy of your written statement today? Yeah, I can e-mail you. That would be fantastic. And so, Carla, could you just give an e-mail of contact? Thank you for coming in. Next individual, please. Thank you.