All right, we ready to go? Ready. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Thursday, July 13th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Welcome, everybody. Could you please call the roll? Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Wheeler. Here. And please read the first item.
 Item 811, recommend the Portland Bureau of Transportation develop new and expanded strategies to improve transit service and increase transit ridership throughout the city by developing an enhanced transit program and endorse a list of transit projects for the Regional Transportation Plan 2018 update call for projects. Commissioner Salts. Thank you, Mayor. Today we're going to hear from staff and our partner, TriMet,
 about proposed projects that will create safe streets and improve transit in our city. Item 811 is a resolution that gives the Bureau of Transportation the authority to add proposed enhanced transit projects to the Transportation System Plan, and we'll learn much more about that shortly from the staff. Item 812 is a resolution that amends the Vision Zero Action Plan to add a list of proposed projects to the Transportation System Plan.
 Both resolutions will allow PBOT to submit the project list to Metro's regional transportation plan, and the timing is certainly excellent as the state legislature passed a transportation package last week that will help immensely with these projects. I want to especially thank Neil McFarlane and our team at the city, especially Elizabeth Edwards, and Director Treat and other PBOT staff for all their work on that successful transportation package.
 A significant number of streets in the high-crash network are in areas where high numbers of low-income families, people of color, and people with low English proficiency live, work, and go to school. Making our streets safer for all, particularly for these groups, is fundamental to succeeding as a city. Equally important is to make these corridors attractive and effective for fast, reliable, convenient transit.
 This is the focus of the Enhanced Transit Program and Vision Zero. Transportation Director Leah Treat, TriMet General Manager Neil McFarland, and Senior Planner Art Pierce will kick it off for us. While they're coming up, Commissioner, could I have the clerk also read item 812? 812, amend the City Vision Zero Action Plan, Saving Lives with Safe Streets, to incorporate the Vision Zero project list. Thank you.
 Great. Hi, Mayor, Commissioners, Leah Treat, Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. We're really happy to be here today to talk to you about some of our most innovative and important projects that we're working on at PBOT. Vision Zero, which you all are very well familiar with and have been incredibly supportive of. But the other is a new concept, and it's called Enhanced Transit Corridors, and that is informing the update of the region's transit vision for the next 20 years. Thank you.
 Our staff has been working closely together to improve safety and make transit more attractive, and we've been working very closely with our partners at TriMet and Portland Streetcar to come up with strong regional transit vision that meets our comprehensive plan goals as well as the region's goals. We thank our transit partners and Neil McFarlane and Dan Bauer for being with us here today.
 So before we decide and dive into the specifics of the resolutions, there are two main reasons why we're bringing the items to you today in a joint presentation. One is that our recently adopted comprehensive plan lays out a clear vision zero and transit goals that mutually support each other. The other is that safe streets and a robust transit system need each other, and they are fundamentally linked.
 As you all are well aware, Vision Zero aims to eliminate all deaths and serious injuries on our streets by 2025. Many of our high-crash network streets also happen to be key transit corridors and areas for neighbors to shop and get together.
 We're talking about extremely important corridors with multiple mobility demands. Many of these streets will attract much of the city's growth, so it is really imperative that they are safe, that they are attractive to all users, and they're very well serviced by transit. Only then can they be the places where Portlanders come together to meet, to shop, and to recreate.
 These streets and corridors, in many ways, are the test of whether we as a city can meet our goals for prioritizing walking, cycling, and transit, and to make safety and equity key principles guiding our actions.
 Regarding equity, as you'll see in a moment, a significant number of corridors lie in areas where high numbers of low-income families, people of color, and people with low English proficiency live. They work there, and they also go to school there. So making our streets safer for all of them, particularly these groups, is fundamental to us succeeding as a city.
 And just as important is to make these corridors work for fast, reliable, convenient, and attractive transit, particularly for the many Portlanders who rely on transit to travel long distances to and from work and school. Thank you.
 So as I stated earlier, our safety, transit, and equity strategies go hand in hand. Fast, reliable, and attractive transit supports walkable communities and compact development. Similarly, safe streets make walking and cycling to transit possible for all Portlanders. I'll now hand it over to Neil McFarland.
 Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, thank you very much for the opportunity to address you. And by my presence here, I think I want to try to mostly indicate the great partnership that we have had historically with the city of Portland. We have inherited an enviable transit system, but it's largely because of the partnerships that have really allowed some really great things to happen.
 We now know that we need to grow that transit system and we need to improve it. We need to make it keep up with the demands of growth and frankly the challenges of the congestion that follows that growth. And that's why I'm excited about being here today to share and join in the conversation about enhanced transit and some of the other concepts that we have outlined for the future.
 I did want to take a moment just to share some of the other initiatives that TriMet has underway right now, many of which you know about. First of all, we have developed with a very robust process over the last few years a series of service enhancement plans for all sectors of our region. And those really have become a roadmap, if you will, for the development of service over a period of time.
 We were very pleased that a couple of years ago our board of directors implemented a payroll tax increment that increments over ten years, and that has been allowing us for the first couple of years to see bus service improvements in many areas, 3, 4 percent, which is really a very good percentage of growth. But I'd also note that with a decrease in the number
 adoption of the transportation package that Commissioner Saltzman noted, we have the chance for a jump start in some of this. And I would just note that we have made some commitments associated with that package. The first one that we are beginning to work on as we speak is a low-income fare.
 that will actually provide, and there's a great outline of this with the Metro Task Force that has been established and will continue to work with this group of nonprofit providers and people who serve disadvantaged portions of our community. But the goal is really a 50% discount on all prices from the adult fairs,
 Same discount we offer seniors and people with disabilities and students to people who are within 200% of federal poverty level. So, again, really important program. We're anxious to get that underway.
 But then we also have residual funds that will allow us to begin to improve service. We have some time to do some planning. We actually won't be receiving those funds until probably in terms of cash until something like January of 2019, provided the governor signs a bill, which I'm sure she will. And so we'll be working with your staff in terms of prioritizing the expenditure of those funds together with all of our other constituents in the region. Thank you.
 And we're really looking forward to that. Needless to say, there's a lot of challenges. There's a lot of back of the house work that needs to be done. Things like buying buses, hiring operators and mechanics and all the other things.
 But the emphasis of the service is to serve areas that have concentrations of low-income families, connections to jobs, all kinds of very important goals that I know are deeply reflected in city policy in many, many places.
 I'd also just note that we're working very closely with the City to advance our next high capacity projects. We're working on the Division Transit Project and actually are out with a great deal of outreach on sort of refined designs as we speak. And our goal is to submit that project to the Federal Transit Administration for rating later this summer.
 and hopefully we'll be in the position to implement that over the next few years. Our goal for that is actually open for service in 2021.
 And similarly, we're working on a draft environmental impact statement. Metro is actually the lead for this for the Southwest Corridor. It would serve our Barber I-5 Corridor, which is the largest travel corridor, which is not served with high-capacity transit in the region right now. So we're excited about that and appreciate the city's continued support on all of that.
 And we're also engaged with our partners at the Portland City Department of Transportation, but also Portland Streetcar related to potential service improvements there as well. But you'll hear a lot more from Art and April about the concept of enhanced transit. And this is really an important concept to us because we know that we will continue to serve the majority of our customers on a bus system.
 And our bus system, as you'll see in this presentation, has been subject to substantially more and more delay, and it's been harder and harder for us to keep our buses on schedule, to keep our intervals where they need to be. And we'd love to be able to invest in corridors first that have a better sense of reliability and can provide a better sense of reliability to our customers. And I think combining the work that...
 will be outlined to you with our improved services, really the model forward. We've proved that most recently on the 122nd corridor, where PBOT has been active in making a number of sidewalk, pedestrian, safe crossing improvements, and we've been stepping up service along the while. And 122nd, we'll look forward to becoming a full frequent service line here before you know it.
 I would also just note that we are looking to expand other tools to make transit effective, and we're on the brink of actually sort of a big public announcement, if you will, for the Hop Fast Pass new fare system, and we'd be pleased to partner with Portland Streetcar on that as well as C-TRAN, and we think that will offer a great number of advantages to our customers.
 But we're also continuing on some of the other smart city initiatives that we were partnered with in terms of our application to DOT some time ago. And that's different ways to get infrastructure to work better with our service. And those are really important initiatives that we're continuing to put a lot of energy into. Thank you.
 And we're also preparing to launch our first series of electric buses. So in 2018, middle of the year, next year, we'll receive five electric buses that we'll begin to learn about. And I know there's a great deal of interest in that in the community. I personally believe that electric is the fuel of the future for transit.
 However, I'd also note that there's an enormous amount of organizational and other change that's required to really make electric technology work well. So this will be a great opportunity for us to begin to learn about that.
 Let me just close by once again just reiterating how much I value the partnership with the City. Literally nothing dramatic or good happens in this region without the City-related transit, happens without the City support and again, be happy to be around as you approach the question and answer period as well.
 All right. Thank you. So, again, Art Pierce. I manage transportation planning and capital program for the City of Portland as well as the active transportation and safety division.
 And so we brought together for you today essentially two topics that were being thought of separately as two separate council items and then realized that they were really appropriate conversations to bring together as one. And so the specifics of what we're looking for today, we're looking for specific adoption around the Vision Zero work, and we'll be talking a little bit more about that.
 as well as essentially a midpoint briefing on where we are with the regional transit vision and with enhanced transit corridors. And we'll be looking for your endorsement of that proposed set of lists for the regional transportation plan. One of the reasons why we're bringing this together is 14 of the 30 high-crash corridors are also enhanced transit corridors, so they will need both investments focused on safety and access to transit as well as improvements that will support transit.
 And also really focusing in, we are at a stage right now in terms of the process in which we have adopted a transportation system plan. And we're now heading through into a coordination of those plans at the regional level. And it's very important for us to bring the latest thinking, particularly around transit and Vision Zero, into that regional planning process.
 as well as into the next transportation system plan. So it's very timely and very important that we have this conversation with you so we can bring appropriate and updated information at the regional transit conversation.
 So in terms of what one sort of piece of background, I think some of you were here for the transportation system plan, but some of you are new. The transportation system plan includes a whole array of investments, investments that are small, less than $500,000. These would be crossings or new lights, for instance, as well as projects that are more in the $500,000
 level or more, and all the way up to many millions of dollars. Specifically, what we're trying to make sure that we have updated for this specific conversation are those that we want to make eligible in the regional transportation plan that might be eligible for federal funding or competing at the regional and state level for resources. And so that's why it's very timely today.
 So the first group of folks that we're going to bring up for you today is Margie Bradway and Clay Vaca, and they're going to give you an update on Division Zero, unless there's questions for these two. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it. It's good seeing you, Neil. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'll move over so she can come.
 And I just want to remind people that if there's anybody here waiting for item 813, 813 has been pulled back to my office, so there will not be a presentation on item 813 today. Sorry.
 That's okay. Hi, my name is Margie Bradway. I'm the Active Transportation Safety Division Manager. And I'm going to keep this part of the presentation brief. It seems like I'm getting an echo in my microphone. Am I okay? Yeah. Okay. Black lives matter. Black lives matter. Mimi, you are... You can't hide that pill, ma'am. Should I proceed, sir? Yes. Okay.
 Wait one sec, because I actually want to hear what you have to say. It would lose today, wouldn't it? Excuse me, you are in violation of council rules, and if you continue, you will be asked to leave, and if you don't, leave your subject to arrest for trespassing. I didn't understand what you did on that. That coward! And by the way, they dropped the jackets, you punk! You know who the fuck is? My cow!
 Mr. Walsh, you've been asked to leave. Please do so. Thank you. Coward! That's life, not a youth coward! We are!
 Well, that was interesting. Okay, let's start. Please start. Okay, let's start over. So this piece of the presentation is focused on Vision Zero. We are here today to amend this particular resolution, amends the Vision Zero action plan, and adds a project list to that plan, and as well as directing PBOT, as Art mentioned, to amend the TSP, the Transportation System Plan, and the RTP. Get off here!
 The original transportation plan. Next slide. I'll pause for a minute. Okay.
 So, just to remind us all, you're familiar with the concept of Vision Zero, but the vision statement that was adopted by the 26-person task force is really important because it sets the criteria that we use in identifying all the projects. So the goal is, working together, we will take equitable and data-driven actions that will eliminate dust and serious injuries for all who share Portland streets by 2025.
 That means that we use really only two criteria in identifying projects. One are the crashes, fatalities and serious injuries, and two, equity data. Also, as a reminder, the 26-member task force, Vision Zero Task Force, adopted the high crash network, and then subsequently they have also directed PBOT to endorse this project list before you. Thanks, Mike.
 And this city council in particular has had a huge amount of support for Vision Zero. As you can see in the slide above you, you may remember Commissioner Solzman when we came before this council in 2015 to adopt a Vision Zero resolution. We then came back with a full plan.
 in 2016, which outlined 32 action items. One of those action items was to invest in the High Crash Corridor. And while we have been going forward with our plan, we've also been investing in projects such as Outer Halsey, which was funded by this city council. But the investment in those projects have been piecemeal. So what we're doing today is bringing you a complete comprehensive list of
 of projects both funded and not funded. Some large projects and some small projects which Clay is going to explain. Good afternoon, Clay Vaca, project manager for Vision Zero with the City of Portland. As Margie mentioned, Vision Zero identifies Portland's 30 most dangerous streets and 30 most dangerous intersections.
 Together, they make up Portland's high crash network. These are streets that make up only 8% of Portland's street network and yet account for 57% of deadly crashes on Portland's streets.
 And in fact, the first week of July was pretty horrific and troubling. Seven people lost their lives on Portland streets, averaging one person a day. Additionally, there was a very serious bike injury. Seven out of those eight crashes occurred on one of these 30 streets. This network provides a data-driven, focused way to invest designing safety in our most dangerous streets.
 with particular priority on segments that overlap with sections shaded in gray, which show the equity areas referred to as community of concern in Portland. Vision Zero is multimodal in nature. Vision Zero commits to eliminating traffic fatalities for all people moving on Portland streets by all modes. This graphic shows that people walking are overrepresented in traffic fatalities on Portland streets.
 While about 9% of Portlanders identify walking as their primary mode of getting around, 31% of people killed on Portland streets are walking. Okay.
 Recognizing that there are personal safety concerns in using transit, from a traffic safety perspective, transit is an impressively safe choice. This graphic shows that while 7% of Portlanders identify using transit as their primary mode of moving about Portland, no people died in a traffic collision while on transit in the 10-year period that we analyzed.
 This further highlights the overlap of the two programs before you today. We need to make it safe for people to get to transit and invest in making transit a competitive and attractive travel option. Street design contributes significantly to how people behave and interact on the street, as well as to how severe the outcome of a traffic crash is.
 On wide, multi-lane streets, people often feel comfortable driving fast, and they have a hard time seeing the complete street network. The tunnel vision occurs, and it's hard to see what's happening on the periphery, often where people walking and biking are moving. We know that the faster the speed, the more likely the crash is to result in death or serious injury.
 Two design tenants of Vision Zero either set speeds that are safe for all users who are mixing on the streets or on streets with higher speeds to separate people who are traveling with different modes. The Vision Zero task force, the body of community and agency leaders that came together to develop the Vision Zero action plan, was clear that Portland's Vision Zero work should prioritize street design.
 We know that we can redesign streets so that when someone makes a mistake, it does not result in death or serious injury. The center median in this design provides safe left turning movements for people driving and a refuge for people walking across the street. People biking are provided with space from moving vehicles and slower speeds are achieved through street design, education and enforcement. Redesigning streets in this way is a top priority for Vision Zero.
 The first of the 32 actions in the Visions for Action plan that Margie mentioned is street design number one, to fund and build capital safety improvements on the high crash network. In order to implement that first action, we needed to step back and take inventory of what is already on the high crash network.
 With 30 long stretches of street across the city, we needed to develop a complete picture of what work already had been done and planned on each segment on each corridor. And to see where the gaps were, where no projects had yet been planned or built or identified, but where we knew that there was safety investment that was needed. Thank you.
 The goal of this big picture look was to ensure that every segment of the High Crash Network was analyzed and accounted for with the project to help achieve the Vision Zero goal. So with that in mind, we took this High Crash Network that we've seen, these 30 streets, and the first question we asked is, on the High Crash Network, where are there existing and planned projects? So on that map, we drew a green line where projects have already been built.
 We drew a gray line where projects are funded and should achieve significant safety investments that change the character of the street, such as outer division that Neil McFarland referred to.
 And then we drew orange lines where comprehensive safety projects have already been identified in the transportation system plan. So this is kind of the map that says, all right, we've either got something built, funded, or coming, or proposed. You may note that there's a gray polygon drawn around the central city that represents the boundaries of the central city multimodal safety project.
 which is a funded project whose planning process is just kicking off now. The project may fund safety improvements on the segments of the high crash network within its boundaries because a potential funding opportunity within this area, those segments are identified in the funded section of the Vision Zero project list that's in front of you. The next question we asked...
 is on the high crash network, where should new projects be added, or where should existing projects in the TSP be changed, either grown in description or in geography? So then we drew a solid red line where projects already existed in the TSP but needed to be expanded, either in length or in scope. We drew a dotted red line where there were no identified projects, but where there should be.
 And those would be proposed projects that would be more than that $500,000 level that is required in order to be a project in the TSP. Okay.
 And then we drew yellow lines on areas where smaller improvements under $500,000 could be appropriate to achieve the safety gains needed. And those would be considered part of the transportation system plan safety program. And so not a specific project called out independently in the TSP. So adding these two maps together.
 we see kind of what is funded and planned and what's newly proposed or revised. We have a complete project map that covers the entire high-crash network, each segment of all of the 30 streets on that network. This map provides a high-level visual of the investments and projects needed to significantly address safety on the network.
 And this map correlates with the Vision Zero project list that is in front of you. Each line on the map is listed as a single project on this list, Exhibit A. The first block of projects, the red block, includes all of the new projects that are recommended to be added or revised in the TSP. So those red solid and dashed lines that you just reviewed.
 There are 17 new or revised TSP projects out of a total of 107 in the complete list. Included in the block of orange projects are all of the safety projects that exist today. In the current TSP, there are 54. So it's important to note that Portland is recognized and been planning for multimodal safety needs on many of our most dangerous streets for some time.
 This exercise has helped us to identify and fill the gaps with 17 new and revised projects.
 The Vision Zero Task Force, they have been integral in helping to kind of move Vision Zero forward to first create the Vision Zero Action Plan. And at our last meeting with them in June, we brought this list and they unanimously motioned to move this list forward to City Council for consideration. Okay.
 The task force recognizes that in order to realize significant investment in the high crash network and to move aggressively toward Vision Zero, that we need to ensure that projects are identified and integrated into both the local and regional planning processes. So again, to wrap up, today we're asking to amend the Vision Zero action plan in order to incorporate the Vision Zero project list.
 and then to integrate select projects from that list into the transportation system plan and move them forward into the regional transportation plan process. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions on the first part of the show, on Vision Zero? No.
 I'll just add to the record that Commissioner Fritz articulated that she would like to be here today to talk about how the marijuana tax is going to be funded for Vision Zero, how it's going to be programmed, and we told her we'll come back in the fall while she's here and talk more about how that funding is going to be spent. Thank you.
 Thank you. All right. So we're going to switch now to focused on transit and enhanced transit. I'm going to ask Mauricio McClure and April Bernal to come up.
 I believe our next is you. Yeah, it starts with me. I'll start. Yeah. Okay. So the second part of our show is pivoting to talking about transit and the importance of transit itself in terms of the potential for it to help serve our growing region. So let's go next slide, perhaps. Okay.
 So just a reminder around the full spectrum of transit, when we talk about transit improvements, there's a lot of different, there's a lot of, ah, thank you. There's a lot of different potential outcomes that might be embedded in that. There's local bus service, sort of at the lower end of the spectrum that's serving
 short trips, on and off trips, and then a spectrum going all the way up to high capacity transit, the max lines of our system, or even a future subway line, those kind of things. What we've been emphasizing in recent work for PBOT is this specific middle of the transit. We've been talking about it being the missing middle of transit, similar to the missing middle of housing. How do we make sure that we're really stressing the importance of the workhorses of our system that are those transit lines? Yes.
 As Neil referenced already, a lot of the partnerships in the last couple years with TriMet has been working on the service enhancement plan process, which is very specifically focusing in on smaller level service investments, the investments in new lines, and bringing lines up to frequent service. And that lays a great foundation for the conversation that we've started initiating around enhanced transit.
 One of the specific sub-areas that we've given particular attention to has been around the east end of Portland. In particular, focused on north-south service along some major corridors, as well as connections between housing and jobs in that area. And there's a number of additional service proposals that are embedded in that process.
 As we move towards the regional transit plan, we are working in partnership with Metro and TriMet and Portland Streetcar on making sure that we are implementing a system of planning and implementation in partnership to make sure these lines will be effective in serving our growth, next.
 All of this is embedded in the regional 2040 growth vision, which we have a map referenced here, which will see a series of major high-capacity transit corridors being the primary organizing principles around how we are going to emphasize our growth within the region as well as within Portland. You'll see some key centers such as downtown or gateway referenced here.
 Through the update of the Comprehensive Plan and the Transportation System Plan, Portland identified a whole number of additional centers and neighborhood centers and important corridors that are central to our growth strategy and to creating the future Portland that we want to see happen.
 One of the key realizations in that is the importance of bus service in particular in serving the daily activities of those specific locations and the importance of specific attention by the city, not just by TriMet, in making sure that bus service can be effective. A lot of the decisions around the service, in addition to adding the buses, are actually those in terms of priorities within the right-of-way, and that's a very specific task of the local jurisdictions to make those choices.
 What you'll see here is the current map of the regional transit plan, and you'll see that it primarily is emphasizing those major transit, high capacity transit lines. What we are now proposing is to add a whole additional granularity to that system that shows how this bus service will be integral to providing that service.
 We gave you specific maps, I think, of these as handouts as well. Could you go back to the last slide? I'm sorry, I didn't quite follow that last statement. You said you're going to a whole new level of granularity.
 And I don't understand what that means. You bet. So what you'll see here is mostly what's stressed here are bus rapid transit or light rail transit lines being proposed and the focus of regional investment. Right. We're coming to realize and believe that the existing frequent service network and other bus lines also deserve this level of regional and, in fact, federal priority. And so we're pressing for this additional set of lines that are –
 I guess, coming between those major corridors you see there. Okay. I'm sorry. I can't quite read the legend. What's the difference between red, yellow, and green on this? Oh, sure. They were, as I mentioned, they were potential library lines or BRT. They did not let the colors represent priorities, you know, first tier, second tier of implementation. And South Coast Corridor is a good example of one that was in the earlier state of implementation. Okay. Okay.
 So the next map is essentially a proposal coming from Portland to the region and to the regional process around how we might prioritize our emphasis in transit investment for the next 20 plus years. And so you'll see some key highlights of this map and this is the specific handouts that we gave you as well.
 Some of the key highlights of that, on the regional high-capacity transit network, a lot of the emphasis is going to be on extending the MAX system farther out into the suburbs, in addition to Southwest Corridor. But then a lot of investment specifically in a whole series of those enhanced transit corridors, those bus corridors. And April's going to talk a little bit more about what those might look like in a minute.
 But those include places like 122nd or 82nd, streets like Sandy or MLK. And those are all bunches of areas where we're seeing very rapid growth and very continued demand for transit. But also we're seeing them being caught in congestion. And Ipa will talk us a little bit more about that. Maybe next slide.
 Of course, we won't be able to do all those lines at once. And so one of the key parts of the process is deciding where to put our energy first. And so the second map shows a proposal for where we might emphasize our attention in years 1 through 10, years 11 through 20, and sort of long-term in the strategic perspective outside of our current 20-year planning horizon. Any questions so far? We're bringing a lot to you in terms of...
 number of lines here all at once. Why don't I have, okay, I think we should pass it, keep moving forward, yeah. One of the key questions that came up, and certainly it came up as we presented this presentation to the Planning and Sustainability Commission, is how does Portland Streetcar, how does the streetcar system fit within this overall vision?
 One of the key pieces to make sure that we're all aware of today is the amount of work that the existing streetcar system, the existing loop that we have, both the NS line and the A and B lines, are doing already. We have about 16,000 riders each day and a significant number of operations occurring each day.
 And all of those lines are at 15-minute frequency, but I think we're quickly learning that we're going to need to step those lines up and step up the specific service of those lines to keep pace. Thank you.
 One of the misconceptions around streetcar is about who rides it, so we thought it was important to reiterate this. 66% of streetcar riders are originating from home. So these are people who live in the neighborhood specifically surrounding streetcar. They're using streetcar to access daily shopping, work, school, specific for their daily needs.
 One of the other important facts is that one-third of all affordable housing within Portland is located within the catchment area of streetcar lines. So it's very, very important to people who need transit service very specifically.
 One of the other interesting pieces is that as we are expanding service, we are seeing growth responding in a correlated pattern surrounding streetcars. So streetcar investment is occurring, growth is happening around it, and ridership is occurring essentially on a unit-by-unit basis as new development happens around streetcar, showing the significance of it for their people's daily needs as they're growing.
 moving into the urban neighborhoods. One of the issues that we see coming in the near term is specific to streetcar vehicles. And so you'll see here that as we're moving towards 2020, we're realizing that our now aging streetcar system, we're going to need to be refurbishing or retiring existing streetcars and need to be bringing new streetcars online. So we're starting to become a mature transit agency as the city of Portland, which is a new phenomenon for us for sure. Thank you.
 I think I'll pass the, oh, and so in terms of near-term investments, Portland Street Car has done an extensive process of working with neighbors and constituents as well as with the Portland Street Car Board and has really focused their near-term investment strategies in extending the street car system to Montgomery Park as well as to Hollywood along Broadway and Wydler. So that's the near-term focus for the specifics of street car. And we at the city are considering street car as one of the components of the enhanced transit strategy, a specific vehicle type strategy.
 for a priority corridor. I think I'll pass it on to April to talk a little bit more about enhanced transit corridors and what we mean by that. Hello. Thank you. So given this is something new that we've been talking about in the city and in the region, I thought I would start by introducing what is enhanced transit corridors to give you a better picture of that.
 So the characteristics of enhanced transit include increasing the capacity, reliability, and transit travel speeds of transit lines, and doing that through moderate capital and operational investments. And they can be flexible or context sensitive, so that we can shape them to the places where it is most needed and within the constraints of the built environment or with acceptable modifications.
 And they can be deployed relatively quickly compared to high-capacity transit. And they could come in different forms. This could be addressing some hotspots that perhaps address one line or multiple lines for benefit. It could be a series of investments in a corridor that's just a part of a line or multiple lines. Or it could be a full upgrade, an upgrade of a full line from a
 from end to end. And so it really can take different forms. And it also can include bus and streetcar. We consider both to be in the family of enhanced transit. And in addition, to help further define what is enhanced transit, we have developed a toolbox of operational and capital treatments,
 that we can also use to deploy on transit lines. The symbols along the bottom of the slide represent some of those tools in our toolbox, and there's about 20 of them that our consultant through our TGM grant, Transportation and Growth Management grant, we have a consultant team with CH2M and HDR helping us develop this plan.
 And I wanted to give you just a sampler of some of the tools in that toolbox, and certainly happy to share the full toolbox with you. It's also on our project website.
 I would say premier tool would be dedicated transit lanes and where only transit is allowed to travel in that lane. We do have examples of this and actually several of the tools I can share. We have examples of them already in our transit system including some of the frequent service bus lines and so we're looking for that opportunity to do even more.
 Another tool in the toolbox is business access and transit lanes called BAT lanes. And these are lanes which are primarily for transit, but allow other vehicles to also use that lane in order to turn, either to access local driveways, properties, or to make a right turn, for example. And then only transit is allowed to go through. So it's a preference for transit. Okay.
 Another tool is our pro-time peak period only transit lanes. We have an example of this in the photo here on southeast Madison approaching the Hawthorne Bridge, where during the peak time up until 10 a.m., it is for buses only, but then in off-peak, it's on-street parking. And you can see that on some days, really, the bus can enjoy the benefit of passing the congestion.
 Another tool is the intersection queue jump or right turn except bus, similar with the BAT lane. And this would allow buses to also skirt around a traffic queue. Okay.
 Another family of tools are located at stations or stops. And just one tool I'll highlight is the bus stop consolidation, which means once you get on the bus, your trip can be quicker if it doesn't stop as often.
 And another family of tools we have is around operations. And the tool I'll highlight here is a transit signal priority, along with other signal improvements. And this allows technology that is both located in our traffic signals, but also on the buses. And so a system that allows them to communicate.
 and let the signal know that the bus or the train or streetcar is approaching and to give them a green to clear out the queue or get through the light themselves. And so that's just to give you a taste for what some of the treatments that we could apply to enhance transit. Thank you.
 And I wanted to then also highlight that we do see this as a partnership and inspired in part by the 122nd Avenue partnership that Neil McFarland spoke to earlier, where we make capital investments. And in the instance of 122nd, it has mostly been about safety and access to transit, building sidewalks and crossings.
 But we see this as an opportunity to take it to another level, where we also focus on the transit performance itself and make improvements in our streets to help the bus move along more efficiently. And so we're looking for how to grow this into a program and a list of projects.
 Just as an update on the 122nd Avenue partnership, we do have some projects that are in design and going to construction this year and then also more coming in 2019. I'll talk about that more in a moment. I wanted to talk a little bit more about why. Why are we looking to do this? And fundamentally it's because we think we need to do more to support transit in Portland. Okay.
 buses are a workhorse of the transit system in fact some bus lines today are carrying as many transit riders as MAX and streetcar lines so they're all up there together. The number four which is fourth on this list is already advancing as the division transit project and so there's some others up there that need some attention too. Let's make those workhorses work better
 Unfortunately, though, transit mode share within Portland has remained at about 12% since the year 2000.
 And our policy goals and our growth strategy really relies on a higher mode share, that more than 12% of Portlanders are taking transit. And we think that there's things that we can do to help improve that experience for existing transit riders, so we keep them as transit riders and serve them well, but also that we can grow that ridership by making it more attractive. Could you go back to that for a minute? Yeah.
 Does this surprise you? It was a little surprising, yes. It surprises me a lot. Yes. Given that congestion over this time period has gotten much, much worse, and I would have expected just based on...
 the value of time that you'd see an increase in ridership, but it's effectively remained stable. Why do you think that is? One clear, yes, wonderfully cued. I would clarify that the ridership has gone up as a number, a whole number, more people have taken transit, but as a percentage it is not. It has not increased. But that's still surprising to me. Yes, and we think it may in part be because ridership
 its buses are stuck in congestion and they are also taking longer to
 Okay, so your proposal of these enhanced zones then obviously gives the bus the transit priority, and so you think that will address that issue? Help to address it, yes, we do. Help to address that issue. Absolutely. And I'd say that one other piece actually soon coming to council is growing transit communities, another effort that April's been working on, and that is focused on investments surrounding transit corridors to make it easier to walk and bike to access those transit corridors. And so that's another piece of the puzzle is making sure most transit riders –
 start out as pedestrians. So if they don't have full and complete facilities to get them to the corridor, it really pushes them away from being transit riders. So I still have post-traumatic stress syndrome from the CRC conversation, but I remember lots of discussions about the time value of money or something like that. What was the term?
 all you transportation geeks, what was it? It was like the time value of money. At some point, the value of your time is such that you will switch modes of transportation. And so one of two things is happening. Either the transit doesn't provide you any advantage in terms of time, or alternatively, the cost to you as a consumer of the transit has gone up proportionally
 to whatever savings might be derived from that transit. So are we also talking about the fares here? Well, in part, Neil spoke to the low-income fare piece of the puzzle, and so that's a key component. The other is making sure that we're balancing out the costs of your other options. And so the cost of parking, for instance, congestion pricing, all of those elements fit into this choice matrix that an individual traveler is trying to configure. Okay. I'm just surprised by that statistic.
 No, we are too. I mean, I think this has in part emboldened us to say we really need, as the city, not just as the transit agency, to take this issue very seriously and come up with an aggressive approach. I could tell you why I don't take the bus. It's because I've been pushed so far out of the central city by rising rents. There's not enough time in my day to get here and get home before I run out of childcare hours. And I also have a son who uses a wheelchair, and I've found the buses –
 to be unreliable for wheelchair users. Unreliable mostly in that sometimes they're taken up by other wheelchair users. Sometimes they're taken up by other riders, such as, in one instance, a gentleman pushing a car full of chihuahua, or a stroller full of chihuahuas. And, you know, that was the second bus that we couldn't get on.
 So, and I know, you know, at least I live on the edge of northeast woodlawn. So there is a reliable bus route. But for people especially that have been pushed out to east Portland, there's not enough service. Maybe they don't feel safe walking home because of these unsafe streets. So I don't think we can underestimate how the housing crisis is impacting people.
 congestion. I agree. Also something we heard from our other partners around the region is just taking longer and longer to get through the region. So this impacts people, Portlanders who live further out but also people who need to go from Gresham to Washington County where many of the jobs are. So these are Portland projects but I think there's a great regional benefit that TriMet and other agencies understand. I mean, I know this is a tough one but
 There's not a lot of park and ride options for people who live in the city. Like, I would probably be happy to do that. To date, our strategy has been more to try to create those centers that have direct access to transit. So you can do it as a pedestrian or as a cyclist rather than needing to drive first. Yeah.
 But indeed, I think we're trying to work on multiple fronts to address those pieces of the issues and challenges you highlighted that are within our purview. So what can we do to make it safer to get to the bus or accessible? We do love the Max on the street car for wheelchair use. I have heard this from others as well. Yes.
 and what can we do to help replicate that kind of experience through buses. So I'll be looking for that. Level boarding can be, or near level can help for that. The new 60-foot buses that TriMet will be using on the new Division Transit line would accommodate more space as well, potentially. Oh, nice. Cool. Thank you.
 update. So it's what I was struggling for was the value of travel time savings. So something for everybody to go home and Google tonight, VTTS. Okay. I should figure that out.
 Thank you for walking out with us. It's essentially what's embedded in each of our heads. We're deciding what we're going to do. I promise not to share any more. We're looking at performance measures later on in the presentation, so this is one of the things we'll be looking at. How can we measure this delay and begin to...
 trigger action. So, yeah, more to come. And along the lines of measures, this is one here on the screen that shows that the average speed of TriMet buses is declining over time and is taking longer for them to complete a line. And that means it's longer for the passengers, too. And it's costing them more.
 of one to two million dollars a year just to maintain the same schedule because that schedule takes longer. We want to change that equation, if you will, and instead of turn it into service that people will notice and then have that improved frequency.
 Does that make sense in terms of having to add buses just to keep up the same service? So essentially the same bus that's working a loop, you need to add another bus just to have them come every 15 minutes because those buses are being delayed. So rather than being able to improve service from 15 minutes to 12 minutes, you're just keeping up based on that congestion delay. This map –
 displays congestion and the delay to transit throughout the frequent service lines and helps to show the geography of where buses are slowed down during peak congestion.
 It's measuring the difference between the free flow, off peak, and then the peak. And so where the map is red, it's saying there's a greater difference between that free flow and congested time. And so it's experiencing more delay during the day in those red or orange locations. And this isn't just buses, right? This is people.
 who are stuck on buses, people who are late getting to work, getting to school, getting to child care, wherever they may be going. And so we want to turn that around. There's also an important equity consideration to this, and I appreciate for starting to highlight that.
 But people who do need to live further out or further from their jobs, they have longer transit trips, and this delay is making it even longer. And at what point is it just not even a feasible option for them, either because it's too long of a trip or because they can't rely on the bus to get there if they're a shift worker. That is a much greater implication if you need to clock in or you could lose your job if you're not there on time.
 So we do think it is important that we are doing this period, but also focused on where it will provide the most benefit for those most vulnerable too.
 So, getting more to the where. This map displays the various candidates that we were looking at and other projects that are in progress that would complement our efforts, so Southwest Corridor, Outer Division. They're not included in our initial study. But we did identify about 11 candidates of lines or pieces of lines for further study that really...
 we saw as having the most need and potential for improvements now. And this is just a starting point. We do plan to develop an ongoing system that we would look at all transit lines. But for the purposes of this initial planning study, this is where we have been focusing our analysis.
 And we developed an initial methodology to evaluate these lines and segments of these lines. And our initial criteria include looking at ridership,
 reliability, which is that delay due to peak congestion, transit speed, where is the bus just slow all throughout the day, dwell time, that's time the door is open it stops, and equity considerations focused on three primary communities where there's a high number of people of color, low income, or households with limited English proficiency.
 In addition, we looked at growth, where, based on the comprehensive plan growth scenario, there is forecasted increase in population and jobs. And the results of our analysis, along with more about those criteria, are on one of the handouts I gave you on enhanced transit. And on the back side, it has the results with all the scores for individual criteria, as well as the total score map that I'm displaying here.
 And essentially, if it's red, that's the highest score, total of all of our measures, where it indicates to us where it's most important to focus.
 And of course, the orange and yellow are also important. But we use this both as a way to start to develop our methodology and test and learn from a methodology so we can refine it. A little research and development, if you will. But it's also to help us start to identify projects and locations where we want to look at more closely. So it's helping inform the next phase of our planning process as well.
 And so that will lead me to our next steps, is that we are picking up to three locations to test the toolbox and select corridors and identify some potential actions and investment plans, as well as learn from applying the toolbox and have a community conversation about it.
 And then we also are going to refine our methodology to help to define what is success and what are acceptable levels of service and include those in an ongoing monitoring system, which could become our program with the thresholds.
 We will return in the fall with more public outreach and then return to you at City Council thereafter with recommendations both to adopt a plan as well as establish an enhanced transit program. So a bit about those recommendations of where to look closer next. We've identified up to three guidelines.
 corridors that are highlighted in green on the map where we propose to look more closely with our consultant team that includes 82nd Avenue along line 72 which hopefully based on the town hall we had last Tuesday night reinforcing the the importance of looking at 82nd Avenue
 In addition, we hope to look at the Line 12 and potentially along Northeastern Sandy in particular, and then potentially along MLK Boulevard, the Line 6. And this is going to be dependent upon how much it takes and resources.
 We've identified some other planning processes and projects that can provide an opportunity for us to also look at additional corridors. And those are highlighted in purple. And that includes 122nd Avenue through a Fixing Our Streets project that we have along 122nd, as well as Outer Stark and in the Central City.
 And one thing I want to highlight about all of these corridors are high-crash corridors, and so we will be working with our Vision Zero team on these together.
 And the other element that I talked about in trying to develop performance measures and a threshold is this is really what we see as our call to action. And one of the most important things I think we're doing is trying to define and monitor success. And we are going to spend this summer working more to develop some potential performance metrics.
 And this is in part inspired what we are doing already along neighborhood greenways, where we have established guidelines of how we want to see conditions on neighborhood greenways. And that helps us to guide investments and changes along and projects along those neighborhood greenways. We want to do something similar for transit. Thank you.
 and do some potential metrics in addition to the ones we're already considering. We could consider modifying those or adding different ones, but things that focus on looking at the customer experience as well as the effective and efficiency of providing that service and, again, support growth, equity, and transportation system benefits.
 And this graphic here has really helped to try to demonstrate what we're talking about in terms of developing performance metrics and thresholds. We want to monitor all of the transit lines, not just the candidates that we've been looking at so far, but start to define the thresholds for which if a performance drops below a certain trigger point, that we take action.
 We evaluate it and prioritize if needed. I evaluate what tools and improvements, and then make improvements and continue to monitor to see it get back into the desired transit performance realm.
 And all of this to avoid it from dropping below what we define as another threshold of low performance. So this would be an ongoing dynamic process where we would monitor and evaluate, likely annually, and help to inform both small programmatic improvements as well as larger capital projects. Thank you.
 And with that, it's going to bring me to my last slide. And that is what our recommended action for you today is. This is referring to Resolution No. 2, Item 811, to recommend PBOT develop an enhanced transit program to expand our strategies and improve transit service, as well as to endorse a list of candidate transit projects to consider for the Regional Transportation Plan.
 And here is pointing to Exhibit A, which is that candidate list that's at the back of your packet. Which also mirrors the map if you want to go into more detail. Thank you. Appreciate it. And with that, we're happy to take questions.
 Very good. So do any of the projects involve enhanced or signal priority, I guess? Sure. Yes, they absolutely can. Did I hear you say that our traffic lights are equipped to do signal priority? Both would be equipment that is a part of our signals as well as equipment that goes on to TriMet buses or onto our streetcar.
 Right, so we have some lines that currently have that. This is a tool we'd like to use much more aggressively. So we have bus lines that currently have signal priority? Yes. And here we have a list with you of a toolbox that we developed for ETC. You know, signal priority is one of the 20 tools we may apply. Right. What would the impact be? These strategies are great from the perspective of transit. What's the impact on automobiles specifically?
 So embedded in both decisions about the use of the right-of-way as well as time in terms of how people travel the right-of-way, there's definitely a tradeoff there. And so it could be a tradeoff of prioritizing transit time and use of the right-of-way, and it could be creating less expedient use of the right-of-way for vehicles, for cars. So do you have any way, I assume you do, of modeling what the impacts would be? Absolutely, yeah.
 And that would be part of any project development. So as we're doing those projects, we would be doing that type of analysis to look at the tradeoff. Just to be clear so I understand what I'm being asked to vote on, this resolution directs you to move forward with,
 on the project list, but you still have to come back and get the approvals for the individual project. Absolutely. So this is just to basically give you the direction that you need.
 Right. And specifically, the why now is because of the regional transportation plan process and the need for us to submit candidate projects to the process. And so we wanted to get your support in moving along at the planning concept level. Is this through J-PACT where that's introduced? Yes.
 And is there any conflict in this list with respect to our regional partners? No. In fact, it's been done with very close coordination with the regional partners and with Metro and TriMed. We've been working very closely with TriMed. Each jurisdiction has its own recall for projects, so we're trying to coordinate with them as best as we can. This is the first round of projects. You know, people will submit stuff.
 We hope that these lines will make it to the list, will be tested and modeled, will get results, will see how we're improving transit. There will be another lengthy process, perhaps a refinement of the call for projects, and time will pass another year before this becomes, with all of our partners, the region's transit vision. For now, it's just a proposal for us with very good ideas on transit and candidate projects, and we've been working very closely with TriMet in other jurisdictions. But this is the first round of it.
 So consider it like an input into that regional planning process. And we're meeting with some of our regional partners tomorrow morning, in fact. And this is a lengthy list of projects. What time frame are you looking at in terms of beginning and completing these projects? Yes.
 20-year list. At least 20 years. So most of them are 1 through 10 or 11 through 20 is the sort of first set that we think we can approach in the next 20 years. But we included projects including a potential subway underneath the central city in this list as well to make sure that the regional transit plan is thinking that far ahead in terms of big moves that we would need to be considering over time. And how often is this list updated? Five years. Okay. So five years from now you'll come back to the city council presumably with a –
 small fraction of these projects actually underway? Hopefully done and behind us with a new set to be added. Okay, so you would continue to refine it? So we have land use regulations that ask us to look at long-range planning. So
 For the land use, this is the transportation elements. The region adopts a 20-year transportation vision. Okay. And this is the transit component. And I assume you balance this. Is it at the J-PAC table where others get to chime in? For example, I assume the freight industry has an interest in this conversation as well. They're not represented here today, but I assume at some point they chime in with their interests as well.
 For sure. In fact, the transit piece of this is only one part of what we're proposing to the regional table. There's a whole specific set of freight projects, as well as motor vehicle and pedestrian bicycle projects.
 Those are being based on the transportation system plan, which this council adopted in the last year. The transit piece and the Vision Zero are the two pieces that we've most aggressively updated, and so we wanted to make sure that we had a specific conversation with you before passing those on. My point here is this is really focused on the transit piece. Correct. It obviously impacts freight mobility, bicycles, cars, pedestrians. It's all...
 And so obviously this isn't the place where we right-size this. So the question, I guess, is where do we do that? It's at the JPEG table? So on the project list scale at the JPEG table, it will also be modeled through the regional process. So there will be a modeling exercise that happens there. And then at the individual project level and the project design, deciding specifically in terms of how to use the toolkit specifically.
 that April described, specifically to a street, is part of the process that we then work often with a local stakeholder group and then come back to council with specific project proposals. And I'll stop with one last question. If I'm walking up the stairs after this meeting and I have to say in one sentence what is the purpose of this, what is the purpose of this? Okay.
 Specifically this, I think it's emphasizing the importance of transit for supporting Portland's growth strategy. This is really, city council is stressing that importance and stressing its support for us, prioritizing transit as one of the key modes to supporting our city. Okay, but we talked a lot about congestion, but congestion is not the bullet point that you're addressing here.
 No, I don't think it is. It's specific to focused on transit and transit. Okay, that's very helpful. I appreciate that. Thank you. Commissioner Daly? Can I just vote no for a subway? Sure. Done. No, now. Oh, now. Vote now. Vote now for a subway. I thought you said no. I'm going to pour a subway in. Okay.
 So that's... Oh, there is one other thing I do want to highlight. We just talked about projects and one to 10 year and now to 20 years. But we also have a, what is now today, a modest program, but an annual program that enables us to do smaller projects.
 So this framework can also help inform identifying those projects. And we're doing that now. And so on an ongoing basis, we may be able to do some of those small implementation projects. Right. So a specific location where a bus is being delayed, we can do very localized improvements and not spend a ton of money, have our maintenance crews go out and do it.
 to create a space where a bus can jump around the queue of traffic and gain some time back. Okay. And I think this also gets to Commissioner Fritz's question. We have some funding lined up. The majority of it, obviously, is not identified. So from my perspective, I'd be curious to know what we're going to accomplish or what we're capable of accomplishing in the short term. Okay.
 term and how it fits in with our other transportation priorities because we have lots of different priorities. Good. Okay. Good. Cool. So we'll ask you to cool your heels for a bit and we'll take public testimony. If anybody's signed up, do we have anybody signed up yet? We have about seven people signed up. A couple people. Very good. Please come up. Terry Parker, Alan Kessler, Jesse Maron.
 and they'll be followed by R.J. Shepard, Doug Klotz, and Ken Marks. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Terry Parker. I live in northeast Portland, and I'm speaking as an individual today.
 Sandy Boulevard is both a major traffic street and a freight street in addition to being a transit corridor. There is already a considerable amount of congestion on Sandy and not just during peak travel periods. Over the next 20 years, car trips in the Portland metro area are expected to increase by 49 percent, regardless of how much mass transit is added. When looking into the enhanced transit corridors toolbox, most of the tools will not fit within the constrained areas.
 within the already constrained Sandy Boulevard right-of-way, without density, without drastically increasing congestion, and or removing on-street parking that small and minority businesses rely on. This microphone is kind of funny for some reason. Okay. Yeah.
 Even just adding curb extensions at the bus stops will compound foreseeable future congestion. The existing ones already do. Instead of operating like a big bully on the streets, TriMet needs to be just as courteous to drivers as TriMet expects from drivers. The Rose City Park Neighborhood Association has twice voted to retain two full motor vehicle lanes in each direction on Sandy, along with retaining on-street parking. Also suggested is the development of alternative bicycle routes.
 The loss of either travel lanes or on-street parking would have negative livability impacts on the neighborhood. I have for a long duration of time held the impression working-class homeowners in Portland that are slammed with property taxes and motorists who pay the gas taxes that fund the majority of transportation infrastructure are no longer being heard at City Hall. Special interests and the people who receive the majority of benefits but don't pay for them seem to get all the attention. The enhanced...
 transit corridors plan presented and first brought to my attention at a recent ODOT 82nd Avenue community advisory meeting that I sit on. I am also a neighborhood rep on the CNN's Land Use Transportation Committee, which has scheduled a tentative meeting with PBOT in November to discuss safety concerns and potential remedies on Sandy. None of the people I have spoken with from the neighborhoods had any knowledge of the ETC even existed.
 Where is the transparency? Where is the upfront involvement with affected neighborhoods before a plan is developed? To correct this in-the-closet planning, my suggestion is as follows. Treat each corridor as a separate endeavor and work directly with the neighborhoods, coalitions and local business associations.
 possibly establishing advisory committees specifically from within these groups. Also think holistically, whereby there are no negative effects or takeaways for taxpayer motorists and no negative livability impacts on the neighborhood, both which must apply on Sandy. And one of the things that...
 I keep seeing happen is it's taking longer for us to get around no matter which mode we use. It's not just transit. And it seems like what you want to do is add congestion and pricing to the motor vehicles to increase ridership. That's not equity. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jessie Marin. I'm here as a co-chair of the Portland Bus Lane Project.
 and we appreciate the opportunity to share our testimony regarding the Enhanced Transit Corridors Project. We thank you for taking the time to consider this resolution. The project's an important recognition of the role of the city's street in the efficient and effective functioning of the region's buses, and by extension their role as our most effective tool in reducing our contributions to climate change. We understand that over the past several years, TriMet has experienced a decrease in bus ridership,
 as a result of delays and unreliability due to increased congestion. And this has significantly impacted everyone's travel times. When riding the bus is slower and less reliable than driving, people who can do so often make the switch to the car. All Portlanders are affected by this increased congestion. For transit-dependent residents, increased transit times, travel times, and reduced reliability are significant.
 The transit dependent often have jobs in which casually flexing a schedule is not possible. Transit availability and reliability have impacts on our ability to transport our kids to and from school, to go to work, to look for work, to find or take advantage of affordable housing, and to pursue education. In order to create an equitable city, we must provide fast, effective, and convenient transportation to all of our citizens. Our auto-dominated system
 It does not scale, it cannot be expanded to meet the needs of a growing population, and it does not allow for our city to be resilient in the face of climate change. So we have noted that the draft resolution instructs PBOT to return to council with aggressive strategies and treatments to achieve the goals of improved travel times and increased ridership. This language matches the seriousness of the challenges listed in the resolution.
 I'm going to turn it over to Alan, my co-chair, to finish our statement, but I just want to
 I urge you to support this resolution and to push for bold implementation. Thank you. Thanks. So I'll continue with the letter. We note in particular the language aggressive strategies and treatments that the resolution calls for. The ETC plan provides a number of tools to be used in proving transit service in the city. The most aggressive of these and the most likely to work, and what April called the primary tool, are bus lanes, carriages,
 queue jumps, and signal priority. Those are the tools that are going to be the most effective. We would ask the council to embrace the language of the resolution, make this an aggressive and bold policy, and let PBOP's staff know that those tools should be their first choice. Let them know that they need to take that language seriously. We ask council to keep four following requests in mind while implementing the ETC. Okay.
 The first one is, and I think this goes to the mayor's point about are there short-term fixes. We would like to see you pilot dedicated lanes, signal priority, and queue jumps in the central city. Although the corridors identified in the ETC are evaluated for a number of reasons,
 of constraints, we have a hub and spoke model in Portland. And most of the lines come through the central city. So an improvement to especially crossing the bridges, that delay time would produce both save money, as you heard earlier, fewer buses have to go into service, and impact the whole network.
 I first actually would suggest, I would love if the commissioners would go during a commute period and take a bike ride across the Hawthorne Bridge around 8, 830 and just look at the buses stuck in traffic. I think you'll be shocked by how much money we're spending for buses to idle. And you'll see why people don't want to ride the bus when they can sit in their car and have AC and listen to their own radio.
 The second thing we're asking for is for you to identify and prioritize low-cost and high-impact opportunities. We think that if PBOT analyzes data, they'll be able to find specific spots where quick fixes are possible. And we think they should keep those in mind, especially when paving projects or whatever come up in those specific areas. The third one is that we want to ask you to use the ETC improvements to advance Vision Zero. Adding dedicated bus lanes, taking...
 two parallel travel lanes and taking one of those and making a dedicated bus lane makes everybody safer because cars aren't weaving. They're not racing. They're in line. The buses are in line. It's safer for pedestrians. Buses are far less frequent than cars. It just makes the whole streetscape better. So focus on complete streets and use this as an opportunity to advance Vision Zero.
 Finally, we think you should hire a transit coordinator at PBOT. Roger Geller has done a fantastic job advocating for bicycles in the agency. And I think that having him there allows all the different projects to kind of have somebody looking after bikes. There should be somebody to look after buses in every project that PBOT is doing. Thank you for your time. Great. Thank you all three of you. Appreciate it.
 Next, please come up, R.J. Shepard, Doug Klotz, Ken Marks, and they'll be followed by Doug Allen, Nancy Newell, and Mary Seip.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. My name is RJ Shepard. I'm a software engineer at Metal Toad, which is a local software engineering firm. Many of our employees love being able to take public transit to and from work, but we have also noticed that they've become increasingly mired in congestion issues.
 Some of the points that are brought up amongst some of the concerned citizens I think are a really good point. However, when citing the business case that reducing the number of travel lanes and parking lanes actually will impact businesses, it's actually been shown to actually increase sales and also decrease commercial vacancies, according to the New York City Department of Transit Measuring Streets Study. Okay.
 Similarly, it's also shown to decrease pedestrian crashes. And obviously, since we are noticing in the high-crash corridors some really, really horrific trends there, this seems to be implementing...
 dedicated bus lanes seems to be the most obvious and, in many cases, the most inexpensive solution. So I'm here to just say myself and the rest of the Portland Bus Lane Project are very much in support of this resolution. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Doug Klotz.
 I support the advanced transit corridors and Division Zero and the goals of the Portland Bus Lane Project. Transit is a keystone of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, yet transit use is dropping in Portland, and this initiative will make some changes to city streets that will do something about that. I think primarily giving transit vehicles their own lane, so buses and streetcar, is one of the surest ways to do this. This will increase the number of people that a given street can carry.
 You can get a lot more people in a couple of buses than you can in a whole street full of cars. Faster, more convenient transit gets more cars off the road because transit becomes more attractive, leaving space for freight and delivery vehicles and for those who must use a car for multiple trips. I urge that the staff...
 really concentrate on the dedicated transit lanes, signal priority and queue jumps. But also as was recently mentioned, figure out a way to make some quick fixes even before the TSP money comes through, such as a signal modification at Madison and Grand. So buses can go straight on to the southeast Madison and Grand. So they go straight on to the Hawthorne Bridge without being stuck in the line of cars. The buses get to go first, cars come later. Or you could dedicate the whole lane. So, thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Councillors. My name is Cal Marks, and I'm here to represent the Rosewood Initiative and the East Portland Land Use and Transportation Committee. I wish that I could support this resolution. And I want to say there's a lot of good things in this plan. But we have one major...
 concern, and that is one of the tools in the toolbox. That tool is elimination and consolidation of bus stops. There's been a lot of focus today on the experience of riders on the buses once they get on the bus.
 but I haven't heard one word about the experience of bus riders before they get to the bus. If you have to walk two-tenths of a mile or three-tenths of a mile or whatever extra, and you are a person with a disability, you're a senior, you're a mother or a father with a stroller and a bag full of groceries, that is one of your major concerns.
 One of the driving factors in increasing or decreasing
 Ridership for buses is the convenience of how close is your bus stop. If your bus stop is further away, you are actually pushing people back into their cars. That is going to undo all the efforts that you're talking about with Vision Zero, eliminating congestion, eliminating greenhouse gases.
 I want to also note that, again, the people who are going to be impacted are seniors, disabled people, people of color, and low-income people. Because they are the most reliant, and they are not the ones who have the capacity to actually make a decision whether or not they're going to use the bus or they're going to get in a car. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 And when we're done with public testimony, I'd actually like to hear the staff response to that, because that's a pretty compelling argument. Doug Allen, Nancy Newell, and Mary Seip. Good afternoon. My name is Douglas Allen, Mayor Wheeler and member of the council. First, I want to congratulate you and PBOT staff for taking the initiative to improve bus operations. TriMet's continuing loss of ridership suggests that we're sadly overdue for some fixes for buses stuck in traffic.
 I'd like to offer a few suggestions for additions and improvements to the plan, and these are not in any order of priority. On your criteria, you should add look for cost savings for TriMet. Wasted time costs TriMet salaries and additional buses, as was mentioned by staff, thankfully, today. These savings will translate to overall increased transit service.
 Number two, look for the biggest potential reductions in total passenger delay relative to autos. This will attract riders. Number three, provide funding in two forms, city staffing to advocate and city funding to implement. As mentioned already, there's a bicycle coordinator at PBOT. How about a transit coordinator? Okay.
 Number four, look at planned new and extended transit services and try to expedite them while pushing TriMet to offer adequate frequency. For example, the number 24 Fremont bus will be extended in 2018 to cross the Fremont Bridge and possibly continue to Providence Park. This should be a frequent service route.
 And the city should address the bottlenecks before implementation, such as where the eastbound Fremont Bridge off-ramps intersect Cook and Kirby, where traffic backs up at a four-way stop. That intersection should probably be signalized. The off-ramp approach to the intersection is two lanes wide, so the right lane should probably be a bat lane to give buses priority.
 Some projects need to go ahead now. The congestion across the Hawthorne Bridge causes unacceptable delays for buses. The city should act this summer to give priority to buses. Insist on a pilot project sooner rather than later. Some actions should happen tomorrow. The westbound ProTime bus lane on southeast Madison, despite the photo that shows...
 that it's in effect until 10 a.m., that's only for the final block. It's actually only in effect until 9 a.m. Congestion extends past 9.30 a.m. Can a member of the council today ask staff to extend the effective time and post appropriate signage immediately? Most congestion problems occur during the peaks, but the majority of TriMet ridership occurs off-peak.
 During the off-peak, the best way to improve travel time is to increase frequency of bus service, and traffic isn't so much of a problem. However, signals should use more intelligent priority to eliminate delays for buses, both during the peak and off-peak. For example, the series of signals that buses pass through to arrive at and depart from the Hollywood Transit Center are just begging for automated intelligence to be implemented. The plan should be less route- and corridor-oriented.
 Your best bet would be to eliminate the word corridor. Okay. I've submitted written comments that extend past my time. So thank you very much. Very good. And we did receive copies of this. So thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Nancy Null. I've been in this community for over 20 years, riding buses, using a bicycle, walking. And what's of deep concern to me is that these kind of technical fixes don't include
 an incident that just recently happened on mass transit, and no clear survey has been done on how that's impacted ridership and the public's feeling of vulnerability after that horrible attack that occurred on the transit system. So I think that if we don't follow...
 how people are actually out in the community feeling whether they're going to be protected, whether there is a system that works for them that they can easily get away from a situation like that. That was my station. My daughter uses that station. And I've been in situations where people handle it very skillfully with people that are, and we are, you all know...
 the increase of people that are mentally ill or under stress because of lack of employment, lack of health coverage, this is going to be all on the increase. So if you're not considering
 some of these situations and a better way to handle it, how does that transit system really appeal to the public? And the tendency, like you say, that it's down as far as the numbers riding, have you really looked at the impact of what they face when they're riding on those systems? And enough stress in their jobs with longer hours, less vacation, and not looking at the overall, like you talked about yesterday, societal impacts of city life.
 And if you don't do that, you're not going to get the results that you hope for, even though you've done all the technological spending. And there's no money on this. I mean, this report has no money amounts whatsoever, and people's pocketbooks are pretty well depressed at this stage. I mean, as far as a middle-class person that's lived here a long time, keeping up with the cost increases. So I don't think it's really a complete overview of the quality of life in this city. I agree that mass transit is really a good solution.
 But it has to be done wisely, and it has to be done with a lot of quality of life considerations. And I don't hear that in these reports, and I really would love to see that. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mary Seip.
 I'm one of the people that's been referred to throughout this presentation. I am a low-income elderly woman living in affordable housing on the streetcar line. And I've lived in the Pearl District for almost 17 years. And 10 of those 17 years, I have not owned a vehicle for a couple of different reasons. Now, for financial reasons. Okay.
 and I've been using the streetcar since well I watched it built it was built right outside of the building I lived in
 I think that our transit system, now that I am someone who gets from point A to point B, either by walking, taking the streetcar, the bus, or MAX, and occasionally using a Zipcar, I've experienced kind of everything that I've heard being talked about today, the dangers of being a pedestrian. Right.
 if you get out of your car and you walk almost everywhere that you have to go, you will be amazed at how often your life is in peril. I can't tell you how many times just in the neighborhood I have come so close that someone has actually left the dirt from their vehicle on my raincoat.
 And so I think anything we can do to improve the safety of our streets all over our city, anything we can do to improve the transit system, I do think that the distance between stops, the frequency of things, especially like the streetcar, like to come down here I have to make sure that I allow myself a lot of time because if I miss a streetcar, I'm either going,
 I pretty much have to be 15 to 30 minutes early or risk being 30 minutes late wherever I'm going if I should happen to miss a streetcar.
 And, again, the crowding on the streetcars, it's obvious that we definitely need more. I do avoid the MAX I have for quite a while for personal safety reasons, just because of some personal experiences I've had. But I also recognize that there are ways to de-escalate incidents and to escalate them, too, by behaviors.
 the mention of losing parking spaces I found kind of interesting because I've actually come to the conclusion that I would rather take mass transit to most places that I go rather than spend 30 minutes trying to find a place to park. So...
 And I guess just kind of in conclusion, I would say I don't think I could find another city or neighborhood where I could afford to live and have the freedom to get around the community without a personal vehicle than here in Portland. And so I appreciate the way this city works, and I appreciate TriMet and what they do. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for your testimony. All three of you.
 That is it. One more person. If anybody else wants to testify, this is last call. We're closing the list. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. I do agree with their resolution moving forward. I disagree with any new development. I agree with any expanded strategies to improve the current system.
 Again, ridership is down because of Uber and Lyft, and they're going to dominate this market. We're dealing with a dying dinosaur here, and you can put as much money into it as you want, and it's going to keep losing ridership, keep losing money. And in my opinion, we need to look at it like Governor Brown is looking at some of the transportation systems, to put them on the market and sell them while we can get the highest price before the autonomous vehicles die.
 come into reality, which they will, and then you'll see that you're not going to be able to maintain these systems. You're not going to get the public to pay money to maintain these systems because there will be other alternatives, a better riding experience, safer. And let's face it, look at the buses out there spewing out diesel particulates throughout the air.
 poisoning the lungs of young children through this city and they've done nothing about it. Any study will show you that it is dangerous to anybody in this city to breed those type of fumes. But everybody wants to throw their arms up and say, hey, what a great transportation system we have. Well, guess what? We don't. We need to start looking at the new tech companies coming into this city and understand they will dominate the transportation system.
 and to sell out anything that is going to be considered a dinosaur and will be buried by these tech companies. Sell them out at the highest price while you can. Again, I disagree with any new spending on any large development, but I absolutely agree with maintaining the system and selling it and getting the highest price you can. Thank you. Thank you.
 So I had one more question, Director Treat. It was interesting testimony we received on the question of –
 the frequency of bus stops, and there's an obvious tradeoff there. Could you tell us a little bit about that tradeoff and your thinking behind it? Sure. So I think in particular when we are talking about bus rapid transit lines, there are certainly tradeoffs in the developments of those lines. And in order for a bus to move rapidly, you have to significantly or somewhat reduce the number of stops that it makes so it can move faster.
 So when we're looking at BRT, specifically along Division, we will be taking out stops along the way. We have had communications with East Portland in talking about which locations to take out and are trying to be as accommodating as possible. But at the end of the day, at the project, stops are going to have to be taken out.
 But we are also working with TriMet, along with the steering committee, to ensure that we have enhanced local service in East Portland to make up for some shortages in different routes.
 I also wanted to respond to the notion that we aren't investing into infrastructure of getting to the bus. We are making a lot of investments in East Portland along the Division BRT, specifically to support the BRT, but we also have many other capital projects in the works that will be adding cycling infrastructure, pedestrian infrastructure, and ensuring that people can get to school and to transit safely and easily. Thank you.
 Do you guys want to add? Commissioner E. Daly? I just want to make sure I understand with the rapid transit, that will entirely supplant existing bus lines? Yeah, the bus line on Division. So it's not like you get on the rapid bus and you skip stops and there's an alternative. It's just only rapid? It's only rapid. Okay. All right.
 i wanted to speak to a bit more about bus stop consolidation beyond just the division transit project but if uh looking in other locations uh we are having conversations and i would start with saying i don't take it lightly and we do want to um choose wisely um and and try to minimize the impact so even on the division transit project but um
 elsewhere, we think about what stop is serving and which stops to close. So there are criteria and considerations that go into a stop closure and working with TriMet. And there are times when we push back.
 In addition, we would look for opportunities to couple that with crossing improvements. So if there are less stops, but if we can have those less stops better served with crossings and improvements at those stops, there can be an overall benefit.
 I would also highlight an example in streetcar where we recently did close. There were some stop closures, and streetcar found that ridership overall went up. And so not just that the additional people who, if their stop was closed, they went to the next stop, but there was an increase in ridership above that.
 So I think there are examples that we can look to that can show that there are benefits to stop closure and that we just need to weigh those and do so sensitively. So in maybe blending this with Mr. Parker's,
 I assume as you make these decisions, you do actually work with the local community to help determine where the best locations are. Right. I think one of the balancing acts that you're seeing is the difference between overall system conversations and localized project conversations. Right. So what we're looking at, we know that Sandy's a priority corridor area.
 As we're heading into more detailed conversations, there will be very in-depth interactions. Right, and that gets to my first point. This is really the big picture that you're asking us to approve, but as you get to the smaller picture...
 You will have a community engagement process. Absolutely. And certainly the example of Sandy is a corridor that has a lot of expectations from a whole set of stakeholders around how we will balance out the use of that street. Okay. Thank you. That's helpful. What's the distance between stops on the rapid transit routes? It varies. The average is a third of a mile. So seven blocks, seven-ish blocks.
 Yes, I would just note on the, again, Neil McFarland, about a third of a mile is the average stop distance along the revised plan that we're now reviewing. And we are in the midst of community conversations and outreach on that, so no final decisions have been made. So we'll be looking at each of those individual decisions. But it is a balance between speed and access. And so we're looking for the right model, and community really gives us a lot of information about that.
 One of the things I would also note that we're trying to develop higher quality stops, so literally many stations along Division that are really much higher places to and safer places to access and wait for transit. And it's really important that those be located in ways that don't affect other accesses. For example, left turns into neighborhoods or business accesses. And so it's that sort of very detailed peeling of the onion process
 for a lot of different issues that we really use to make that balance. So the stops will be pretty much where they are right now in inner division. They'll be somewhat thinner than they are right now in outer division. Very good. Thank you. Are there dedicated bus lanes in this proposal?
 At this point, in terms of which specific tools get applied to which corridors, we haven't gotten to that level of detail yet. But we expect that's one of the tools we would be looking to for sure on some of these corridors. So what about the suggestion of the Portland Bus Project to sort of focus on dedicated bus lanes, signal priority, and queue jumping, I guess? Yeah, I think those are really – that's good feedback. Those are very useful tools in terms of moving quickly to support transit. Okay.
 And we hope to work with you very closely with the PBOT staff and others and the neighborhoods associated with using those tools on the Division Transit Project. That will be the primary way that we get, hopefully, a 15% to 20% improvement in travel times between Gresham and downtown Portland. So we think that's really important.
 and a place where we can begin to demonstrate these tools as well. April referenced the criteria and thresholds in what she was talking about. One of the things that we are trying to work on is knowing when to act. So one of the challenges as an individual staff person, it's hard to decide, okay, is this a big enough problem that we should use these tools and make some hard choices about the street?
 And so having some very specific criteria and knowing how to measure the delay on the bus system helps give us clearer guidelines on when we are being driven to act. And so that's one of the things that we'll be bringing back to council with the enhanced transit corridors plan is that specific direction to staff, engineering staff, so they know when to use those tools.
 And then maybe this is for you, Neil, or maybe I'm not sure. Who determines on Southeast Madison the length of the dedicated bus lane during rush hour? I think you do. I do? Well, no. So this is definitely your director. I should say how long we consider rush hour to be. I think the testimony was rush hour is longer than nine, and I would agree with that. No, I think that's a really good feedback. Is that a PBOT or a TRMIT? That would be us. That would be a PBOT. Okay.
 In fact, that's a really good example of where there is a confusion around whose action is this. You know, a bus is delayed. In the end, a lot of it is actually incumbent upon us as the Bureau of Transportation to provide those supportive moves to help the transit lines move. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Great. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions? Please call the roll on 811. Sal Sment. Well, thank you all. PBOT, Streetcar, TriMet, and...
 the public for your testimony and I think this is a very exciting proposals in front of us and we just need to make them happen sooner rather than later. Hi. Eudaly. Thanks for the presentation. I'm looking forward to the subway. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution's adopted. Please call the roll on 8-12. Southman. We'd be happy to sell you the first pass if you wish to purchase it. Again, good work everybody on making our streets uh...
 safer for everybody, and helping to get people around better. Aye. Udallie? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The resolution's adopted. Thanks, everybody, for your presentation. 813 has been pulled back to my office for further discussion. Please call 814. 814, accept the 2017 Risk Management Report.
 Folks, I'm going to have to ask you to take it outside. We've got a lot of business ahead of us. People don't want to sit around and listen to the risk management report? This stuff's good. This is good stuff. We're really missing out. Good afternoon. Thank you for your patience. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor. Good afternoon, Council. I'm Brian Inge, Bureau Director for Internal Services. We are here to present Risk Management 2016-17 Annual Report.
 The Risk Management Division is one of four central services that BIBS manages. For the current fiscal year, risk management budget is $16 million. The fund includes appropriation for actuarial estimated costs needed to pay claims, the cost of commercial insurance premiums, and operational costs for the Risk Management Division. Each city agency gets an expenditure allocation based on a risk industry formula.
 Risk management objectives include preventing and minimizing injuries to employees and the public, protecting the city's capital assets, minimizing the total cost of risk to the city, and protecting the city against financial consequences of catastrophic accidental loss.
 The Risk Management Annual Report provides the City Council and management with an overview of the division functions. The intent of this report is to provide information about workers' compensation, general liability, and automobile liability losses for the past five years, as well as insurance requirements and premiums, and loss prevention and employee health and safety services.
 In addition, this report, we have highlighted risk management-related challenges facing the city and the risk management team. The four major services that risk management provides are claims management, and that's both in terms of general liability and workers' comp, loss prevention, insurance, and occupational health. Capewood, the city's risk manager, will provide further information about these services.
 Thank you, Bryant. Mr. Mayor, members of council, thank you for this opportunity to present the 2017 risk report. It provides an overview of the city's centralized operational risk management program.
 We provide advice and services related to these centralized operational risk functions of financing for recognized risks using a combination of self-insurance and commercial insurance, claims administration, and loss prevention advice and services and assistance.
 These centralized functions require staff with expertise in five distinct specialty areas, workers' compensation rules and regulations of self-insureds, injured worker rights, and return-to-work modified duty assistance, claims management for public entity tort liability, civil rights and employment practice liability, and third-party subrogation, commercial insurance placement, and financial transfer risk options.
 occupational health and infectious disease services of a registered nurse who provides OSHA-required preventive immunizations, on-site seasonal flu clinics, and the coordination of points of dispensing of medical countermeasures in the event of a bioterrorism attack, and loss prevention knowledge of OSHA compliance, employee safety, and workplace hazard assessment.
 In addition, city risk managers, a risk information software, actuarial services, and insurance broker services, and contracts for industrial hygiene and hearing conservation that are used by bureaus. We use managed care contracts and medical bill review services to minimize workers' compensation costs while still assuring quality medical services to our injured employees.
 This coming fiscal year, we will be responsible for $16 million of city funds. We project almost 56% will be spent on claims, defense, and payments, 21% on commercial insurance, and the remainder on services to bureaus and the administration of the central risk function.
 Claims and workers' comp team manage almost all claims within the self-insured retention. That's $850,000 for each work comp claim, a million for liability, except for law enforcement liability, for which the city retains the first $2.5 million. Claim frequency has been steady with no outstanding change in loss trends, except for the months of January through March.
 We received in excess of 250 claims for vehicle damage due to potholes. We are hoping that that's a one-time aberration. How much was it again? An additional 250 claims for damage to vehicles due to potholes. That's over and above our regular winter claim counts. We hope that that's a one-time experience for us.
 Claims costs are also stable. The city has not paid a catastrophic liability claim since 2012. Workers' compensation costs are rising because of changes to statutory requirements, wage increases, and medical inflation.
 The city did pay on its first fatal workers' compensation claim. It was under the firefighter prevention coverage. And that just leads me to point out that this report does not cover disability claims filed by sworn police and fire personnel. That's handled by FPDNR. It's a separate coverage, and they have a different data system.
 Following a decade of annual budget cuts, position reductions, and almost 100% staff turnover, City Risk had to take a back-to-basics focus for its insurance, loss prevention, and health and safety services. The insurance market is ever-changing. Earthquake coverage has been seriously restricted, even as the science made us more aware of the risk. The liability market for law enforcement forced the city to accept a split retention back in 2013,
 and major insurers for public entity liability are withdrawing from the market. The result for the city was a 64% increase in premium in 2015 in order to place excess liability coverage for the same conditions and limits. New risks are continually emerging, so City Risk has refocused its insurance activities. What for over a decade was a pretty straightforward policy placement and renewal process, we have substituted contingency
 conducting a detailed, in-depth review of all the commercial coverages that we buy for limits, retentions, deductibles, and gaps in coverage. We've refined the insured property list and worked closely with property-owning bureaus to better understand how insurance works best for them and what makes sense to insure.
 We've improved the insurance application process and expanded the property loss prevention efforts to improve resilience to loss and to better present the city as a preferred risk in order to give us access to the broadest markets and obtain the most favorable rating. Those efforts have allowed us to continue to obtain earthquake limits, even though the market has seriously retracted.
 We've designed a new insurance program in the last six months for residential property ownership and management. That's a new line of business for the city, which does not fit well into the existing master insurance and self-insurance programs. And we continually monitor emerging risks for risk transfer options. Right now, cyber liability and autonomous vehicles are on our radar.
 City Risk has wisely placed responsibility for managing risk and preventing loss in the hands of Bureau management. They are best able to anticipate and identify risks facing their operation. They can direct resources, procedures, and implement training to manage the exposures and are able to rapidly act to mitigate losses that do occur. Larger bureaus hire their own safety and risk staff.
 The City Risk Loss Prevention Team focuses on the City's statutory requirements of a self-insured and provides expert advice and assistance to the Bureau safety staff and direct services to the smaller bureaus who do not have full-time safety staff. And using our existing staff, we have been able to expand our efforts into the property prevention and disaster recovery arena.
 Examples of our back-to-basics employee safety activities include analysis of the employee safety programs in bureaus. These programs offer a foundation and tangible structure for bureau safety efforts. We prioritize safety OSHA requirements, have reviewed the written programs done by bureaus, conducted site visits, and done employee interviews.
 Of the 890 recommendations that we've made, bureaus have successfully implemented over 650 of them. And to assist the bureaus in this effort, CityRisk has produced 15 loss prevention guidelines, 14 safety procedures, and 179 program templates. Thank you.
 The overall loss prevention effort is required by Oregon workers' compensation statutes for self-insured entities. We're working with bureaus to review and offer advice on the current best practices for the 11 required elements of a loss prevention program.
 And we're monitoring the safety culture. For the first time in 20 years, we were able to conduct, compile, and provide feedback on the first citywide safety perception survey. It's a tool to assess the city's safety culture. We have recently completed a follow-up survey and expect to finish our analysis of those responses in late August.
 We continue to work on auto liability and driver safety. We've proposed multiple updates to the city's administrative rules for drivers, access to city vehicles, and driving on city business. We've been able to access the resources of a retired safety specialist from ODOT who is able to offer specialty driving and mobile equipment training, which includes behind-the-wheel coaching to bureaus at a very reasonable rate.
 We've moved our basic defensive driving class online, which improves bureau access and reduces time away from work. And we've rebuilt our crash investigation and follow-up process. And we're continuing our efforts to expand driver license and driver record monitoring to city drivers who are residents of the state of Washington.
 In addition, City Risk expanded its loss prevention efforts to prevent accidental damage to insured property and improve property resilience to and recovery from disaster. We competed for an innovation grant to get funds to help bureaus finance the implementation of basic earthquake fire prevention technology.
 and we've helped bureaus access the services of our current property insurer to implement human factor protocols for fire loss prevention, to apply their engineering loss control recommendations, and to access their design review for major building remodels and construction and acquisition, which enables us to build in resistance at the design phase when it's the most feasible.
 The city is changing and growing rapidly. City drivers must still operate large vehicles on narrow streets, now shared with many other road users. The affordability of shelter has resulted in a crisis in homelessness. Infrastructure is showing decline.
 the impact of deferred maintenance. Civic engagement is tinged with a culture of protest. Technology is driving change at a dizzying rate. An aging workforce presents safety challenges as they stay in the workplace and knowledge transfer and succession challenges as they leave. Citizens have a different expectation of city government responsibility. These are some of the uncertainties the city is facing now and into the foreseeable future. Thank you.
 As our part as the centralized operational risk function for the city, our immediate challenges are intelligent automation of routine tasks and procedures to achieve consistency and efficiency and to free up our skilled city risk employees for the high-value work that we hired them to do, succession planning for the unique body of knowledge that we provide to the city, and to achieve a workload balance for the existing staff.
 and collecting and communicating useful information and actionable data to assist bureaus in managing risk. City Risk will continue to do its part to help address the impact of all the uncertainties facing the city, and we're continuing to work on our current activities. Next year, I plan to update you on our continuing effort of employee safety and health and process improvements through the self-insured reviews, loss prevention programs, and the results of the Safety Perception Survey.
 We'll give you a progress update on protecting property from accidental loss and improving resilience and disaster recovery and the improvements that we hope to make on data collection, reporting, and information communication. I want to thank you for your time and your attention. I'll be happy to take any questions that you have. Commissioner Eadaly.
 So I just want to make sure I'm understanding there's a pie chart on page 11 that shows the total replacement value of all city assets to be about $1.8 billion? That's our insured values. That's the insured values, not replacement values. Right. Well, we insure for replacement. Oh, okay. So those are all of the properties that city bureaus have asked us to place.
 on the insured value list and that we place with FM Global, who's our current property insurer. And it comes to almost $1.8 billion. Yeah, and BES, Bureau of Environmental Services, is like well over half of that replacement value. They have some very high-value properties. Okay. I guess I would have thought maybe water and BES would be at least on a comparable level. Thank you.
 I didn't want to interrupt you because it was a great report. Thank you, by the way, for the thoroughness of the report, and I actually love the out-year exposure analysis, just in terms of some of the challenges and changes that are coming in the years ahead, and I appreciate that your office is forward-thinking in that regard. Catastrophic coverage, you mentioned earthquake coverage. Could you dive a little bit deeper? Sure.
 As part of our property coverage, we have very good coverage against standard perils, but in the Pacific Northwest in around 2012, 2013, the insurance market moved away because of the high risk.
 At that time in 2012, we did a probable maximal loss study on our statement of values, the insured values. And the models told us that we would, in a 6.5 West Hills quake, we would experience $160 million to $180 million of loss on the insured values. At that time, we had been carrying about $100 million in earthquake coverage through our insurer.
 And just as we were going to look into buying more coverage, the insurance market moved away. And the following year, the insurers offered us earthquake coverage at a 75 percent reduction. They only offered us $25 million. Now, we've been working very hard at improving resilience, working with the bureaus on –
 taking advantage of the loss engineering offered by the insurer. And so they were able to dip into their own facultative market and reserves and offer us an additional $50 million. So right now we're still able to buy $75 million in earthquake coverage, probably with about $3 million in deductible coverage.
 So earthquake is not a risk that you can ensure your way out of. No. We have enough coverage that will probably help us clear the rubble, but probably not enough coverage to rebuild anything. And that's an issue that we've raised within the city in terms of looking at what alternative solutions
 means the city can plan for to be able to implement long-term recovery following a major quake. Very good. And if I understood you correctly, over the course of the next year, that is a priority of yours to identify that resilience strategy, and you're bringing it back to the city council, or did I hear that incorrectly? That actually is something that is really more on the finance side of the house as opposed to the insurance side. Very good. So it would really happen with the Bureau of...
 Revenue and Finance, the Treasurer, the Economists, the CBO. Okay, very good. I appreciate that. Thank you. Any further questions before we...
 Do we have a single insurer for earthquake coverage? We have a single property insurer, and they are selling us $75 million in coverage. If we want more, we're going to have to go into what's called the Differences in Conditions Market, or DIC. That would cost us probably double what our current rate is.
 We did offer that possibility to prior administration. And one of the challenges is that you pay for property insurance every year, whether you use it or not. And so the question becomes, do you want to pay that very high cost of insurance for that DIC coverage every year and roll the dice of whether or not you're going to need it, or do you want to take that money
 that you use on that insurance premium and put it into resilience, improving the resistance of the buildings that you have, and community readiness. And the decision on the prior administration was that's where they preferred to put those funds. I can't argue with that. It's a very tough decision to make. I guess my question really was who –
 Who stress-tests the insurance companies to make sure they have an ability to really pay in that sort of a scenario? We work through a national insurance broker. Currently it's Willis of Oregon, and they only lead us to insurers that are high-rated by the rating companies. So we're with FM Global, which is one of the largest and strongest property insurers in the world.
 And I've always said that if you're not able to get into another market, if you can stay with FM, you're probably with the best insurer you can get. As a good example, following the 2015 floods, we had to quickly put – after the disaster declaration, we quickly put together an insured property loss reporting process.
 and have submitted a claim to FM. Most of the property that was damaged in those floods was not insured, but FM worked with us, only charged us a single $100,000 deductible, and so the insured loss will be getting back about $150,000. It doesn't sound like much, but if they had kept the actual bird of the policy, we wouldn't have gotten anything because of the varying deductibles.
 We just had a fire at a city property a couple of months ago, and it turns out that that particular property had not been listed by the Bureau to be insured properly.
 Yet we do have some additional coverage that allowed us – that allowed FM to provide coverage for that building. And so we are going to get some insurance. And so they're an excellent company to work with. They have very strong reserves. They're a company that's operated by engineers. And so they have a very different approach to how they set their reserves, how they aggregate their risk.
 and how they charge and how they work with their members. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this issue? One individual. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. I have some real concerns on the statement made that liability went up 64% in 2015.
 I'm hoping we can have some more information on that, on why that would have happened. But liability insurance, if that's the statement that was made, I'll leave it at that. Issue number two is on the general liability issue. Again, looking at the ruling by John DiLorenzo, the victory from John against the city for $17 million.
 Now, my understanding that could be considered as alleging negligence of some of the people at the City of Portland. I want to know why we cannot have insurance cover those type of situations.
 why we don't have proper E&O insurance on certain commissioners who do make mistakes, who do not follow the Charter, who do not follow the Constitution, to fall back on our insurance policies with a full investigation on why they did not do that and why the insurance can't pick up that loss. If that's going to happen, then fine. Issue number two,
 on the overall property insurance for the city at $1.8 billion. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think we're looking at an overall value of the city closer to $25 billion to $35 billion, if I'm correct. Now, that would tell me that we are definitely underinsured, and you're picking and choosing certain properties that you hope will be covered in the event of a serious problem. Now...
 To me, that's not good planning from the city, and I have asked to have a percentage of the overall real estate assets sold. Similar to what Governor Brown is proposing at the state of $5 billion overall, I would like the city of Portland to propose a $1 billion asset reduction due to the fact we are not properly insured.
 That concerns me. By selling it, you take the equity back in to the city, you remove the liability, and you're better off by doing that. To have real property assets not insured, and again, as we know, we're talking replacement cost here. And let me tell you something. When you don't have replacement cost on some property,
 good properties, you will learn real fast on how your equity will disappear immediately. And let me tell you something.
 The taxpayers do not want to take any chances on losing the money they have invested into these properties. I'm asking again for a liquidation of a certain percentage of the real property assets due to being underinsured, not the proper insurance in place, and we do not want to lose that equity. Thank you. Thank you. Can I entertain a motion, colleagues? Move to accept the report.
 Oh, sweet Jesus. I'll take that as a second, can I assure you, Kaylee? Yes. I was waiting for you. That's great.
 All right, so we have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Udaly to accept the 2017 risk management report. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, thank you for this very thorough and illuminating report that's full of all sorts of interesting facts. Aye. Udaly. Mayor, it's fun to watch your eyes light up when we're discussing risk management. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Great report. I appreciate it. Thorough, on point, and I think you highlighted the right issues. Thank you. Aye. The report is accepted. And last but not least, item number 815. 815. Grant a franchise to LCP Oregon Holdings LLC to construct, operate, and maintain pipeline facilities under the city streets for a period of 20 years. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Mayor and Commissioners, my name is Jennifer Leith, Program Manager for the Office for Community Technology Revenue Division. This ordinance is a new replacement franchise agreement continuing authorization previously granted to LCP Oregon Holdings for pipeline facilities installed in the public right-of-way northwest front near northwest on Dwan Avenue near Highway 30.
 The franchise will replace the terms and conditions of a 2006 franchise agreement for LCP Oregon Holdings, who is the successor to the original franchisee, Paramount Petroleum. The original 2006 agreement will currently expire on October 31, 2017. Staff and LCP have been in negotiations for a modern franchise agreement to replace the former authorization to Paramount.
 The final agreement is consistent with other pipeline franchises granted by the City Council and with the City policy adopted in Resolution No. 37168 regarding fossil fuel infrastructure. LCP understands the restrictions against expansion, and the franchise agreement is negotiated to provide authorization for the company to only maintain its current facilities in the right-of-way.
 Under the terms of this agreement, if the franchisee desires facilities to be built beyond the current infrastructure as described in Exhibit A to the franchise, then such expansion must be approved by city council via ordinance as a franchise amendment prior to the company seeking permits for construction. At the same time, the parties will negotiate compensation for additional occupation of the right-of-way. The new franchise also includes increased insurance requirements for pollution liability as well as other modernized provisions.
 So I'm happy to answer any questions that you have. Colleagues, any questions? Just to be clear, if they want to build any additional facilities, it comes to a vote. We would have to do an amendment. So this franchise only authorizes them to have the facilities they currently have. Now they can repair and upgrade for seismic, but they can't expand beyond the box that's in Exhibit A. Okay.
 Okay. Thank you. Commissioner Saltzman, any questions? No. Very good. Thank you. It makes perfect sense to me. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one has signed up. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. And we are... Thank you for your presentation. Thank you.